                                         ABSTRACT
Disclosed herein are nucleosides, nucleotides and analogs thereof, pharmaceutical
compositions that include one or more of nucleosides, nucleotides and analogs thereof, and
methods of synthesizing the same. Also disclosed herein are methods of ameliorating and/or
treating a disease and/or a condition, including an infection from a paramyxovirus and/or an
orthomyxovirus, with a nucleoside, a nucleotide and an analog thereof.

    SUBSTITUTED NUCLEOSIDES, NUCLEOTIDES AND ANALOGS THEREOF
                                         BACKGROUND
Field
         [0000]    The present application is a divisional application of Australian Application
No. 2013235220, which is incorporated in its entirety herein by reference.
         [0001]    The present application relates to the fields of chemistry, biochemistry and
medicine. More particularly, disclosed herein are nucleoside, nucleotides and analogs thereof,
pharmaceutical compositions that include one or more nucleosides, nucleotides and analogs
thereof, and methods of synthesizing the same. Also disclosed herein are methods of
ameliorating and/or treating a paramyxovirus and/or an orthomyxovirus viral infection with
one or more nucleosides, nucleotides and analogs thereof
Description
        [0002]      Respiratory viral infections, including upper and lower respiratory tract viral
infections, infects and is the leading cause of death of millions of people each year. Upper
respiratory tract viral infections involve the nose, sinuses, pharynx and/or larynx. Lower
respiratory tract viral infections involve the respiratory system below the vocal cords, including
the trachea, primary bronchi and lungs.
        [0003]      Nucleoside analogs are a class of compounds that have been shown to exert
antiviral activity both in vitro and in vivo, and thus, have been the subject of widespread
research for the treatment of viral infections. Nucleoside analogs are usually therapeutically
inactive compounds that are converted by host or viral enzymes to their respective active
antimetabolites, which, in turn, may inhibit polymerases involved in viral or cell proliferation.
The activation occurs by a variety of mechanisms, such as the addition of one or more
phosphate groups and, or in combination with, other metabolic processes.
                                            SUMMARY
        [0004]      Some embodiments disclosed herein relate to a compound of Formula (I),
Formula (II) and/or Formula (III), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt of the foregoing.
        [0005]       Some embodiments disclosed herein relate to methods of ameliorating
and/or treating a paramyxovirus viral infection that can include administering to a subject
suffering from the paramyxovirus viral infection an effective amount of one or more
compounds of Formula (I), Formula (II) and/or Fonnula (III), or a pharmaceutically acceptable
                                                  -1-

salt of the foregoing, or a pharmaceutical composition that includes one or more compounds
of Formula (I), Formula (II) and/or Formula (III), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt of the
foregoing.

 Other embodiments described herein relate to using one or more compounds of Formula (I),
 Formula (11) and/or Formula (III), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt of the foregoing, in the
manufacture of a medicament for ameliorating and/or treating a paramyxovirus viral infection.
Still other embodiments described herein relate to compounds of Formula (I), Formula (II)
and/or Fonnula (III), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt of the foregoing, that can be used for
ameliorating and/or treating a paramyxovirus viral infection.       Yet still other embodiments
disclosed herein relate to methods of ameliorating and/or treating a paramyxovirus viral
infection that can include contacting a cell infected with the paramyxovirus with an effective
amount of one or more compounds of Formula (I), Formula (II) and/or Formula (III), or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt of the foregoing, or a pharmaceutical composition that includes
one or more compounds of Formula (I), Formula (11) and/or Formula (Ill), or a pharmaceutically
acceptable salt of the foregoing.    Some embodiments disclosed herein relate to methods of
inhibiting the replication of a paramyxovirus that can include contacting a cell infection with the
paramyxovirus with an effective amount of one or more compounds of Formula (I), Formula (II)
and/or Formula (Ill), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt of the foregoing, or a pharmaceutical
composition that includes one or more compounds of Formula (I), Formula (11) and/or Formula
(III), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt of the foregoing. For example, the paramyxovirus
viral infection can be caused by a henipavirus, a morbillivirus, a respirovirus, a rubulavirus, a
pneumovirus (including a respiratory syncytial viral infection), a metapneumovirus, hendravirus,
nipahvirus, measles, sendai virus, mumps, a human parainfluenza virus (HPIV-l, HPIV-2,
HPIV-3 and HPIV-4) and/or a metapncumovirus.
         [00061     Some embodiments disclosed herein relate to methods of ameliorating and/or
treating an orthomyxovirus viral infection that can include administering to a subject suffering
from the orthomyxovirus viral infection an effective amount of one or more compounds of
Formula (I), Formula (II) and/or Formula (Ill), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt of the
foregoing, or a pharmaceutical composition that includes one or more compounds of Formula
(I), Formula (II) and/or Formula (III), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt of the foregoing.
Other embodiments described herein relate to using one or more compounds of Formula (I),
Formula (II) and/or Formula (Ill), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt of the foregoing, in the
manufacture of a medicament for ameliorating and/or treating an orthomyxovirus viral infection.
Still other embodiments described herein relate to compounds of Formula (I), Formula (II)
and/or Formula (III), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt of the foregoing, that can be used for
ameliorating and/or treating an orthomyxovirus viral infection. Yet still other embodiments
disclosed herein relate to methods of ameliorating and/or treating an orthomyxovirus viral
                                               -2-

infection that can include contacting a cell infected with the orthornyxovirus with an effective
amount of one or more compounds of Formula (I), Formula (11) and/or Fomula (Ill), or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt of the foregoing, or a pharmaceutical composition that includes
one or more compounds of Formula (I), Formula (II) and/or Formula (1II), or a pharmaceutically
acceptable salt of the foregoing.    Some embodiments disclosed herein relate to methods of
inhibiting the replication of an orthomyxovirus that can include contacting a cell infection with
the orthomyxovirus with an effective amount of one or more compounds of Formula (1),
Formula (11) and/or Formula (III), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt of the foregoing, or a
pharmaceutical composition that includes one or more compounds of Formula (1), Formula (II)
and/or Formula (IlI), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt of the foregoing. For example, the
orthomyxovirus viral infection can be an influenza viral infection (such as influenza A, B and/or
C).
         [00071     Some embodiments disclosed herein relate to methods of ameliorating and/or
treating a paramyxovirus viral infection and/or an orthomyxovirus viral infection that can
include administering to a subject suffering from the viral infection an effective amount of a
compound described herein or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof (for example, one or
more compounds of Formulae (I), (II) and/or (III), or a phannaceutically acceptable salt of the
foregoing), or a pharmaceutical composition that includes one or more compounds described
herein, in combination with one or more agents described herein. Some embodiments disclosed
herein relate to methods of ameliorating and/or treating a paramyxovirus viral infection and/or
an orthomyxovirus viral infection that can include contacting a cell infected with the virus with
an effective amount of a compound described herein or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt
thereof (for example, one or more compounds of Formulae (I), (II) and/or (III), or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt of the foregoing), or a pharmaceutical composition that
includes one or more compounds described herein, in combination with one or more agents
described herein.
                           BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
         [00081     Figure 1 shows example RSV agents.
                                    DETAILED DESCRIPTION
         [00091     Paramyxoviridaefamily is a family of single stranded RNA viruses. Several
genera of the paramyvoiiridae family include henipavirus, morbillivirus, respirovirus,
rubulavirus, pneumovirus and metapneumovirus. These viruses can be transmitted person to
                                                -3-

person via direct or close contact with contaminated respiratory droplets or fomites. Species of
henipavirus include hendravirus and nipahvirus. A species of morbillivirus is measles. Species
of respirovirus include sendai virus and human parainfluenza viruses 1 and 3; and species of
rubulavirus include mumps virus and human parainfluenza viruses 2 and 4. A species of
metapneumovirus is human metapneumovirus.
        [00101      Human Respiratory Syncytial Virus (RSV), a species of pneumovirus, can
cause respiratory infections, and can be associated with bronchiolitis and pneumonia.
Symptoms of an RSV infection include coughing, sneezing, runny nose, fever, decrease in
appetite, and wheezing. RSV is the most common cause of bronchiolitis and pneumonia in
children under one year of age in the world, and can be the cause of tracheobronchitis in older
children and adults. In the United States, between 75,000 and 125,000 infants are hospitalized
each year with RSV. Among adults older than 65 years of age, an estimated 14,000 deaths and
 177,000 hospitalizations have been attributed to RSV.
        [00111     Treatment options for people infected with RSV are currently limited.
Antibiotics, usually prescribed to treat bacterial infections, and over-the-counter medication are
not effective in treating RSV and may help only to relieve some of the symptoms. In severe
cases, a nebulized bronchodilator, such as albuterol, may be prescribed to relieve some of the
symptoms, such as wheezing. RespiGram@ (RSV-IGIV, Medimmune, approved for high risk
children younger than 24 months of age), Synagis@ (palivizumab, Medlimmune, approved for
high risk children younger than 24 months of age), and Virzole0 (ribavirin by aerosol, ICN
pharmaceuticals) have been approved for treatment of RSV.
        [0012]     Symptoms of the measles include fever, cough, runny nose, red eyes and a
generalized rash. Some individuals with measles can develop pneumonia, ear infections and
bronchitis. Mumps leads to swelling of the salivary glands. Symptoms of mumps include fever,
loss of appetite and fatigue. Individuals are often immunized against measles and mumps via a
three-part MMR vaccine (measles, mumps, and rubella). Human parainfluenza virus includes
four serotypes types, and can cause upper and lower respiratory tract infections.         Human
parainfluenza virus I (HPIV-1) can be associated with croup; human parainfluenza virus 3
(HPlIV-3) can be associated with bronchiolitis and pneumonia. According to the Centers of
Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), there are no vaccines against human parainflucnza
virus.
        10013]     Influenza   is a single stranded RNA virus and a member of the
Orthomyxoviridae family. There are currently three species of influenza; influenza A, influenza
B and influenza C. Influenza A has been further classified based on the viral surface proteins
                                                 -4-

into hemagglutinin (H or HA) and neuramididase (N). There are approximately 16 H antigens
(HI to H16) and 9 N antigens (NI to N9). Influenza A includes several subtype, including
HINi, HIN2, H2N2, H3NI, H3N2, H3N8, H5NI, H5N2, H5N3, H5N8, H5N9, H7NI, H7N2,
H7N3, H7N4, H7N7, H9N2, HlON7. As with RSV, influenza viruses can be transmitted from
person to person via direct contact with infected secretions and/or contaminated surfaces or
objections.      Complications from an influenza viral infection include pneumonia, bronchitis,
dehydration, and sinus and ear infections. Medications currently approved by the FDA against
an influenza infection include amantadine, rimantadine, Relenza@ (zanamivir,
GlaxoSmithKline) and Tamiflu@ (oseltamivir, Genentech).
Definitions
           10014]      Unless defined otherwise, all technical and scientific terms used herein have
the same meaning as is commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art. All patents,
applications, published applications and other publications referenced herein are incorporated by
reference in their entirety unless stated otherwise. In the event that there are a plurality of
definitions for a term herein, those in this section prevail unless stated otherwise.
           10015]     As used herein, any "R" group(s) such as, without limitation, RIA, R2A, R3A,
 R A, R ^, R ^, R7A, R ^, R&, R A, R I, R12, R1A R14A, RI R1A,,A,               R1^, RR R1^, R20A,
   21A,  R2^, R23A, R2 . R25A    , R2 A,2   ^A, R A, R2 A, R A, R3A , R A, R3A,      R   , R35A, R A,
 R M, R3^, RB, R2, RB, R''B, R3, R 6, R7B, R8 ,R         8, 9 R1B, R"1, R12, R31, R 1, R1C, R2C
R3 c, R 4C, Rc, R6 C, R7', RSC, ROC, R'IC, R I, RI 2C, R13C, R14c, RI)C. RIC R'IX, R' 8C, R'c9 , R2OC,
 R 2 1c, R 22c and R23C represent substituents that can be attached to the indicated atom. An R group
 may be substituted or unsubstituted. If two "R" groups are described as being "taken together"
 the R groups and the atoms they are attached to can form a cycloalkyl, cycloalkenyl,
 cycloalkynyl, aryl, heteroaryl or heterocycle. For example, without limitation, if R" and Rb of an
NW R" group are indicated to be "taken together," it means that they are covalently bonded to
 one another to form a ring:
                                                        Ra
                                                -Nt
                                                        Rb
 In addition, if two "R" groups are described as being "taken together" with the atom(s) to which
 they are attached to form a ring as an alternative, the R groups are not limited to the variables or
 substituents defined previously.
            [0016]     Whenever a group is described as being "optionally substituted" that group
 may be unsubstituted or substituted with one or more of the indicated substituents. Likewise,
                                                    -5-

when a group is described as being "unsubstituted or substituted" if substituted, the
substituent(s) may be selected from one or more the indicated substituents. If no substituents are
indicated, it is meant that the indicated "optionally substituted" or "substituted" group may be
substituted with one or more group(s) individually and independently selected from                alkyl,
alkenyl, alkynyl, cycloalkyl, cycloalkenyl, cycloalkynyl, aryl, heteroaryl, heteroalicyclyl,
aralkyl, heteroaralkyl, (hcteroalicyclyl)alkyl, hydroxy,      protected hydroxyl, alkoxy, aiyloxy,
acyl, mercapto, alkylthio, arylthio, cyano, halogen, thiocarbonyl, 0-carbamyl, N-carbamyl,
O-thiocarbamyl,      N-thiocarbarnyl,    C-amido,     N-amido,     S-sulfonamido,    N-sulfonamido,
C-carboxy, protected C-carboxy, 0-carboxy, isocyanato, thiocyanato, isothiocyanato, nitro,
silyl,    sulfenyl,   sulfinyl,   sulfonyl,    haloalkyl,    haloalkoxy,    trihalomethanesulfonyl,
trihalomethanesulfonamido, an amino, a mono-substituted amino group and a di-substituted
amino group, and protected derivatives thereof.
         [0017]     As used herein, "Ca to C1," in which "a" and "b" are integers refer to the
number of carbon atoms in an alkyl, alkenyl or alkynyl group, or the number of carbon atoms in
the ring of a cycloalkyl, cycloalkenyl, cycloalkynyl, aryl, heteroaryl or heteroalicyclyl group.
That is, the alkyl, alkenyl, alkynyl, ring of the cycloalkyl, ring of the cycloalkenyl, ring of the
cycloalkynyl, ring of the aryl, ring of the heteroaryl or ring of the heteroalicyclyl can contain
from "a" to "b", inclusive, carbon atoms. Thus, for example, a "Ci to C4 alkyl" group refers to
all alkyl groups having from I to 4 carbons, that is, CH 3 -, CH 3CH 2-, CH 3CH 2CH 2 -, (CH 3 ) 2CH-,
CH 3 CH 2CH 2CH 2-, CH3CH 2CH(CH 3)- and (CH 3);C-. If no "a" and "b" are designated with
regard to an alkyl, alkenyl, alkynyl, cycloalkyl cycloalkenyl, cycloalkynyl, aryl, heteroaryl or
heteroalicyclyl group, the broadest range described in these definitions is to be assumed.
         [0018]     As used herein, alkyll" refers to a straight or branched hydrocarbon chain
that comprises a fully saturated (no double or triple bonds) hydrocarbon group. The alkyl group
may have 1 to 20 carbon atoms (whenever it appears herein, a numerical range such as "I to 20"
refers to each integer in the given range; e.g., "I to 20 carbon atoms" means that the alkyl group
may consist of I carbon atom, 2 carbon atoms, 3 carbon atoms, etc., up to and including 20
carbon atoms, although the present definition also covers the occurrence of the term "alkyl"
where no numerical range is designated). The alkyl group may also be a medium size alkyl
having 1 to 10 carbon atoms. The alkyl group could also be a lower alkyl having I to 6 carbon
atoms.    The alkyl group of the compounds may be designated as "C-C             4 alkyl" or similar
designations. By way of example only, "C1 -C 4 alkyl" indicates that there are one to four carbon
atoms in the alkyl chain, i.e., the alkyl chain is selected from methyl, ethyl, propyl, iso-propyl,
n-butyl, iso-butyl, sec-butyl, and t-butyL Typical alkyl groups include, but are in no way limited
                                                  -6-

to, methyl, ethyl, propyl, isopropyl, butyl, isobutyl, tertiary butyl, pentyl and hexyl. The alkyl
group may be substituted or unsubstituted.
         [0019]     As used herein, "alkenyl" refers to an alkyl group that contains in the straight
or branched hydrocarbon chain one or more double bonds. An alkenyl group may be
unsubstituted or substituted.
         [0020]     As used herein, "alkynyl" refers to an alkyl group that contains in the straight
or branched hydrocarbon chain one or more triple bonds.                An alkynyl group may be
unsubstituted or substituted.
         [0021]     As used herein, "cycloalkyl" refers to a completely saturated (no double or
triple bonds) mono- or multi- cyclic hydrocarbon ring system. When composed of two or more
rings, the rings may be joined together in a fused fashion. Cycloalkyl groups can contain 3 to 10
atoms in the ring(s) or 3 to 8 atoms in the ring(s). A cycloalkyl group may be unsubstituted or
substituted.    Typical cycloalkyl groups include, but are in no way limited to, cyclopropyl,
cyclobutyl, cyclopentyl, cyclohexyl, cycloheptyl and cyclooctyl.
         [00221     As used herein, "cycloalkenyl" refers to a mono- or multi- cyclic hydrocarbon
ring system that contains one or more double bonds in at least one ring; although, if there is
more than one, the double bonds cannot form a fully dclocalized pi-clectron system throughout
all the rings (otherwise the group would be "aryl," as defined herein). When composed of two or
more rings, the rings may be connected together in a fused fashion. A cycloalkenyl group may
be unsubstituted or substituted.
         [00231     As used herein, "cycloalkynyl" refers to a mono- or multi- cyclic
hydrocarbon ring system that contains one or more triple bonds in at least one ring. If there is
more than one triple bond, the triple bonds cannot form a fully delocalized pi-electron system
throughout all the rings. When composed of two or more rings, the rings may be joined together
in a fused fashion. A cycloalkynyl group may be unsubstituted or substituted.
         [0024]      As used herein, "aryl" refers to a carbocyclic (all carbon) monocyclic or
multicyclic aromatic ring system (including fused ring systems where two carbocyclic rings
share a chemical bond) that has a fully delocalized pi-electron system throughout all the rings.
The number of carbon atoms in an aryl group can vary. For example, the aryl group can be a
C6-C4 aryl group, a C6-C1 O aryl group, or a C6 aryl group.       Examples of aryl groups include,
but are not limited to, benzene, naphthalene and azulene. An aryl group may be substituted or
unsubstituted.
         [0025]      As used herein, "heteroaryl" refers to a monocyclic or multicyclic aromatic
ring system (a ring system with fully dclocalized pi-clectron system) that contain(s) one or more
                                                 -7-

heteroatoms, that is, an element other than carbon, including but not limited to, nitrogen, oxygen
and sulfur. The number of atoms in the ring(s) of a heteroaryl group can vary. For example, the
heteroaryl group can contain 4 to 14 atoms in the ring(s), 5 to 10 atoms in the ring(s) or 5 to 6
atoms in the ringss.    Furthermore, the tern "heteroaryl" includes fused ring systems where two
rings, such as at least one aryl ring and at least one heteroaryl ring, or at least two heteroaryl
rings, share at least one chemical bond.          Examples of heteroaryl rings include, but are not
limited    to,  furan,   furazan,   thiophene,     benzothiophene,     phthalazine,   pyrrole,    oxazole,
benzoxazole, 1,2,3-oxadiazole, 1,2,4-oxadiazole, thiazole, 1,2,3-thiadiazole, 1,2,4-thiadiazole,
benzothiazole, imidazole, benzimidazole, indole, indazole, pyrazole, benzopyrazole, isoxazole,
benzoisoxazole, isothiazole, triazole, benzotriazole, thiadiazole, tetrazole, pyridine, pyridazine,
pyrimidine, pyrazine, purine, pteridine, quinolinc, isoquinoline, quinazoline, quinoxaline,
cinnoline, and triazine. A heteroaryl group may be substituted or unsubstituted.
         100261      As used herein, "heterocyclyl" or "heteroalicyclyl" refers to three-, four-,
five-, six-, seven-, eight-, nine-, ten-, up to 18-membered monocyclic, bicyclic, and tricyclic ring
system wherein carbon atoms together with from I to 5 heteroatoms constitute said ring system.
A heterocycle may optionally contain one or more unsaturated bonds situated in such a way,
however, that a fully delocalized pi-electron system does not occur throughout all the rings. The
heteroatom(s) is an element other than carbon including, but not limited to, oxygen, sulfur, and
nitrogen. A heterocycle may            further contain one or more carbonyl             or thiocarbonyl
functionalities, so as to make the definition include oxo-systems and thio-systems such as
lactams, lactones, cyclic imides, cyclic thioimides and cyclic carbamates. When composed of
two or more rings, the rings may be joined together in a fused fashion.                Additionally, any
nitrogens in a heteroalicyclic may be quaternized. Heterocyclyl or heteroalicyclic groups may
be unsubstituted or substituted.      Examples of such "heterocyclyl" or "heteroalicyclyl" groups
include but are not limited to, 1,3-dioxin, 1,3-dioxane,              1,4-dioxane,   1,2-dioxolane,    1,3
dioxolanc,     1,4-dioxolane,    1,3-oxathiane,     1,4-oxathiin,  1,3-oxathiolanc,    1,3-dithiole,   1,3
dithiolane, 1,4-oxathiane, tetrahydro-1,4-thiazine, 2H-1,2-oxazine, maleimide, succinimide,
barbituric acid, thiobarbituric acid,         dioxopiperazine,    hydantoin, dihydrouracil,      trioxane,
hexahydro-1,3,5-triazine,      imidazoline, imidazolidine, isoxazoline, isoxazolidine, oxazoline,
oxazolidine, oxazolidinone, thiazoline, thiazolidine, morpholine, oxiranc, piperidine N-Oxide,
piperidine,    piperazine,    pyrrolidine,   pyrrolidone,    pyrrolidione,   4-piperidone,    pyrazoline,
pyrazolidine,       2-oxopyrrolidine,        tetrahydropyran,       4H-pyran,       tetTahydrothiopyran,
thiamorpholine, thiamorpholine sulfoxide, thiamorpholine sulfonc, and their benzo-fused
analogs (e.g., benzimidazolidinone, tetrahydroquinoline, and 3,4-mcthylenedioxyphenyl).
                                                     -8-

        [00271      As used herein, "aralkyl" and "aryl(alkyl)" refer to an aryl group connected,
as a substituent, via a lower alcylene group. The lower alkylene and aryl group of an aralkyl
may be substituted or unsubstituted.       Examples include but are not limited to benzyl, 2
phenylalkyl, 3-phenylalkyl, and naphthylalkyl.
        100281      As used herein, "heteroaralkyl" and "heteroaiyl(alkyl)" refer to a heteroaryl
group connected, as a substituent, via a lower alkylene group. The lower alkylene and
heteroaryl group of heteroaralkyl may be substituted or unsubstituted. Examples include but are
not limited to 2-thienylalkyl, 3-thienylalkyl, furylalkyl, thienylalkyl, pyrrolylalkyl, pyridylalkyl,
isoxazolylalkyl, imidazolylalkyl, and their benzo-fused analogs.
        100291      A "(heteroalicyclyl)alkyl" and "(heterocyclyl)alkyl" refer to a heterocyclic or
a heteroalicyclylic group connected, as a substituent, via a lower alkylene group. The lower
alkylene and heterocyclyl of a (heteroalicyclyl)alkyl may be substituted or unsubstituted.
Examples include but are not limited tetrahydro-2H-pyran-4-yl)methyl, (piperidin-4-yl)ethyl,
(pipcridin-4-yl)propyl, (tetrahydro-2H-thiopyran-4-yl)methyl, and (1,3-thiazinan-4-yl)methyl.
        [00301       "Lower alkylene groups" are straight-chained -CHr tethering groups,
forming bonds to connect molecular fragments via their terminal carbon atoms. Examples
include but arc not limited to methylene (-CH 2-), ethylene (-CH 2 CH2-), propylene (
CH 2 CH 2 CH-), and butylene (-CH 2 CH 2 CH2 CH2-). A lower alkylene group can be substituted
by replacing one or more hydrogen of the lower alkylene group with a substituent(s) listed under
the definition of "substituted."
        [0031]      As used herein, "alkoxy" refers to the formula -OR wherein R is an alkyl, an
alkenyl, an aLkynyl,       a cycloalkyl, a cycloalkenyl, a cycloalkynyl, aryl, heteroaryl,
heteroalicyclyl, aralkyl, (heteroaryl)alkyl or (heteroalicyclyl)alkyl is defined herein. A non
limiting list of alkoxys are methoxy, ethoxy, n-propoxy, 1-methylethoxy (isopropoxy), n
butoxy, iso-butoxy, sec-butoxy, tert-butoxy, phenoxy and benzoxy. An alkoxy may be
substituted or unsubstituted.
        [0032]      As used herein, "acyl" refers to a hydrogen, alkyl, alkenyl, alkynyl, or aryl
connected, as substituents, via a carbonyl group. Examples include formyl, acetyl, propanoyl,
benzoyl, and acryl. An acyl may be substituted or unsubstituted.
        [00331      As used herein, "hydroxyalkyl" refers to an alkyl group in which one or more
of the hydrogen atoms are replaced by a hydroxy group. Exemplary hydroxyalkyl groups
include but are not limited to, 2-hydroxyethyl, 3-hydroxypropyl, 2-hydroxypropyl, and 2,2
dihydroxyethyl. A hydroxyalkyl may be substituted or unsubstituted.
                                                 -9-

        [0034]      As used herein, "haloalkyl" refers to an alkyl group in which one or more of
the hydrogen atoms are replaced by a halogen (e.g., mono-haloalkyl, di-haloalkyl and tri
haloalkyl). Such groups include but are not limited to, chloromethyl, fluoromethyl,
difluoromethyl, trifluoromethyl, 1-chloro-2-fluoromethyl and 2-fluoroisobutyl. A haloalkyl may
be substituted or unsubstituted.
        [0035]      As used herein, "haloalkoxy" refers to an alkoxy group in which one or more
of the hydrogen atoms are replaced by a halogen (e.g., mono-haloalkoxy, di- haloalkoxy and tri
haloalkoxy). Such groups include but are not limited to, chloromethoxy, fluoromethoxy,
difluoromethoxy,     trifluoromethoxy,   1-chloro-2-fluoromethoxy     and  2-fluoroisobutoxy.    A
haloalkoxy may be substituted or unsubstituted.
        [0036]      As used herein, "arylthio" refers to RS-, in which R is an aryl, such as, but
not limited to, phenyl. An arylthio may be substituted or unsubstituted.
        [0037]      A "sulfenyl" group refers to an "-SR" group in which R can be hydrogen,
alkyl, alkenyl, alkynyl, cycloalkyl, cycloalkenyl, cycloalkynyl, aryl, heteroaryl, heteroalicyclyl,
araikyl, (heteroaryl)alkyl or (heteroalicyclyl)alkyl.      A sulfenyl may be substituted or
unsubstituted.
        [0038]      A "sulfinyl" group refers to an "-S(=O)-R" group in which R can be the same
as defined with respect to sulfenyl. A sulfinyl may be substituted or unsubstituted.
        [0039]      A "sulfonyl" group refers to an "SO2R" group in which R can be the same as
defined with respect to sulfenyl. A sulfonyl may be substituted or unsubstituted.
        [0040]      An "O-carboxy" group refers to a "RC(=O)O-" group in which R can be
hydrogen, alkyl, alkenyl, alkynyl, cycloalkyl, cycloalkenyl, cycloalkynyl, aryl, heteroaryl,
heteroalicyclyl, aralkyl, (heteroaryl)alkyl or (heteroalicyclyl)alkyl, as defined herein. An 0
carboxy may be substituted or unsubstituted.
        [0041]      The terms "ester" and "C-carboxy" refer to a "-C(=O)OR" group in which R
can be the same as defined with respect to O-carboxy.           An ester and C-carboxy may be
substituted or unsubstituted.
        [0042]      A "thiocarbonyl" group refers to a "-C(=S)R" group in which R can be the
same as defined with respect to 0-carboxy. A thiocarbonyl may be substituted or unsubstituted.
        [00431      A "tribalomethanesulfonyl" group refers to an "X3CSO 2-" group wherein
each X is a halogen.
        [0044]      A "trihalomethanesulfonamido" group refers to an "X 3 CS(O) 2 N(RA)-" group
wherein each X is a halogen, and RA hydrogen, alkyl, alkenyl, alkynyl, cycloalkyl, cycloalkenyl,
                                                -10-

cycloalkynyl,      aryl,    heteroaryl,    heteroalicyclyl,     aralkyl,    (heteroaryl)alkyl or
(hcteroalicyclyl)alkyl.
        [0045]      The term "amino" as used herein refers to a -NH2 group.
        [00461      As used herein, the term "hydroxy" refers to a -OH group.
        [00471      A "cyano" group refers to a "-CN" group.
        [00481      The term "azido" as used herein refers to a -N 3 group.
        [00491      An "isocyanato" group refers to a "-NCO" group.
        [0050]      A "thiocyanato" group refers to a "-CNS" group.
        10051]      An "isothiocyanato" group refers to an " -NCS" group.
        [00521      A "mercapto" group refers to an "-SH" group.
        [0053]      A "carbonyl" group refers to a C=O group.
        [0054]      An "S-sulfonanido" group refers to a "-SO2N(RAR,)" group in which R,\ and
R8 can be independently hydrogen, alkyl, alkenyl, alkynyl, cycloalkyl, cycloalkenyl,
cycloalkynyl,      aryl,    heteroaryl,     heteroalicyclyl,    aralkyl,    (heteroaryl)alkyl or
(heteroalicyclyl)alkyl. An S-sulfonamido may be substituted or unsubstituted.
        [00551      An "N-sulfonamido" group refers to a "RSO 2N(RA)-" group in which R and
RA can be independently hydrogen, alkyl, alkenyl, alkynyl, cycloalkyl, cycloalkenyl,
cycloalkynyl,      aryl,    heteroaryl,     heteroalicyclyl,    aralkyl,    (heteroaryl)alkyl or
(heteroalicyclyl)alkyl. An N-sulfonamido may be substituted or unsubstituted.
        [0056]      An "O-carbamyl" group refers to a "-OC(=O)N(RARB)" group in which R,
and R can be independently hydrogen, alkyl, alkenyl, alkynyl, cycloalkyl, cycloalkenyl,
cycloalkynyl,      aryl,    heteroaryl,     heteroalicyclyl,    aralkyl,    (heteroaryl)alkyl or
(heteroalicyclyl)alkyl. An 0-carbamyl may be substituted or unsubstituted.
        [0057]      An "N-carbamyl" group refers to an "ROC(=0)N(RA)-" group in which R
and RA can be independently hydrogen, alkyl, alkenyl, alkynyl, cycloalkyl, cycloalkenyl,
cycloalkynyl,      aryl,    heteroaryl,     heteroalicyclyl,    aralkyl,    (heteroaryl)alkyl or
(heteroalicyclyl)alkyl. An N-carbamyl may be substituted or unsubstituted.
        [0058]      An "O-thiocarbamyl" group refers to a "-OC(=S)-N(RARB)" group in which
RA  and RB can be independently hydrogen, alkyl, alkenyl, alkynyl, cycloalkyl, cycloalkenyl,
cycloalkynyl,      aryl,    heteroaryl,     heteroalicyclyl,    aralkyl,    (hcteroaryl)alkyl or
(heteroalicyc[yl)alkyl. An 0-thiocarbamyl may be substituted or unsubstituted.
        [0059]      An "N-thiocarbamyl" group refers to an "ROC(=S)N(RA)-" group in which R
and RA can be independently hydrogen, alkyl, alkenyl, alkynyl, cycloalkyl, cycloalkenyl,
                                                 -11-

cycloalkynyl,      aryl,     heteroaryl,    heteroalicyclyl,     aralkyl,    (heteroaryl)alkyl      or
(heteroalicyclyl)alkyl. An N-thiocarbamyl may be substituted or unsubstituted.
        [0060]      A "C-amido" group refers to a "-C(=O)N(RAR)" group in which           RA   and R
can be independently hydrogen, alkyl, alkenyl, alkynyl, cycloalkyl, cycloalkenyl, cycloalkynyl,
aryl, heteroaryl, heteroalicyclyl, aralkyl, (heteroaryl)alkyl or (heteroalicyclyl)alkyl. A C-amido
may be substituted or unsubstituted.
        [0061]      An "N-amido" group refers to a "RC(=O)N(RA)-" group in which R and RA
can be independently hydrogen, alkyl, alkenyl, alkynyl, cycloalkyl, cycloalkenyl, cycloalkynyl,
aryl, heteroaryl, heteroalicyclyl, aralkyl, (heteroaryl)alkyl       or (hetcroalicyclyl)alkyl.     An
N-amido may be substituted or unsubstituted.
        10062]      The term "halogen atom" or "halogen" as used herein, means any one of the
radio-stable atoms of column 7 of the Periodic Table of the Elements, such as, fluorine, chlorine,
bromine and iodine.
        [0063]      Where the numbers of substituents is not specified (e.g. haloalkyl), there may
be one or more substituents present. For example "haloalkyl" may include one or more of the
same or different halogens. As another example, "C-C 3 alkoxyphenyl" may include one or more
of the same or different alkoxy groups containing one, two or three atoms.
        100641      As used herein, the abbreviations for any protective groups, amino acids and
other compounds, are, unless indicated otherwise, in accord with their common usage,
recognized abbreviations, or the IUPAC-IUB Commission on Biochemical Nomenclature (See,
Biochem. 11:942-944 (1972)).
        {0065]      The tern "nucleoside" is used herein in its ordinary sense as understood by
those skilled in the art, and refers to a compound composed of an optionally substituted pentose
moiety or modified pentose moiety attached to a heterocyclic base or tautomer thereof via a N
glycosidic bond, such as attached via the 9-position of a purine-base or the I-position of a
pyrimidine-base. Examples include, but are not limited to, a ribonucleoside comprising a ribose
moiety and a deoxyribonucleoside comprising a deoxyribose moiety.               A modified pentose
moiety is a pentose moiety in which an oxygen atom has been replaced with a carbon and/or a
carbon has been replaced with a sulfur or an oxygen atom. A nucleosidee" is a monomer that
can have a substituted base and/or sugar moiety. Additionally, a nucleoside can be incorporated
into larger DNA and/or RNA polymers and oligomers. In some instances, the nucleoside can be
a nucleoside analog drug.
                                                 -12-

        [00661      The term "nucleotide" is used herein in its ordinary sense as understood by
those skilled in the art, and refers to a nucleoside having a phosphate ester bound to the pentose
moiety, for example, at the 5'-position.
        [00671      As used herein, the term "heterocyclic base" refers to an optionally
substituted nitrogen-containing heterocyclyl that can be attached to an optionally substituted
pentose moiety or modified pentose moiety. In some embodiments, the heterocyclic base can be
selected from an optionally substituted purine-base, an optionally substituted pyrimidine-base
and an optionally substituted triazole-base (for example, a 1,2,4-triazole). The term "purine
base" is used herein in its ordinary sense as understood by those skilled in the art, and includes
its tautomers. Similarly, the term "pyrimidine-base" is used herein in its ordinary sense as
understood by those skilled in the art, and includes its tautomers.        A non-limiting list of
optionally substituted purine-bases includes purine, adenine, guanine, hypoxanthine, xanthine,
alloxanthine, 7-alkylguanine (e.g. 7-methylguanine), theobromine, caffeine, uric acid and
isoguanine. Examples of pyrimidinc-bases include, but are not limited to, cytosine, thymine,
uracil, 5,6-dihydrouracil and 5-alkylcytosine (e.g., 5-methylcytosine).        An example of an
optionally substituted triazole-base is 1,2,4-triazole-3-carboxamide.          Other non-limiting
examples of heterocyclic bases include diaminopurine, 8-oxo-N 6 -alkyladeninc (e.g., 8-oxo-N6
methyladenine), 7-deazaxanthine, 7-deazaguanine, 7-deazaadenine, N4 ,N4-ethanocytosin, N',N'
ethano-2,6-diaminopurine,        5-halouracil    (e.g.,   5-fluorouracil   and     5-bromouracil),
pseudoisocytosiine, isocytosine, isoguanine, and other heterocyclic bases described in U.S.
Patent Nos. 5,432,272 and 7,125,855, which are incorporated herein by reference for the limited
purpose of disclosing additional heterocyclic bases. In some embodiments, a heterocyclic base
can be optionally substituted with an amine or an enol protecting group(s).
        [00681      The term "-N-linked amino acid" refers to an amino acid that is attached to
the indicated moiety via a main-chain amino or mono-substituted amino group. When the amino
acid is attached in an -N-linked amino acid, one of the hydrogens that is part of the main-chain
amino or mono-substituted amino group is not present and the amino acid is attached via the
nitrogen. N-linked amino acids can be substituted or unsubstituted.
        [0069]      The term "-N-linked amino acid ester derivative" refers to an amino acid in
which a main-chain carboxylic acid group has been converted to an ester group.             In some
embodiments, the ester group has a formula selected from alkyl-O-C(=0)-, cycloalkyl-O-C(=O)
, aiyl-O-C(=O)- and aryl(alkyl)-O-C(=O)-.           A non-limiting list of ester groups include
substituted and unsubstituted versions of the following: methyl-O-C=O)-, ethyl-O-C(=O)-, n
propyl--C(=0)-, isopropyl-O-C(=0)-, n-butyl-O-C(=O)-, isobutyl-O-C(=0)-, tert-butyl-O
                                                 -13-

C(=0)-, neopentyl-O-C(=0)-, cyclopropyl-O-C(=O)-, cyclobutyl-O-C(=O)-, cyclopentyl-0
C(=0)-, cyclohexyl-0-C(=0)-, phenyl-0-C(=0)-, benzyl-0-C(=0)-, and naphthyl-0-C(=0)-.
N-linked amino acid ester derivatives can be substituted or unsubstituted.
         [00701      The term "-0-linked amino acid" refers to an amino acid that is attached to
the indicated moiety via the hydroxy from its main-chain carboxylic acid group.          When the
amino acid is attached in an -0-linked amino acid, the hydrogen that is part of the hydroxy
from its main-chain carboxylic acid group is not present and the amino acid is attached via the
oxygen. 0-linked amino acids can be substituted or unsubstituted.
         [0071]      As used herein, the term "amino acid" refers to any amino acid (both standard
and non-standard amino acids), including, but not limited to, o-amino acids, p-amino acids, y
amino acids and 6-amino acids. Examples of suitable amino acids include, but are not limited
to, alanine, asparagine, aspartate, cysteine, glutamate, glutamine, glycine, proline, shrine,
tyrosine, arginine, histidine, isoleucine, leucine, lysine, inethionine, phenylalanine, threonine,
tryptophan and valine. Additional examples of suitable amino acids include, but are not limited
to, ornithine, hypusine, 2-aminoisobutyric acid, dehydroalanine, gamma-aminobutyric acid,
citrulline, beta-alanine, alpha-ethyl-glycinc, alpha-propyl-glycine and norleucine.
         10072]      The terms "phosphorothioate" and "phosphothioate" refer to a compound of
                                                                                     7H
                                             T,
                          S=P-O                                                  S=
the general formula            0          its protonated forms (for example,         U         and
       H                                          SH
 s==P-0-                                      0-
     OH         ) and its tautomers (such as      OH       )
         [00731      As used herein, the term "phosphate" is used in its ordinary sense as
understood by those skilled in the art, and includes its protonated forms (for example,
     OH                   OH
 0==t-o-             O==-o
     o~         and       OH       ). As used herein, the terms "monophosphate," "diphosphate,"
and triphosphatee" are used in their ordinary sense as understood by those skilled in the art, and
include protonated forms.
         10074]      The terms "protecting group" and "protecting groups" as used herein refer to
any atom or group of atoms that is added to a molecule in order to prevent existing groups in the
molecule from undergoing unwanted chemical reactions. Examples of protecting group moieties
are described in T. W. Greene and P. G. M. Wuts, Protective Groups in Organic Synthesis, 3.
                                                 -14-

Ed. John Wiley & Sons, 1999, and in J.F.W. McOmie, Protective Groups in Organic Chemistry
Plenum Press, 1973, both of which are hereby incorporated by reference for the limited purpose
of disclosing suitable protecting groups. The protecting group moiety may be chosen in such a
way, that they are stable to certain reaction conditions and readily removed at a convenient stage
using methodology known from the art. A non-limiting list of protecting groups include benzyl;
substituted benzyl; alkylcarbonyls and alkoxycarbonyls (e.g., t-butoxycarbonyl (BOC), acetyl,
or   isobutyryl);   arylalkylcarbonyls     and  arylalkoxycarbonyls      (e.g.,  benzyloxycarbonyl);
substituted methyl ether (e.g. methoxymethyl ether); substituted ethyl ether; a substituted benzyl
ether; tetrahydropyranyl ether; silyls (e.g., trimethylsilyl, triethylsilyl, triisopropylsilyl, t
butyldimethylsilyl,     tri-iso-propylsilyloxymethyl,     [2-(trimethylsilyl)ethoxy]methyl     or     t
butyldiphenylsilyl); esters (e.g. benzoate ester); carbonates (e.g. methoxymethylcarbonate);
sulfonates (e.g. tosylate or mesylate); acyclic ketal (e.g. dimethyl acetal); cyclic ketals (e.g., 1,3
dioxane, 1,3-dioxolanes, and those described herein); acyclic acetal; cyclic acetal (e.g., those
described herein); acyclic hemiacetal; cyclic hemiacetal; cyclic dithioketals (e.g., 1,3-dithiane or
1,3-dithiolane); orthoesters (e.g., those described herein) and triarylmethyl groups (e.g., trityl;
monomethoxytrityl (MMTr); 4,4'-dimethoxytrityl (DMTr); 4,4',4"-trimethoxytrityl (TMTr); and
those described herein).
        [0075]      The term "pharmaceutically acceptable salt" refers to a salt of a compound
that does not cause significant irritation to an organism to which it is administered and does not
abrogate the biological activity and properties of the compound. In some embodiments, the salt
is an acid addition salt of the compound. Pharmaceutical salts can be obtained by reacting a
compound with inorganic acids such as hydrobalic acid (e.g., hydrochloric acid or hydrobromic
acid), sulfuric acid, nitric acid and phosphoric acid. Pharmaceutical salts can also be obtained
by reacting a compound with an organic acid such as aliphatic or aromatic carboxylic or sulfonic
acids, for example formic, acetic, succinic, lactic, nalic, tartaric, citric, ascorbic, nicotinic,
methanesulfonic,     ethanesulfonic, p-tolucnsulfonic,      salicylic or naphthalenesulfonic      acid.
Pharmaceutical salts can also be obtained by reacting a compound with a base to form a salt
such as an ammonium salt, an alkali metal salt, such as a sodium or a potassium salt, an alkaline
earth metal salt, such as a calcium or a magnesium salt, a salt of organic bases such as
dicyclohexylamine,         N-methyl-D-glucamine,        tris(hydroxymethyl)methylamine,          C1 -C 7
alkylamine, cyclohexylamine, triethanolamine, ethylenediamine, and salts with amino acids
such as arginine and lysine.
         [00761     Terms and phrases used in this application, and variations thereof, especially
in the appended claims, unless otherwise expressly stated, should be construed as open ended as
                                                 -15-

opposed to limiting. As examples of the foregoing, the term 'including' should be read to mean
'including, without limitation,' 'including but not limited to,' or the like; the term 'comprising'
as used herein is synonymous with 'including,' 'containing,' or 'characterized by,' and is
inclusive or open-ended and does not exclude additional, unrecited elements or method steps;
the term 'having' should be interpreted as 'having at least;' the term 'includes' should be
interpreted as 'includes but is not limited to;' the term 'example' is used to provide exemplary
instances of the item in discussion, not an exhaustive or limiting list thereof; and use of terms
like 'preferably,' 'preferred,' 'desired,' or 'desirable,' and words of similar meaning should not
be understood as implying that certain features are critical, essential, or even important to the
structure or function of the invention, but instead as merely intended to highlight alternative or
additional features that may or may not be utilized in a particular embodiment. In addition, the
term "comprising" is to be interpreted synonymously with the phrases "having at least" or
"including at least". When used in the context of a process, the term "comprising" means that the
process includes at least the recited steps, but may include additional steps. When used in the
context of a compound, composition or device, the term "comprising" means that the compound,
composition or device includes at least the recited features or components, but may also include
additional features or components. Likewise, a group of items linked with the conjunction 'and'
should not be read as requiring that each and every one of those items be present in the
grouping, but rather should be read as 'and/or' unless expressly stated otherwise. Similarly, a
group of items linked with the conjunction 'or' should not be read as requiring mutual
exclusivity among that group, but rather should be read as 'and/or' unless expressly stated
otherwise.
         [0077]     With respect to the use of substantially any plural and/or singular terms
herein, those having skill in the art can translate from the plural to the singular and/or from the
singular to the plural as is appropriate to the context and/or application.            The various
singular/plural permutations may be expressly set forth herein for sake of clarity. The indefinite
article "a" or "an" does not exclude a plurality. A single processor or other unit may fulfill the
functions of several items recited in the claims. The mere fact that certain measures are recited
in mutually different dependent claims does not indicate that a combination of these measures
cannot be used to advantage. Any reference signs in the claims should not be construed as
limiting the scope.
         100781     It is understood that, in any compound described herein having one or more
chiral centers, if an absolute stereochemistry is not expressly indicated, then each center may
independently be of R-configuration or S-configuration or a mixture thereof Thus, the
                                                 -16-

compounds provided herein may be enantiomerically pure, enantiomerically enriched, racemic
mixture, diastercomerically pure, diastereonerically enriched, or a stercoisomeric mixture. In
addition it is understood that, in any compound described herein having one or more double
bond(s) generating geometrical isomers that can be defined as E or Z, each double bond may
independently be E or Z a mixture thereof.
         [00791     Likewise, it is understood that, in any compound described, all tautomeric
forms are also intended to be included.         For example all tautomers of a phosphate and a
phosphorothioate groups are intended to be included.              Examples of tautomers of a
                                                    o             o-                 0
                                              S-P--0          SP-O           HS-P-O
phosphorothioate include the following:                     ,,                      OH          and
      OH
      OH           Furthermore, all tautomers of heterocyclic bases known in the art are intended
to be included, including tautomers of natural and non-natural purine-bases and pyrimidine
bases.
         10080]     It is to be understood that where compounds disclosed herein have unfilled
valencies, then the valencies are to be filled with hydrogens or isotopes thereof, e.g., hydrogen-I
(protium) and hydrogen-2 (deuterium).
         100811     It is understood that the compounds described herein can be labeled
isotopically.   Substitution with isotopes such as deuterium may afford certain therapeutic
advantages resulting from greater metabolic stability, such as, for example, increased in vivo
half-life or reduced dosage requirements. Each chemical element as represented in a compound
structure may include any isotope of said element. For example, in a compound structure a
hydrogen atom may be explicitly disclosed or understood to be present in the compound. At any
position of the compound that a hydrogen atom may be present, the hydrogen atom can be any
 isotope of hydrogen, including but not limited to hydrogen-I (protium) and hydrogen-2
 (deuterium). Thus, reference herein to a compound encompasses all potential isotopic forms
 unless the context clearly dictates otherwise.
         10082]     It is understood that the methods and combinations described herein include
 crystalline forms (also known as polymorphs, which include the different crystal packing
 arrangements of the same elemental composition of a compound), amorphous phases, salts,
solvates, and hydrates. In some embodiments, the compounds described herein exist in solvated
forms with pharmaceutically acceptable solvents such as water, ethanol, or the like. In other
                                                  -17-

embodiments, the compounds described herein exist in unsolvated form. Solvates contain either
stoichiometric or non-stoichiometric amounts of a solvent, and may be formed during the
process of crystallization with pharmaceutically acceptable solvents such as water, ethanol, or
the like. Hydrates are formed when the solvent is water, or alcoholates are formed when the
solvent is alcohol. In addition, the compounds provided herein can exist in unsolvated as well
as solvated forms. In general, the solvated forms are considered equivalent to the unsolvated
forms for the purposes of the compounds and methods provided herein.
         [0083]     Where a range of values is provided, it is understood that the upper and lower
limit, and each intervening value between the upper and lower limit of the range is encompassed
within the embodiments.
Compounds
         [0084]     Some embodiments disclosed herein relate to a compound selected from
Formula (1), Formula (II) and Formula (111), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt of the
foregoing:
                 RIAO               81A                                         BIB
                                                                                 R4B
                                                         Z1B= p               R3B
                                  4
                           R3A   R A
                           (I)                                         (II)
                                      Rc 0
                                     Rp              7
                                   R20/     _-        Re        Bic
                                     R7c080 3
                                        R   R cI-             .mH
                                                H.              Re
                                               R4c            R6C
                                                (IlI)
wherein: BIA, B3 and BIc can be independently an optionally substituted heterocyclic base or
an optionally substituted heterocyclic base with a protected amino group; R1A can be selected
from hydrogen, an optionally substituted acyl, an optionally substituted O-linked amino acid,
           ZiA            Z2A               Z 3A
 REA O-P--        R BAO--      -      R1A-P-
        R6 AOP-                       R1 Op
            I              I                 I
           OR   ,         R9A    and        Ri1A ; when the dashed line (----) of Formula (1) is
a single bond, R2^ can be CH 2, and RSA can be 0 (oxygen); when the dashed line (--)            of
Formula (I) is absent, R2A can be selected from an optionally substituted Cia alkyl, an optionally
                                                -18-

substituted C2. alkenyl, an optionally substituted C2 -6 alkynyl, an optionally substituted C3.6
cycloalkyl, an optionally substituted -0-C. 6 alkyl, an optionally substituted 0-C 3 6 alkenyl, an
optionally substituted O-C3A alkynyl and cyano, and R3Acan be selected from OH, -OC(=O)RA
and an optionally substituted 0-linked amino acid; RB can be selected from 0,                          OH,
         5B    6B
                   R78             8        9B 0                                         0
              o    R           O             2BI      -R 0                                      11B       an
optionally substituted N-linked amino acid and an optionally substituted N-linked amino acid
ester derivative; Ric and R2 C can be independently selected from 0, OH, an optionally
                                              RD9   0   R10C
                                                             Rile               R 12c    R 13C0
substituted      C1 6      alkoxy,                       0        ,O                       Z 10       R14 C,
                        0
                   OS        R15c, an optionally substituted N-linked amino acid and an optionally
                                                                                o          0
                                                                      R1 60 0---O-           -O
                                                                                 I         1I
                                                                                OR17C      OR 1'c
substituted N-linked amino acid ester derivative; or Ric can be                                     n    and
R2Ccan be 0~ or OH; R2 and R3C can be independently selected from an optionally substituted
CIr,  alkyl, an optionally substituted C2 6 alkenyl, an optionally substituted C2.6 alkynyl, an
optionally substituted -O-CI- 6 alkyl, an optionally substituted -O-C 3.- alkenyl, an optionally
substituted-O-C 3 .6 alkynyl, an optionally substituted C3.6 cycloalkyl and cyano; R4 can be
selected from OH, -OC(=0)R"C' and an optionally substituted 0-linked amino acid; R4A,R3" and
Rsc can be independently a halogen; R A, R4 ' and R6C can be independently hydrogen or
halogen; R6 A^,R7A and RS^ can be independently selected from absent, hydrogen, an optionally
substituted C1 -24 alkyl, an optionally substituted C2 -24 alkenyl, an optionally substituted C2 -24
alkynyl, an optionally substituted C3-6cycloalkyl, an optionally substituted C3.- cycloalkenyl, an
optionally substituted aryl, an optionally substituted heteroaryl, an optionally substituted
                                                                  6                alkyl, an optionally
aryl(C 1 6 alkyl), an optionally substituted *-(CR"^5AR             A)PO-C1 24
                                                        R19A    R20A
                                                                      R2 1A     R2 2A    R2 3A
                                                                                                        24
                                                                 0          ,                          RZ4AA
Substituted   *-(CR^R^)0C            1 2 4 alkenyl,
                                                  -19-

                                                                                          0
                                                   0
                                                                                  O
                                                           R 28A
               S        R2A,        R26A    R27A                 and                 R29A; or R^ can
                             0
    R 12AO--           O--P1
              I              |
             OR13 A          OR14 A
be                                   m and R7A can be absent or hydrogen; or R6A and R7'^ can be
taken together to form a moiety selected from an optionally substituted                            and an
optionally substituted                    , wherein the oxygens connected to ReA and RA, the
phosphorus and the moiety form a six-menibered to ten-membered ring system; R9A can be
independently selected from an optionally substituted C-24 alkyl, an optionally substituted C2-24
alkenyl, an optionally substituted C2.2 alkynyl, an optionally substituted C3- cycloalkyl, an
optionally substituted C36 cycloalkenyl, NR30AR-^, an optionally substituted N-linked amino
acid and an optionally substituted N-linked amino acid ester derivative;         RIGA   and R"A can be
independently an optionally substituted N-linked amino acid or an optionally substituted N
linked amino acid ester derivative; R ^2A,      RIA and R IA can be independently absent or
hydrogen; each R^5 A, each R 1A, each R^7 A and each R'1^ can be independently hydrogen, an
                                                                               613R 1
                                                                             $913
optionally substituted CI-24 alkyl or alkoxy; R 9'^, R20A, R22 A, R23 A, R , R    , R 3, R9 , R9c, RlO
R12c and R13C can be independently selected from hydrogen, an optionally substituted C-24 alkyl
and an optionally substituted aryl; R2IA, R24 A^,R17B, R'   8,  R' Ic and R14C can be independently
selected from hydrogen, an optionally substituted C-24 alkyl, an optionally substituted aryl, an
optionally substituted -0-C-24 alkyl and an optionally substituted -0-aryl;        R 2)A,  R29 A, R'" and
RIC can be independently selected from hydrogen, an optionally substituted C-24 alkyl and an
optionally substituted aryl; RiC, R'     and RISC can be independently absent or hydrogen; R2^
and R27A can be independently -C=N or an optionally substituted substituent selected from C2-s
organylcarbonyl, C2 - alkoxycarbonyl and C2-8 organylaminocarbonyl; R2 A can be selected from
hydrogen, an optionally substituted C1,4 -alkyl, an optionally substituted C2-4 alkenyl, an
optionally substituted C2 -24 alkynyl, an optionally substituted C3 cycloalkyl and an optionally
                                                 -20-

substituted C3 -6cycloalkenyl; R30A and R3 IA can be independently selected fr          hydrogen, an
optionally substituted C1 24 -alkyl, an optionally substituted C2 -24 alkenyl, an optionally
substituted C2 -2 4 alkynyl, an optionally substituted C3 -6 cycloalkyl and an optionally substituted
C3.6 cycloalkenyl; for Formula (III), ----- can be a single bond or a double bond; when --           is
a single bond, each R 7 c and each RSc can be independently hydrogen or halogen; and when -
- is a double bond, each R7 c is absent and each RSC can be independently hydrogen or halogen;
R'A and Roc can be independently an optionally substituted C1 24 -alkyl, m and n can be
independently 0 or 1; p and q can be independently selected from 1, 2 and 3; r can be I or 2;
ZIA, Z2A, Z3A, Z4A, Z", Z2" and ZIc can be independently          0 or S; and provided that when the
                                                                            2A
                                                                   R8A
dashed line (--)          of Formula (I) is absent; R         is          R      wherein R       is an
                                                                                                    9
unsubstituted C 14 alkyl or phenyl optionally para-substituted with a halogen or methyl and R A
is methyl ester, ethyl ester, isopropyl ester, n-butyl ester, benzyl ester or phenyl ester of an
amino acid selected from glycine, alanine, valine,               leucine, phenylalanine, tryptophan,
methionine and proline; R3^ is OH; R4A is fluoro; RSA is fluoro or hydrogen; and BIA is an
unsubstituted uracil; then    R2A   cannot be -OCH 3; provided that when the dashed line (--)       of
Formula (I) is absent; RIA is H;         R3A  is OH; R4A is fluoro; R5A is fluoro; and B IA is an
unsubstituted cytosine; then      2
                                R A   cannot be allenyl; provided that when the dashed line (--)    of
Formula (I) is absent; R1A is H; RSA is OH; R4A is fluoro; RA is hydrogen; and B IA is an
unsubstituted thymine; then R2 A cannot be C, alkyl substituted with an optionally substituted N
amido (for example, -NC(=O)CF 3); and provided that when the dashed line (--)             of Formula
(I) is absent; RIA is H; R3A is OH; R4^ is fluoro; R5 A is fluoro; and B IA is an unsubstituted
cytosine; then R2A cannot be ethynyl.
         [00851        In some embodiments, the compound can be a compound of Formula (I), or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, wherein:             BIA can be an optionally substituted
heterocyclic base or an optionally substituted heterocyclic base with a protected amino group;
                                                     1A              z2A             Z3A
                                          R6AO-         -  R AO-P-             R o-P-
 R IAcan be selected from hydrogen,                OR 7A,            R9A   and       RIlA ; when the
 dashed line (---) of Formula (I) is a single bond, R2 A is CH2, and R^ is 0 (oxygen); when the
 dashed line (-       ) of Formula (1) is absent, R2A can be selected from an optionally substituted
 C1-6 alkyl, an optionally substituted C2 -6 alkenyl, an optionally substituted C2- 6 alkynyl, an
 optionally substituted -0-CI- 6 alkyl, an optionally substituted -0-C3.6 alkenyl, an optionally
                                                    -21-

substituted -O-C3 6 alkynyl and cyano, and R3A is OH; R4 A can be a halogen; R5 A can be
hydrogen or halogen; R^, R            and RSA can be independently selected from absent, hydrogen, an
optionally substituted CI         24 alkyl, an optionally substituted C 2 -2 4 alkenyl, an optionally
substituted C 2 -2 4 alkynyl, an optionally substituted C36 cycloalkyl, an optionally substituted C3.6
cycloalkenyl, an optionally substituted aiyl, an optionally substituted heteroaryl, an optionally
substituted aryl(C1 6 alkyl), an optionally substituted *-(CRIARIA)O--C-24 alkyl, an
                                                                                    R 9A    R2 0A
                                                                                                  R 21A
optionally          substituted               7
                                       *-(CR^R  AR^A)OC 124          alkenyl,                0
  R22 A   R23A O0
            Z           R 24 A                                                                      25A
                                                         0
                                                  O
                     0        -R28A
                       Or       R                        Oy
      26
    R A      R27A                    and              R29A          or        R6A        can          be
           0                 O
                             1
   2 A0
 Rl1       iI
           11
                              I
           OR1 3 A           OR14 A
                                      m and R7 A can be absent or hydrogen; or RA and R7A can be
taken together to form a moiety selected from an optionally substituted                         and an
optionally substituted                          wherein the oxygens connected to R6A and R7 A, the
phosphorus and the moiety form a six-membered to ten-membered ring system;. R9A can be
independently selected from an optionally substituted CI-24 alkyl, an optionally substituted C 2-2 4
alkenyl, an optionally substituted C2-24 alkynyl, an optionally substituted C3-6 cycloalkyl, an
optionally substituted C3.4 cycloalkenyl, NRV'        RI A, an optionally substituted N-linked amino
acid and an optionally substituted N-linked amino acid ester derivative; R'0A and R'            can be
independently an optionally substituted N-linked amino acid or an optionally substituted N
linked amino acid ester derivative; R'IA, RI3 A and R14A can be independently absent or
                                                    -22-

hydrogen; each RISA, each R I^, each RIA and each RI1A can be independently hydrogen, an
optionally substituted C-24 alkyl or alkoxy; R 19A, R2 0A, R2       A  and R2     A  can be independently
selected from hydrogen, an optionally substituted C1-24 alkyl and an optionally substituted aryl;
R1A and R2 4 A can be independently selected from hydrogen, an optionally substituted CI- 24
alkyl, an optionally substituted aryl, an optionally substituted -0-C- 24 alkyl and an optionally
substituted -O-aryl; R2$Aand       R29A can be independently selected from hydrogen, an optionally
substituted CI- 2 4 alkyl and an optionally substituted aryl;  R 2 6A  and R27A can be independently
C=N or an optionally substituted substituent selected from C2-8 organylcarbonyl,                        C2-8
alkoxycarbonyl and C2-9 organylaminocarbonyl; R2            A  can be selected from hydrogen, an
optionally substituted C      24-alkyl,  an optionally substituted C2-24 alkenyl, an optionally
substituted C2-24 alkynyl, an optionally substituted C3-6 cycloalkyl and an optionally substituted
C. cycloalkenyl; R30A and R3 1A can be independently selected from hydrogen, an optionally
substituted Cp24-alkyl, an optionally substituted C2-24 alkenyl, an optionally substituted C2-24
alkynyl, an optionally substituted C36. cycloalkyl and an optionally substituted C3-6 cycloalkenyl;
in can be 0 or I; p and q can be independently selected from 1,2 and 3; r can be I or 2; Z ', Z2A
Z3A  and Z4A can be independently 0 or S. In some embodiments, a compound of Formula (1)
can have a structure shown herein, provided that when the dashed line (--) of Formula (I) is
                            Z2A
                   R8AO--
absent; RI1^ is            R-       wherein RSA is an unsubstituted C14 alkyl or phenyl optionally
para-substituted with a halogen or methyl and R9^ is methyl ester, ethyl ester, isopropyl ester, n
butyl ester, bcnzyl ester or phenyl ester of an amino acid selected from glycine, alanine, valine,
leucine, phenylalanine, tryptophan, methionine and proline;           R3 A  is 01-;   R4 A is fluoro; R5^ is
fluoro or hydrogen; and B     A is an unsubstituted uracil; then R2Acannot be -OCH 3; provided that
when the dashed line (--)        of Formula (1)is absent; R3A is H; R3A is OH; R4A is fluoro; RSA is
fluoro; and BIA is an unsubstituted cytosine; then R2A cannot be allenyl; provided that when the
dashed line (--)       of Formula (1)is absent; RIA is H; R3A is OH; R4^ is fluoro; R"^ is hydrogen;
and B'A is an unsubstituted thymine; then R2A cannot be C, alkyl substituted with an N-amido;
and provided that when the dashed line (--)           of Formula (I) is absent; RIA is H; R3 ^ is OH;
R4A is fluoro; R)A is fluoro; and B1A is an unsubstituted cytosine; then R2A cannot be ethynyl.
                                                                           1A
                                                             RAO-F
                                                  A                      IYA.                           es
         [00861       In some embodiments, R         can be              OR     .   In some embodiments,
R6^ and R7A can be both hydrogen. In other embodiments, R6A and R7A can be both absent. In
                                                   -23-

still other embodiments, at least one R6 A and R7 Acan be absent. In yet still other embodiments,
at least one R6 A and RIA can be hydrogen. Those skilled in the art understand that when R6A
and/or R7A are absent, the associated oxygen(s) will have a negative charge. For example, when
R6A is absent, the oxygen associated with R6A will have a negative charge.                    In some
embodiments, ZIA can be 0 (oxygen). In other embodiments,             ZIA  can be S (sulfur). In some
embodiments, R ^ can be a monophosphate.                    In other embodiments, RIA can be a
monothiophosphate.
                                                                        1A
                                                               R4
           [0087]      In some embodiments, when R^ is                ORA, one of R^ and R7A can
be hydrogen, and the other of RA and R7 'Ais selected from an optionally substituted C-         24 alkyl,
an optionally substituted C2 -24 alkenyl, an optionally substituted C2 -24 alkynyl, an optionally
substituted C3 ,6 cycloalkyl, an optionally substituted Cic, cycloalkenyl, an optionally substituted
aryl, an optionally substituted heteroaryl and an optionally substituted aryl(C.c alkyl). In some
embodiments, one of         R6 A and R7A can be hydrogen, and the other of R1A and R7A can be an
optionally substituted CI-24 alkyl. In other embodiments, both R6 A and R7Acan be independently
selected from an optionally substituted CI-2 4 alkyl, an optionally substituted C2 -24 alkenyl, an
optionally substituted C2 -24 alkynyl, an optionally substituted C3 ,6 cycloalkyl, an optionally
substituted CM- cycloalkenyl, an optionally substituted aryl, an optionally substituted heteroaryl
and an optionally substituted aryl(C1 - alkyl). In some embodiments, both R6 A and R7A can be
an optionally substituted CI 24 alkyl.        In other embodiments, both R6A and R7 A can be an
optionally substituted C2 -24 alkenyl. In some embodiments, R6A and R7 Acan be independently
an optionally substituted version of the following: myristoleyl, myristyl, palmitoleyl, palmityl,
sapienyl, oleyl, elaidyl, vaccenyl, linoleyl, a-linolenyl, arachidonyl, eicosapentaenyl, erucyl,
docosahexaenyl, caprylyl, capryl, lauryl, stearyl, arachidyl, behenyl, lignoceryl, and cerotyl.
           [0088]       In some embodiments, at least one of R6A and R7A can be *-(CR 5AR ICA),-O
CI-24 alkyl. In other embodiments, R6A and R7A can be both *-(CR'5ARMA)I,O-C               24 alkyl. In
some embodiments, each R'SA and each R16 A are hydrogen. In other embodiments, at least one
of  RISA    and R 16A is an optionally substituted C1.24 alkyl. In other embodiments, at least one of
R'A and R 6A is an alkoxy (for example, bcnzoxy). In some embodiments, p can be 1. In other
embodiments, p can be 2. In still other embodiments, p can be 3.
           [00891       In some embodiments, at least one of R6 Aand R7A can be *-(CR     1RIA)-O
C2- 2 4 alkenyl. In other embodiments, R6 A and R7A can be both *-(CR4R7^ISA)O-C-            24 alkenyl.
In some embodiments, each RIA and each R'1^ are hydrogen. In other embodiments, at least
                                                   -24-

one of RiPA and RSA is an optionally substituted C124 alkyl. In some embodiments, q can be 1.
In other embodiments, q can be 2. In still other embodiments, q can be 3. When at least one of
RIA and RI^ is *-(CR 11^R A),-O-C-24 alkyl or *-(CR AR^)q-O-C 2 -24 alkenyl, the C-24 alkyl
can be selected from caprylyl, capryl, lauryl, myristyl, palmityl, stearyl, arachidyl, behenyl,
lignoceryl, and cerotyl, and the C2-24 alkenyl can be selected from myristoleyl, palmitoleyl,
sapienyl, oleyl, elaidyl, vaccenyl, linoleyl, a-linolenyl, arachidonyl, eicosapentaenyl, erucyl and
docosahexaenyl.
                                                                            1A
                                                                R6AO--
         [00901       In some embodiments, when RIA is                    ORA, at least one of RA and
                                                            9        2
                                                          RI A     R  OA
                                                                                     22        23A O
                                                                        R21A       R    A
                        7A                                                                     Z4A       R24 A
R           can       be        selected      from                  0
                       0
                      0      -R2aA
and     R2BA     R27A               ; and the other of RCA and R'^ can be selected from absent,
hydrogen, an optionally substituted C1.24 alkyl, an optionally substituted C2-2 4 alkenyl, an
optionally substituted C2-24 alkynyl, an optionally substituted C3-, cycloalkyl, an optionally
substituted C3 6 cycloalkenyl, an optionally substituted aryl, an optionally substituted heteroaryl
and an optionally substituted aryl(CI- alkyl).
                                                                                      R1OA      R20A
                                                                                                      R 21A
         [0091]       In some embodiments, at least one of R6A and R7A can be                    0           or
  R 22A    R 23A O                                                                        R 19A    R20A R21A
  R2       R2S4A      R24A
                           .   In some embodiments, both RCA and R7 A can be                        0
                                               ROA    R2 0A
                                                            R21A
                                                   ?>
When one or both of R6A and R7A are                    0         , R 19A and R20A can be independently
selected from hydrogen, an optionally substituted C-24 alkyl and an optionally substituted aryl;
and R2 1A can be selected from hydrogen, an optionally substituted C24 alkyl, an optionally
substituted aryl, an optionally substituted -O-C 1. 2 4 alkyl and an optionally substituted -0-aryl.
                                                   -25-

In some embodiments, RA and R2OA can be hydrogen. In other embodiments, at least one of
R19^ and R20 ' can be an optionally substituted C-      24 alkyl or an optionally substituted aryl. In
some embodiments, R2 A can be an optionally substituted C- 24 alkyl. In other embodiments,
R    A can be an optionally substituted aryl. In still other embodiments, R        Acan  be an optionally
substituted -0-C- 2 4 alkyl or an optionally substituted -0-aryl.
                                                                                R 22A     R23A O
          [0092]     In some embodiments, both R6 A and R7A can be                         Z4 A       R24A
                                                      2
                                                   R2 A     R23A O
                                              7j\             Z4 A     R24A       2
When one or both of RPA and R7^ are                                         ,   R2A    and R23A can be
independently selected from hydrogen, an optionally substituted C- 24 alkyl and an optionally
substituted aryl; R^4Acan be independently selected from hydrogen, an optionally substituted C
24 alkyl, an optionally substituted aryl, an optionally substituted -0-C      24  alkyl and an optionally
substituted -0-aryl; and Z4A can be independently 0 (oxygen) or S (sulfur).                        In some
embodiments, R ?A and R^3Acan be hydrogen. In other embodiments, at least one of R^2A and
R23A can be an optionally substituted Cl-24 alkyl or an optionally substituted aryl.               In some
 embodiments, R^4A can be an optionally substituted C       24 alkyl. In other embodiments, R24A can
be an optionally substituted aryl.        In still other embodiments, R^24 A can be an optionally
 substituted -0-CI-2 4 alkyl or an optionally substituted -0-aryl. In some embodiments, Z4^ can
be 0 (oxygen). In other embodiments, Z 4 ^ can be or S (sulfur). In some embodiments, one or
both of R6Aand R7A can be isopropylcarbonyloxymethyl. In some embodiments, one or both of
 R6A and R7^ can be pivaloyloxymethyl.
                                                                                               0
                                                                                                       R2eA
                                                                                                O
                                                                                                 r
           [00931    In some embodiments, both R6 ^ and R7A can be               R2 0A   R27A
                                                                   0
                                                                 0
                                                                     r
 When one or both of R'          and R7A are        R2GA    R2A               ,  R26A and R27 A can be
 independently -C=N or an optionally substituted substituent selected from C2 -sorganylcarbonyl,
 C2 -4 alkoxycarbonyl and C2. organylaminocarbonyl; R2A can be selected from hydrogen, an
 optionally substituted C     24-alkyl,  an optionally substituted C2.24 alkenyl, an optionally
 substituted C2 24 alkynyl, an optionally substituted C3. 6 cycloalkyl and an optionally substituted
                                                   -26-

C3.6 cycloalkenyl; and r can be I or 2. In some embodiments, R26 Acan be -C N and           R27 A can be
an optionally substituted C2- alkoxycarbonyl, such as -C(=O)OCH 3. In other embodiments,
R2A can be -CEN and           R27 A can be an optionally substituted C2 -8 organylaminocarbonyl, for
example, -C(=O)NHCH 2CH3 and -C(=O)NHCH 2 CH 2phenyl. In some embodiments, both R2A
and R27 A can be an optionally substituted C2 -8 organylcarbonyl, such as -C(=O)Ci          3.  In some
embodiments, both R21A and R27 A can be an optionally substituted CI.s alkoxycarbonyl, for
example, -C(=O)OCH 2CH 3 and -C(=O)OCH 3.                    In some embodiments, including those
described in this paragraph, R2 8A can be an optionally substituted C 4 -alkyl.                In some
embodiment, R^    28A can be methyl or tert-butyl. In some embodiments, r can be 1. In other
embodiments, r can be 2.
                                                         0
                                                        0  -R2A
        [0094]        Example of          R2eA   R2 7A             include, but are not limited to the
following:
                        OCH 3  ,                    CH 3                   OCH3
                                             0>
         0              OCH 3                                                 HH
               00                                               0
               0                                N--O        0
                                                               0  OH3                     o
                      CH3                                                                 O      CH3
                                                       03                          0              H3
                  0
                                                           CO
                         OCH2CH3                                                OCHcH3
 H3C                     OCH23                                                  oCH2cH
                    Sand
                                 OCH2CH3
                 o               OCH 2CH 3
                          0                            -7
H30
        0
                                                      -27-

         [0095]     In some embodiments, R6 Aand R7Acan be both an optionally substituted aryl.
In some embodiments, at least one of R6 A and RIA can be an optionally substituted aryl. For
example, both ReA and R7A can be an optionally substituted phenyl or an optionally substituted
naphthyl. When substituted, the substituted aryl can be substituted with 1, 2, 3 or more than 3
substituents. When more the two substituents are present, the substituents can be the same or
different. In some embodiments, when at least one of R6 A and R7A is a substituted phenyl, the
substituted phenyl can be a para-, ortho- or meta-substituted plienyl.
         100961     In some embodiments, R6 A and     WA    can be both an optionally substituted
aryl(C 1 6 alkyl).  In some embodiments, at least one of R6A and R7A can be an optionally
substituted aryl(C 1 6 alkyl). For example, both RGA and R7^ can be an optionally substituted
benzyl. When substituted, the substituted benzyl group can be substituted with 1, 2, 3 or more
than 3 substituents. When more the two substituents are present, the substituents can be the
same or different. In some embodiments, the aryl group of the aryl(Ct- alkyl) can be a para-,
ortho- or meta-substituted phenyl.
         10097]      In some embodiments, RP^ and R7A can be both                 S       R2 A. In
                                                                               0
some embodiments, at least one of R6 A and R7A can be                       S     R2A.    In some
embodiments, R25 ^ can be hydrogen.         In other embodiments, R25A can be an optionally
substituted CI-24 alkyL In still other embodiments, R2SA can be an optionally substituted aryl. In
some embodiments, R25Acan be a C1_6 alkyl, for example, methyl, ethyl, n-propyl, isopropyl, n
butyl, isobutyl, tert-butyl, pentyl (branched and straight-chained), and hexyl (branched and
straight-chained).
                                                                                      0
                                                                                0O
          [00981     In some embodiments, R6 A and R7A can be both                 R29A . In some
                                                                   0
                                                                0
 embodiments, at least one of R6A and R7A can be                R29A.  In some embodiments, R2A
 can be hydrogen. In other embodiments, R^29 can be an optionally substituted C- 2 4 alkyL. In
some embodiments, R^9Acan be a CIA alkyl, such as methyl, ethyl, n-propyl, iso-propyl, n-butyl,
                                               -28-

 iso-butyl and t-butyl. In still other embodiments, R29A can be an optionally substituted aryl,
such as an optionally substituted phenyl or an optionally substituted naphithyl.
                                                                                    1A
                                                                        R6AO---P
         [00991      In some        embodiments,     ,    IA can  be              OR 7A    RA   can   be
            O             O
                     O-P   1
 R12AO-P1
             I             I
            OR 13A        OR14 A
                                   - m; R7A can be absent or hydrogen; R       A, R 3 A and R"A can be
independently absent or hydrogen; and m can be 0 or 1. In some embodiments, in can be 0, and
R'A, R 2 A and R 3 A can be independently absent or hydrogen. In other embodiments, imcan be
                       -A
 1, and R A, RI    , RA   and R14 A can be independently absent or hydrogen. Those skilled in the
art understand that when m is 0,          RCA  can be diphosphate, when   ZIA   is oxygen, or an alpha
thiodiphosphate, when     ZIA   is sulfur. Likewise, those skilled in the art understand that when m is
 1, R6A can be triphosphate, when ZI^ is oxygen, or an alpha-thiotriphosphate, when ZA is
sulfur.
         [0100]      In some embodiments, RCA and R7A can be taken together to form an
                                  *
optionally substituted                  .     For example, RI^ can be an optionally substituted
          1A
     00        . When substituted, the ring can be substituted 1, 2, 3 or 3 or more times. When
substituted with multiple substituents, the substituents can be the same or different.          In some
                                              l1A
                                           0,1
embodiments, when R IA is                         , the ring can be substituted with an optionally
substituted aryl group and/or an optionally substituted heteroaryl.           An example of a suitable
heteroaryl is pyridinyl.     In sonic embodiments, R6A and R7^ can be taken together to form an
                                                     -29-

                                                  *       R3 2 A
optionally substituted             such as                       , wherein R3 2 A can be an optionally
substituted aryl, an optionally substituted heteroaryl or an optionally substituted heterocyclyl.
        [01011      In some embodiments,      RGA    and R7A can be taken together to form an
optionally substituted                    , wherein the oxygens connected to R^ and R7 A, the
phosphorus and the moiety form a six-membered to ten-membered ring system. Example of an
                                                                                                 CH3
                                               *                     *                    *
optionally     substituted                          include
                                     *O
                     C02CH 3                              0
     *
                                                          0
                             and                 0
        [0102]      In some embodiments, R6A and R7A can be the same. In some embodiments,
R6A and R7A can be the different.
        [0103]      In some embodiments, ZIA can be oxygen. In other embodiments,           ZIA can be
sulfur.
                                                                      2A
                                                          R0
         [0104]     In some embodiments, R IAcan be                 R9A     In some embodiments, RSA
can be selected from absent, hydrogen, an optionally substituted CI-24 alkyl, an optionally
substituted C2-24 alkenyl, an optionally substituted C2-24 alkynyl, an optionally substituted C36
cycloalkyl and an optionally substituted C36 cycloalkenyl; and             RDA   can be independently
selected from an optionally substituted CI-24 alkyl, an optionally substituted C2-24 alkenyl, an
optionally substituted C2-24 alkynyl, an optionally substituted C,.6 cycloalkyl and an optionally
substituted C3.6 cycloalkenyl.
         10105]      In some embodiments, RSA can be hydrogen, and R9A can be an optionally
substituted C-6 alkyl.     Examples of suitable CI, alkyls include methyl, ethyl, n-propyl,
isopropyl, n-butyl, isobutyl, tert-butyl, pentyl (branched and straight-chained), and hexyl
                                                 -30-

(branched and straight-chained). In other embodiments, R8A can be hydrogen, and R9A can be
NR    AR"A,   wherein RO and R          can be independently selected from hydrogen, an optionally
substituted C-24 alkyl, an optionally substituted C 2 -24 alkenyl, an optionally substituted C2-24
alkynyl, an optionally substituted C3 - cycloalkyl and an optionally substituted C3-A cycloalkenyl.
         [0106]      In some embodiments, RSA can be absent or hydrogen; and RA can be an
optionally substituted N-linked amino acid or an optionally substituted N-linked amino acid
ester derivative. In other embodiments, R8 Acan be an optionally substituted aryl; and R9 Acan be
an optionally substituted N-linked amino acid or an optionally substituted N-linked amino acid
ester derivative. In still other embodiments, RsA can be an optionally substituted heteroaryl; and
R9A can be an optionally substituted N-linked amino acid or an optionally substituted N-linked
amino acid ester derivative.          In some embodiments, R9 A can be selected from alanine,
asparagine, aspartate, cysteine, glutamate, glutamine, glycine, proline, shrine, tyrosine, arginine,
histidine, isoleucine, leucine, lysine, methionine, phenylalanine, threonine, tryptophan, valine
and ester derivatives thereof. Examples of an optionally substituted N-linked amino acid ester
derivatives include optionally substituted versions of the following: alanine isopropyl ester,
alanine cyclohexyl ester, alanine neopentyl ester, valine isopropyl ester and IcLucine isopropyl
                                                                3   R34A     35A
                                                             R3 A
ester. In some embodiments, R9A can have the structure            o      H--     wherein R33 A can be
selected from hydrogen, an optionally substituted C1 6-alkyl, an optionally substituted C3.6
cycloalkyl, an optionally substituted aryl, an optionally substituted aryl(C1 6 alkyl) and an
optionally substituted haloalkyl; R3MA can be selected from hydrogen, an optionally substituted
CJ-6 alkyl, an optionally substituted C1-6 haloalkyl, an optionally substituted C36 cycloalkyl, an
optionally substituted C6 aryl, an optionally substituted Clo aryl and an optionally substituted
aryl(C.  6 alkyl); and RS5A can be hydrogen or an optionally substituted C 1-alkyl; or R34'A and
R3A can be taken together to form an optionally substituted C, 6 cycloalkyl.
         t0107]      When R34 A is substituted, R3 4A can be substituted with one or more
substituents selected from N-amido, mercapto, alkylthio, an optionally substituted aryl, hydroxy,
an optionally substituted heteroaryl, 0-carboxy, and amino. In some embodiments, RA^ can be
an unsubstituted Cw-   6 -alkyl, such as those described herein. In some embodiments, R3A can be
hydrogen. In other embodiments, R3^ can be methyl. In some embodiments, R3 can be an
optionally substituted C1 -6 alkyl. Examples of optionally substituted Cwc,-alkyls include
optionally substituted variants of the following: methyl, ethyl, n-propyl, isopropyl, n-butyl,
isobutyl, tert-butyl, pentyl (branched and straight-chained), and hexyl (branched and straight
                                                   -31-

chained). In some embodiments, R 33A can be methyl or isopropyl. In some embodiments, R33 A
can be ethyl or neopentyl. In other embodiments, R33 A can be an optionally substituted C3
cycloalkyl. Examples of optionally substituted C3A cycloalkyl include optionally substituted
variants of the following: cyclopropyl, cyclobutyl, cyclopentyl, and cyclohexyl.                      In an
embodiment, R^3 A can be an optionally substituted cyclohexyl. In still other embodiments, RA
can be an optionally substituted aryl, such as phenyl and naphthyl.                     In yet still other
embodiments, R        can be an optionally substituted aryl(C 1 6 alkyl). In some embodiments,          R 3A
can be an optionally substituted benzyl.         In some embodiments,          R33 A can be an optionally
substituted CIA haloalkyl, for example, CF3 . In some embodiments, RSA can be hydrogen. In
other embodiments, R35^ can be an optionally substituted C-alkyl, such as methyl, ethyl, n
propyl, isopropyl, n-butyl, isobutyl and tert-butyl. In an embodiment, R3A can be methyl. In
some embodiments, RAA and R35A can be taken together to form an optionally substituted C3.6
cycloalkyl. Examples of optionally substituted C3 -6 cycloalkyl include optionally substituted
variants of the following: cyclopropyl, cyclobutyl, cyclopontyl, and cyclohexyl. Depending on
                                                35
the groups that are selected for    R 34 A and R^  A, the carbon to which R 3      A and R3 5A are attached
may be a chiral center. In some embodiment, the carbon to which R34 A and RSA are attached
may be a (R)-chiral center.       In other embodiments, the carbon to which R'^ and R35 A are
attached may be a (S)-chiral center.
                                                                           2A
                                                                RaIAO-p
         [01081     In some embodiments, when RIA is                      R9 A , Z 2A can be 0 (oxygen).
                                                 Z 2A
                                         R8AOFVI
In other embodiments, when R IAis                R9A     , Z2A can  be S (sulfur).
                                                                     Z3A
                                                              R    -P
         [0109]     In some embodiments, RIA can be                  RA     . In some embodiments, RIA
and R   IAcan   be both an optionally substituted N-linked amino acid or an optionally substituted
N-linked amino acid ester derivative.             In some embodiments, R1O^ and               RIIA  can be
independently selected from alanine, asparagine, aspartate, cysteine, glutamate, glutamine,
glycine, proline, shrine, tyrosine, arginine, histidine, isoleucine, leucine, lysine, methionine,
phenylalanine, threonine,      tryptophan, valine and ester derivatives thereof.                   In some
embodiments,     RGA  and R1  A can   be an optionally substituted version of the following: alanine
 isopropyl ester, alanine cyclohexyl ester, alanine neopentyl ester, valine isopropyl ester and
                                                    -32-

leucine isopropyl ester.     In some embodiments, RIOA and RIJA can independently have the
           R36A    R37A     38A
                     //\
                0        HN
structure                         wherein R36A can be selected from hydrogen, an optionally
substituted CI.6-alkyl, an optionally substituted C3.- cycloalkyl, an optionally substituted aryl, an
optionally substituted aryl(Ci-6 alkyl) and an optionally substituted haloalkyl; R37A can be
selected from hydrogen, an optionally substituted CI- alkyl, an optionally substituted CI
haloalkyl, an optionally substituted C3-6 cycloalkyl, an optionally substituted C6 aryl, an
optionally substituted CIO aryl and an optionally substituted aryl(CI. 6 alkyl); and R SA can be
hydrogen or an optionally substituted C. 4 -alkyl; or R37 Aand R3 8A can be taken together to form
an optionally substituted C1.6 cycloalkyl.
        [01101       When R3 7A is substituted, R37'A can be substituted with one or more
substituents selected from N-amido, mercapto, alkylthio, an optionally substituted aryl, hydroxy,
an optionally substituted heteroaryl, 0-carboxy, and amino. In some embodiments, RS7A can be
an unsubstituted C1 .6-alkyl, such as those described herein. In some embodiments, R37 A can be
hydrogen. In other embodiments, R 7^ can be methyl. In some embodiments, R3 6A can be an
optionally substituted CAo alkyl.        Examples of optionally substituted Ci.r,-alkyls include
optionally substituted variants of the following:      methyl, ethyl, n-propyl, isopropyl, n-butyl,
isobutyl, tert-buztyl, pentyl (branched and straight-chained), and hexyl (branched and straight
chained). In some embodiments, R36A can be methyl or isopropyl. In some embodiments, R36 A
can be ethyl or neopentyl.      In other embodiments, R36A can be an optionally substituted C1-6
cycloalkyl.    Examples of optionally substituted C36 cycloalkyl include optionally substituted
variants of the following: cyclopropyl, cyclobutyl, cyclopentyl, and cyclohexyl.               In an
embodiment, R^6 A can be an optionally substituted cyclohexyl. In still other embodiments, R6A
can be an optionally substituted aryl, such as phenyl and naphthyl.               In yet still other
                  36 Acan be an optionally substituted aryl(C , alkyl). In some embodiments, R36 A
embodiments, RA                                               4
can be an optionally substituted benzyl.       In some embodiments, R          can be an optionally
                                                                           3
substituted C1.6 haloalkyl, for example, CF 3 . In some embodiments, R A can be hydrogen. In
other embodiments, RM^ can be an optionally substituted CIw4-alkyl, such as methyl, ethyl, n
propyl, isopropyl, n-butyl, isobutyl and tert-butyl. In an embodiment, R3SA can be methyl. In
some embodiments, R37 ^ and R A can be taken together to form an optionally substituted C1-6
cycloalkyl.    Examples of optionally substituted C3.6 cycloalkyl include optionally substituted
variants of the following: cyclopropyl, cyclobutyl, cyclopentyl, and cyclohexyl. Depending on
the groups that are selected for R37A and R3 A, the carbon to which R3/A and R-'5 A are attached
                                                 -33-

may be a chiral center. In some embodiment, the carbon to which RiA and RA are attached
may be a (R)-chiral center. In other embodiments, the carbon to which R37 A and R3 8A are
attached may be a (S)-chiral center.
                                                 R33AO R34A       35A          R  3SAR 37A
        [0111]       Examples of suitable                     H          and      O                 groups
                                R 3 3AO  R 4
                                             A 3 R33 A      R36 AO RA        R38A    R33AO   R3 4    R35A
           the    following:          O        HN                O        HN--             0       HN-
include
 R3         R3 AAOA        H3CO                      H3CO H3G H                   H3 COH 3C      H
                              0         HN                0        N-0                        HN
         o                           OHsC      H                    H3 Q    H              0
         O        H    -HN-                                      0        HN               0       HN-
                  HN-HN-                                                                           HN
             0H
              3 0       H                        0H 3        H                             0
              0   NHN-0                                   HN0                                      HN-
                O3C      H                               OOH3,H                          O
                0OH 3C    H                             0OH 3C    H
                0        HN- -                                   H
                                                    -34-

             H,                                                                               H
                                              H
                                              0          H0
          0                                                                       0
                                          H H1Y
            o             and            0
        [01121     In some embodiments, ROA and R' IA can be the same.                     In some
embodiments, RIOA and R'    A can be the different.
        [0113]     In some embodiments, Z3^ can be 0 (oxygen). In other embodiments, Z3A
can be S (sulfur).
        [0114]     In some embodiments, R"^ can be hydrogen. In some embodiments, R,Acan
                                                                                   9 A, wherein R39A
be an optionally substituted acyl. In other embodiments, RIAcan be ~C(=0)R^3
can be selected from an optionally substituted Ct 1 2 alkyl, an optionally substituted C2-12 alkenyl,
an optionally substituted C2-12 alkynyl, an optionally substituted C3 .8 cycloalkyl, an optionally
substituted C5.s cycloalkenyl, an optionally substituted C6-1 aryl, an optionally substituted
heteroaryl, an optionally substituted heterocyclyl, an optionally substituted aryl(CI- alkyl), an
optionally substituted heteroaryl(C1-6 alkyl) and an optionally substituted heterocyclyl(CI-c
alkyl). In some embodiments, R39"' can be a substituted C 1 i2 alkyl. In other embodiments, R3 A
can be an unsubstituted C1.2 alkyl.
        [0115]     In still other embodiments, R       can be an optionally substituted 0-linked
amino acid. Examples of suitable 0-linked amino acids include alanine, asparagine, aspartate,
cysteine, glutamate, glutamine, glycine, proline, shrine, tyrosine, arginine, histidine, isoleucine,
leucine, lysine, methionine, phenylalanine, threonine, tryptophan and valine.             Additional
examples of suitable amino acids include, but are not limited to, ornithine, hypusine, 2
aminoisobutyric acid, dehydroalanine, gamma-aminobutyric acid, citrulline, beta-alanine, alpha
ethyl-glycine, alpha-propyl-glycine and norleucinc. In some embodiments, the O-linked amino
                              -O    R40A    R4 1A
acid can have the structure      0         NH2 , wherein R4 A can be selected from hydrogen, an
optionally substituted Ce- alkyl, an optionally substituted Ces, haloalkyl, an optionally
substituted C3.6 cycloalkyl, an optionally substituted C6 aryl, an optionally substituted C10 aryl
                                                -35-

and an optionally substituted aiyl(Cp6 alkyl); and R4IA can be hydrogen or an optionally
substituted Ci-alkyl; or R4QA and R4          A can  be taken together to form an optionally substituted
C3 6 cycloalkyl. Those skilled in the art understand that when RIA is an optionally substituted 0
linked amino acid, the oxygen of RA0- of Formula (1) is part of the optionally substituted 0
                                                                 4       41A
                                                             * R 0A
linked amino acid. For example, when R'A            is       0         NH2 , the oxygen indicated with    "*"
is the oxygen of R1A0 of Formula (I).
         [0116]       When      ROA   is substituted, R40A can be substituted with one or more
substituents selected from N-amido, mercapto, alkylthio, an optionally substituted aryl, hydroxy,
an optionally substituted heteroaryl, 0-carboxy, and amino. In some embodiments,                 R40   can be
an unsubstituted Ct-c-alkyl, such as those described herein. In some embodiments, R4 A can be
hydrogen. In other embodiments,           R4AA    can be methyl. In some embodiments,           R4 A   can be
hydrogen.      In other embodiments, RIA can be an optionally substituted C14 -alkyl, such as
methyl, ethyl, n-propyl, isopropyl, n-butyl, isobutyl and tert-butyl. In an embodiment, R4              A can
be methyl. Depending on the groups that are selected for RIA and                 RIJA, the carbon to which
RCA   and   R'"A  are attached may be a chiral center. In some embodiment, the carbon to which
R"0A   and R41A are attached may be a (R)-chiral center. In other embodiments, the carbon to
which   RCA   and  R4'A   are attached may be a (S)-chiral center.
                                                                   40
                                                               O        R4 1A
         [01171       Examples       of    suitable            0        NH2     include    the    following:
     O RA0A '"R41A
    -0                       OR 40A    R41A           O0                   O   3    H         O      H   CH3
                NHN                       A;                               0       IH                    OH8
                  2                         ,                    NH2 ,     0       NH2 ,      0         NH 2 ,
         ~3H            '                                     H
     O          NH2 ,       O        NH2      and      o          NH2
         [0118]       In some embodiments, the dashed line (------) can be a single bond, R2 ^ can
be CH 2, and R3^ can be 0 (oxygen). When the dashed line (-----) is a single bond, R2 Ais CH2,
and  R 3A  is 0 (oxygen), a 4-membered ring is formed that includes the 4'-carbon and 3'-carbon
of the pentose ring. In other embodiments, the dashed line (-----) can be absent, R2A can be
selected from an optionally substituted C-               alkyl, an optionally substituted C2 . 6 alkenyl, an
                                                        -36-

optionally substituted C2 -6 alkynyl, an optionally substituted -0-CI-6 alkyl, an optionally
substituted -0-C   3.6 alkenyl, an optionally substituted -O-C    3 6 alkynyl and cyano, and R3A can
be selected from OH, -OC(=O)R'A and an optionally substituted 0-linked amino acid.
        [0119]       Various groups can be attached to the 4'-position of the pentose ring.         In
some embodiments, R2A can be an optionally substituted C1-6 alkyl. Examples of suitable C1.6
alkyls include methyl, ethyl, n-propyl, isopropyl, n-butyl, isobutyl, tert-butyl, pentyl (branched
and straight-chained), and hexyl (branched and straight-chained).         In some embodiments, R2A
can be an unsubstituted C1-6 alkyl. In other embodiments, R2 A can be a substituted CI-6 alkyl,
For example, R2 A can be a halogen substituted C1 -6 alkyl, a hydroxy substituted C1 -6 alkyl, an
alkoxy substituted C1 -6 alkyl or a sulfenyl substituted C1-6 alkyl (for example, -C1. 6 alkyl-S-C.  6
alkyl). In other embodiments, R2 A can be a C1 6 haloalkyl      In other embodiments, R2 A can be an
optionally substituted C2 -6 alkenyl. In some embodiments, R2 ^ can be a substituted C2 -6 alkenyl.
In other embodiments, R2A can be an unsubstituted C2.6 aikenyl.            For example, R2A can be
ethenyl, propenyl or allenyl. In still other embodiments, R2 A can be an optionally substituted C2
6 alkynyl. In some embodiments, R2A can be a substituted C2. alkynyl. In other embodiments,
R 2 can be an unsubstituted C2. alkynyl. Suitable C2-6 alkynyls include ethynyl and propynyl.
In yet still other embodiments, R2A can be an optionally substituted C3-6 cycloalkyl. In some
embodiments, R2A can be a substituted C3 .6 cycloalkyl. In other embodiments, R2A can be an
unsubstituted C3-6 cycloalkyl.      A non-limiting list of C3 -6 cycloalkyls include cyclopropyl,
cyclobutyl, cyclopentyl and cyclohexyl.        In some embodiments, R2^ can be an optionally
substituted -0-CI.6 alkyl. In some embodiments, R2A can be a substituted -0-CI-6 alkyl.             In
other embodiments, R        can be an unsubstituted -0-C 1. 6 alkyl. Examples of suitable O-C. 6
alkyl groups include methoxy, ethoxy, n-propoxy, iso-propoxy, n-butoxy, isobutoxy, tert
butoxy, pentoxy (branched and straight-chained), and hexoxy (branched and straight-chained).
In other embodiments, R2^ can be an optionally substituted -0-C 3 .6 alkenyl.                 In some
embodiments, R2 A can be a substituted -0-C 3.6 alkenyl. In other embodiments, R             can be an
unsubstituted -0-C 3 -6 alkenyl. In still other embodiments, R2^ can be an optionally substituted
-0-C 3.- alkynyl. In some embodiments, R2 A can be a substituted -0-C            3-6 alkynyl. In other
embodiments, R2 A can be an unsubstituted -0-C.       6 alkynyl. In yet still other embodiments, R2A
can be cyano.
        101201       The groups attached to the 3'-position of the pentose ring can vary. In some
embodiments, including those of paragraph [0119], R3A can be OH.               In other embodiments,
including those of paragraph [0 119], R'A can be an optionally substituted 0-linked amino acid.
Examples of suitable 0-linked amino acids include alanine, asparagine, aspartate, cysteine,
                                                 -37-

glutamate, glutamine, glycine, praline, serine, tyrosine, arginine, histidine, isoleucine, leucine,
lysine, methionine, phenylalanine, threonine, tryptophan and valine. Additional examples of
suitable amino acids include, but are not limited to, ornithine, hypusine, 2-aminoisobutyric acid,
dehydroalanine, gamma-aminobutyric acid, citrulline, beta-alanine, alpha-ethyl-glycine, alpha
propyl-glycine and norleucine. In some embodiments, the 0-linked amino acid can have the
                O R42A     R4 3A
structure       0         NH2    ,  wherein R42 A can be selected from hydrogen, an optionally
substituted C1.6 alkyl, an optionally substituted C1.6 haloalkyl, an optionally substituted C3 -6
cycloalkyl, an optionally substituted C6 aryl, an optionally substituted CIO aryl and an optionally
substituted aryl(CI. 6 alkyl); and R 3Acan be hydrogen or an optionally substituted Ciwralkyl; or
R     and R4A can be taken together to form an optionally substituted C3- cycloalky.
        [01211      When R42 A is substituted, R 2 A can be substituted with one or more
substituents selected from N-amido, mercapto, alkylthio, an optionally substituted aryl, hydroxy,
an optionally substituted heteroaryl, 0-carboxy, and amino. In some embodiments,                 R 4 A can be
an unsubstituted Ci-alkyl, such as those described herein. In some embodiments, R42 Acan be
hydrogen.    In other embodiments, RA        42                                                    3
                                                A can be methyl.    In some embodiments, RA          A can be
hydrogen.     In other embodiments, R4^ can be an optionally substituted Ci 4 -alkyl, such as
methyl, ethyl, n-propyl, isopropyl, n-butyl, isobutyl and tert-butyl. In an embodiment, R43 A can
be methyl. Depending on the groups that are selected for R42A and               R 43 A, the carbon to which
R4 A  and R4 3A are attached may be a chiral center. In some embodiment, the carbon to which
R42 A and RdA are attached may be a (R)-chiral center. In other embodiments, the carbon to
which R4A and R4 A are attached may be a (S)-chiral center.
                                                              R4 2A   R 4 3A
        [0122]      Examples         of    suitable         0        NH2       include      the   following:
         42A    43A                     43
                                   R       A                                 H3C     H
     o        NH2          O          NH2 ,          0        NH2 ,      0         NH2 ,       0        NH2 ,
     0        NH2 ,       0          NH2      and     0        NH2
                                                       -38-

        [01231      In still other embodiments, including those of paragraph [0119], R3A can be
OC(=O)R'A, wherein R' can be an optionally substituted C-2 4 alkyl. In some embodiments,
R'^ can be a substituted CI-s alkyl. In other embodiments, R"A can be an unsubstituted C1.s
alkyl. Instill other embodiments, including those of paragraph [0119], RA can be an optionally
substituted -0-acyl. In yet still other embodiments, including those of paragraph [0119], R3A
can be -OC(=O)R    44
                      A, wherein R44Acan be selected from an optionally substituted C-  2 alkyl, an
optionally substituted C2 -12 alkenyl, an optionally substituted C2 12 alkynyl, an optionally
substituted C3.s cycloalkyl, an optionally substituted C5.s cycloalkenyl, an optionally substituted
C6 10 aryl, an optionally substituted heteroaryl, an optionally substituted heterocyclyl, an
optionally substituted aryl(Ci-o alkyl), an optionally substituted heteroaryl(C.   6 alkyl) and an
optionally substituted hcterocyclyl(C.o alkyl). In some embodiments, R 4 A can be a substituted
C 1 2nalkyl. In other embodiments, R44 A can be an unsubstituted C- 1 2 alkyl.
         [0124]     Various substituents can be present at the 2'-position of the pentosc ring. In
some embodiments, R5A can be hydrogen.          In other embodiments, R5A can be halogen, for
example, fluoro.      In some embodiments, R4A can be halogen, such as fluoro.            In some
embodiments, R5A can be hydrogen and R4 A can be halogen. In other embodiments, RIA and
R5A can both be halogen.
         [0125]     In some embodiments, ---- can be a single bond, R4A can be fluoro, R5A can
be hydrogen and R2A can be a C1 .6 haloalkyl. In some embodiments, ---- can be a single bond,
R4^ can be fluoro, R ^ can be hydrogen, R      can be a C1-6 haloalkyl and BIA can be cytosine.
         [01261     In some embodiments, R2 A cannot be methoxy. In some embodiments, R2A
cannot be methoxy when BIA is substituted or unsubstituted uracil. In some embodiments, B 1A
is substituted or unsubstituted cytosine.        In other embodiments, B A is substituted or
unsubstituted thymine. In still other embodiments, B IA cannot be an unsubstituted uracil. In
                                                                          2A
                                                                 RIAO
                          2                                              R9A   , wherein RS^ is an
some embodiments, R A cannot be methoxy when ZI^ is
unsubstituted Cus alkyl or a para-substituted phenyl; and R9^ is an optionally substituted N
linked amino acid or an optionally substituted N-linked amino acid ester derivative. In some
                                                                Z2A
                                                       R O-P-s
                                                                I,                                2
embodiments, R2A cannot be methoxy when ZIA is                  RSA   . In some embodiments, R A
                                                -39-

                                                              2A
                                                      RAO-       5
cannot be an alkoxy (for example, when       ZI^ is          R9A ). In some embodiments, B IA
cannot be cytosine when R2A is an unsubstituted alkenyl or an unsubstiuted alkynyl. In some
embodiments, B         cannot be thymine when R2A is an optionally substituted alkyl.     In some
embodiments, R2A cannot be an unsubstituted alkoxy (such as methoxy), an optionally
substituted ailcenyl (such as allenyl), an unsubstituted alkynyl (such as ethynyl) or a C, alkyl
substituted with a non-halogen substituent.          In some embodiments, R2^ cannot be an
unsubstituted alkoxy (such as methoxy), an optionally substituted alkenyl (such as allenyl), an
optionallys substituted substituted alkynyl (such as ethynyl) or a C14 alkyl substituted with a
non-halogen substituent. In some embodiments R         A cannot be H. In some embodiments RIA
cannot be H when B'A is an optionally substituted cytosine or an optionally substituted thymine.
          [0127]      Various optionally substituted heterocyclic bases can be attached to the
pentose ring. In some embodiments, one or more of the amine and/or amino groups may be
protected with a suitable protecting group. For example, an amino group may be protected by
transforming the amine and/or amino group to an aide or a carbamate. In some embodiments,
an optionally substituted heterocyclic base or an optionally substituted heterocyclic base with
one or more protected amino groups can have one of the following structures:
              Ro2                                                 O                     NHRE2
                                                                                 D
     2
                                                          N           NH         0          N
         <<NNDNH
              N                 N      N      RC2         N       N      O     RD       N       O
                                                                  H
           0                    ORG2                       0
  F2                                                N
                NH       N                       <NN          NH2
            N       0    N      N       RH2        NN
            I      - ,
                          I-                and    I
wherein: RA2 can be selected from hydrogen, halogen and NHRJ2 , wherein R2 can be selected
 from hydrogen, -C(=0)RK2 and -C(=0)OR L; RB can be halogen or NHR             , wherein RI2 can
be selected from hydrogen, an optionally substituted CI.6 alkyl, an optionally substituted C2-6
alkenyl, an optionally substituted C3M8 cycloalkyl, -C(=0)R      2  and -C(=0)OR      Rc2 can be
hydrogen or NIH R0 2 , wherein R0 2 can be selected from hydrogen, -C(=0)R"2 and -C(=0)ORQ2 ;
 R     can be selected from hydrogen, halogen, an optionally substituted Cv6 alkyl, an optionally
                                                 -40-

substituted C2 .6 alkenyl and an optionally substituted C2.6 alkynyl; RE2 can be selected from
hydrogen, hydroxy, an optionally substituted C1- alkyl, an optionally substituted C3-8 cycloalkyl,
-C(=O)RR2 and -C(=0)ORS 2 ; RF2 can be selected from hydrogen, halogen, an optionally
substituted C1- alkyl, an optionally substituted C2.6 alkenyl and an optionally substituted C2 -6
alkynyl; Y2 and Y 3 can be independently N (nitrogen) or CR12 , wherein R can be selected from
hydrogen, halogen, an optionally substituted CI- 6-alkyl, an optionally substituted C2-6 -alkenyl
and an optionally substituted C2.- alkynyl; R32 can be an optionally substituted Cn alkyl; R' 2
can be hydrogen or NHRT2 , wherein RT2 can be independently selected from hydrogen,
C(=O)RU2 and -C(=O)ORv2; and RK2 , R 2 , RNI 2 , RN2 , RN2 , RQ2 , RR2 , Rs2 , RU' and Rv2 can be
independently selected from C1-6 alkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-( alkynyl, C3.6 cycloalkyl, C3.6
cycloalkenyl, C6-1    aryl, heteroaryl, heteroalicyclyl, aryl(CIy, alkyl), heteroaryl(C-c alkyl) and
heteroalicyclyl(CIA alkyl). In some embodiments, the structures shown above can be modified
by replacing one or more hydrogens with substituents selected from the list of substituents
provided for the definition of "substituted."
                                                                            0
                                                                    N           NH
                                                                    N       N       NH2
        101281      In some embodiments,         B1A can be                             .     In other
                                           0
                                   N           NH
                                   N       N
embodiments,     B ^ can b                         .     In still other embodiments,      31A   can be
          0
RF2
              NH                          NH
                  0                   N       0
          IN1
                        such   as                    In yet still other embodiments,          B 1^ can
            NHRE2                         NH2                 NH2
     2
   RD          N
                N                         N                N  N      0
be                    ,  for example,                 or               . In some embodiments, Rm)2
                                                 -41-

                                                                 RB2
                                                              N  N
can be hydrogen. In other embodiments, BIA can be                        In some embodiments,
RB2 can be NH 2. In other embodiments, RB2 can be NHRW2 , wherein w      2
                                                                           can be -C(=O)RM or
                                                                        ORG2
                                                                N       NN
-C(=O)ORN2.        In still other embodiments, B        can be          N       RH2.In some
                                       RG2
                                          N
                                N
                               N::   N      NH2
embodiments, B1A can be
          [01291     In some embodiments, a compound of Formula (1) can have a structure
selected from one of the following:
  RAO                  B1A           RAO             B        A          R AC             BIA
                 H         O      H0
           HF,                              H             F                     HO       F
 R1AO                 BlAR                           BIA
                                                     OAC                 RlAO             8 1A
                 O                            00a
     H 3C                                                                                 L~H-'
          H          F                   H           F                          HF
 R1A                      A           RRAO                 8 1A          RAO              BIA
                           O                         0   11
         HO          I F,                   HF              H      FH                    F,
 R1Ao-                B1A   RAG               1A   R1A                   RAG              W-A
                             O0        001
         HO          F            HO        F               H&d    F  ,         HO       F
                                                -42-

                       1A RIAO             8  1A RlAO                    lA RIAO
RiAO
             O)                  0
                                                                        F,
   H2                                                                                 Hd
         0      F              HO         FI
                                                                                           BA
                                                                            RRAO
                                   RlAo-                   BA
RlA0-:             81A
             o0
                  F                           0            F
 0
                                                                                     NH2
                                                           0: r
                                      l RRAO                     BOA
  Cl- --
                                             C0
                           0               !                                               F
                                                                             /     HO
                                                                                         0
                                                                                           F
                                                             00
                                                            B1A              R1A            BA
                                    R0A
        R1A         1A                                     F:OF
                                                                    1A
             o
                    IA               0        0            F
           A            1lAo
                                                         O     A             Rl~ .E1
                  HO F     ,       H3C       4H0
                                                              IA             RlAoD          6 IA
RIAO               BAA              RIAG
             o                                        0                                          0
      HO        'F                           HOI          'FH
                                                                 IARIAO                     BA
                        WADIA            AD
                  0                                     0
                                                -.43-

      RiAO           0       A         1o                   1A
                     O               RlAOB
              H            F         H3C 7
                                and       F H             F    , or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt of
the foregoing.     In some embodiments of this paragraph,            BIA can be an optionally substituted
purine base.    In other embodiments of this paragraph, BIA can be an optionally substituted
pyrimidine base.       In some embodiments of this paragraph, B1A can be guanine.                  In other
embodiments of this paragraph, B1^ can be thyrnine.                   In still other embodiments of this
paragraph, B1A can be cytosine.        In yet still other embodiments of this paragraph, B1A can be
uracil. In some embodiments of this paragraph, B'A can be adenine. In some embodiments of
this paragraph, RIA can be hydrogen. In other embodiments of this paragraph, RIA can be an
optionally substituted acyl. In still other embodiments of this paragraph, RIA can be mono-, di
or tri-phosphatc. In yet other embodiments of this paragraph, R1A^can be phosphoroamidate. In
some embodiments of this paragraph, R'A can be an acyloxyalkyl ester phosphate prodrug.
         [0130]       In some embodiments, the compound can be a compound of Formula (II), or
a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, wherein:              B1 n can be an optionally substituted
heterocyclic base or an optionally substituted heterocyclic base with a protected amino group;
                                                      R5B          6
                                                                          RTER 8as         932
                                                              ko        RRIOB8             9Z
R'1    can   be selected     from    0-, OH,                     0          ,     'O           23     R108,
                          0
                     S        R1 B, an optionally substituted N-linked amino acid and an optionally
substituted N-linked amino acid ester derivative; R213 can be selected from an optionally
substituted C1 6 alkyl, an optionally substituted C2.6 alkenyl, an optionally substituted C 2.6
alkynyl, an optionally substituted -O-C,- alkyl, an optionally substituted -0-C            3 .6 alkenyl, an
optionally substituted -0-C 3. 6 alkynyl and cyano; R313 can be a halogen; R 413 can be hydrogen or
halogen; R513, R613, R8 ' and R       can be independently selected from hydrogen, an optionally
substituted CI- 2 4 alkyl and an optionally substituted aryl; R 713and R1013 can be independently
selected from hydrogen, an optionally substituted CI-24 alkyl, an optionally substituted aryl, an
optionally substituted -O-CI-2    4 alkyl and an optionally substituted -O-aryl; R"13 can be selected
from hydrogen, an optionally substituted CI-24 alkyl and an optionally substituted aryl; Z11 and
Z23 can be independently 0 or S.
         [01311       In some embodiments, R113 can be 0.         In other embodiments, R'" can be OB.
                                                    -44-

                                                              R5B        6B
                                                                        &R7
         [0132]     In some embodiments, R'1 can be                     0         wherein RS and R6 3
can be independently selected from hydrogen, an optionally substituted C-24 alkyl and an
optionally substituted aryl; and R7 Bcan be selected from hydrogen, an optionally substituted Cl
24 alkyl, an optionally substituted aryl, an optionally substituted -O-CI    24 alkyl and an optionally
substituted -0-aryl.      In some embodiments, R5 1 and R61 can be hydrogen.                   In other
embodiments, at least one of R513 and R6B can be an optionally substituted C-24 alkyl or an
optionally substituted aryl.    In some embodiments, R713 can be an optionally substituted C-24
alkyl.    In other embodiments, R,7 can be an optionally substituted aryl.                In still other
embodiments, R7 3 can be an optionally substituted -O-C-       24 alkyl or an optionally substituted
O-aryl.
                                                                RSB        9B   O
         [0133]     In some embodiments, R ' can be              <02B                R10 B wherein R813
and R9 3 can be independently selected from hydrogen, an optionally substituted CI24 alkyl and
an optionally substituted aryl; R101 can be independently selected from hydrogen, an optionally
substituted C24 alkyl, an optionally substituted aryl, an optionally substituted -0-CI24 alkyl
and an optionally substituted -0-aryl; and Z2B can be independently 0 (oxygen) or S (sulfur).
In some embodiments, R8 3 and R9" can be hydrogen. In other embodiments, at least one of R8"
and R9" can be an optionally substituted C24 alkyl or an optionally substituted aryl, In some
embodiments, R 013 can be an optionally substituted CI-24 alkyl. In other embodiments, RIUB can
be an optionally substituted aryl.       In still other embodiments, R'a can be an optionally
substituted -0-CI-24 alkyl or an optionally substituted -0-aryl. In some embodiments, Z2n can
be 0 (oxygen). In other embodiments, Z21 can be or S (sulfur). In some embodiments, R'11 can
be isopropylcarbonyloxymethyloxy. In some embodiments, R1 3can be pivaloyloxymethyloxy.
                                                                                   0
         [0134]     In some embodiments, Ri can be                                           . In some
embodiments, R"        can be hydrogen.       In other embodiments, R"l can be an optionally
substituted CI24 alkyl. In still other embodiments, R'"l can be an optionally substituted aryl. In
some embodiments, R"J' can be a C.(, alkyl, for example, methyl, ethyl, n-propyl, isopropyl, n
butyl, isobutyl, tert-butyl, pentyl (branched and straight-chained), and hexyl (branched and
straight-chained).
                                                  -45-

        [0135]       In some embodiments, R'B can be an optionally substituted N-linked amino
acid or an optionally substituted N-linked amino acid ester derivative. For example, RB can be
optionally substituted version of the following: alanine, asparagine, aspartate, cysteine,
glutamate, glutamine, glycine, proline, shrine, tyrosine, arginine, histidine, isoleucine, leucine,
lysine, methionine, phenylalanine, threonine, tryptophan, valine and ester derivatives thereof. In
some embodiments, R'8 can be selected from alanine isopropyl ester, alanine cyclohexyl ester,
alanine neopentyl ester, valine isopropyl ester and leucine isopropyl ester.               In some
                                              28
                                                 O R13B    14B
                                            R
embodiments, R 13 can have the structure                H      , wherein R1 28 can be selected from
hydrogen, an optionally substituted C1 6-alkyl, an optionally substituted C3 6 cycloalkyl, an
optionally substituted aryl, an optionally substituted aryl(Ci 6 alkyl) and an optionally
substituted haloalkyl; R      can be selected from hydrogen, an optionally substituted C1.6 alkyl,
an optionally substituted C1 6 haloalkyl, an optionally substituted C3 6 cycloalkyl, an optionally
substituted C6 aryl, an optionally substituted Cu0 aryl and an optionally substituted aryl(C 1
                                                                                                   6
alkyl); and R'41 can be hydrogen or an optionally substituted Ci-alkyl; or R'3 and R1 ' can be
taken together to form an optionally substituted C3.6 cycloalkyl.
        10136]       When R13 1 is substituted, R'3u    can be substituted with one or more
substituents selected from N-amido, mercapto, alkylthio, an optionally substituted aryl, hydroxy,
an optionally substituted heteroaiyl, 0-carboxy, and amino. In some embodiments, R' Mcan be
an unsubstituted Ci. 6-alkyl, such as those described herein. In some embodiments, R1313 can be
hydrogen. In other embodiments, R-B can be methyl. In some embodiments, R12B can be an
optionally substituted C1 -. alkyl.      Examples of optionally substituted C16 -alkyls include
optionally substituted variants of the following:     methyl, ethyl, n-propyl, isopropyl, n-butyl,
isobutyl, tert-butyl, pentyl (branched and straight-chained), and hexyl (branched and straight
chained). In some embodiments, R121Bcan be methyl or isopropyl. In some embodiments, R'2
can be ethyl or neopentyl.      In other embodiments, R1213 can be an optionally substituted C3m
cycloalkyl. Examples of optionally substituted C3C cycloalkyl include optionally substituted
variants of the following: cyclopropyl, cyclobutyl, cyclopentyl, and cyclohexyl.              In an
embodiment, R 12 can be an optionally substituted cyclohexyl. In still other embodiments, R 12
can be an optionally substituted aryl, such as phenyl and naphthyl.              In yet still other
embodiments, R 121 can be an optionally substituted aryl(Ci-6 alkyl). In some embodiments, R' 2"
can be an optionally substituted benzyl.      In some embodiments, R' 2 B can be an optionally
substituted C1 .6 haloalkyl, for example, CF3 . In some embodiments, R1n can be hydrogen. In
                                                 -46-

other embodiments, R14 B can be an optionally substituted C 1 4 -alkyl, such as methyl, ethyl, n
                                                                              14
propyl, isopropyl, n-butyl, isobutyl and tert-butyl. In an embodiment, R B can be methyl. In
some embodiments, R13 B and R1B can be taken together to form an optionally substituted C3 .6
cycloalkyl.    Examples of optionally substituted C        cycloalkyl include optionally substituted
variants of the following: cyclopropyl, cyclobutyl, cyclopentyl, and cyclohexyl. Depending on
the groups that are selected for R"3 and R 141, the carbon to which R13 B and R 41 are attached
                                                                                      1
may be a chiral center. In some embodiment, the carbon to which RS and R 4 B are attached
may be a (R)-chiral center. In other embodiments, the carbon to which RDBB and RB are
attached may be a (S)-chiral center.
                                                2       138     14B
                                              R1 BO R
         101371      Examples of suitable                    N-     groups include the following:
 R212 0 BO
        R1      RIA         R12BO R13    R14 B H 3CO                          H 3CO H3C H
             HN                                      00       HN-                H   HHN
 H3 CO        H                          OHO                                         H
          OH 3 0    H             0     HHNC                           H             0H3C     H
              o     HN--                               0       HN-
                        HHN
                 o                                OH3 C      H                       0 HA
                        HN-                       O         HN--                            HN
                                                -47-

                                                            H   0                       H
    "r      0                                      0                        yo0H
                                         H                              H
            0         H                 o              and             0
         [0138]       A variety of substituents can be present at the 4'-position of the pentose ring.
In some embodiments, R2 B can be an optionally substituted C16 alkyl. Examples of suitable C1 6
alkyls include methyl, ethyl, n-propyl, isopropyl, n-butyl, isobutyl, tert-butyl, pentyl (branched
and straight-chained), and hexyl (branched and straight-chained). In some embodiments, R213
can be an unsubstituted C1- alkyl. In other embodiments, R2 Hcan be a substituted C1 - alkyl.
For example, R2B can be a halogen substituted C1.6 alkyl, a hydroxy substituted C.         6  alkyl, an
alkoxy substituted C.6 alkyl or a sulfenyl substituted Cp- alkyl (for example, -CIa alkyl-S-C1 6
alkyl). In other embodiments, R213 can be a C1 -6 haloalkyl. . In other embodiments, R2 B can be
an optionally substituted C26 alkenyl. In some embodiments, R2 3 can be a substituted C2-,
alkenyl. In other embodiments, R2 8 can be an unsubstituted C24 alkenyl. For example, R21 can
be ethenyl, propenyl or allenyL In still other embodiments, R21 can be an optionally substituted
C2,    alkynyl.    In some embodiments, R2 8 can be a substituted C2.6 alkynyl.               In other
embodiments, R213 can be an unsubstituted C26 alkynyl. Suitable C24 alkynyls include ethynyl
and propynyl.       In yet still other embodiments, R213 can be an optionally substituted C3-6
cycloalkyl.     In some embodiments, R21 can be a substituted C3,, cycloalkyl.                In other
embodiments, R2 B can be an unsubstituted C34 cycloalkyl.               A non-limiting list of C3- 6
cycloalkyls     include cyclopropyl,      cyclobutyl,  cyclopentyl    and cyclohexyl.        In some
embodiments, R213 can be an optionally substituted - 0 -C1-       alkyl. In some embodiments, R2 B
can be a substituted -O-Cl. alkyl. In other embodiments, R2 B can be an unsubstituted - 0 -C 16
alkyl. Examples of suitable O-C1- alkyl groups include methoxy, ethoxy, n-propoxy, iso
propoxy, n-butoxy, isobutoxy, tert-butoxy, pentoxy (branched and straight-chained), and hexoxy
(branched and straight-chained). In other embodiments, R2 can be an optionally substituted
0-C34, alkenyl. In some embodiments, R2 can be a substituted - O-C34, alkenyl. In other
embodiments, R2 can be an unsubstituted -0-C 3.6 alkenyl. In still other embodiments, R2 1 can
be an optionally substituted -O-C3.6 alkynyl. In some embodiments, R 2 can be a substituted
                                                  -48-

O-C 3 .6 alkynyl. In other embodiments, R2 1 can be an unsubstituted -O-C 3.6 alkynyl. In yet still
other embodiments, R2n' can be cyano.
         [0139]       Variety of substituents can be present at the 2'-position of the pentose ring.
In some embodiments, R4 3 can be hydrogen. In other embodiments, R4 B can be halogen, such as
fluoro. In some embodiments, R3 3can be halogen, such as fluoro. In some embodiments, R4
can be hydrogen and R3 can be halogen. In other embodiments, RB and R4 3 can be both
halogen. For example, R3 B and R4B can be both fluoro.
         [0140]       In some embodiments, Z'B can be 0 (oxygen). In other embodiments, Z "
can be S (sulfur).
         [0141]       Various optionally substituted heterocyclic bases can be attached to the
pentose ring. In some embodiments, one or more of the amine and/or amino groups may be
protected with a suitable protecting group. For example, an amino group may be protected by
transforming the amine and/or amino group to an amide or a carbamate. In some embodiments,
an optionally substituted heterocyclic base or an optionally substituted heterocyclic base with
one or more protected amino groups can have one of the following structures:
            RBB2                                                    0                      NHREB2
    2B                         N                                        NH        R
   N        N          AB2      N        N       RcE2        N      N       O0N                    O
                                                                    H
           0                       RGB2
 RFB?
               RF82     O                                        NH2
                           :
           N        0     N      N        RHB2        NN
                                               and
wherein:     R!'1 2 can be selected from hydrogen, halogen and NHRJ11 2, wherein R3B2 can be
                                                                     2
selected from hydrogen, -C(=0)RKo2 and -C(=0)ORL3;               Ra    can be halogen or NIR vui2,
wherein Rw 32 can be selected from hydrogen, an optionally substituted CIA alkyl, an optionally
substituted C2 -6 alkenyl, an optionally substituted C3 .8 cycloalkyl, -C(=0)Ru"m and
C(=0)OReB; RC132 can be hydrogen or NHR0 1 2 , wherein R0 1 2 can be selected from hydrogen,
                                 2
C(=0)R 1 32 and -C(=0)OR           ; Ro  2
                                            can be selected from hydrogen, halogen, an optionally
substituted CIc alkyl, an optionally substituted C2-6 alkenyl and an optionally substituted C2-6
alkynyl; REB2 can be selected from hydrogen, hydroxy, an optionally substituted CL. alkyl, an
                                                    12  and -C(=0)OR   12 ; RF3 can be selected from
optionally substituted C3.8 cycloalkyl, -C(=0)R
hydrogen, halogen, an optionally substituted Cv6 alkyl, an optionally substituted C2.6 alkenyl and
                                                   -49-

an optionally substituted C2 -6 alkynyl; y  2
                                              B and  y 31B can be independently N (nitrogen) or CRin2
wherein R'112 can be selected from hydrogen, halogen, an optionally substituted C 6 -alkyl, an
optionally substituted C 2 6-alkenyl and an optionally substituted C 2-6-alkynyl; R 1 m     2
                                                                                               can be an
optionally substituted Ci- alkyl; R 11 2 can be hydrogen or NHRTh2 , wherein RTB 2 can be
independently selected from hydrogen, -C(=O)RuIB2 and -C(=O)ORvB 2 ; and RKB2 , RLB2, RM 2 ,
RNB2    P1,  RQ 2, Riam2 , RSu , Ru2 and Rv32 can be independently selected from C1 -6 alkyl, C2-6
alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, C3.6 cycloalkyl, C3.6 cycloalkenyl, C6 1 o aryl, heteroaryl, heteroalicyclyl,
aryl(C1.6 alkyl), heteroaryl(CIA alkyl) and heteroalicyclyl(Ci-c alkyl). In some embodiments, the
structures shown above can be modified by replacing one or more hydrogens with substituents
selected from the list of substituents provided for the definition of "substituted."
                                                                               0
                                                                       N          NH
                                                                       N       N      NH2
        [0142]      In some embodiments, BB can be                                        .vIn     other
                                            0
                                   N            NH
                                       N N)
embodiments, Bl"        can be                        .     In still other embodiments,     3113 can be
          0
 RFB2
              NH                          NH
          N       0                   N         O
                    , such     as                       In yet still other embodiments, B1"          can
             NHREB 2                       NH2                  NH2
   RD3   ~N                    ~NN
             N       O                     N         0       N N        O
be                     , for example,          -         or                 In some embodiments, Rm'   32
                                                                  N       N
                                                                            N
 can be hydrogen.     In other embodiments, B'" can be                         . In some embodiments,
                                                    -50-

RBB 2 can be NH 2. In other embodiments, RBB2 can be NHRWB 2 , wherein RwB'               2
                                                                                             can be
                                                                                       RGB2
                                                                              N          N
                                                                              N      N       RHB 2
C(=O)RMB 2 or -C(=O)ORNB 2 . In still other embodiments, 13B can be M                              . In
                                               RGB2
                                       N
                                                N
                                       N      N          NH2
some embodiments, 3 Bcan be
           [0143]      In some embodiments, a compound of Formula (II) can have the following
structure:
                            BIB
                     0
     O0F
zm3=P           O          F
        R'B                     , or a pharmaccutically acceptable salt of the foregoing.     In some
embodiments of this paragraph, B'" can be an optionally substituted purine base. In other
embodiments of this paragraph, Blu can be an optionally substituted pyrimidine base. In some
embodiments of this paragraph, B'3 can be guanine. In other embodiments of this paragraph,
Bm can be thymine. In still other embodiments of this paragraph, B113 can be cytosine. In yet
still other embodiments of this paragraph,        8 1B   can be uracil.  In some embodiments of this
                                                                                 1 can be oxygen. In
paragraph, 131 can be adenine. In some embodiments of this paragraph, Zm
some embodiments of this paragraph, Z3 can be sulfur. In still other embodiments of this
paragraph, R1 can be alkylcarbonyloxyalkoxy.
           [0144]      In some embodiments, the compound can be a compound of Formula (III), or
a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, wherein:            Bc can be an optionally substituted
heterocyclic base or an optionally substituted heterocyclic base with a protected amino group;
RIc and R2 Ccan be independentlyselected from O-, OH, an optionally substituted C1-6 alkoxy,
         R9c     Ric
                      R11c            R12 c  R13C0                                     0
                  0                  0 X       Z1 c        R14C   V     C)         S        R15 ,an
optionally substituted N-linked amino acid and an optionally substituted N-linked amino acid
ester derivative; Rit can be selected from an optionally substituted C1-6 alkyl, an optionally
                                                    -51-

substituted C2 -6alkenyl, an optionally substituted C2. 6 alkynyl, an optionally substituted -O-C         6
alkyl, an optionally substituted -0-C3.6 alkenyl, an optionally substituted -0-C 3. alkynyl, an
optionally substituted C3.6cycloalkyl and cyano; Rc can be selected from OH, -OC(=0)R"c and
an optionally substituted O-linked amino acid; Rsc can be a halogen; R6 c can be hydrogen or
halogen; R9 c, RiOc, R 2 c and RIsc can be independently selected from hydrogen, an optionally
substituted C- 24 alkyl and an optionally substituted aryl; Ruc and RAc can be independently
selected from hydrogen, an optionally substituted CI-24 alkyl, an optionally substituted aryl, an
optionally substituted -0-CI-24 alkyl and an optionally substituted -0-aryl; R15Ccan be selected
from hydrogen, an optionally substituted Cp24 alkyl and an optionally substituted aryl; --
can be a single bond or a double bond; when ----- is a single bond, each R7Cand each RsC can
be independently hydrogen or halogen; and when ----- is a double bond, each R7c is absent and
each Rsc can be independently hydrogen or halogen; ZIG can be 0 (oxygen) or S (sulfur); and
R-c can be an optionally substituted C1 24-alkyl.
         [0145]     In some embodiments, -----             can be a single bond such that Formula (III) has
                       0
                                  R7c
                 2                  Rec      BIc
                R C
                  R  .8c
                       0 R3GIII.       O1..L -..11,l1i
                    R8
                              H                  R6
the structure                 R4             RC      , wherein each RC and each R5 C can be independently
hydrogen or halogen. In some embodiments, the R7C and the RSc groups can all be hydrogen. In
other embodiments, one R7C can be halogen, one R7c can be hydrogen and both Rsc groups can
 all be hydrogen. In still other embodiments, one R7C can be halogen, one R7C can be hydrogen,
one RC can be halogen and one RSc can be hydrogen. In some embodiments, the carbon
 adjacent to the phosphorus and the 5'-carbon can each be independently a (S)-chiral center. In
 some embodiments, the carbon adjacent to the phosphorus and the 5'-carbon can each be
 independently a (R)-chiral center.
         101461      In some embodiments, -----              can be a double bond such that Formula (Ill)
                         Rc 0
                                         7C
                       Rp                7
                      2
                    Rc         / P-       R          BI
                       R7cd                 0
                          Ril    RSIII .mH
                                   H  c.
 has the structure                 R4G              R5c  , wherein each RG is absent and each Rc can be
 independently hydrogen or halogen. In some embodiments, both RSc groups can be hydrogen.
 In other embodiments, one Rsc can be halogen and the other Rsc can be hydrogen. In some
                                                         -52-

 embodiments, both RSC groups can be halogen. In some embodiments, the double bond has a
 (Z)-configuration. In some embodiments, the double bond has a (E)-configuration.
          [0147]     In some embodiments, RiC and/or R2C can be 0-. In other embodiments, RIC
and/or R2Ccan be OH. In some embodiments, RIC and R2 C can be both OH.
                                                                           R9C       R10 c
                                                                            '::
                                                                           S55             R11c
          [01481    In some embodiments, RiC and/or R2C can be                         0         wherein
 R9C and RbC can be independently selected from hydrogen, an optionally substituted C1.24 alkyl
and an optionally substituted aryl; and R''C can be selected from hydrogen, an optionally
substituted C-24 alkyl, an optionally substituted aryl, an optionally substituted -0-CI-24 alkyl
and an optionally substituted -0-aryl. In some embodiments, R9c and Rioc can be hydrogen. In
other embodiments, at least one of R9C and Ric can be an optionally substituted CI- 2 4 alkyl or an
optionally substituted aryl. In some embodiments, R'IC can be an optionally substituted CI- 24
alkyl.     In other embodiments, R' c can be an optionally substituted aiyl.              In still other
embodiments, R' Ic can be an optionally substituted -0-CI- 24 alkyl or an optionally substituted
                                                                  R9C      RIOC
                                                                      O           R11c
O-aryl. In some embodiments, R and R2 Ccan be both                          0
                                                                               R 12c     R13C O
          [0149]    In some embodiments, RIC and/or R2C can be                O, X        Zi       R14 C
wherein R 12c and RISC can be independently selected from hydrogen, an optionally substituted
CI- 24 alkyl and an optionally substituted aryl; RIaC can be independently selected from hydrogen,
an optionally substituted CI- 24 alkyl, an optionally substituted aryl, an optionally substituted -0
CI- 24 alkyl and an optionally substituted -0-aryl; and ZC can be independently 0 (oxygen) or S
(sulfur). In some embodiments, R 12 and RI3C can be hydrogen. In other embodiments, at least
one of R 2C and R13 C can be an optionally substituted CI- 2 4 alkyl or an optionally substituted
aryl.    In some embodiments, R1C can be an optionally substituted CI- 2 4 alkyl.               In other
embodiments, RZIC can be an optionally substituted aryl. In still other embodiments, R' 4 Ccan be
an optionally substituted -0-CI- 24 alkyl or an optionally substituted -0-aryl.                 In some
embodiments, Z'c can be 0 (oxygen). In other embodiments, ZIC can be or S (sulfur). In some
embodiments, RIC and/or R2c can be isopropylcarbonyloxymethoxy. In some embodiments, Ri
and/or R2C can be pivaloyloxymethoxy.           In some embodiments, R' and R2c can be both
                                                  -53-

       R1 2 c   R13c O
       O          Z10       R14 0 .    In some embodiments,           Ric  and   R2C can be both
isopropylcarbonyloxymethoxy.            In other embodiments,         Ric and R2 C can be both
pivaloyloxymethoxy.
        [0150]        In     some        embodiments,         Ric      and/or     R        can      be
             O       S       Risc
                                    .  In some embodiments, RISC can be hydrogen.            In other
embodiments, R1 5 can be an optionally substituted C,-2 4 alkyl. In still other embodiments, RISc
can be an optionally substituted aryl.          In some embodiments, R'5c can be a C1.6 alkyl, for
example, methyl, ethyl, n-propyl, isopropyl, n-butyl, isobutyl, tert-butyl, pentyl (branched and
straight-chained), and hexyl (branched and straight-chained). In some embodiments, Ric and
                                             0
                         Ot          S           R15 c
R2c can be both
        [0151]        In some embodiments, RiC and/or R2C can be an optionally substituted N
linked amino acid or an optionally substituted N-linked amino acid ester derivative.               For
example, RIc and/or R2 c can be optionally substituted version of the following: alanine,
asparagine, aspartate, cysteine, glutamate, glutamine, glycine, proline, serine, tyrosine, arginine,
histidine, isoleucine, leucine, lysine, methionine, phenylalanine, threonine, tryptophan, valine
and ester derivatives thereof. In some embodiments, RI              and/or R2c can be selected from
alanine isopropyl ester, alanine cyclohexyl ester, alanine neopentyl ester, valine isopropyl ester
and leucine isopropyl ester.        In some embodiments, Ric and/or R2 c can have the structure
 R19c   R20c     21C
         0 HN-      4
                     T,wherein RI9C can be selected from hydrogen, an optionally substituted Cic
alkyl, an optionally substituted C3 .6 cycloalkyl, an optionally substituted aryl, an optionally
substituted aryl(Cis alkyl) and an optionally substituted haloalkyl; R2 0C can be selected from
hydrogen, an optionally substituted C             alkyl, an optionally substituted C1-6 haloalkyl, an
optionally substituted C3.6 cycloalkyl, an optionally substituted C6 aryl, an optionally substituted
C01 aryl and an optionally substituted aryl(CI- alkyl); and R2 1C can be hydrogen or an optionally
substituted C 4 -alkyl; or R20c and     R 2 1C can be taken together to form an optionally substituted
C3-6 cycloalkyl.
                                                     -54-

        [01521       When R2OC is substituted,        R 2OC    can be substituted with one or more
substituents selected from N-amido, mercapto, aLkylthio, an optionally substituted aryl, hydroxy,
an optionally substituted heteroaryl, 0-carboxy, and amino. In some embodiments, R20C can be
an unsubstituted Ci 6 -alkyl, such as those described herein. In some embodiments, R20c can be
hydrogen. In other embodiments, R2 Oc can be methyl. In some embodiments, RI9C can be an
optionally substituted C1. alkyl.       Examples of optionally substituted C 6 -alkyls include
optionally substituted variants of the following:          methyl, ethyl, n-propyl, isopropyl, n-butyl,
isobutyl, tert-butyl, pentyl (branched and straight-chained), and hexyl (branched and straight
chained). In some embodiments, R19c can be methyl or isopropyl. In some embodiments, R'9c
can be ethyl or neopentyl. In other embodiments, R19C can be an optionally substituted C3 6
cycloalkyl.    Examples of optionally substituted C3- cycloalkyl include optionally substituted
variants of the following: cyclopropyl, cyclobutyl, cyclopentyl, and cyclohexyl.                  In an
embodiment, R19c can be an optionally substituted cyclohexyl. In still other embodiments, Ri'
can be an optionally substituted aryl, such as phenyl and naphthyl.                  In yet still other
embodiments, R19c can be an optionally substituted aryl(CI- alkyl). In some embodiments, R'9c
can be an optionally substituted benzyl.        In some embodiments, RIC can be an optionally
substituted C16 haloalkyl, for example, CF 3. In some embodiments, R21' can be hydrogen. In
other embodiments, R1C can be an optionally substituted CI-alkyl, such as methyl, ethyl, n
propyl, isopropyl, n-butyl, isobutyl and tert-butyL. In an embodiment, R2 1c can be methyl. In
some embodiments, R"ac and R21( can be taken together to form an optionally substituted C3.6
cycloalkyl.    Examples of optionally substituted C3 .6 cycloalkyl include optionally substituted
variants of the following: cyclopropyl, cyclobutyl, cyclopentyl, and cyclohexyl. Depending on
the groups that are selected for R20(c and R 21C, the carbon to which R 20c and R2 1 are attached
may be a chiral center. In some embodiment, the carbon to which R20( and R 21C are attached
may be a (R)-chiral center. In other embodiments, the carbon to which R20c and R2 1c are
attached may be a (S)-chiral center.
                                                R 19c     R2 0C    21C
                                                      O         HN-
        10153]       Examples of suitable                              groups include the following:
   9     20      2            190    20      21                                  H3CO H3C H
 R1 CO R c      R 1c         R   O R 9     R c H3CO
     o       HN                          HN-             O        HN-                      HN
                                                   -55-

H3CO           HAO                                                        O         H
      H0 H3 C  H0                       H                   H3
     O       HN--                       0       HN                             0 HN
            0     HN-                   HN-                      HN--                    HN-
              o   H       N
                                               O; H      -
              o-                                                                   OH3
                     HN-
               Oo      N-                      0         N                         O        N
                                                OH 3 C    H                        O        H
                   o HN--                       O       HN--HN
        o                                      H,, 0                            0    H
                         HH                                      YH
            0                         0             and            0
         [0154]     In some embodiments, Ric and R2c can be the same. In other embodiments,
R C and R2C can be different.
                                                                 o        a
                                                        R  60 0-P-O-      P-O
                                                                 OR 17C   OR180
         101551     In some embodiments, R C can be                               n   and R2C can
be 0 or OH1, wherein Ri', R1 7 0 and R180 can be absent or hydrogen; and n can be 0 or 1. Those
skilled in the art understand that when R6 c, R 7 ' and/or R1 C are absent, the associated oxygen
will be negatively charge. In some embodiments, when n is 0, the compound of Formula (III)
will be a diphosphate. In other embodiments, when n is 1, the compound of Formula (III) will
be a triphosphate.
                                              -56-

        [01561      A variety of substituents can be present at the 4'-position of the pentose ring.
In some embodiments, R3C can be an optionally substituted C1 _ alkyl. Examples of suitable C1 _6
alkyls include methyl, ethyl, n-propyl, isopropyl, n-butyl, isobutyl, tert-butyl, pentyl (branched
and straight-chained), and hexyl (branched and straight-chained). In some embodiments, R3C
can be an unsubstituted C1_6 alkyl. In other embodiments, R' can be a substituted C1 s allcyl.
For example, R3 c can be a halogen substituted C3, 6 alkyl. In other embodiments, R3C can be an
optionally substituted C2.6 alkenyl. In some embodiments, R3C can be a substituted C2 -6 alkenyl.
In other embodiments, R3C can be an unsubstituted C2 .6 alkenyl.         For example, R3C can be
ethenyl, propenyl or allenyl. In still other embodiments, R3C can be an optionally substituted C2
6 alkynyl.  In some embodiments, R3c can be a substituted C2_6 alkynyl. In other embodiments,
RSC can be an unsubstituted C2 6 alkynyL. Suitable C2 -6alkynyls include ethynyl and propynyl.
In yet still other embodiments, R3C can be an optionally substituted C3 .6 cycloalkyl. In some
embodiments, Re can be a substituted C3.6 cycloalkyl. In other embodiments, R3C can be an
unsubstituted C3 -6 cycloalkyl.    A non-limiting list of C3 _6 cycloalkyls include cyclopropyl,
cyclobutyl, cyclopentyl and cyclohexyl.        In some embodiments, R3C can be an optionally
substituted -0-CI-6 alkyl. In some embodiments, R3C can be a substituted -0-Cc alkyl. In
other embodiments,    RC   can be an unsubstituted -O-C-6 alkyl. Examples of suitable O-C. 6
alkyl groups include methoxy, ethoxy, ni-propoxy, iso-propoxy, n-butoxy, isobutoxy, tert
butoxy, pentoxy (branched and straight-chained), and hexoxy (branched and straight-chained).
In other embodiments, R3C can be an optionally substituted -O-C              6  alkenyl.   In some
embodiments, R3c can be a substituted -0-C 3.6 alkenyl. In other embodiments, Rc can be an
unsubstituted -O-C-   6 alkenyl. In still other embodiments, R30 can be an optionally substituted
-0-C3 ,6 alkynyL. In some embodiments, R3C can be a substituted -0-C 3.6 aLkynyl. In other
embodiments, R3C can be an unsubstituted -0-C3 .6 alkynyl. In yet still other embodiments, R3c
can be cyano.
        [01571      The substituents that can be present on the 3'-position of the pentose ring can
vary. In some embodiments, R4 Ccan be OH. In other embodiments, R4C can be an optionally
substituted O-linked amino acid. Examples of suitable 0-linked amino acids include alanine,
asparagine, aspartate, cysteine, glutamate, glutaminc, glycine, proline, shrine, tyrosine, arginine,
histidine, isoleucine, leucine, lysine, methionine, phenylalanine, threonine, tryptophan and
valine. Additional examples of suitable amino acids include, but are not limited to, ornithine,
hypusine, 2-aminoisobutyric acid, dehydroalanine, gamma-aminobutyric acid, citrulline, beta
alanine, alpha-ethyl-glycine, alpha-propyl-glycine and norleucine. In some embodiments, the
                                                 -57-

                                                                              3
                                                                    R22c     2 C
                                                                  //4
 0-linked amino acid can have the structure                      0         NH2 , wherein R2 2C can be selected
 from hydrogen, an optionally substituted C,. 6 alkyl, an optionally substituted Ct. 6 haloalkyl, an
 optionally substituted C3 .6 cycloalkyl, an optionally substituted C6 aryl, an optionally substituted
 CIO aryl and an optionally substituted aryl(C 1 .6 alkyl); and R 2 3C can be hydrogen or an optionally
 substituted Ci-alkyl; or R2 2C and R23C can be taken together to form an optionally substituted
 C3-6 cycloalkyl.
            [0158J      When R 22C is substituted, R 2 2C can be substituted with one or more
 substituents selected from N-arnido, mercapto, alkylthio, an optionally substituted aryl, hydroxy,
 an optionally substituted heteroaryl, 0-carboxy, and amino. In some embodiments, R22C can be
 an unsubstituted C 6-alkyl, such as those described herein. In some embodiments, R22c can be
 hydrogen.       In other embodiments, R2 2C can be methyl.                In some embodiments, R2 3C can be
 hydrogen.       In other embodiments, R23C can be an optionally substituted Cw.-alkyl, such as
methyl, ethyl, n-propyl, isopropyl, n-butyl, isobutyl and tert-butyl. In an embodiment, R 2 3C can
be methyl. Depending on the groups that are selected for R 2 2c and R23c the carbon to which
 R 2 2C  and R2 3C are attached may be a chiral center. In some embodiment, the carbon to which
R 22W and R23C are attached may be a (R)-chiral center.                   In other embodiments, the carbon to
which R 2 2C and R23C are attached may be a (S)-chiral center.
                                                                  O R2 2 C     23c
           [0159]      Examples          of      suitable         0         NH2      include  the   following:
          R22C    R23C            R2 2 9    R2 3 c                                 H3C   H
                 OH2          0             H2            0         NH2         0       NH2      0       NH
       0         NH2 ,                   NH2       and     0          NH 2 .
           [0160]      In still other embodiments, RA( can be -OC(=0)R-c, wherein R-C can be an
optionally substituted C-      24  alkyl. In some embodiments, R'e can be a substituted C 1        2 alkyl. In
other embodiments, R-C can be an unsubstituted C 1 2 alkyl. In still other embodiments, R-c can
be a substituted C1.s alkyl.          In yet still other embodiments, R t can be an unsubstituted C1 .s
alkyl. In some embodiments, R4( can be an optionally substituted acyl. In other embodiments,
                                                            -58-

Rc can be -OC(=O)R C,wherein R1C can be selected from an optionally substituted CI 1 2 alkyl,
an optionally substituted C2 -12 alkenyl, an optionally substituted C2 12 alkynyl, an optionally
substituted C3 .8 cycloalkyl, an optionally substituted Cs.s cycloalkenyl, an optionally substituted
C6 10 aryl, an optionally substituted heteroaryl, an optionally substituted heterocyclyl, an
optionally substituted aryl(Ci-o alkyl), an optionally substituted heteroaryl(C 1 6 alkyl) and an
optionally substituted heterocyclyl(Cit alkyl). In some embodiments, R:C can be a substituted
C 1 2 alkyl. In other embodiments, R"c can be an unsubstituted C 1 2 alkyl.
         10161]      A variety of substituents can also be present at the 2'-position of the pentose
ring. In some embodiments, R6 c can be hydrogen. In other embodiments, Rc can be halogen,
such as fluoro.       In some embodiments, RSc can be halogen, such as fluoro.              In some
                                                                                                   6
embodiments, R6 C can be hydrogen and Rsc can be halogen. In other embodiments, R5c and R c
can be both halogen. For example, RsC and RGc can be both fluoro.
         10162]       Various optionally substituted heterocyclic bases can be attached to the
pentose ring. In some embodiments, one or more of the amine and/or amino groups may be
protected with a suitable protecting group. For example, an amino group may be protected by
transforming the amine and/or amino group to an amide or a carbamate. In some embodiments,
an optionally substituted heterocyclic base or an optionally substituted heterocyclic base with
one or more protected amino groups can have one of the following structures:
            R ac2                                                    O                     NHREC2
                                                                       N   O
                                N/    N
                                                 RcC2               H
                                                                    N      ON                      O
     N      N        RAc 2              N
                                  RC  2
           0
 RFc2
            I  N H                                                NN
           N        0      N     N       RHC 2        NNN
            I            ,LI                   aand    I~vv
                                                                             2               2
 wherein:     RAc 2 can be selected from hydrogen, halogen and NHRc , wherein RC can be
                                                                     2
 selected from hydrogen, -C(=O)RKC and -C(=O)ORLC ; RUC can be halogen or NHR
                                         2                    2
 wherein RWC2 can be selected from hydrogen, an optionally substituted C1 -6 alkyl, an optionally
                                                                                            2
 substituted C2 -6 alkenyl, an optionally substituted C3.s cycloalkyl, -C(=O)Rmc and
 C(=0)ORNC 2      RCC2 can be hydrogen or NHROC 2 wherein ROc 2 can be selected from hydrogen,
 C(=O)R'C2 and -C(=O)ORQ0 2 ; RDc 2 can be selected from hydrogen, halogen, an optionally
 substituted C1 - alkyl, an optionally substituted C2 6 alkenyl and an optionally substituted C2-6
                                                   -59-

alkynyl; REC 2 can be selected from hydrogen, hydroxy, an optionally substituted C-6 alkyl, an
optionally substituted C3 . cycloalkyl, -C(=O)RRc 2 and -C(=O)ORsc 2; WC2 can be selected from
hydrogen, halogen, an optionally substituted C1- alkyl, an optionally substituted C2. alkenyl and
an optionally substituted C2 -6alkynyl;     y2C and  y 3C  can be independently N (nitrogen) or CRic2,
wherein RIC 2 can be selected from hydrogen, halogen, an optionally substituted C1 6 -alkyl, an
optionally substituted C 2 g-alkenyl and an optionally substituted C2.6-alkynyl; Rc2 can be an
optionally substituted C1- alkyl; Rnc 2 can be hydrogen or NHRC2, wherein RWc 2 can be
independently selected from hydrogen, -C(=O)RUc 2 and -C(=O)ORvc2; and RKC 2 , RIc 2, RMC2,
RNC2, RPC2, R9 c2, Rnc 2 , RSC 2 , RUc 2 and Rvc 2 can be independently selected from C1-6 alkyl, C2-6
alkenyl, C2,c alkynyl, C3 6 cycloalkyl, C3 -6cycloalkenyl, C6-1o aryl, heteroaryl, heteroalicyclyl,
aryl(CI-6 alkyl), heteroaryl(Ci. alkyl) and lieteroalicyclyl(C,6 alkyl). In some embodiments, the
structures shown above can be modified by replacing one or more hydrogens with substituents
selected from the list of substituents provided for the definition of "substituted."
                                                                              0
                                                                      N
                                                                      KN      NN     NH 2
         [01631     In some embodiments, Bic can be                  avv                     In other
                                              0
                                     N            NH
                                     N        N)
embodiments, Bic can be                               ,    In still other embodiments, Bic can be
           0
 RFC2
               NH                            NH
           N      0                      N      O
                        such as                         In yet still other embodiments,       B1c  can
              NHREC2                         NH2                NH 2
    RDCNN                                                         N
            Y N-     O                       N,      O      N111N -    O
 be                    , for example,                   or               . In some embodiments, RDC 2
                                                    -60-

                                                                           RBC2
                                                                N
                                                                               N
                                                                 N         N
can be hydrogen. In other embodiments, B1 c can be                               . In some embodiments,
                                                                                                      2
RBC 2 can be NH 2. In other embodiments, R 0C2 can be NHRwc2, wherein RWC                                can be
                                                                                                      2
                                                                                                  RGC
                                                                                  N
                                                                                     Kt    QN
                                                                                                   N
                                                                                  N            N         RHC2
            2
C(=O)RC        or-C(=O)ORNC2. In still other embodiments,        13 1c can be                                    In
                                                RGC 2
                                       N         NN
                                       N       N         NH2
some embodiments, B31 can be
         10164]       In some embodiments, the compound of Formula (Ill) can have one of the
                                                                                  P0              H
                                                                               RH                     0
                                                                                     H 7 1111IM.-    _1       iHI1-1
following                   structures:                                                    Rc                Rsc
     R1c 0                       R       0                               l,0
      Rp                         H                                                        H
      R
      PH                         Ri    P           H                   R-PH
 R2c                H      B1C   R 2C )H         .-        Blc         R2C         -      ---H          Be
     F                0               H               0                     F                   0
                    H                    H [IM        H                          /1"""1
                                                                                 iH
         CI   H"- -      .   Rc          C1I/H               RGc               CI;H                      ReG
             R4c           R5c               R4?           R      or                 R4?                   c     In
some embodiments of this paragraph, B13 can be an optionally substituted purinc base. In other
embodiments of this paragraph, Bic can be an optionally substituted pyrimidine base. In some
embodiments of this paragraph, Bic can be guanine. In other embodiments of this paragraph,
Bic can be thymine. In still other embodiments of this paragraph, Bic can be cytosine. In yet
still other embodiments of this paragraph, B1 can be uracil.                In some embodiments of this
paragraph, Bic can be adenine. In some embodiments of this paragraph, R'( and R2C can each
be an optionally substituted C,     4 alkyl. In other embodiments of this paragraph, RIA can be an
                                                    -61-

optionally substituted acyl. In still other embodiments of this paragraph, RIC and R2C can form a
mono-, di- or tri-phosphate. In yet other embodiments of this paragraph, RIC and R2 c can each
be an alkylcarbonyloxyalkoxy.       In some embodiments of this paragraph, R4C can be OH. In
some embodiments of this paragraph, R5 c can be F and Rc can be hydrogen.
         [0165]       Examples of suitable compounds of Formula (I) include, but are not limited to
the following:
                 NH2                         NH2                          NH2                   NH2
                      N                                                       N                     N
 HO                         OH                     O    HO                N     O  HO           N     O
                                V     .                           .                      11
     H          F                           F                   HO        F             H      F
                 0                                         0                                     NH2
                      NH                                        NHN
 HO              N       O               HO                N         0             HO            N     O
                                           HO-HOC                                 HO
      H         F                             H             F                           H       F
                         o                                           O                           NH2
                 N                                       N                                         N
 HO                      N     NH2      Ho                           N    NH2      HO
                                                    oj                                      0
                  0
      HO        F         N                   HO         F                                      F
                         O                                          NH2                          NH2
                             N                 ~NN
 HO              N        NO   NH2            H                         O          H             N
      c                                     -  -                 F                  F
                    0                                         NH2                                NH2
                      NH                   HONN                                               I     N
                HO                                                                  HOD          N    O
        HC        F                              HO           F                         HO      F
                                                      -62-

                     NH2                          NH2                                        N
                            C                                         O               N   NH2HH
                                         AJ
                                                          el       3CH3 CO
N=       H        F                     HO        F                      H           F
                                    N                        NH2                             NH2
 HO                       N   NH2            O               N     0             HO1    0      X~
     C                                                                                           N/H
                       F                                     F                              F
                                                            NH2
                                           HOX
                                                               'NN
                                  N         O1
                      NH2                  HO
                                          a                Fl
    HO                                N                                                             O
          00         F
                                                                               HO
           NH2
                                                                                      d     "'
                N'H2                                  NH2                                    NH2
                   '   N                              'N                                     'NN
HO              N        0            HO              N         0              HO
             0c                                 0                                  NO
        H       F                      HH                                                             F
                NH2                                  NH2                                     NH2
                   'NN'                                  N
                                       H               N         0
      HON
      HO       _o                                O             01N             HO--          N      0
                               HHJ                  3  7'
                                                                          H 3 CS
 32C  H                              H30 HO         F                               HO    !F
                                               -63-

             NH                               NH2
                                2                                           HON
                NH=ONN                                                               NH
                                   F0N         HO)                     N         H- N"
      Br'                       -""                                                  NH2
                                                  SNNH                                2
    Hd      F                      HC       F                      HO       F
        HO     N    N#       H              N                 HON
                   O   NH2                            NH2
                                           *    o                      N
               <INHH                                                  <IH2
   H      F     N               NHHO
                                   2
                                          F                H~   H ~-     CN        N    H
                                       -6
                                    NN
                                                                                      N
HO         N      N    N 2   HO            N       N      N H  O              ::
                       O0
   H       F                     HO       FC                                %F-t H
                        0-64

                    NH2
                                                                                                   NH2
                                                        NH2                                          N
                      NO                                                            H
                                       HO                                           HOi
  0I      01       FNh~o-~
           HO                                                   HO     OF                                  O
        C                                     Hd           F            ,H           3
                          NH2
                              N N                                   F                              0
          H3C                               F                                   C      H
                                            FHO"                            HF
                                            -    -   F                      P     OH-    He
           C3Hd
                 NO      ON
                 NH2                                                                             O
   Ha-          Fd N       andF     HO         F       , or        hraetclyacpal                   ato    h
                                             NH2                                                      NH
                                          F
 HO         0N                  HO              N    H0
F-                              F                                                          F
                     i     and       HO       !F          ,or  a phiarmaceutically acceptable salt of the
                                       FF        HO                                      H
foregoing.
         101661       Additional examples of a compound of Formula (1) include the following:
                                       NH 2                                                         NH2
                  FO
HO-P-C-P-a-V-a)                        N:L0                   HO-P-O-P-C-P-O                        N     0
      HO      HO      HO        $O                                  HO      HO     HO
                                        NH2                                                      0
                                                        0       0        0                 N'
      0       0       0
     HOII              I                NI'O                     I       II                  NDI     N
  H-P-O-P-O-P-O                                    HO-P-O-P-O-P-0                                N      NH
      HO      HO                   HO                           HO       HO
                             HO       IF                                       -Hd        'F
                                                    -65-

                                             o                                                  NH2
             ON                    (~                        0      0    0                          N
HO-P-O-P-O-P-O                       N       N     NH2  HO-P-0-P-C-P-OaN
    HO       HO  HO                                          HO     HO   HO
                          H         F                                                H         'F
                                      0                                                         NH2
                                             NO                                                      N
     O       0   0                Ii0                              0     0
                                 O                      HO-P-0-P-O-P-O                           N      -0
HO-P-O-P-0-P-O
     HO      HO  HO                                         HO     HO    HO
                          HO         F                                               H           F
                                               O                                                 NH2
                                             N               0      0
      O      0    0
HO-P-O--P-O-P-O                            N        NH2 HO-P-O-P-O0-      P
     HO       HO  HOHC                                       HO     HO    HO         CO
                     H-3 00                                                   H3CO
                           H           F                                             HO         F
                                              a                                                   0
     o1      a   a1
                                      N
                                      N          N             1o     1a   a1                 IN
HO-P-0-P---O         P         O                   NH2   HO-P-0--O-P-O
     OH      OH  OHN==C                                        HO     HO   HO
                     N=C      $                                                    I
                          Hd          F                                                HO         F
                                       NH2                                                        NH2
                                         N.N                                                          N
                 0 S0                        O0                      0    0O
HO-P-O-P-0-P-O                                o          H:O-P-0-P-O-P-O
     HO       HO   O                                          HO       O   HOF
                           HO       !F                                                HI
                                       NH2                                                        NH2
                                           N                                                          N
HO-P--P-O-P-O
                                                                      0    0                  I   N0
                                O                        HO-P--P-            a-P--          9
      HO      HO  HO                                           HO     HO    HOF
                           HO                                                          Hd6F
                                                   -66-

                                                                                              NH2
                                   N                                                              N
 HO-P-O-P--P-0                     N      N         NH,     HO-P-O-P-0-P-O
      HO      HO    HO                                           OH     OH
                                      HO FHO                                        HO      F
                                    NH2                                                       NH2
      0       00    0                i                                  0     0
   H  II
 H-P0-PO-PO   IIP- I                N~~ 0
                               OHO-P-O-P-                                     P  C
      OH      OH    OH                                                  OH    O
                  H30       HH     F                                    O     OB
                                                                                             NH2
                                    NH2
                                                                                               N
                                                                        0     0                  N
                                           '     N0
                                    NII       IO7          HO-P-O--O-P
 HO-P-C-P-C-P-C                o     NLO                             I     I
              H-                                                OH      OH    OH
     OH      OH     OH
                                                                                    H       F
                            Hd     F
                                   NH2                                                       NHz
                                                                                       F,
                                                                                                 N
     O       C     CNN                                          0       0     0
HO-P-O-P-O-P-                                              HO-P--P-O-P
     OH      OH    OH                                           OH      OH    OH
                           H     IF          ,HO                                            F
                                          O
HO-P-O-ON-P-O                             N        NH2
     OH      OH    OH  H3,
                           HO    F
                                           NH2                                                   NH,
                                   N
HO-P-O-P--P-O--,                           N            HO-P--P-C-P-                             N
     OH      OH    OH                                        OH      OH    OH
                           Hd     F                                              HO       F
                                                  -67-

                                                   NH2                                           NH
                   o  oN                              N                                              N
HO-P-O-P-O-             -O           OHO-P--P-O-P-O                                              N
     OH        OH     OH                                             OH     OH   OH
                                H         F                                               HO    F         ,
                                          NH2                                                    NH2
                                             N.N                                                     N
     O         0      0                                               0     0N
HO-P-
     11
           -P-
                11    1I
                     OP-O-          O
                                          N::     O                   1I     11
                                                                HO-P--P-O-P-O--k
                                                                                  II              N
     HO        HO     HO            O                                 HO    HO    HO
                                H         F                                               HO    F
                                                                                                 NH2
                                            NH,
                                                                                                     N
                                                 N0 0                       O    0
     0I        0I     0I                    NxNOII                          II
HO-P-0-P-0-P                  -OO                                    HO  I        I
     HO        HO     HO
                                                                                          HO    F
                                           NHN          N~a
                                           N    N                                      NH
HO-P-0-P--P                -                                   HO-P-O
     I           I     I-            071                           O,
     HO         HO    HO                                           O
                              7HO         FJH                                        F                 and
                             0
                                  NH
            0N
                                    O
HO-P-O-NXK
      OH     D
          FH 2 C
                  HO         F        , or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt of the foregoing.
         [01671        Further examples of a compound of Formula (1) include, but are not limited to
the following:
                                                          -68-

                               NH2                                                     0
                o    p oN           % 0o                       I    o p - -            N
    H3C         H                                        H3C           NH7
                                                      H3C        C           H
H3C          (     H
                               NH2                                                     0
         K                                               N           0-                A
                                                             HO                            NN
                               N      0OP-a    7 ,
                                                                                  O  F        O
                           HM     F                     0H                     H
                                                                               HO    F
    H3
    H3C
       O O            HH       FI
                                    0                                                  0
       0                                                   0
               0-P-c-v               N(
                                                                          -&
                              O                                      0
    H-                -I            NH
           0                                                   0
                                         H2                3                           NH2
                                    NH2                                                         sN
       0                                                  \NN-         0                N
                               aHdN'>
                   11                     o          ~\                              'F
                                                                    0
                             0
           0
                                NH2
                                                                   NN                  NH2
               O1                      -                                                N''N
     'NPO-                                                                          1 1~
         H     I
               NH0
                                                                         0
                       HO~c                        I                           Hd    t
                                            -69-

                     NH 2
        0                                         0 0N
                                                          o1                              NN
                                  u   l     - 'H 30           f-P-C   -. tr   #
             H               H                        C    NH
O    O -NO                       H2N-HO
          0
                                               0
                     O
                      N     NH                                                    NH
         SN'
                          N    NH2
                      F CO                                 C                     N      O
      OOO H30
     O                                                  0        HO           F
  C                                                 0
               NH2
                                                                                 F
  0Hd           0NNH
                                                                    0       0   ~N   NL
                                        -70-'
                               -70-

                                                                                     NH,
                     0a                                                                  N
                                   N            0
     NH,
                                     0                                             0
           01                                 NH      0                    N,         N
                              C         </        H3C                     N 1
             o-p-             N:]    N0                     NHN-~                  N          NH
                                                                                               2
                        oCH,                          3                     ,
                                                                                   0     F
                     M      d   SF0
         0  0-1                                         3C:                               CH,
                                  0                                                  NH,
    o               NH                                                                 NN
                  Nio                        -(-S
                                           HcQJ7               IINO14 Op 0N
                                                                                     NH2
                   NH,                                 H3       0
                    N      N                                  4                0-- o
H3C                                                                 O         5
    H3
                                                                     .13r
                                   HO   F                       H 3C    )4

                                        NH2
           0
                        C                                  Oc    O-      -ON                       NH
                                                           O\   O      -ONN                  NN2NH
                                +         00-0--NO
                                                                  0         H0
                ThO                         NHO                     OI      O---               NHO
                                                                                               NH2
                                                                           OO
                                                                         0>
                                  <         N
            0       t                                                 00
                    O                    N       OONH
                                                                          O      PO
                      O   -- S-
                                         NH2                                                   NH2
                      0               I0-\                                      0
                                                                                                'N
          0                0
            ON\                                               N     0
             o0          Fy
                       O0
                        0T
                                  and                               , or  a pharmaceutically acceptable
salt of the foregoing.
         [01681       Examples of a compound of Formula (11) include, but are not limited to, the
following:
                                                      -72-

                                     NH2                                         NH2
                                          N                                         N
                                     N       O                                   N     O
                     O==--          F                      O=P--                F
                       O                                sY
       0                                       and    0                                  ,     or  a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt of the foregoing.
         [0169]        Examples of a compound of Formula (111) include, but are not limited to, the
following:
                           NH 2                                                             NH 2
                             NNN
        0                       I0                                                               N
     H3OPN
H3 CO-P                          O'                                                         N'~
                                                                  H3CO-P
        OCH 3          0                                                 OCH 3
                H         F          ,HO
                            NH2                                                             NH2
                             N0                          N                                       N
           OF
                                                                         O0 p"
H3C          --             NCO                                   C3 H2
                                                                  H                         N
        OCH 3 )C                                                         OCH3        0
                            CcI-',
                HOF                    ,                                        HO         F
                                NH,                                                         NH2
                                   NNN                                                           N
H3CH 2 CO-P                     N   KO                        H3 CH2 CO-P      F            NX0
    H3CH2CO                                                       H3 CH2CO0
                 CI-CI
                    HO         F         ,H&                                             '
                                                 -73-

                                           NH2                                                  NH2
  H C3                                                     H3C     O
                                                                   0
   H
   3                            O~~\       N                3 C
                                                            H                                   N
                     0-PNXO0
              O-         0      H0        Fc                                          HO       F
            H3C       CH3                                         H 3C       CH3
                  CH 3                               and                CH 3                           ,  or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt of the foregoing.
          [0170]        Further examples of a compound of Formula (III) include, but are not limited
to, the following:
                                         NH2                                                         NH2
       O                                   0N      0                 O        O     o                    N
HO-P-O-P-O-P                             N     O                 HO-P-O-P-O-P                        N      O
                I        1           0'                                                         0
       HO      HO      HO                                                      H O H   C
                              HO        F        ,                                         HO       F         ,
                                          NH2                                                  NH2
       o       o        O     F              N                 O      0        0    F
 HO-P-O-P-O-                              N    O          HO-P--O-P-O-                         N
       HO      HO      HO            O                         HO     HO      HO         0
                               ci                    and                            HF
                                                                                    HO        F          or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt of the foregoing.
 Synthesis
           [0171]        Compounds of Formula (I) Formula (II) and Formula (Ill), and those
 described herein may be prepared in various ways. Some compounds of Formulae (1), (11) and
 (III) can be obtained commercially and/or prepared utilizing known synthetic procedures.
 General synthetic routes to the compounds of Formulae (1), (11) and (IlI), and some examples of
 starting materials used to synthesize the compounds of Formulae (1), (11) and (111) are shown and
 described herein.         The routes shown and described herein are illustrative only and are not
 intended, nor are they to be construed, to limit the scope of the claims in any manner
 whatsoever. Those skilled in the art will be able to recognize modifications of the disclosed
 syntheses and to devise alternate routes based on the disclosures herein; all such modifications
 and alternate routes are within the scope of the claims.
                                                        -74-

 Scheme 1
                HO                   B1                       PG'O or HO                Bia
                                        OH
                                         HR                                               e
                                   R4a                              HO
                           (A)                                                   (B)
                 PG1O or HO                       B13                R1AO                 B1A
                                  >_     till,.. IIII                                      H
                                          O                              R
                                 //A~~4             5a                      Ha.S
                                Ra3             R4a                     .R3A             4A
                                         (C)
         [0172]     As shown in Scheme 1, compounds of Formula (1) can be prepared from a
nucleoside, for example, a nucleoside of Formula (A). In Scheme I, R3", R4 ", R54, and B1" can
be the same as R^, R4A, RA, and BIA as described herein for Formula (I), and PG' is a suitable
protecting group. A hydroxyalkyl group can be formed at the 4'-position of the pentose ring
using suitable conditions known to those skilled in the art. Examples of suitable conditions for
forming a hydroxyalkyl include the use of 2-iodoxybenzoic acid (IBX) aqueous formaldehyde
and sodium borohydride. A compound of Formula (B) can be oxidized to an aldehyde using a
suitable oxidizing agent(s) to form a compound of Formula (C).                 An example of suitable
oxidizing agent is Dess-Martin periodinane.               An optionally substituted C2 -6 alkenyl or an
optionally substituted C2_ alkynyt can be formed at the 4'-position using methods known to
those skilled in the art, for example, Wittig reagent and n-BuLi, Wittig-type reactions, Peterson
olefination reaction, and Corey Fuchs reaction.             An optionally substituted Ci-6 alkyl can be
obtained by hydrogenating the unsaturated group attached to the 4'-position, for example, using
hydrogen over palladium on carbon.
        [0173]      Alternatively, a compound of Formula (B) can be transformed to a haloalkyl
using a suitable agent(s), for example, to an iodide using imidazole, triphenylphosphine and
iodine; to a fluoro using diethylaminosulfur trifluoride (DAST); or to a chloro using
triphenylphosphine and carbontetrachloride in dichloroethylene (DCE).               An iodoalkyl can be
transformed to an unsubstituted Ci. 6 alkyl group using methods known to those skilled in the art,
for example, hydrogen over palladium on carbon. A compound of Fonnula (C) can be reacted
with hydroxylamine to form an oxime. The oxime can be transformed to a cyano group using
methods known to those skilled in the art, for example, using methanesulfonyl chloride.
                                                       -75-

Scheme 2
                 HO           O                                         O        a
                       R3a          R                    HO or PG2           R4a
                             (A)                                       (D)
                                                 a          RIAO                   IA
                                . u
                           - nR2a            .I.U H                      0
                          HO or PG2cY      '4a                     H          R4A
                                       (E)
        [0174]      As shown in Scheme 2, compounds of Formula (I), where R2^ is an
optionally substituted -0-C- 6 alkyl, an optionally substituted -0-C 3.6 alkenyl or an optionally
substituted -0-C  3 .- alkynyl, can be prepared from a nuclcoside, for example, a nucleoside of
Formula (A). In Scheme 2, R2a, Ra, R4, Rs and B" can be the same as R2A, R3', RA, R          and
B IA as described herein for Formula (J), and PG 2 can be a suitable protecting group.       The
nucleoside can undergo elimination and form an olefin having the general formula of Formula
(D). A compound of Formula (D) can be treated with an iodinating reagent in the presence of
lead carbonate and an alkoxy source to form a compound of Formula (E).             A compound of
Formula (E) can then be transformed to a compound of Formula (I) through displacement of the
iodide with an oxygen nucleophile.
                                                  -76-

Scheme 3
                         NH+ POC13
                         N
                         NN
                                            N       N
               HOpa     N-P-N     7 I :            I
                                                                               Bla
                                             N11      N~         - -
         H--        IIH    0             Nzz<      [I         H          AR
             (F)
                                                      0~
                                                   11
                                              OJIHO     ,.R2       OA      tII
                                                               -   3k-   a    R4A
                             p12Ap         0-1         01U'                     BlA
                                               I -4
                                     OR3      ORl A.mR2 A
                                                             -         R          DR4
                               -77-

Scheme 4
                                   0                                         0
HO                  BA       RAO-     -I    rO                       RAO-      -- O             B1A
                              RAPRCI or OH                                7       R
                        RSA     R7AO                                         0                 1"&
                                                                                      3
      H           RA                                                                RA        R4A
             (G)
                                                                 0
 HO                  BA                                RAO-         -O                  A
  R          O         H    + RsAO-P-CI                   )M R 9
                                                                 A
                                                                   R)W'                 H
      H              RSAA                                                H           R
       HO                                                                R3          R
             (G)
                                                                           0
HO
                                                                            II
                                                                      RIoA-P-O                  BIA
  R          O       11       aminoacid or amino acid ester             R1'A      R
                     R                                                                      Z
       H            4A                                                              Ra        R4A
             (G)
          [0175]      Compounds of Formula (1) having a phosphorus containing group attached to
the 5'-position of the pentose ring can be prepared using various methods known to those skilled
in the art. Examples of methods are shown in Schemes 3 and 4. A phosphorus containing
precursor can be coupled to the nucleoside, for example, a compound of Fonmula (F) or a
compound of Formula (G). As shown in Scheme 3, following the coupling of the phosphorus
containing precursor, any leaving groups can be cleaved under suitable conditions, such as
hydrolysis. Further phosphorus containing groups can be added using methods known to those
 skilled in the art, for example using a pyrophosphate.
          101761      In some embodiments, an alkoxide can be generated from a compound of
 Formula (G) using an organometallic reagent, such as a Grignard reagent. The alkoxide can be
 coupled to the phosphorus containing precursor. Suitable Grignard reagents are known to those
 skilled in the art and include, but are not limited to, alkylmagnesium chlorides and
 alkylmagnesium bromides. In some embodiments, an appropriate base can be used. Examples
 of suitable bases include, but are not limited to, an amine base, such as an alkylamine (including
 mono-, di- and tri-alkylamines (e.g., triethylamine)), optionally substituted pyridines (e.g.
 collidine) and optionally substituted imidazoles (e.g., N-methylimidazole)).             Alternatively, a
 phosphorus containing precursor can be added to the nucleoside and form a phosphite. The
 phosphite can be oxidized to a phosphate using conditions known to those skilled in the art.
                                                     -78-

  Suitable conditions include, but are not limited to, meta-chloroperoxybenzoic acid (MCPBA)
  and iodine as the oxidizing agent and water as the oxygen donor.
          101771     When compounds of Formula (I) have ZIA, ZIA or Z3A being sulfur, the sulfur
  can be added in various manners known to those skilled in the art. In some embodiments, the
                                                                                          S
                                                                                          II
                                                                                    ReAO--P-Cl or OH
 sulfur can be part of the phosphorus containing precursor, for example,               RIAO          or
           S
  RsAO-P--CIII
           R9A    . Alternatively, the sulfur can be added using a sulfurization reagent. Suitable
 sulfurization agents are known to those skilled in the art, and include, but are not limited to,
 elemental sulfur, Lawesson's reagent, cyclooctasulfur, 3H- 1,2-Benzodithiole-3-one-1I,1-dioxide
 (Beaucage's reagent), 3-((N,N-dimethylaminomethylidene)amino)-3H-I,2,4-dithiazole-5-thione
 (DDTT) and bis(3-triethoxysilyl)propyl-tetrasulfide (TEST).
          [0178]     Suitable phosphorus containing precursors can be commercially obtained or
 prepared by synthetic methods known to those skilled in the art. Examples of general structures
 of phosphorus containing precursors are shown in Schemes 3 and 4.
 Scheme 5:
        HO                 81b       l      L                        lb-/R2lj.          0    11,H
                HO           H   +RK    ~Li       base              RIAo--I/R           O
                    H    R3b
                                                       oxidation reagent (Zm   3 = O)
                                                       sul furization reagent (Z~ = S)
                                                  Ll               ~0R
                                                                             O
                                                                    RI4B
         [01791      A method for forming a compound of Formula (II) is shown in Scheme 5. In
Scheme 5, RUb, RE, Rah, R*4I and B"1' can be the same as R' 8 , .R~, R313, R411 and BIB as described
 herein for Formula (II), each L can be a halogen, a suifonate ester or an amine (mono- or di
substituted), and X can be oxygen or sulfur. As shown in Scheme 5, a compound having a
hydroxy group attached to the 3'-carbon and a hydroxy group attached to the 5'-carbon can be
reacted \with a compound having the formula, (R'b)P(I)2, in the presence of a base, to produce a
                                                 -79-

phosphite compound. Suitable bases are known to those skilled in the art and described herein.
The phosphorus can then be oxidized to phosphorus(V) using a suitable oxidizing agent, to
produce a compound where X is 0 (oxygen). Alternatively, the phosphite compound can be
reacted with a sulfurization reagent to produce a compound where X is S (sulfur). Suitable
oxidizing and sulfurization agents are known to those skilled in the art.         For example, the
oxidation can be carried out using iodine as the oxidizing agent and water as the oxygen donor.
Suitable sulfurization agents are described herein.
Scheme 6
                H                                    0
                H         O                                    O
                                   R6C                                Ra
                   R4           R5"                       R4        R5c
                          (H)                                  (J)
                                                                          O       O
                                                                           2
                                                                          R e      R2 c
                0                                        O
            R-                                       R cp
                   R       c    O        ~             R~c
                         R4C         RSC                         R4C        R5c
        [0180]      A method for forming a compound of Formula (111) is shown in Scheme 6. In
Scheme 6, R'", R2', R30, R4 *, R5*, R6' and B3" can be the same as R C, R2c, R3 C,R4C, RsC, Rrc and
BIC as described herein for Formula (III), and R7 c and RsC are not shown. The oxygen attached
to the 5'-carbon of the compound of Formula (H) can be oxidized to a ketone using methods and
reagents known to those skilled in the art. For example, an oxidizing agent, such as Dess-Martin
periodinanc, can be utilized. A phosphorus-containing reagent can then be added to a compound
of Formula (J) in the presence of a strong base (e.g., sodium hydride). The double bond can be
hydrogenated, for example using hydrogen gas or Pd/C, to a single bond. Additional phosphates
can be added via phosphorylation to form a di- or tri-phosphate using suitable reagents, such as
a pyrophosphate (e.g., tetrabutylammonium pyrophosphate).
                                                 -80-

         [01811     An acyl group can be added to the 5'-position and/or the 3'-position of a
compound of Formula (I) or (III) using methods known to those skilled in the art. One suitable
method is using an anhydride in pyridine.
         [01821     During the synthesis of any of the compounds described herein, if desired,
any hydroxy groups attached to the pentose ring, and any -NH and/or NH 2 groups present on the
Ba, B and B" can be protected with one or more suitable protecting groups. Suitable
protecting groups are described herein. For example, when R3 " and/or R is a hydroxy group,
R3 " and/or R can be protected with a triarylmethyl group or a silyl group. Likewise, any -NH
and/or NH 2 groups present on the B", B81 and B" can be protected, such as with a triarylmethyl
and a silyl group(s). Examples of triarylmethyl groups include but are not limited to, trityl,
monornethoxytrityl (MMTr), 4,4'-dimethoxytrityl (DMTr), 4,4',4"-trimethoxytrityl (TMTr),.
4,4',4"-tris- (benzoyloxy) trityl (TBTr), 4,4',4"-tris (4,5-dichlorophthalimido) trityl (CPTr),
4,4',4"-tris (levulinyloxy) trityl (TLTr), p-anisyl-1-       naphthylphenylmethyl, di-o-anisyl-l
naphthylmethyl,       p-tolyldipheylmethyl,      3-(imidazolylmethyl)-4,4'-dimethoxytrityl,      9
phenylxanthen-9-yl (Pixyl), 9-(p-methoxyphenyl) xanthen-9-yl (Mox), 4-decyloxytrityl, 4
hexadecyloxytrityl, 4,4'-dioctadecyltrityl, 9-(4- octadecyloxyphenyl) xanthen-9-yl, 1,1'-bis-(4
methoxyphenyl)-l'-pyrenylmethyl, 4,4',4"-tris- (tert-butylphenyl) methyl (TTTr) and 4,4'-di-3,
5-hexadienoxytrityl.    Examples of silyl groups include, but are not limited to, trimothylsilyl
(TMS), tert-butyldimethylsilyl      (TBDMS), triisopropylsilyl (TIPS), tert-butyldiphenylsilyl
(TBDPS), tri-iso-propylsilyloxymethyl and [2-(trimcthylsilyl)ethoxy]methyl. Alternatively, R3"
and R4" and/or R' and R5 , can be protected by a single achiral or chiral protecting group, for
example, by forming an orthoester, a cyclic acetal or a cyclic ketal. Suitable orthoesters include
methoxymethylene       acetal,   ethoxymethylene     acetal,   2-oxacyclopentylidene    orthoester,
dimethoxymethylene orthoester, I-rnethoxyethylidene orthoester, I-ethoxyethylidene orthoester,
methylidene orthoester, phthalide orthoester 1,2-dimethoxyethylidene orthoester, and alpha
methoxybenzylidene orthoester; suitable cyclic acetals include methylene acetal, ethylidene
acetal,   t-butylmethylidene    acetal, 3-(benzyloxy)propyl     acetal, benzylidenc  acetal,   3,4
dimethoxybenzylidene acetal and p-acetoxybenzylidcnc aectal; and suitable cyclic ketals include
1-t-butylethylidene ketal, 1-phenylethylidene ketal, isopropylidene ketal, cyclopentylidene ketal,
cyclohexylidene ketal, cycloheptylidene ketal and 1-(4-methoxyphenyl)ethylidene ketal. Those
skilled in the art will appreciate that groups attached to the pentosc ring and any -NH and/or
NI-2 groups present on the B, B and B" can be protected with various protecting groups, and
any protecting groups present can be exchanged for other protecting groups. The selection and
exchange of the protecting groups is within the skill of those of ordinary skill in the art. Any
                                                -81-

protecting group(s) can be removed by methods known in the art, for example, with an acid
(e.g., a mineral or an organic acid), a base or a fluoride source.
Pharmaceutical Compositions
         [0183]      Some embodiments described herein relates to a pharmaceutical composition,
that can include an effective amount of one or more compounds described herein (e.g., a
compound of Formula (I), a compound of Formula (II) and/or a compound of Formula (III), or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt of the foregoing) and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier,
diluent, excipient or combination thereof.
         [0184]      The term "pharmaceutical composition" refers to a mixture of one or more
compounds disclosed herein with other chemical components, such as diluents or carriers. The
pharmaceutical composition facilitates administration of the compound to an organism.
Pharmaceutical compositions can also be obtained by reacting compounds with inorganic or
organic acids such as hydrochloric acid, hydrobromic acid, sulfuric acid, nitric acid, phosphoric
acid, methanesulfonic acid, ethanesulfonic acid, p-toluenesulfonic acid, and salicylic acid.
Pharmaceutical compositions will generally be tailored to the specific intended route of
administration.
         10185       The term "physiologically acceptable" defines a carrier, diluent or excipient
that does not abrogate the biological activity and properties of the compound.
         [01861      As used herein, a "carrier" refers to a compound that facilitates the
incorporation of a compound into cells or tissues. For example, without limitation, dimethyl
sulfoxide (DMSO) is a commonly utilized carrier that facilitates the uptake of many organic
compounds into cells or tissues of a subject.
         [0187]      As used herein, a "diluent" refers to an ingredient in a pharmaceutical
composition that lacks pharmacological activity but may be pharmaceutically necessary or
desirable. For example, a diluent may be used to increase the bulk of a potent drug whose mass
 is too small for manufacture and/or administration. It may also be a liquid for the dissolution of
a drug to be administered by injection, ingestion or inhalation. A common form of diluent in the
art is a buffered aqueous solution such as, without limitation, phosphate buffered saline that
minics the composition of human blood.
          [0188]     As used herein, an "excipient" refers to an inert substance that is added to a
pharmaceutical composition to provide, without limitation, bulk, consistency, stability, binding
 ability, lubrication, disintegrating ability etc., to the composition.  A "diluent" is a type of
 excipient.
                                                  -82-

         [01891     The pharmaceutical compositions described herein can be administered to a
human patient per se, or in pharmaceutical compositions where they are mixed with other active
ingredients, as in combination therapy, or carriers, diluents, recipients or combinations thereof.
Proper formulation is dependent upon the route of administration chosen.             Techniques for
formulation and administration of the compounds described herein are known to those skilled in
the art.
         [01901     The pharmaceutical compositions disclosed herein may be manufactured in a
manner that is itself known, e.g., by means of conventional mixing, dissolving, granulating,
dragee-making, levigating, emulsifying, encapsulating, entrapping or tableting processes.
Additionally, the active ingredients are contained in an amount effective to achieve its intended
purpose. Many of the compounds used in the pharmaceutical combinations disclosed herein may
be provided as salts with pharmaceutically compatible counterions.
         [01911     Multiple techniques of administering a compound exist in the art including,
but not limited to, oral, rectal, topical, aerosol, injection and parenteral delivery, including
intramuscular, subcutaneous,        intravenous,   intramedullary    injections, intrathecal, direct
intraventricular, intraperitoneal, intranasal and intraocular injections.
         10192]     One may also administer the compound in a local rather than systemic
manner, for example, via injection of the compound directly into the infected area, often in a
depot or sustained release formulation. Furthermore, one may administer the compound in a
targeted drug delivery system, for example, in a liposome coated with a tissue-specific antibody.
The liposomes will be targeted to and taken up selectively by the organ.
         [0193]     The compositions may, if desired, be presented in a pack or dispenser device
which may contain one or more unit dosage forms containing the active ingredient. The pack
may for example comprise metal or plastic foil, such as a blister pack. The pack or dispenser
device may be accompanied by instructions for administration. The pack or dispenser may also
be accompanied with a notice associated with the container in form prescribed by a
governmental agency regulating the manufacture, use, or sale of pharmaceuticals, which notice
is reflective of approval by the agency of the form of the drug for human or veterinary
administration. Such notice, for example, may be the labeling approved by the U.S. Food and
Drug Administration for prescription drugs, or the approved product insert. Compositions that
can include a compound described herein formulated in a compatible pharmaceutical carrier
may also be prepared, placed in an appropriate container, and labeled for treatment of an
indicated condition.
                                                 -83-

Methods of Use:
         [0194]     Some embodiments described herein relate to a method of ameliorating,
treating and/or preventing a viral infection selected from a paramyxovirus viral infection and an
orthomyxovirus viral infection, which can include administering to a subject an effective
amount of one or more compounds described herein, or a pharmaceutical composition that
includes one or more compounds described herein (e.g., a compound of Formula (I), a
compound of Formula (1I) and/or a compound of Formula (Ill), or a pharmaceutically acceptable
salt of the foregoing). In some embodiments, the subject is identified as suffering from the viral
infection (for example, a paramyxovirus viral infection or an orthomyxovirus viral infection).
         [0195]     Other embodiments described herein relate to a method of inhibiting viral
replication of a virus selected from a paramyxovirus and an orthomyxovirus, which can include
contacting a cell infected with the virus with an effective amount of a compound of Formula (I),
or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, an effective amount of a compound of Formula
(11), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, an effective amount of a compound of
Formula (III), or a pharmaceutically         acceptable salt thereof, and/or a pharmaceutical
composition that includes one or more compounds described herein (e.g., a compound of
Formula (1), a compound of Formula (I) and/or a compound of Formula (111), or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt of the foregoing).
         [0196]     Other embodiments described herein relate to the use of an effective amount
of a compound selected from Formula (I), Formula (II), and Formula (111), or a pharmaceutically
acceptable salt of the foregoing, for amelioring or treating a viral infection caused by a virus
selected    from   a henipavirus,    a  morbillivirus,   a respirovirus,   a rubulavirus   and   a
metapneumovirus. Still other embodiments described herein relate to a method for ameliorating
or treating a viral infection caused by a virus that can include administering to or contacting a
cell in a subject with an effective amount of a compound selected from Formula (1), Formula
(II), and Formula (IlI), or a phannaceutically acceptable salt of the foregoing, wherein the virus
can be selected from a henipavirus, a morbillivirus, a respirovirus, a rubulavirus and a
metapneumovirus.      Yet still other embodiments described herein relate to using an effective
amount of a compound selected from Formula (I), Formula (11), and Formula (Ill), or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt of the foregoing, for inhibiting replication of a virus selected
 from a henipavirus, a morbillivirus, a respirovirus, a rubulavirus and a metapneumovirus (for
example by inhibiting the virus' polymerase complex).
          10197]    In some embodiments, an effective amount of one or more compounds of
 Formula (1), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, one or more compounds of Formula
                                                 -84-

(II), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, an effective amount of one or more
compounds of Formula (III), or a pharmaceutically           acceptable salt thereof, and/or a
pharmaceutical composition that includes one or more compounds described herein (e.g., a
compound of Formula (I), a compound of Formula (II) and/or a compound of Formula (III), or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt of the foregoing) can be used to treat and/or ameliorate a
respiratory syncytial viral (RSV) infection. In some embodiments, an effective amount of one
or more compounds of Formula (I), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, one or more
compounds of Formula (II), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, an effective amount of
one or more compounds of Formula (III), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, and/or a
pharmaceutical composition that includes one or more compounds described herein (e.g., a
compound of Formula (I) a compound of Formula (11) and/or a compound of Formula (111), or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt of the foregoing) can be used to prevent a respiratory syncytial
viral infection.  In some embodiments, an effective amount of one or more compounds of
Formula (1), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, one or more compounds of Formula
(11), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, an effective amount of one or more
compounds of Formula (III), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, and/or a
pharmaceutical composition that includes one or more compounds described herein (e.g., a
compound of Formula (I), a compound of Formula (II) and/or a compound of Formula (Ill), or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt of the foregoing) can be used to inhibit the replication of a
respiratory syncytial virus.   In some embodiments, an effective amount of one or more
compounds of Formula (I), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, one or more
compounds of Formula (II), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, an effective amount of
one or more compounds of Formula (II), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, and/or a
pharmaceutical composition that includes one or more compounds described herein (e.g., a
compound of Formula (I), a compound of Formula (11) and/or a compound of Formula (111), or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt of the foregoing) can be used to inhibit the RSV polymerase
complex.
        [0198]     In other embodiments, an effective amount of one or more compounds of
Formula (I), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, one or more compounds of Formula
(11), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, an effective amount of one or more
compounds of Formula (III), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, and/or a
pharmaceutical composition that includes one or more compounds described herein (e.g., a
compound of Formula (1) a compound of Formula (11) and/or a compound of Formula (Ill), or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt of the foregoing) can be used to treat and/or ameliorate an
                                              -85-

influenza viral infection. In other embodiments, an effective amount of one or more compounds
of Formula (I), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, one or more compounds of
Formula (II), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, an effective amount of one or more
compounds of Formula (III), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, and/or a
pharmaceutical composition that includes one or more compounds described herein (e.g., a
compound of Formula (I), a compound of Formula (11) and/or a compound of Formula (III), or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt of the foregoing) can be used to prevent an influenza viral
infection. In some embodiments, an effective amount of one or more compounds of Formula (I),
or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, one or more compounds of Formula (II), or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, an effective amount of one or more compounds of
Formula (111),    or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, and/or a pharmaceutical
composition that includes one or more compounds described herein (e.g., a compound of
Formula (I), a compound of Formula (II) and/or a compound of Formula (III), or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt of the foregoing) can be used to inhibit the replication of an
influenza virus.    In some embodiments, an effective amount of one or more compounds of
Formula (I), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, one or more compounds of Formula
(II), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, an effective amount of one or more
compounds of Formula (iII), or a pharmaceutically            acceptable salt thereof, and/or a
pharmaceutical composition that includes one or more compounds described herein (e.g., a
compound of Formula (I), a compound of Formula (11) and/or a compound of Formula (Ill), or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt of the foregoing) can be used to inhibit the influenza
polymerase complex.
        [0199]      In some embodiments, an effective amount of one or more compounds of
Formula (I), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, one or more compounds of Formula
(II), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, an effective amount of one or more
compounds of Formula (III), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, and/or a
pharmaceutical composition that includes one or more compounds described herein (e.g., a
compound of Formula (I), a compound of Formula (II) and/or a compound of Formula (III), or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt of the foregoing) can be used to treat and/or ameliorate a
henipaviral infection. In some embodiments, an effective amount of one or more compounds of
Formula (I), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, one or more compounds of Formula
(II), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, an effective amount of one or more
compounds of Formula (111),         or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, and/or a
pharmaceutical composition that includes one or more compounds described herein (e.g., a
                                              -86-

compound of Formula (I) a compound of Formula (II) and/or a compound of Formula (III), or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt of the foregoing) can be used to prevent a henipaviral infection
and/or nipahviral infection. In some embodiments, an effective amount of one or more
compounds of Formula (I), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, one or more
compounds of Formula (II), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, an effective amount of
one or more compounds of Formula (111), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, and/or a
pharmaceutical composition that includes one or more compounds described herein (e.g., a
compound of Formula (I), a compound of Formula (II) and/or a compound of Formula (III), or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt of the foregoing) can be used to inhibit the replication of a
henipavirus. In some embodiments, an effective amount of one or more compounds of Formula
(1), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, one or more compounds of Formula (II), or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, an effective amount of one or more compounds of
Formula (III), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, and/or a pharmaceutical
composition that includes one or more compounds described herein (e.g., a compound of
Formula (I), a compound of Formula (II) and/or a compound of Formula (Ill), or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt of the foregoing) can be used to inhibit the henipavirus
polymerase complex and/or nipahvirus polymerase complex.
         [0200]     In some embodiments, an effective amount of one or more compounds of
Formula (I), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, one or more compounds of Formula
(II), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, an effective amount of one or more
compounds of Formula (Ill), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, and/or a
pharmaceutical composition that includes one or more compounds described herein (e.g., a
compound of Formula (I), a compound of Formula (II) and/or a compound of Formula (III), or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt of the foregoing) can be used to treat and/or ameliorate a
liendraviral infection and/or nipahviral infection. In some embodiments, an effective amount of
one or more compounds of Formula (1), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, one or
more compounds of Formula (II), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, an effective
amount of one or more compounds of Formula (III), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt
thereof, and/or a pharmaceutical composition that includes one or more compounds described
herein (e.g., a compound of Formula (1) a compound of Formula (II) and/or a compound of
Formula (III), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt of the foregoing) can be used to prevent a
hendraviral infection and/or nipahviral infection. In some embodiments, an effective amount of
one or more compounds of Formula (I), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, one or
more compounds of Formula (II), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, an effective
                                                 -87-

amount of one or more compounds of Formula (III), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt
thereof, and/or a pharmaceutical composition that includes one or more compounds described
herein (e.g., a compound of Formula (I), a compound of Formula (11) and/or a compound of
Formula (III), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt of the foregoing) can be used to inhibit the
replication of a hendravirus and/or nipalivirus. In some embodiments, an effective amount of
one or more compounds of Formula (I), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, one or
more compounds of Formula (II), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, an effective
amount of one or more compounds of Formula (III), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt
thereof, and/or a pharmaceutical composition that includes one or more compounds described
herein (e.g., a compound of Formula (1), a compound of Formula (II) and/or a compound of
Formula (Ill), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt of the foregoing) can be used to inhibit the
hendravirus polymerase complex and/or nipahvirus polymerase complex.
         [0201J     In some embodiments, an effective amount of one or more compounds of
Formula (I), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, one or more compounds of Formula
(II), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, an effective amount of one or more
compounds of Formula (Ill),       or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, and/or a
pharmaceutical composition that includes one or more compounds described herein (e.g., a
compound of Formula (I), a compound of Formula (II) and/or a compound of Formula (III), or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt of the foregoing) can be used to treat and/or ameliorate a
morbilliviral infection. In some embodiments, an effective amount of one or more compounds
of Formula (1), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, one or more compounds of
Formula (II), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, an effective amount of one or more
compounds of Formula (III), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, and/or a
pharmaceutical composition that includes one or more compounds described herein (e.g., a
compound of Formula (I) a compound of Formula (11) and/or a compound of Formula (III), or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt of the foregoing) can be used to prevent morbilliviral infection.
In some embodiments, an effective amount of one or more compounds of Formula (I), or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, one or more compounds of Formula (II), or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, an effective amount of one or more compounds of
Formula (111),    or a pharmaceutically     acceptable salt thereof, and/or a pharmaceutical
composition that includes one or more compounds described herein (e.g., a compound of
Formula (I), a compound of Formula (II) and/or a compound of Formula (III), or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt of the foregoing) can be used to inhibit the replication of a
morbillivirus.   In some embodiments, an effective amount of one or more compounds of
                                               -88-

Formula (I), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, one or more compounds of Formula
(II), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, an effective amount of one or more
compounds of Formula (III), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, and/or a
pharmaceutical composition that includes one or more compounds described herein (e.g., a
compound of Formula (I), a compound of Formula (II) and/or a compound of Formula (III), or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt of the foregoing) can be used to inhibit the morbillivirus
polymerase complex.
        102021     In some embodiments, an effective amount of one or more compounds of
Formula (I), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, one or more compounds of Formula
(II), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, an effective amount of one or more
compounds of Formula (III), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, and/or a
pharmaceutical composition that includes one or more compounds described herein (e.g., a
compound of Formula (I), a compound of Formula (II) and/or a compound of Formula (III), or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt of the foregoing) can be used to treat and/or ameliorate
measles. In some embodiments, an effective amount of one or more compounds of Formula (I),
or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, one or more compounds of Formula (11), or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, an effective amount of one or more compounds of
Formula (III), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, and/or a pharmaceutical
composition that includes one or more compounds described herein (e.g., a compound of
Formula (I) a compound of Formula (11) and/or a compound of Formula (III), or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt of the foregoing) can be used to prevent measles. In some
embodiments, an effective amount of one or more compounds of Formula (1),                or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, one or more compounds of Formula (1I), or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, an effective amount of one or more compounds of
Formula (111),   or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, and/or a pharmaceutical
composition that includes one or more compounds described herein (e.g., a compound of
Formula (I), a compound of Formula (II) and/or a compound of Formula (III), or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt of the foregoing) can be used to inhibit the replication of a
measles virus.    In some embodiments, an effective amount of one or more compounds of
Formula (I), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, one or more compounds of Formula
(II), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, an effective amount of one or more
compounds of Formula (III), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, and/or a
pharmaceutical composition that includes one or more compounds described herein (e.g., a
compound of Formula (I), a compound of Formula (11) and/or a compound of Formula (IlI), or a
                                              -89-

 pharmaceutically acceptable salt of the foregoing) can be used to inhibit the measles polymerase
 complex.
          [02031     In some embodiments, an effective amount of one or more compounds of
 Formula (I), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, one or more compounds of Formula
 (II), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, an effective amount of one or more
 compounds of Formula (III), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, and/or a
 pharmaceutical composition that includes one or more compounds described herein (e.g., a
 compound of Formula (I), a compound of Formula (11) and/or a compound of Formula (Ill), or a
 pharmaceutically acceptable salt of the foregoing) can be used to treat and/or ameliorate a
 rubulaviral infection. In some embodiments, an effective amount of one or more compounds of
 Formula (I), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, one or more compounds of Formula
 (II), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, an effective amount of one or more
 compounds of Formula (III), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, and/or a
 pharmaceutical composition that includes one or more compounds described herein (e.g., a
 compound of Formula (I) a compound of Formula (11) and/or a compound of Formula (III), or a
 pharmaceutically acceptable salt of the foregoing) can be used to prevent a rubulaviral infection.
 In some embodiments, an effective amount of one or more compounds of Formula (I), or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, one or more compounds of Formula (II), or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, an effective amount of one or more compounds of
Formula (III), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, and/or a pharmaceutical
composition that includes one or more compounds described herein (e.g., a compound of
 Formula (I), a compound of Formula (II) and/or a compound of Formula (Ill), or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt of the foregoing) can be used to inhibit the replication of a
rubulavirus. In some embodiments, an effective amount of one or more compounds of Formula
(1), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, one or more compounds of Formula (II), or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, an effective amount of one or more compounds of
Formula (III), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, and/or a pharmaceutical
composition that includes one or more compounds described herein (e.g., a compound of
Formula (I), a compound of Formula (II) and/or a compound of Formula (Ill), or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt of the foregoing) can be used to inhibit the rubulavirus
polymerase complex.
         [0204]      In some embodiments, an effective amount of one or more compounds of
Formula (I), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, one or more compounds of Formula
(II), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, an effective amount of one or more
                                               -90-

compounds of Formula (III), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, and/or a
pharmaceutical composition that includes one or more compounds described herein (e.g., a
compound of Formula (1), a compound of Formula (II) and/or a compound of Formula (III), or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt of the foregoing) can be used to treat and/or ameliorate mumps.
In some embodiments, an effective amount of one or more compounds of Formula (I), or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, one or more compounds of Formula (II), or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, an effective amount of one or more compounds of
Formula (III), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, and/or a pharmaceutical
composition that includes one or more compounds described herein (e.g., a compound of
Formula (I) a compound of Formula (II) and/or a compound of Formula (Ill), or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt of the foregoing) can be used to prevent mumps. In some
embodiments, an effective amount of one or more compounds of Formula (I), or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, one or more compounds of Formula (II), or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, an effective amount of one or more compounds of
Formula (Ill), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, and/or a pharmaceutical
composition that includes one or more compounds described herein (e.g., a compound of
Formula (I), a compound of Formula (II) and/or a compound of Formula (III), or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt of the foregoing) can be used to inhibit the replication of a
mumps virus.      In some embodiments, an effective amount of one or more compounds of
Formula (I), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, one or more compounds of Formula
(11), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, an effective amount of one or more
compounds of Formula (III), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, and/or a
pharmaceutical composition that includes one or more compounds described herein (e.g., a
compound of Formula (1), a compound of Formula (II) and/or a compound of Formula (Ill), or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt of the foregoing) can be used to inhibit the mumps polymerase
complex.
        [02051      In some embodiments, an effective amount of one or more compounds of
Formula (I), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, one or more compounds of Formula
(11), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, an effective amount of one or more
compounds of Formula (Ill), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, and/or a
pharmaceutical composition that includes one or more compounds described herein (e.g., a
compound of Formula (I), a compound of Formula (II) and/or a compound of Formula (III), or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt of the foregoing) can be used to treat and/or ameliorate a
sendai viral infection. In some embodiments, an effective amount of one or more compounds of
                                               -91-

Formula (1), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, one or more compounds of Formula
(II), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, an effective amount of one or more
compounds of Formula (III), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, and/or a
pharmaceutical composition that includes one or more compounds described herein (e.g., a
compound of Formula (I) a compound of Formula (II) and/or a compound of Formula (III), or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt of the foregoing) can be used to prevent a sendai viral
infection. In some embodiments, an effective amount of one or more compounds of Formula (I),
or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, one or more compounds of Formula (II), or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, an effective amount of one or more compounds of
Formula (111),    or a pharmaceutically     acceptable salt thereof, and/or a pharmaceutical
composition that includes one or more compounds described herein (e.g., a compound of
Formula (I), a compound of Formula (II) and/or a compound of Formula (III), or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt of the foregoing) can be used to inhibit the replication of a
sendai virus. In some embodiments, an effective amount of one or more compounds of Formula
(I), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, one or more compounds of Formula (II), or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, an effective amount of one or more compounds of
Formula (111),    or a pharmaceutically     acceptable  salt thereof, and/or a pharmaceutical
composition that includes one or more compounds described herein (e.g., a compound of
Formula (I), a compound of Formula (11) and/or a compound of Formula (III), or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt of the foregoing) can be used to inhibit the sendai virus
polymerase complex.
         10206]      In some embodiments, an effective amount of one or more compounds of
Formula (I), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, one or more compounds of Formula
(II), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, an effective amount of one or more
compounds of Formula (111),       or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, and/or a
pharmaceutical composition that includes one or more compounds described herein (e.g., a
compound of Formula (I), a compound of Formula (11) and/or a compound of Formula (III), or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt of the foregoing) can be used to treat and/or ameliorate a
respiroviral infection. In some embodiments, an effective amount of one or more compounds of
Formula (1), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, one or more compounds of Formula
(II), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, an effective amount of one or more
compounds of Formula (III), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, and/or a
pharmaceutical composition that includes one or more compounds described herein (e.g., a
compound of Formula (I) a compound of Formula (11) and/or a compound of Formula (IlI), or a
                                               -92-

pharmaceutically acceptable salt of the foregoing) can be used to prevent a respiroviral
infection. In some embodiments, an effective amount of one or more compounds of Formula (I),
or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, one or more compounds of Formula (11), or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, an effective amount of one or more compounds of
Formula (III), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, and/or a pharmaceutical
composition that includes one or more compounds described herein (e.g., a compound of
Formula (I), a compound of Formula (II) and/or a compound of Formula (III), or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt of the foregoing) can be used to inhibit the replication of a
respirovirus. In some embodiments, an effective amount of one or more compounds of Formula
(I), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, one or more compounds of Formula (II), or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, an effective amount of one or more compounds of
Formula (III), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, and/or a pharmaceutical
composition that includes one or more compounds described herein (e.g., a compound of
Formula (I), a compound of Formula (II) and/or a compound of Formula (Ill), or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt of the foregoing) can be used to inhibit the respirovirus
polymerase complex.
         [02071    In some embodiments, an effective amount of one or more compounds of
Formula (I), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, one or more compounds of Formula
(II), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, an effective amount of one or more
compounds of Formula (III), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, and/or a
pharmaceutical composition that includes one or more compounds described herein (e.g., a
compound of Formula (I), a compound of Formula (II) and/or a compound of Formula (Ill), or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt of the foregoing) can be used to treat and/or ameliorate a
HPIV-1 infection and/or HPIV-3 infection. In some embodiments, an effective amount of one
or more compounds of Formula (I), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, one or more
compounds of Formula (II), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, an effective amount of
one or more compounds of Formula (III), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, and/or a
pharmaceutical composition that includes one or more compounds described herein (e.g., a
compound of Formula (I) a compound of Formula (II) and/or a compound of Formula (IlI), or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt of the foregoing) can be used to prevent a HPIV-1 infection
and/or HPIV-3 infection. In some embodiments, an effective amount of one or more compounds
of Formula (I), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, one or more compounds of
Formula (II), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, an effective amount of one or more
compounds of Formula (III), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, and/or a
                                               -93-

pharmaceutical composition that includes one or more compounds described herein (e.g., a
compound of Formula (1), a compound of Formula (II) and/or a compound of Formula (III), or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt of the foregoing) can be used to inhibit the replication of
HPIV-l and/or HPIV-3. In some embodiments, an effective amount of one or more compounds
of Formula (1), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, one or more compounds of
Formula (II), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, an effective amount of one or more
compounds of Formula (Il1), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, and/or a
phannaceutical composition that includes one or more compounds described herein (e.g., a
compound of Formula (I), a compound of Formula (II) and/or a compound of Formula (III), or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt of the foregoing) can be used to inhibit the HPIV-1 polymerase
complex and/or HPiV-3 polymerase complex.
        [0208]     In some embodiments, an effective amount of one or more compounds of
Formula (I), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, one or more compounds of Formula
(II), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, an effective amount of one or more
compounds of Formula (III), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, and/or a
pharmaceutical composition that includes one or more compounds described herein (e.g., a
compound of Formula (I), a compound of Formula (11) and/or a compound of Formula (III), or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt of the foregoing) can be used to treat and/or ameliorate a
HPIV-2 infection and/or HPIV-4 infection. In some embodiments, an effective amount of one
or more compounds of Formula (I), or a phanmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, one or more
compounds of Formula (11), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, an effective amount of
one or more compounds of Formula (Ill), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, and/or a
pharmaceutical composition that includes one or more compounds described herein (e.g., a
compound of Formula (I) a compound of Formula (II) and/or a compound of Formula (III), or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt of the foregoing) can be used to prevent a HPIV-2 infection
and/or HPIV-4 infection. In some embodiments, an effective amount of one or more compounds
of Formula (I), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, one or more compounds of
Formula (11), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, an effective amount of one or more
compounds of Formula (Ill), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, and/or a
pharmaceutical composition that includes one or more compounds described herein (e.g., a
compound of Formula (I), a compound of Formula (II) and/or a compound of Formula (III), or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt of the foregoing) can be used to inhibit the replication of
HPIV-2 and/or HPIV-4. In some embodiments, an effective amount of one or more compounds
of Formula (1), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, one or more compounds of
                                               -94-

Formula (II), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, an effective amount of one or more
compounds of Formula (III), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, and/or a
pharmaceutical composition that includes one or more compounds described herein (e.g., a
compound of Formula (1), a compound of Formula (II) and/or a compound of Formula (III), or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt of the foregoing) can be used to inhibit the HPIV-2 polymerase
complex and/or HPIV-4 polymerase complex.
        [0209]     In some embodiments, an effective amount of one or more compounds of
Formula (I), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, one or more compounds of Formula
(II), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, an effective amount of one or more
compounds of Formula (III), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, and/or a
pharmaceutical composition that includes one or more compounds described herein (e.g., a
compound of Formula (I), a compound of Formula (II) and/or a compound of Formula (IlI), or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt of the foregoing) can be used to treat and/or ameliorate a
metapneumoviral infection.     In some embodiments, an effective amount of one or more
compounds of Formula (I), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, one or more
compounds of Formula (II), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, an effective amount of
one or more compounds of Formula (III), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, and/or a
pharmaceutical composition that includes one or more compounds described herein (e.g., a
compound of Formula (I) a compound of Formula (II) and/or a compound of Formula (III), or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt of the foregoing) can be used to prevent a metapneumoviral
infection. In some embodiments, an effective amount of one or more compounds of Formula (I),
or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, one or more compounds of Formula (II), or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, an effective amount of one or more compounds of
Formula (III), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, and/or a pharmaceutical
composition that includes one or more compounds described herein (e.g., a compound of
Formula (I), a compound of Formula (II) and/or a compound of Formula (IIl), or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt of the foregoing) can be used to inhibit the replication of a
metapneumovirus. In some embodiments, an effective amount of one or more compounds of
Formula (I), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, one or more compounds of Formula
(II), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, an effective amount of one or more
compounds of Formula (Ill), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, and/or a
pharmaceutical composition that includes one or more compounds described herein (e.g., a
compound of Formula (I), a compound of Formula (11) and/or a compound of Formula (1ll), or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt of the foregoing) can be used to inhibit the metapneumovirus
                                               -95-

polymerase complex.        In some embodiments, including those of this paragraphs, the
metapneumovirus can be a human metapneumovirus.
        [02101      In some embodiments, an effective amount of one or more compounds of
Formula (1), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, one or more compounds of Formula
(II), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, an effective amount of one or more
compounds of Formula (III), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, and/or a
pharmaceutical composition that includes one or more compounds described herein (e.g., a
compound of Formula (I), a compound of Formula (11) and/or a compound of Formula (Ill), or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt of the foregoing) can be used treat and/or ameliorate an upper
respiratory viral infection caused by a virus selected from a henipavirus, a morbillivirus, a
respirovirus, a rubulavirus, a pneumovirus, a mctapneumovirus and influenza virus. In some
embodiments, an effective amount of one or more compounds of Formula (I), or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, one or more compounds of Formula (II), or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, an effective amount of one or more compounds of
Formula (111),    or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, and/or a pharmaceutical
composition that includes one or more compounds described herein (e.g., a compound of
Formula (I), a compound of Formula (II) and/or a compound of Formula (III), or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt of the foregoing) can be used treat and/or ameliorate a lower
respiratory viral infection caused by a virus selected from a henipavirus, a morbillivirus, a
respirovirus, a rubulavirus, a pneumovirus, a metapneumovirus and influenza virus. In some
embodiments, an effective amount of one or more compounds of Formula (1), or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, one or more compounds of Formula (II), or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, an effective amount of one or more compounds of
Formula (III), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, and/or a pharmaceutical
composition that includes one or more compounds described herein (e.g., a compound of
Formula (I) a compound of Formula (II) and/or a compound of Formula (III), or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt of the foregoing) can be used treat and/or ameliorate one or
more symptoms of an infection caused by a virus selected from a henipavirus, a morbillivirus, a
respirovirus, a rubulavirus, a pneumovirus, a mctapneumovirus and influenza virus (such as
those described herein).
         10211]     In some embodiments, an effective amount of one or more compounds of
 Formula (I), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, one or more compounds of Formula
(II), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, an effective amount of one or more
compounds of Formula (III), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, and/or a
                                              -96-

pharmaceutical composition that includes one or more compounds described herein (e.g., a
compound of Formula (I), a compound of Formula (II) and/or a compound of Formula (Ill), or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt of the foregoing) can be used treat and/or ameliorate an upper
respiratory viral infection caused by RSV infection, measles, mumps, parainfluenza infection,
metapneumovirus and/or influenza infection. In some embodiments, an effective amount of one
or more compounds of Formula (I), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, one or more
compounds of Formula (II), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, an effective amount of
one or more compounds of Formula (Ill), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, and/or a
pharmaceutical composition that includes one or more compounds described herein (e.g., a
compound of Formula (1), a compound of Formula (II) and/or a compound of Formula (Ill), or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt of the foregoing) can be used treat and/or ameliorate a lower
respiratory viral infection caused by RSV infection, measles, mumps, parainfluenza infection,
metapneumovirus and/or influenza infection. In some embodiments, an effective amount of one
or more compounds of Formula (I), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, one or more
compounds of Formula (11), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, an effective amount of
one or more compounds of Formula (III), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, and/or a
pharmaceutical composition that includes one or more compounds described herein (e.g., a
compound of Formula (1) a compound of Formula (II) and/or a compound of Formula (Ill), or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt of the foregoing) can be used treat and/or ameliorate one or
more symptoms of an infection caused by RSV infection, measles, mumps, parainfluenza
infection, metapneumovirus and/or influenza infection (such as those described herein).
        [02121      In some embodiments, an effective amount of one or more compounds of
Formula (I), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, one or more compounds of Formula
(II), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, an effective amount of one or more
compounds of Formula (Ill), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, and/or a
pharmaceutical composition that includes one or more compounds described herein (e.g., a
compound of Formula (I), a compound of Formula (II) and/or a compound of Formula (III), or a
phannaceutically acceptable salt of the foregoing) can be used treat and/or ameliorate
bronchiolitis and/or tracheobronchitis due to a RSV infection, influenza infection and/or human
parainfluenza virus 3 (HPIV-3) infection. In some embodiments, an effective amount of one or
more compounds of Formula (I), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, one or more
compounds of Formula (II), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, an effective amount of
one or more compounds of Formula (Ill), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, and/or a
pharmaceutical composition that includes one or more compounds described herein (e.g., a
                                               -97-

compound of Fonnula (I), a compound of Formula (II) and/or a compound of Formula (III), or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt of the foregoing) can be used treat and/or ameliorate
pneumonia due to a RSV infection, influenza infection and/or human parainfluenza virus 3
(HPIV-3) infection. In some embodiments, an effective amount of one or more compounds of
Formula (I), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, one or more compounds of Formula
(II), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, an effective amount of one or more
compounds of Formula (111), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, and/or a
pharmaceutical composition that includes one or more compounds described herein (e.g., a
compound of Formula (I), a compound of Formula (II) and/or a compound of Formula (III), or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt of the foregoing) can be used treat and/or ameliorate croup due
to a RSV infection, influenza infection and/or human parainfluenza virus I (HPIV-1) infection.
        [0213]      In some embodiments, an effective amount of one or more compounds of
Formula (I), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, one or more compounds of Formula
(II), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, an effective amount of one or more
compounds of Formula (III), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, and/or a
pharmaceutical composition that includes one or more compounds described herein (e.g., a
compound of Formula (I), a compound of Formula (II) and/or a compound of Formula (III), or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt of the foregoing) can be used treat and/or ameliorate a fever,
cough, runny nose, red eyes, a generalized rash, pneumonia, an ear infection and/or bronchitis
due to measles.     In some embodiments, an effective amount of one or more compounds of
Formula (I), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, one or more compounds of Formula
(11), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, an effective amount of one or more
compounds of Formula (III), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, and/or a
pharmaceutical composition that includes one or more compounds described herein (e.g., a
compound of Formula (1), a compound of Formula (II) and/or a compound of Formula (III), or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt of the foregoing) can be used treat and/or ameliorate swelling
of the salivary glands, fever, loss of appetite and/or fatigue due to mumps.
        102141      In some embodiments, an effective amount of one or more compounds of
Formula (I), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, one or more compounds of Formula
(I), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, an effective amount of one or more
compounds of Formula (11), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, and/or a
pharmaceutical composition that includes one or more compounds described herein (e.g., a
compound of Formula (I), a compound of Formula (II) and/or a compound of Formula (III), or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt of the foregoing) can be used to prevent an influenza viral
                                                 -98-

infection.   In some embodiments, the influenza viral infection can be an influenza A viral
infection.   In other embodiments, the influenza viral infection can be an influenza B viral
infection. In still other embodiments, the influenza viral infection can be an influenza C viral
infection. In some embodiments, one or more compounds of Fonnula (I), or a pharmaceutically
acceptable salt thereof, one or more compounds of Formula (II), or a pharmaceutically
acceptable salt thereof, and/or one or more compounds of Formula (Ill), or a pharmaceutically
acceptable salt thereof, can be used to treat and/or ameliorate one or more subtypes of influenza.
For example, one or more compounds of Formula (I), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt
thereof, one or more compounds of Formula (II), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof,
and/or one or more compounds of Formula (IIl), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof,
can be used to treat H IN I and/or H3N2.
        10215]      In some embodiments, an effective amount of one or more compounds of
Formula (1), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, one or more compounds of Formula
(II), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, an effective amount of one or more
compounds of Formula (III), or a pharmaceutically             acceptable salt thereof, and/or a
pharmaceutical composition that includes one or more compounds described herein (e.g., a
compound of Formula (I), a compound of Formula (II) and/or a compound of Formula (III), or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt of the foregoing) can be used to prevent a human parainfluenza
viral infection. In some embodiments, the human parainfluenza viral infection can be a human
parainfluenza virus 1 (HPIV-1). In other embodiments, the human parainfluenza viral infection
can be a human parainfluenza virus 2 (HPIV-2).               In other embodiments, the human
parainfluenza viral infection can be a human parainfluenza virus 3 (HPIV-3).              In other
embodiments, the human parainfluenza viral infection can be a human parainfluenza virus 4
(HPIV-4). In some embodiments, one or more compounds of Formula (I), or a pharmaceutically
acceptable salt thereof, one or more compounds of Formula (II), or a phannaceutically
acceptable salt thereof, and/or one or more compounds of Formula (Ill), or a pharmaceutically
acceptable salt thereof, can be used to treat and/or ameliorate one or more subtypes of human
parainfluenza virus. For example, one or more compounds of Formula (I), or a pharmaceutically
acceptable salt thereof, one or more compounds of Formula (11),            or a pharmaceutically
acceptable salt thereof, and/or one or more compounds of Formula (III), or a pharmaceutically
acceptable salt thereof, can be used to treat HPIV-1 and/or HPIV-3.
        102161      The one or more compounds of Formula (1) or a pharmaceutically acceptable
salt thereof, one or more compounds of Formula (II), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt
thereof, and/or one or more compounds of Formula (III), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt
                                                -99-

thereof, that can be used to treat, ameliorate and/or prevent a paramyxovirus and/or or an
orthomyxovirus viral infection can be a compound of Formula (1), or pharmaceutically
acceptable salt thereof, and/or a compound of Formula (11), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt
thereof, and/or a compound of Formula (IlI), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof,
provided in any of the embodiments described in paragraphs [0084]-[0170].
          [0217]     As used herein, the terms "prevent" and "preventing," mean a subject does
 not develop an infection because the subject has an immunity against the infection, or if a
 subject becomes infected, the severity of the disease is less compared to the severity of the
 disease if the subject has not been administered/received the compound. Examples of forms of
 prevention include prophylactic administration to a subject who has been or may be exposed to
 an infectious agent, such as a paramyxovirus (e.g., RSV) and/or an orthomyxovirus (e.g.,
 influenza).
          10218]     As used herein, the terms "treat," "treating," "treatment," "therapeutic," and
 "therapy" do not necessarily mean total cure or abolition of the disease or condition. Any
 alleviation of any undesired signs or symptoms of a disease or condition, to any extent can be
 considered treatment and/or therapy. Furthermore, treatment may include acts that may worsen
 the subject's overall feeling of well-being or appearance.
          102191      The terms "therapeutically effective amount" and "effective amount" are used
 to indicate an amount of an active compound, or pharmaceutical agent, that elicits the biological
 or medicinal response indicated. For example, a therapeutically effective amount of compound
 can be the amount needed to prevent, alleviate or ameliorate symptoms of disease or prolong the
 survival of the subject being treated This response may occur in a tissue, system, animal or
 human and includes alleviation of the signs or symptoms of the disease being treated.
  Determination of an effective amount is well within the capability of those skilled in the art, in
 view of the disclosure provided herein. The therapeutically effective amount of the compounds
  disclosed herein required as a dose will depend on the route of administration, the type of
  animal, including human, being treated, and the physical characteristics of the specific animal
  under consideration. The dose can be tailored to achieve a desired effect, but will depend on
  such factors as weight, diet, concurrent medication and other factors which those skilled in the
  medical arts will recognize.
           [0220]     Various indicators for determining the effectiveness of a method for treating a
  viral infection, such as a paramyxovirus and/or an orthomyxovirus infection, are known to those
  skilled in the art. Example of suitable indicators include, but are not limited to, a reduction in
  viral load, a reduction in viral replication, a reduction in time to seroconversion (virus
                                                  -100-

  undetectable in patient serum), a reduction of morbidity or mortality in clinical outcomes, and/or
  other indicator of disease response.
           [02211       In some embodiments, an effective amount of a compound of Formulae (I),
  (11) and/or (Ill), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt of the foregoing, is an amount that is
  effective to reduce viral titers to undetectable levels, for example, to about 1000 to about 5000,
 to about 500 to about 1000, or to about 100 to about 500 genome copies/mL serum. In some
 embodiments, an effective amount of a compound of Formulae (I), (II) and/or (IlI), or a
 pharmaceutically acceptable salt of the foregoing, is an amount that is effective to reduce viral
  load compared to the viral load before administration of the compound of Formulae (1) ,(1I)
 and/or (III), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt of the foregoing. For example, wherein the
 viral load is measure before administration of the compound of Formulae (1), (II) and/or (Ill), or
 a pharmaceutically acceptable salt of the foregoing, and again after completion of the treatment
 regime with the compound of Formulae (1), (II) and/or (III), or a phanmaceutically acceptable
 salt of the foregoing (for example, I week after completion). In some embodiments, an effective
 amount of a compound of Formulae (I), (11) and/or (1II), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt of
 the foregoing, can be an amount that is effective to reduce viral load to lower than about 100
 genome copies/iL serum.           In some embodiments, an effective amount of a compound of
 Formulae (I), (II) and/or (III), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt of the foregoing, is an
 amount that is effective to achieve a reduction in viral titer in the serum of the subject in the
 range of about 1.5-log to about a 2.5-log reduction, about a 3-log to about a 4-log reduction, or a
 greater than about 5-log reduction compared to the viral load before administration of the
 compound of Formulae (I), (II) and/or (Ill), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt of the
 foregoing.     For example, wherein the viral load is measure before administration of the
 compound of Formulae (I), (II) and/or (III), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt of the
 foregoing, and again after completion of the treatment regime with the compound of Formulae
 (1), (II) and/or (Ill), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt of the foregoing (for example, I week
after completion).
          [02221       In some embodiments, a compound of Formulae (I), (II) and/or (Ill), or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt of the foregoing, can result in at least a 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 10, 15, 20,
25, 50, 75, 100-fold or more reduction in the replication of a paranyxoviris and/or an
orthomyxovirus relative to pre-treatment levels in a subject, as determined after completion of
the treatment regime (for example, I week after completion).               In some embodiments, a
compound of Foninulac (I), (II) and/or (III), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt of the
foregoing, can result in a reduction of the replication of a paramyxovirus and/or an
                                                 -101-

orthomyxovirus relative to pre-treatment levels in the range of about 2 to about 5 fold, about 10
to about 20 fold, about 15 to about 40 fold, or about 50 to about 100 fold.                 In some
embodiments, a compound of Formulae (1), (11) and/or (III), or a pharmaceutically acceptable
salt of the foregoing, can result in a reduction of paramyxovirus replication in the range of 1 to
 1.5 log, 1.5 log to 2 log, 2 log to 2.5 log, 2.5 to 3 log, 3 log to 3.5 log or 3.5 to 4 log more
reduction of paramyxovirus replication compared to the reduction of paramyxovirus reduction
achieved by ribavirin (Virazole@), or may achieve the same reduction as that of ribavirin
(Virazole@) therapy in a shorter period of time, for example, in one week, two weeks, one
month, two months, or three months, as compared to the reduction achieved after six months of
ribavirin (Virazole@) therapy. In some embodiments, a compound of Formulae (1), (11) and/or
(IlI), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt of the foregoing, can result in a reduction of
orthomyxovirus replication in the range of I to 1.5 log, 1.5 log to 2 log, 2 log to 2.5 log, 2.5 to 3
 log, 3 log to 3.5 log or 3.5 to 4 log more reduction of orthomyxovirus replication compared to
the reduction of orthomyxovirus reduction achieved by oscltamivir (Tamiflu@), or may achieve
the same reduction as that of oseltamivir (Tamiflu@) therapy in a shorter period of time, for
 example, in one week, two weeks, one month, two months, or three months, as compared to the
 reduction achieved after six months of oseltamivir (Tamiflu@) therapy.
         102231      In some embodiments, an effective amount of a compound of Formula (1), a
 compound of Formula (II) and/or a compound of Formula (II), or a pharmaceutically acceptable
 salt of the foregoing, is an amount that is effective to achieve a sustained viral response, for
 example, non-detectable or substantially non-detectable paramyxovirus and/or orthomyxovirus
 RNA (e.g., less than about 500, less than about 400, less than about 200, or less than about 100
 genome copies per milliliter serum) is found in the subject's serum for a period of at least about
 one week, two weeks, one month, at least about two months, at least about three months, at least
 about four months, at least about five months, or at least about six months following cessation of
 therapy.
          10224]     After a period of time, infectious agents can develop resistance to one or
 more therapeutic agents. The term "resistance" as used herein refers to a viral strain displaying
 a delayed, lessened and/or null response to a therapeutic agent(s). For example, after treatment
 with an antiviral agent, the viral load of a subject infected with a resistant virus may be reduced
 to a lesser degree compared to the amount in viral load reduction exhibited by a subject infected
 with a non-resistant strain. In some embodiments, a compound of Formula (1), a compound of
 Formula (II) and/or a compound of Formula (III), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt of the
 foregoing, can be administered to a subject infected with RSV that is resistant to one or more
                                                 -102-

 different anti-RSV agents (for example, ribavirin).      In some embodiments, development of
 resistant RSV strains can be delayed when subjects are treated with a compound of Formula (1),
 a compound of Formula (II) and/or a compound of Formula (III), or a pharmaceutically
 acceptable salt of the foregoing, compared to the development of RSV strains resistant to other
 RSV drugs. In some embodiments, a compound of Formula (1), a compound of Fornula (II)
and/or a compound of Formula (III), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt of the foregoing, can
be administered to a subject infected with an influenza virus that is resistant to one or more
different anti-influenza    agents (for example, arantadine and rimantadine).          In some
embodiments, development of resistant influenza strains can be delayed when subjects are
treated with a compound of Formula (1), a compound of Formula (iI) and/or a compound of
 Formula (iII), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt of the foregoing, compared to the
development of influenza strains resistant to other influenza drugs.
         [0225]     In some embodiments, a compound of Formula (I), a compound of Forula
(II) and/or a compound of Formula (III), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt of the foregoing,
can decrease the percentage of subjects that experience complications from a RSV viral
infection compared to the percentage of subjects that experience complication being treated with
ribavirin.   In some embodiments, a compound of Formula (I), a compound of Formula (II)
and/or a compound of Formula (III), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt of the foregoing, can
decrease the percentage of subjects that experience complications from an influenza viral
infection compared to the percentage of subjects that experience complication being treated with
oseltamivir. For example, the percentage of subjects being treated with a compound of Formula
(1), a compound of Formula (II) and/or a compound of Formula (Ill), or a pharmaceutically
acceptable salt of the foregoing, that experience complications can be 10% , 25%, 40%, 50%,
60%, 70%, 80% and 90% less compared to subjects being treated with ribavirin or oseltamivir.
         [0226]     In some embodiments, a compound of Formula (I), a compound of Formula
(II) and/or a compound of Formula (III), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt of the foregoing,
or a pharmaceutical composition that includes a compound described herein, can be used in
combination with one or more additional agent(s).         In some embodiments, a compound of
Formula (I), a compound of Formula (II) and/or a compound of Formula (111), or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt of the foregoing, can be used in combination with one or more
agents currently used for treating RSV.     For example, the additional agent can be ribavirin,
palivizumab and RSV-IGJV. For the treatment of RSV, additional agents include but are not
limited to ALN-RSV0l        (Alnylam Pharmaceuticals), BMS-433771       (1-cyclopropyl-3-[[l-(4
hydroxybutyl)benzimidazol-2-yl]mcthyl]imidazo[4,5-c]pyridin-2-one),     RFI-64I ((4,4"-bis-{4,6
                                              -103-

bis-[3-(bis-carbamoylmethyl-sulfamoyl)-phenylamino]-(1,3,5)triazin-2-ylamino}-biphenyl-2,2"
disulfonic-acid)),       RSV604       ((S)- I-(2-fluorophenyl)-3-(2-oxo-5-phenyl-2,3-dihydro- IH
benzo[c][ 1,4]di-azepin-3-yl)-urea),    MDT-637        ((4Z)-2-methylsulfanyl-4-[(E)-3-thiophen-2
ylprop-2-enylidene]-1,3-thiazol-5-one),    BTA9881, TMC-353121 (Tibotec), MBX-300, YM
53403              (N-cyclopropyl-6-[4-[(2-phenylbenzoyl)amino]benzoyl]-4,5-dihydrothieno[3,2
d][I]benzazcpine-2-carboxamide), motavizumab (Medi-524, MedImmune), Medi-559, Mcdi
534, Medi-557, RV568 and a RSV-F Particle Vaccine (Novavax). In some embodiments, a
compound of Formula (I), a compound of Formula (II) and/or a compound of Formula (III), or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt of the foregoing, can be used in combination with one or more
agents currently used for treating influenza.         For example, the additional agent can be
amantadine, rimantadine, zanamivir and oseltamivir. For the treatment of influenza, additional
agents include but are not limited to peramivir ((1S,2S,3S,4R)-3-[(IS)-l-acetamido-2
ethylbutyl]-4-(diaminomethylideneamino)-2-hydroxycyclopentane-1-carboxylic                      acid),
laninamivir               ((4S,5R,6R)-5-acetamido-4-carbamimidamido-6-[(        R,2R)-3-hydroxy-2
methoxypropyl]-5,6-dihydro-4H-pyran-2-carboxylic          acid),  favipiravir  (T-705,    6-fluoro-3
hydroxy-2-pyrazineearboxamide),        fludase     (DAS181,      NexBio),     ADS-8902      (Adamas
Pharmaceuticals), IFN-b (Synairgen), beraprost (4-[2-hydroxy-1-[(E)-3-hydroxy-4-methyloct-l
en-6-ynyl]-2,3,3a,8b-tetrahydro-lH-cyclopenta[b][1]benzofuran-5-yl]butanoic        acid), Neugene@
and VGX-3400X (Inovio).
        102271       In some embodiments, a compound of Formula (I), a compound of Formula
(I) and/or a compound of Formula (Ill), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt of the foregoing,
can be administered with one or more additional agent(s) together in a single pharmaceutical
composition. In some embodiments, a compound of Formula (I), a compound of Fornula (II)
and/or a compound of Formula (III), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt of the foregoing, can
be administered with one or more additional agent(s) as two or more separate pharmaceutical
compositions. For example, a compound of Formula (I), a compound of Formula (II) and/or a
compound of Formula (III), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt of the foregoing, can be
administered in one pharmaceutical composition, and at least one of the additional agents can be
administered in a second pharmaceutical composition. If there are at least two additional agents,
one or more of the additional agents can be in a first pharmaceutical composition that includes a
compound of Formula (I), a compound of Formula (II) and/or a compound of Formula (III), or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt of the foregoing, and at least one of the other additional
agent(s) can be in a second pharmaceutical composition.
                                                -104-

        102281     The order of administration of a compound of Formula (I), a compound of
Formula (II) and/or a compound of Formula (III), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt of the
foregoing, with one or more additional agent(s) can vary. In some embodiments, a compound of
Formula (1), a compound of Formula (II) and/or a compound of Formula (III), or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt of the foregoing, can be administered prior to all additional
agents. In other embodiments, a compound of Formula (1), a compound of Formula (II) and/or a
compound of Formula (III), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt of the foregoing, can be
administered prior to at least one additional agent. In still other embodiments, a compound of
Formula (I), a compound of Formula (II) and/or a compound of Formula III), or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt of the foregoing, can be administered concomitantly with one
or more additional agent(s).    In yet still other embodiments, a compound of Formula (I), a
compound of Formula (U1) and/or a compound of Formula (Ill), or a pharmaceutically acceptable
salt of the foregoing, can be administered subsequent to the administration of at least one
additional agent. In some embodiments, a compound of Formula (I), a compound of Formula
(II) and/or a compound of Formula (Ill), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt of the foregoing,
can be administered subsequent to the administration of all additional agents.
        [0229]     A potential advantage of utilizing a compound of Formula (l), a compound of
Formula (II) and/or a compound of Formula (111), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt of the
foregoing, in combination with one or more additional agent(s) described in paragraph [0226],
including pharmaceutically acceptable salts and prodrugs thereof, may be a reduction in the
required amount(s) of one or more compounds of paragraph [0226] (including pharmaceutically
acceptable salts and prodrugs thereof) that is effective in treating a disease condition disclosed
herein (for example, RSV and/or influenza), as compared to the amount required to achieve
same therapeutic result when one or more compounds described in paragraph [0226], including
pharmaceutically acceptable salts and prodrugs thereof, are administered without a compound of
Formula (I), a compound of Formula (II) and/or a compound of Formula (III), or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt the foregoing.       For example, the amount of a compound
described in paragraph [0226], including a pharmaceutically acceptable salt and prodrug thereof,
can be less compared to the amount of the compound described in paragraph [0226], including a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt and prodrug thereof, needed to achieve the same viral load
reduction when administered as a monotherapy.         Another potential advantage of utilizing a
compound of Formula (I), a compound of Formula (II) and/or a compound of Formula (Ill), or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt of the foregoing, in combination with one or more additional
agent(s) described in paragraph [0226], including pharmaceutically acceptable salts and
                                               -105-

prodrugs thereof, is that the use of two or more compounds having different mechanism of
actions can create a higher barrier to the development of resistant viral strains compared to the
barrier when a compound is administered as monotherapy.
        [02301      Additional advantages of utilizing a compound of Formula (1), a compound of
Formula (II) and/or a compound of Formula (III), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt the
foregoing, in combination with one or more additional agent(s) described in paragraph [0226],
including pharmaceutically acceptable salts and prodrugs thereof, may include little to no cross
resistance between a compound of Formula (I), a compound of Formula (11) and/or a compound
of Formula (Ill), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt the foregoing, and one or more additional
agent(s) described in paragraph [0226] (including pharmaceutically acceptable salts and
prodrugs thereof); different routes for elimination of a compound of Formula (1), a compound of
Formula (11) and/or a compound of Formula (Ill), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt the
foregoing, and one or more additional agent(s) described in paragraph [0226] (including
pharmaceutically acceptable salts and prodrugs thereof); little to no overlapping toxicities
between a compound of Formula (1), a compound of Formula (II) and/or a compound of
Formula (111), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt the foregoing, and one or more additional
agent(s) described in paragraph [0226] (including pharmaceutically acceptable salts and
prodrugs thereof); little to no significant effects on cytochrome P450; and/or little to no
pharmacokinetic interactions between a compound of Formula (I), or a pharmaceutically
acceptable salt thereof, and one or more additional agent(s) described in paragraph [0226]
(including pharmaceutically acceptable salts and prodrugs thereof).
        [0231]      Some embodiments described herein relate to the use of an effective amount
of a compound, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, for amelioring or treating a viral
infection caused by a virus selected from a henipavirus, a morbillivirus, a respirovirus, a
rubulavirus and a metapneumovirus, wherein the compound                 can be selected from:
                  NH2                                NH2
 HOOHON                  N          HON
                                    HOO         N-N          0      N                         NH2
           HO-
             s    0 O                   NH           0                            0    N
                                                 NH2NH                      N3                  2
                                                                                   $    0
     HG     F         F                                           F        HdO      OH
                                    N02                                                     NH2
      O     0     0             '/~N                         0    0     0                 \/N
 HO-I-O-y-O-P-O             0   N-{                      HO-P-O-P-O-P-O0           .nN
      OH    OH    OH N3'*1                                   OH   O      OHgx
                        HG
                         d     k-                                              HO    'F         and
                                               -106-

                                     NH2
     O     0      0
 HO-P-O-P-O-P -O                N
     OH OH OH Nf                OH
                       HO                   Other embodiments desecribed herein related to a
method for ameliorating or treating a viral infection caused by a virus that can include
administering to or contacting a cell in a subject with an effective amount of a compound, or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt of thereof, wherein the virus is selected from a henipavirus, a
morbillivirus, a respirovirus, a rubulavirus and a metapneumovirus, and wherein the compound
                                        NH2                        NH2
                                                  (/-e                                          NH 2
                                                                           HO          NNH
                       HO          7            HON
is selected    from        HG      F        ,           HG     F              HO      OH
                                     NH2                                                      NH2
     O     0      0                  N                           0     0    0
 HO-P-a-P-O-P-a             0   N-%                          HO-P-O-P-O-P -O
     OH OH OH N? j                                                     OH OH Nj     f
                       Hd      F                                                 Hd     F         and
                                     NH2
     O     0      0                  N
 HO-P-O-P-O-P-O             o   N
     OH OH OH N                   H
                       HO                  Still other embodiments described herein relate to using
an effective amount of a compound, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, for inhibiting
the replication of a virus selected from a henipavirus, a morbillivirus, a respirovirus, a
rubulavirus and a metapneumovirus (for example, by inhiting the polymerase complex of the
                                                                                                NH2
                                                                                              / N
                                                                               HO>~~
virus),   wherein    the    compound      can       be    selected   from:         Hd     *F,
                  NH2                                                                           NH2
                  N                                    NH2         O     O                      N
 HO      O   N-                           N                     HO-P-0-P-0-P-O           a N
   N0                      H                    N                  OH OH OH N7F
                                 N3
     Hd     F                  He      OH                                          Hd 'F
                                                 -107-

                                     NH2                                            NH2
      O
      II
            aII  aII                 N             aII
                                                   O     oIt    aII            /    N
 HO-P-O-P-O-P-0               O N-O            HO-P-0P0P-                  0        0
      OH OH OH N0                                  OH O         O
                         Hd    'F         and                          Hd                    In some
embodiments of this paragraph, the virus can be a henipavirus (for example, a nipahvirus). In
other embodiments of this paragraph, the virus can be a morbillivirus, such as measles virus. In
still other embodiments of this paragraph, the virus can be a respirovirus.                  In some
embodiments, the respirovirus can be human parainfluenza virus 1. In other embodiments, the
respirovirus can be human parainfluenza virus 3.           In yet still other embodiments of this
paragraph, the virus can be a rubulavirus. . In some embodiments, the rubulavirus can be
human parainfluenza virus 2..            In other embodiments, the rubulavirus can be human
parainfluenza virus 4. . In still other embodiments, the rubulavirus can be the mumps virus. In
some embodiments of this paragraph, the virus can be a metapneumovirus, such as the human
metapneumovirus.
         [0232]      As will be readily apparent to one skilled in the art, the useful in vivo dosage
to be administered and the particular mode of administration will vary depending upon the age,
weight, the severity of the affliction, and mammalian species treated, the particular compounds
employed, and the specific use for which these compounds are employed. The determination of
effective dosage levels, that is the dosage levels necessary to achieve the desired result, can be
accomplished by one skilled in the art using routine methods, for example, human clinical trials
and in vitro studies.
         [0233]      The dosage may range broadly, depending upon the desired effects and the
therapeutic indication. Alternatively dosages may be based and calculated upon the surface area
of the patient, as understood by those of skill in the art. Although the exact dosage will be
 determined on a drug-by-drug basis, in most cases, some generalizations regarding the dosage
 can be made. The daily dosage regimen for an adult human patient may be, for example, an oral
 dose of between 0.01 mg and 3000 mg of each active ingredient, preferably between I mg and
 700 mg, e.g. 5 to 200 mg. The dosage may be a single one or a series of two or more given in
 the course of one or more days, as is needed by the subject.           In some embodiments, the
 compounds will be administered for a period of continuous therapy, for example for a week or
 more, or for months or years.
         [0234]      In instances where human dosages for compounds have been established for
 at least some condition, those same dosages may be used, or dosages that are between about
 0.1% and 500%, more preferably between about 25% and 250% of the established human
                                                -108-

dosage.     Where no human dosage is established, as will be the case for newly-discovered
pharmaceutical compositions, a suitable human dosage can be inferred from ED 50 or IDs0 values,
or other appropriate values derived from in vitro or in vivo studies, as qualified by toxicity
studies and efficacy studies in animals.
         [02351     In cases of administration of a pharmaceutically acceptable salt, dosages may
be calculated as the free base. As will be understood by those of skill in the art, in certain
situations it may be necessary to administer the compounds disclosed herein in amounts that
exceed, or even far exceed, the above-stated, preferred dosage range in order to effectively and
aggressively treat particularly aggressive diseases or infections.
         102361      Dosage amount and interval may be adjusted individually to provide plasma
levels of the active moiety which are sufficient to maintain the modulating effects, or minimal
effective concentration (MEC). The MEC will vary for each compound but can be estimated
from in vitro data.       Dosages necessary to achieve the MEC will depend on individual
characteristics and route of administration. However, HPLC assays or bioassays can be used to
determine plasma concentrations. Dosage intervals can also be determined using MEC value.
Compositions should be administered using a regimen which maintains plasma levels above the
 MEC for 10-90% of the time, preferably between 30-90% and most preferably between 50-90%.
 In cases of local administration or selective uptake, the effective local concentration of the drug
may not be related to plasma concentration.
         102371      It should be noted that the attending physician would know how to and when
to terminate, interrupt, or adjust administration due to toxicity or organ dysfunctions.
Conversely, the attending physician would also know to adjust treatment to higher levels if the
clinical response were not adequate (precluding toxicity). The magnitude of an administrated
dose in the management of the disorder of interest will vary with the severity of the condition to
be treated and to the route of administration. The severity of the condition may, for example, be
evaluated, in part, by standard prognostic evaluation methods. Further, the dose and perhaps
dose frequency, will also vary according to the age, body weight, and response of the individual
patient. A program comparable to that discussed above may be used in veterinary medicine.
         [0238]     Compounds disclosed herein can be evaluated for efficacy and toxicity using
known methods. For example, the toxicology of a particular compound, or of a subset of the
compounds, sharing certain chemical moieties, may be established by determining in vitro
toxicity towards a cell line, such as a mammalian, and preferably human, cell line. The results
of such studies are often predictive of toxicity in animals, such as mammals, or more
specifically, humans. Alternatively, the toxicity of particular compounds in an animal model,
                                                 -109-

such as mice, rats, rabbits, or monkeys, may be determined using known methods. The efficacy
of a particular compound may be established using several recognized methods, such as in vitro
methods, animal models, or human clinical trials.           When selecting a model to determine
efficacy, the skilled artisan can be guided by the state of the art to choose an appropriate model,
dose, route of administration and/or regime.
                                            EXAMPLES
        [02391       Additional embodiments are disclosed in further detail in the following
examples, which are not in any way intended to limit the scope of the claims.
                                           EXAMPLE 1
                                   Preparation of Compound (Ila)
                        NH2                           NHMMTr                         HMMTr
                                       N              NN
                                      H0    -0 *N-
                                                 N0                 HO
       HO           N0         a . -
                                      HO
                                                      0   -       HO-"\      J
           HO      F                  Mr        F                   MMTrd       F
              P1-1                         P1-2                           P1-3
                            NHMMTr                          NHMMTr                      NH2
                                                            N                           NN
       MMTrcN,          N O        _:    MMTr     X0HO            N-     HON
           MMTrO      F                     MMTrO       F                      HO    F
                   P1-4                            P1-5                           1a
        [0240)        Preparation of (P1-2):     To an ice cooled solution of P1-i (10.0 g, 40.8
mmol) in dry pyridine (100 mL) was added TBSCI in pyridine (IM, 53 mL) dropwise at room
temperature (R.T.). The reaction mixture was stirred at R.T. for 16 hours. The reaction mixture
was then quenched with water, concentrated to give a residue. The residue was separated by
ethyl acetate (EA) and saturated NaHCO 3 aq. solution. The organic phase was dried and
concentrated. The residue was purified on a silica gel column (5% MeOH in DCM) to give a
crude 5'-O-TBS protected intermediate as a white solid (13.4 g, 91%). The intermediate was
dissolved in anhydrous DCM (100 mL) and sym-collidine (17.9 g, 149.2 mmol), AgNO 3 (25 g,
149.2 mmol) and MMTrCI (45 g, 149.2 mmol) were added. The mixture was stirred at R.T. for
16 hours. The mixture was quenched with water, and the organic layer was separated and
concentrated. The residue purified on a silica gel column (30% PE in EA) to give the crude
product. The crude product was dissolved in IM TBAF (50 mL) in THF. The mixture was
                                                 -110-

stirred at R.T. for 2 hours. The solvent was removed, and the residue was purified on a silica gel
column (50% PE in EA) to give P1-2 as a white solid (21.4 g, 66% for three steps).
         10241]       Preparation of (P1-3): To a solution of pyridine (521 mg, 6.59 mmol) in
anhydrous DMSO (5 mL) was added TFA (636 mg, 5.58 mmol) dropwise at 10"C under
nitrogen. The reaction mixture was stirred until the solution became clear. The solution was
then added into a mixture of P1-2 (4.0 g, 5.07 mmol) and DCC (3.86 g, 18.76 mmol) in
anhydrous DMSO (18 mL) at R.T. under nitrogen. The reaction mixture was stirred at 30*C
overnight.    Water (80 mL) was added into the mixture, diluted with EtOAc (100 mL) and
filtered. The filtrate was extracted with DCM (100 mL x 6). The organic layer was washed
with saturated aq. NaHC0 3 , dried over Na 2 SO4 and concentrated in vacuo. The residue was
purified on a silica gel column cluted with 1%MeOH in DCM to give the intermediate (3.5 g,
87.7%) as a yellow solid. The intermediate (3.5 g, 4.45 mmol) was dissolved in dioxane (25 mL)
and aq. HCHO (668 mg, 22.25 mnol) was added at R.T. 2N NaOI- (4.5 mL, 8.9 mrmol) was
then added. The reaction mixture was stirred at 30*C overnight. NaBH 4 (593 ng, 15.6 mmol)
was added in by portions at 50C, and the mixture was stirred at R.T. for 15 min. The reaction
was quenched with water, and the mixture was extracted with EtOAc (100 mL x 3). The organic
layer was dried over Na 2 SO 4 and concentrated in vacuo. The residue was purified on a silica gel
column eluted with 1%MeOH in DCM to give P1-3 as a yellow solid (2.5 g, 67%). 'H NMR
(CDCI3 , 400 MHz) 6 6.82-7.50 (in, 29H), 5.40 (d, J= 23.2 Hz, 1H), 4.99 (d, J         = 7.6 Hz, IH),
4.46 (dd, Jj = 6.0 Hz, J2 = 54.4 Hz, I H), 3.94 (dd, J, = 4.4 Hz, J 2 = 12.4 Hz, IH), 3.78 (s, 6H),
3.42-3.69 (in, 2H), 2.71-3.05 (in, 2H), 2.45 (in, IH).
         [0242]       Preparation of (PI-4): To an ice cooled solution of PI-3 (4.0 g, 4.9 mmol)
in dry pyridine (20 mL) was added dropwise TBSCI in pyridine (IM, 5.88 mL). The reaction
mixture was stirred at R.T. for 16 hours. The reaction mixture was then quenched with water,
concentrated to give a residue. The residue was separated in EA and saturated aq. NaCO3 .
The organic layer was separated and dried, and then concentrated. The residue was purified on a
silica gel column (1% MeOH in DCM) to give the intennediate as a yellow solid (3.2 g, 70%).
  H NMR (CDClh, 400 MHz) 67.53-6.83 (in, 29H), 5.51 (d, J            21.2 Hz, IH), 4.98 (d, J= 7.6
Hz, iH), 4.67 (dd, J; = 5.6 Hz,.12 = 22.4 Hz, iH), 4.22 (dd, .J = 5.6 Hz,12 = 53.2 Hz, IH), 4.07
(in, IH), 3.89 (in, IH), 3.80 (s, 6H), 3.70-3.67 (in, IH), 3.03-2.98 (in, I H), 2.26 (mn,1H), 0.93 (s,
9H), 0.10 (s, 6H).
         [0243]      The obtained intermediate was dissolved in anhydrous DCM (20 mL) and
collidine (360 ing, 3 minmol), and AgNO3 (500 mg, 3 mmol) and MMTrCl (606 ng, 2 nmol)
were added. The mixture was stirred at R.T. for 16 hours. The reaction mixture was quenched
                                                -111-

with water, and the organic layer was separated and concentrated. The residue was purified on a
silica gel column (0.5% McOH in DCM) to give the fully protected intermediate as a yellow
solid (3.3 g, 80%). The intermediate was dissolved in IM TBAF in THF (5 mL) and was stirred
at R.T. for 2 hours. The solution was concentrated, and the residue was purified on a silica gel
column (1% MeOH in DCM) to give a mixture of P1-3 and P1-4, which was separated by
HPLC separation (McCN and 0.1% HCOOH in water) to give P1-4 as a white solid (1.5 g,
25%).
         [02441       Preparation of (P1-5): P1-4 (1.5 g, 1.22 rmol) was suspended in anhydrous
DCM (50 mL), and Dess Martin periodinane (1.2 g, 2.73 mmol) was added at 0"C. The reaction
mixture was stirred at R.T. for 3 hours. The reaction mixture was then quenched with saturated
aq. Na 2 S2 0 3 and Na 2CO 3. The organic layer was separated and dried, and then concentrated to
give the aldehyde intermediate as a white solid.
         [02451      A solution of CICH 2PPh 3Br (2.19 g, 5.6 mmol) in anhydrous THF (40 mL)
was cooled to -78"C. n-BuLi (2.5 M, 2.3 mL) was added in dropwise. After the addition, the
mixture was stirred at 0C for 2 hours. A solution of the aldehyde in anhydrous THF (10 mL)
was then added. The mixture was stirred at R.T. for 16 hours. The reaction was quenched with
saturated NH4CIl aq. and extracted by EA.          The organic layer was separated, dried and
concentrated. The residue was purified on a silica gel column (1% MeOH in DCM) to give the
intermediate as a yellow solid (1.1 g, 73%). To a solution of the intermediate (1.1 g, 0.98 mmol)
in anhydrous THF (40 mL) was added n-BuLi (2.5M, 6 niL) -78"C dropwise. The mixture was
stirred at -78"C for 5 hours and then quenched with a saturated NH 4CI aq. solution. The mixture
was extracted with EA. The organic layer was separated, dried and concentrated. The residue
was purified on a silica gel column (2% MeOH in DCM) to give P1-5 as a yellow solid (910
mg, 86%).
         [0246]       Preparation of (la):   P1-5 (910 mg, 0.84 mmol) was suspended in 80%
CH 3 COOH (50 mL), and the reaction mixture was stirred at 40"C for 15 hours. The solvents
were evaporated, and the residue was co-evaporated with toluene to remove traces of acid and
water. The residue was purified by HPLC separation (MeCN and 0.1% HCOOH in water) to
give pure compound la as a white solid (101 mg, 45%). 'H NMR (MeOD, 400 MHz) 87.90 (d,
J= 7.2 Hz, IH), 6.04 (d,,J= 19.6 Hz, IH), 5.87 (d, J= 7.6 Hz, IH), 5.00 (dd,.1 1 = 5.2 Hz, J2 =
53.6 Hz, IH), 4.47 (dd, J; = 5.2 Hz, .J2 = 22.8 Hz, IH), 3.86 (d, J = 12.4 Hz, IH), 3.73 (d, J =
12.4 Hz, IH), 3.08 (s, IH); ESI-TOF-MS: m/z 270.09 [M + H], 539.17 [2M + H]'.
                                               -112-

                                           EXAMPLE 2
                                  Preparation of Compound (2a)
         HO            N~rH      NH 2
                          N
                         fr--,                                               N
                HO                                       0    NH-P
                                                                _0             N
                                                                   HO'        O
                   1a                                                   2a
        10247]      To a stirred solution of compound Ia (50 mg, 0.186 mmol) in anhydrousTHF
(3 rnL) was added dropwise a solution of t-BuMgCl (0.37 mL, IM in THF) at -78"C. The
mixture was then stirred at 0"C for 30 min and re-cooled to -78*C.          A solution of phenyl
(isopropoxy-L-alaninyl) phosphorochloridate (104 mg, 0.4 mmol) in THF (0.5 mL) was added
dropwise.    After addition, the mixture was stirred at 25*C for 16 hours.      The reaction was
quenched with HCOOH (80% aq.) at 00C.            The solvent was removed, and the residue was
purified on silica gel (DCM:McOH = 50:1 to 10:1) to give compound 2a as a white solid (a
mixture of two P isomers, 8.0 mg, 7.9 %). 'H NMR (MeOD, 400 MHz) 37.71, 7.68 (2d, .J= 7.6
Hz, 111), 7.17-7.37 (m, 5H), 6.02, 6.00 (2d, J = 20.4 Hz, 1IN), 5,90, 5.86 (2d, J = 7.6 Hz, I-1),
5.03-5.18 (m, IH), 4.91-4.99 (m, IH), 4.45-4.55 (m, IH), 4.34-4.43 (m, 1H), 4.26-4.33 (m, IH),
3.87-3.95 (in, IH), 3.25, 3.22 (2s, I H), 1.29-1.34 (m, 3H), 1.20-1.22 (m, 6H). "P NMR (MeOD,
 162 MHz) 53.44, 3.27. ESI-LCMS: n/z 539.0 [M + H]-.
                                                -113-

                                            EXAMPLE 3
                                   Preparation of Compound (3a)
                        o                              0                             0
                        NH                             NH                            NH
       HON                                     iHON                  Ho      . N-
           Hd     F                    TBSd      F                     TBS6    "F
             P3-1                           P3-2                           P3-3
                           0                                0                            0
                           NH                               NH                           NH
   TBDPSO              N o         : TBDPS              N            TBDPSON
         HO-"   Li        00
           TBSd     'I                      TBSC      IF                   TBSO      F
                 P3-4                            P3-5                           P3-6
                              NH2                              NH2                         NH2
                              NN                                                          N
       TBDPSON\                         TBDPSN              N              HO          N
              TBSC 'I                          TBSd 1F                         Hd     F
                    P3-7                             P3-8                         3a
         [02481        Preparation of (P3-2): To a solution of P3-1 (100.0 g, 406.5 mmol) in
pyridine (750 mL) was added DMTrCl (164.9 g, 487.8 mmol). The solution was stirred at RT.
for 15 hours. MeOH (300 mL) was added, and the mixture was concentrated to dryness under
reduced pressure. The residue was dissolved in EtOAc and washed with water. The organic
layer was dried over Na 2 SO4 and concentrated. The residue was dissolved in DCM (500 mL).
Imidazole (44.3 g, 650.4 mnol) and TBSCI (91.9 g, 609.8 mmol) was added. The reaction
mixture was stirred at R.T. for 14 hours. The reaction solution was washed with NaHCO 3 and
brine. The organic layer was dried over Na 2 SO 4, and concentrated to give the crude as a light
yellow solid. The crude (236.4 g, 356.6 mmol) was dissolved in 80% HOAc aq. solution
(500mL). The mixture was stirred at R.T. for 15 hours. The mixture was diluted with EtOAc
and washed with a NaHCO 3 solution and brine. The organic layer was dried over Na 2 SO4 and
purified by silica gel column chromatography (1-2% MeOH in DCM) to give P3-2 (131.2 g,
89.6%) as a light yellow solid.H NMR (DMSO-d6, 400 MHz) S 11.39 (s, IH), 7.88 (d, J = 7.2
Hz, 1H), 5.89 (dd,.J= 18.0 Hz,.J 2 = 2.0 Hz, IH), 5.64 (d,.J= 8.0 Hz, IH), 5.21 (dd,J 1      J2 = 7.2
Hz, H), 5.18-5.03 (in, IH), 4.37-4.29 (in, IH), 3.86 (dd, Jr = J2 = 3.2 Hz, 3H), 3.78-3.73 (mn,
 IH), 3.5 1-3.56 (in, 1H), 3.31 (s, IH), 0.89 (s, 9H), 0. 11 (s, 6H); ESI-MS: n/z 802 [M + H]-.
         [0249]        Preparation of (P3-3):    To a solution of P3-2 (131.2 g, 364.0 inmol) in
anhydrous CH 3CN (1200 mL) was added IBX (121.2 g, 432.8 miiol) at R.T. The reaction
                                                  -114-

mixture was refluxed for 3 hours and then cooled to 0"C. The precipitate was filtered-off, and
the filtrate was concentrated to give the crude aldehyde (121.3 g) as a yellow solid. The
aldehyde was dissolved in 1,4-dioxane (1000 mL). 37% CH 20 (81.1 mL, 1.3536 mol) and 2M
NaOH aq. solution (253.8 mL, 507.6 mrmol) were added. The mixture was stirred at R.T. for 2
hours and then neutralized with AcOH to pH = 7. To the solution were added EtOH (400 mL)
and NaBH 4 (51.2 g, 1.354 mol). The mixture was stirred at R.T. for 30 minutes. The mixture
was quenched with saturated aq. NH4C1 and extracted with EA. The organic layer was dried
over Na 2 SO4 and concentrated. The residue was purified by silica gel column chromatography
(1-3% MeOH in DCM) to give P3-3 (51.4 g, 38.9 %)as a white solid.
         [0250]      Preparation of (P3-4):     To a solution of P3-3 (51.4 g, 131.6 mmol) in
anhydrous DCM (400 mL) were added pyridiiie (80 mL) and DMTrCI (49.1 g,144.7 mmol) at
00 C. The reaction was stirred at R.T. for 14 hours, and then treated with MeOH (30 mL). The
solvent was removed, and the residue was purified by silica gel column chromatography (1-3%
MeOH in DCM) to give a mono-DMTr protected intermediate as a yellow foam (57.4 g, 62.9%).
To the intermediate (57.4 g, 82.8 mmol) in CH 2 Cl2 (400 mL) was added imidazole (8.4 g, 124.2
mmol) and TBDPSCI (34.1 g, 124.2 mmol). The mixture was stirred at R.T. for 14 hours. The
precipitate was filtered off, and the filtrate was washed with brine and dried over Na 2 SO4 . The
solvent was removed to give the residue (72.45 g) as a white solid. The solid was dissolved in
80% HOAc aq. solution (400 mL). The mixture was stirred at R.T. for 15 hours. The mixture
was diluted with EtOAc and washed with NaHCO 3 solution and brine. The organic layer was
dried over Na 2SO4j and purified by silica gel column chromatography (1-2% MeOH in DCM) to
give P3-4 (37.6 g, 84.2%) as a white solid. 1H NMR (CD 3OD. 400 MHz) 37.76 (d,.1 = 4.0 Hz,
IH), 7.70 (dd, .JI = 1.6 Hz,.12 = 8.0 Hz, 2H), 7.66-7.64 (in, 2H), 7.48-7.37 (in, 6H), 6.12 (dd, .;
=2.8 Hz, J,= 16.8 Hz, IH), 5.22 (d,,J= 8.0 Hz, IH).5.20-5.05 (m, iH), 4.74 (dd, J = 5.6 Hz, J2
= 17.6 Hz, IH), 4.16 (d, J= 12.0 Hz, IH), 3.87-3.80 (in, 2H), 3.56 (d, J= 12.0 Hz, IH), 1.16 (s,
9H), 0.92 (s, 9H), 0.14 (s, 6H).
         [0251]      Preparation of (P3-5):       To a solution of P3-4 (11.8 g, 18.8 inmol) in
anhydrous DCM (100 mL) was added Dess-Martin periodinane (16.3 g, 37.6 mnol) at 0"C
under nitrogen. The reaction was stirred R.T. for 2.5 hours. Water (100 mnL) was added, and the
mixture was then filtered.        The filtrate was washed with saturated aq. NaHCO 3 and
concentrated.    The crude residue was purified by silica gel column chromatography (20%
EtOAc in hexane) to give P3-5 as a white solid (10.1 g, 86.0%).
         [02521      Preparation of (P3-6):       To a mixture of methyltriphenylphosphonium
bromide (15.7 g, 48.5 minol) in anhydrous THF (100 mL) was added n-BuLi (19.4 mL, 48.48
                                                -115-

mmol) at -78*C under nitrogen. The reaction was stirred at "C for 30 minutes. A solution of
P3-5 (10.1 g, 16.2 mmol) in anhydrous THF (70 mL) was added dropwise at 0"C under nitrogen.
The reaction was stin-ed at R.T. for 1.5 hours. The reaction was quenched by NH 4Cl and
extracted with EtOAc. The crude product was purified by silica gel column chromatography
(20% EtOAc in hexane) to give P3-6 as a white solid (8.3 g, 82.2%).'H NMR (CDC 3, 400
MHz) 88.16 (s, 1H), 8.81 (d,.= 8.0 Hz, 1H), 7.58-7.67 (m, 4H), 7.37-7.46 (in, 6H), 6.17 (d, J=
 16.0 Hz, IH), 5.91 (dd, J, = 10.8 Hz, J2 = 17.6 Hz, IH), 5.42 (d,J= 17.6 Hz, IH), 5.22-5.30 (in,
2H), 4.60-4.84 (m, 2H), 3.69 (dd, .IJ= 11.6 Hz, .J2 = 21.2 Hz, 2H), 1.10 (s, 9H), 0.91 (s, IH),
0.12 (d,1 = 8.0 Hz, 6H).
        [0253]       Preparation of (P3-7):     To a solution of P3-6 (6.3 g, 10.09 mmol) in
anhydrous CH 3CN (50 mL) were added TPSCI (6.1 g, 20.2 inmol), DMAP (2.5 g, 20.2 nnol)
and NEt3 (3 mL) at R.T. The reaction was stirred at R.T. For 2 hours. NH 40H (25 mL) was
added, and the reaction was stirred for I hour. The mixture was diluted with DCM (150 mL)
and washed with water, 0.1 M HCI and saturated aq. NaHCO3 . The solvent was removed, and
the crude product was purified by silica gel column chromatography (2% MeOH in DCM) to
give P3-7 as a yellow solid (5.9 g, 93.6%).
        [02541       Preparation of (P3-8): To a solution of P3-7 (5.9 g, 9.5 mmol) in MeOH (10
mL) was added Pd/C (1.5 g) at R.T. The reaction was stirred at R.T. for 2 hours under H2
(balloon). The mixture was filtered, and the filtrate was concentrated in vacuo to give P3-8 as a
white solid (5.4 g, 91.3%).
        [0255]       Preparation of (3a): To a solution of P3-8 (5.4 g, 8.6 mmol) in MeOH (60
mL) was added NH 4F (10.0 g), and the reaction mixture was refluxed overnight. After cooling
to R.T., the mixture was filtered, and the filtrate was concentrated.     The crude product was
purified by silica gel column chromatography (10% MeOH in DCM) to give compound 3a as a
white solid (1.6 g, 67.8%). 'H NMR (CD30D, 400 M Hz) 88.08 (d,J= 7.6 Hz, IH), 6.07 (dd, J
=  3.2 Hz,.12 = 15.6 Hz, IH), 5.88 (d, J= 7.2 Hz, IH), 5.04 (ddd, .I = 3.2 Hz,.12 = 5.2 Hz, J3 =
54.0 Hz, IH), 4.45 (dd, J, = 5.2 Hz, J 2 =17.2 Hz, IH), 3.76 (d, J= 12.0 Hz, IH), 3.57 (d, J=
 12.0 Hz, IH), 1.78-1.85 (in, IH), 1.58-1.67 (in, IH), 0.95 (t, J= 7.6 Hz, 3H); ESI-MS: m/z 274
[I + H]', 547 [2M + H]'.
                                               -116-

                                            EXAMPLE 4
                                  Preparation of Compound (4a)
                                            NH2                               NH2
                      TBDPS        Y    N-                    H           N0
                             TBSd      F                          HO     F
                                 P3-7                                 4a
         [02561     To a solution of P3-7 (280 mg, 0.45 mmol) in MeOH (10 mL) was added
NH 4 F (1.0 g) at R.T. The reaction mixture was refluxed for 5 hours. After cooling to R.T., the
mixture was filtered, and the filtrate was concentrated. The crude product was purified by silica
gel column chromatography (10% McOH in DCM) to give compound 4a as a white solid (82
mg, 67.2%1.6 g, 67.8%). 'H NMR (CD 30D, 400 M Hz) 88.11 (d, J= 7.6 Hz, 1H), 5.99-6.08
(in, 2H), 5.88 (d, J= 7.6 Hz, I H), 5.47 (dd, J, = 1.2 Hz, J2 = 17.2 Hz, IH), 5.26 (dd, J, = 1.6 Hz,
 12 =11.2  Hz, 1H), 4.97 (d, J= 5.2 Hz, 0.5H),4.82 (d, J= 7.6 Hz, 0.5H), 4.52 (dd, .J = 5.2 Hz, .12
=23.2 Hz, iH), 3.65 (d,.J= 12.4 Hz, l H),3.54 (d,.J= 12.4 Hz, lH); ESI-MS: m/z 272 [NI + H],
543 [2M + H]-.
                                             EXAMPLE 5
                                   Preparation of Compound (5a)
                           0
                       eNH                                     0-        HO                    0
     TBDPSON$>N              H       TBDPSO       a            O                       N       O
                                                                                        0
            TBSC       F                   TBSd      IF 0                   HC      'F
                 P3-6                           P5-1                            Sa
         [0257]        Preparation of (P5-1): To a solution of P3-6 (600 mg, 0.96 mmol) in MeOH
(30 mL) was added 10% Pd/C (320 rng) at R.T. The mixture was stirred under H2 balloon at
R.T. for 3 hours. The reaction mixture was filtered, and the filtrate was concentrated to give P5
1 (540 mg, 89.8 %) as a colorless solid. The crude product was used directly for the next step
without purification.
         [0258]        Preparation of (5a): To a solution of P5-1 (540 mg, 0.86 nmol) in MeOH
(8 mL) was added NHF (1.2 g, 32.4 mrol) R.T. The mixture was refluxed for 30 hours. The
solid was removed by filtration, and the filtrate was concentrated. The residue was purification
by silica gel column chromatography (2.5%-9%MeOH in DCM) to give compound Sa (190 mg,
80.6%) as a colorless solid. 'H NMR (CD 30D, 400 MHz) (58.05 (d,J = 8.0 Hz, iH), 6.09 (dd,
                                                -117-

.1 =4.0 Hz,.12 =14.8 Hz, IH), 5.04-5.20 (n ,I H), 4.42 (dd, .J = 5.2 Hz, .12 = 13.6 Hz, 1H), 3.71
 (d, J= 11.6 Hz, 1H), 3.57 (d, J= 12.0 Hz, IH), 1.61-1.82 (m , 2H), 0.94 (t, J= 7.2 Hz, 3H).
                                            EXAMPLE 6
                                  Preparation of Compound (6a)
                          0                                  0                           NH2
                          NH                                 NH                          N
          HO       0 N#                   TBSO      O oNx                 HO     o N
         HO-^'                           TBSO-"                          HO-0
           TBS&      F                       TBSC       F                    Hd F
                P3-3                              P6-1                          6a
        [0259]       Preparation of (P6-1):     To a solution of P3-3 (800 mg, 2.05 mmol) in
anhydrous DCM (15 mL) were added imidazole (558 mg, 8.2 mmol), TBSCI (1.2 g, 8.2 mmol)
and AgNO 3 (700 mg, 4.1 mmol) at R.T. The reaction mixture was stirred at R.T. overnight.
The mixture was filtered, and the filtrate was washed with brine and concentrated in vacuo. The
residue was purified by column chromatography on silica gel to give P6-1 as a white solid (950
mg, 79.2%).
        [02601       Preparation of (6a):     To a solution of P6-1 (600 mg, 0.97 mmol) in
anhydrous CH 3 CN (18 mL) was added DMAP (239 mg, 2.91 mmol), NEt (294 mg, 2.91 mmol)
and TPSCI (879 mg, 2.91 mmol) at R.T. The reaction was stirred at R.T. for I hour. NH 40H (9
mL) was added, and the reaction was stirred for 3 hours. The mixture was diluted with EtOAc
(200 mL) and washed with water, 0.1 M HCl and saturated aq. NaHCO 3. The organic layer was
separated, dried and concentrated to give a crude residue. The crude residue was purified by
column chromatography on silica gel to give the product as a white solid (500 mg, 83.3%). The
solid was treated with NH4F (1.0 g) in MeOH (20 rnL) at refluxed temperature for 5 hours. The
mixture was filtered, and the filtrate was concentrated in vacuo. The residue was purified by
column chromatography on silica gel (15% McOH in DCM) to give compound 6a as a white
solid (132 mg, 59.3%).'H NMR (DMSO-d6, 400 MHz) 87.89 (d,.J= 7.6 Hz, 1H), 7.22 (d,1=
18.8 Hz, 2H), 6.09 (dd, J, = 4.4 Hz, J2= 14.8 Hz, IH), 5.73 (d, J= 5.2 Hz, IH), 5.52 (d, J= 5.6
Hz, IH), 5.12 (t, J= 4.8 Hz, 11-1), 4.90-5.06 (in, IH), 4.50 (t,.J = 6.0 Hz, IH), 4.27-4.33 (in, IH),
3.66 (dd, .1 = 5.2 Hz, 12 = 12.0 Hz, 1H), 3.47-3.58 (in, 3H); ESI-MS: m/z 276 [M + H]I, 551
[2M + H]r.
                                               -118-

                                            EXAMPLE 7
                                   Preparation of Compound (7a)
                                                            C                              NH2
                             NH                             NH                             NH2
      TBDPSO             N            TBDPSO              N           TBDPSO           N
            HO-,:,                             .Ci          0              C
              TBSd     'F                     TBS        F                   TBSd 'F
                  P3-4                              P7-1                          P7-2
                                            NH2
                                          / N
             NH4F           HO      >N-O
                                Hd     F
                                   7a
         [0261]       Preparation of (P7-1): A mixture of P3-4 (1.60 g, 2.5 mmol), PPh 3 (1.3 g,
5.0 mmol) and CC     4  (0.76g, 5.0 mmol) in DCE (20 mL) was heated to 130"C under microwave
irradiation under N 2 for 40 mins. After cooled to R.T., the solvent was removed, and the residue
was purified on a silica gel column (PE/EA = 50/1 to 10/1) to give P7-1 (1.1 g, 68.8%) as a
white solid.
         [0262]       Preparation of (P7-2):    P7-1 (0.80 g, 1.3 mmol), DMAP (0.3 g, 2.6 mmol),
TPSCI (0.8 g, 2.6 mmol) and Et3N (0.3 g, 2.6 mmol) were dissolved in MeCN (30 mL). The
mixture was stirred at R.T. for 14 hours. NH 3 in THF (saturated at 0*C, 100 mL) was added to
the mixture, and the mixture was stirred at R.T. for 2 hours. The solvent was removed, and the
residue was purified by column (DCM/McOH = 100:1 to 50:1) to give P7-2 (0.63 g, 78.8%) as a
white solid.
          [02631       Preparation of (7a): To a solution of P7-2 (0.63 g, 0.98 mmol) in MeOH
(10 mL) was added NHF (0.3 g), and the reaction was refluxed for 12 hours. The reaction was
cooled to R.T., and the precipitate was filtered off. The filtrate was concentrated in vacuo. The
residue was purified by silica gel column chromatography (10% MeOH in DCM) to give
compound 7a as a white solid (153 mg, 53.5%). 'HNMR (CD 30D, 400M Hz) 88.05 (d, .J 7.2
 Hz, 1I1-), 6.14 (dd,J, =3.6 Hz, J2=15.2 Hz, 11-), 5.92 (d,J= 7.2 Hz, 11H), 5.15 (ddd,Ji =4.0
 Hz, J2= 5.2 Hz,]J=       53.6 Hz, 11-), 4.57 (dd, .1, =4.8 Hz,J 2 = 15.2 Hz, IH), 3.93 (d, J= 11.6
 Hz, 1-H), 3.75-3.84 (in, 3H); ESI-MS: n/z 294 [M + H]', 587 [2M + H];.
                                                   -1 19-

                                              EXAMPLE 8
                                     Preparation of Compound (8a)
                                              0                                0
                                              NH                             NH
                         TBDPSO            N                    HO         N
                                 TBS      FH                            F
                                     P7-1                              8a
         [02641       To a solution of P7-1 (630 mg, 0.5 mmol) in MeOH (10 mL) was added
NH4F (0.1 g), and the reaction was refluxed for 12 hours. The mixture was filtered, and the
filtrate was concentrated in vacuo. The crude product was purified by silica gel column
chromatography (10% MeCOH in DCM) to give compound 8a as a white solid (153 mg, 53.5%).
 H NMR (CD 3 OD, 400 M Hz) 87.99 (d, .= 8.0 Hz, 11-), 6.17 (dd, Ji = 4.4 Hz, .12 =14.4 Hz,
 1H), 5.70 (d, J= 8.0 Hz, IH), 5.22 (ddd, J, =.12 = 4.8 Hz, J 3 = 53.2 Hz, 11-1), 4.55 (dd, J = 5.2
Hz, J 2 = 12.4 Hz, I H), 3.88 (d, J= 12.0 Hz, IH), 3.76-3.79 (m, 311); Negative-ESI-MS: m/z
293 [M - H]-.
                                              EXAMPLE 9
                                     Preparation of Compound (9a)
                               0                               0                             0
                          /    NH                         /     NH                           NH
       TBDPS        0      N              TBDPSO           N              TBDPSO           N
              TBSd       F                      TBSc5    F                       TBSd     F
                   P3-4                             P9-1                             P9-2
                                          NH2                         NH2
                                       r/N                        q\N
                   TBDPSO             N-&>j           HO           N
                            TBSC     F                   Hd      IF
                                P9-3                         9a
         [0265]         Preparation of (P9-1): A mixture of P3-4 (3.2 g, 5.0 mmol), Ph 3P (5.2 g, 20
mmol), iodine (2.60 g, 10.2 mmol) and imidazole (1.4 g, 20mmol) in anhydrous THIF (40 mL)
was stirred at 804C for 14 hours. The reaction was cooled to R.T. and quenched with saturated
aq. Na 2 S2 0 3 . The solution was extracted with EA. The organic layer was dried over Na 2 SO 4
and concentrated. The residue was purified by silica gel column chromatography (20-50% EA
in PE) to give P9-1 (1.6 g, 68.2%) as a white solid.
         10266]         Preparation of (P9-2): A mixture of P9-1 (1.4 g, 0.2 mmol), Et3N (40 mg,
0.4mmol) and Pd/C in EtOH (20 mL) was stirred at R.T. under H2 (balloon) overnight. The
                                                  -120-

precipitate was filtered off, and the filtrate was concentrated. The residue was purified on a
 silica gel column (20%-50% EtOAc in PE) to give P9-2 as a white solid (1.1 g, 78%). 'H NMR
 (CDCl3, 400 MHz) 68.11 (br s, IH), 7.76 (d, J= 8.0 Hz, IH), 7.39-7.67 (in, I0H), 6.18 (dd,J =
 3.2 Hz, .J2 = 14.4 Hz, IH), 5.26-5.30 (in, iH), 4.86 (in, 1H), 4.42 (dd, .J = 5.2 Hz, J2 = 15.2 Hz,
 IH), 3.81 (d, J= 11.2 Hz, IH), 3.58 (d,J= 11.2 Hz, IH), 1.16 (s, 3H), 1.11 (s, 9H), 0.91 (s, 9H),
 0. 13 (s, 3H), 0.08 (s, 3H).
          [0267]       Preparation of (P9-3):    P9-2 (650 mg, 1.1 mmol), DMAP (270 mg, 2.2
mmol), TPSCI (664 mg, 2.2 mol) and Et 3N (222 mg, 2.2 mmol) were dissolved in MeCN (20
mL). The mixture was stirred at R.T. for 14 hours. The reaction was added NH 3 in THF
 (saturated at 0*C), and the mixture was stirred at R.T. for 2 hours. The solvent was removed,
 and the residue was purified on a silica gel column (1-10% MeCOH in DCM) to give P9-3 (430
  ig, crude) as a light yellow syrup.
          [0268]       Preparation of (9a): A mixture of P9-3 (430 ing, 0.7 mmol) and NH 4 F (97
 ing, 2. 1mmol) in MeOH (10 mL) was refluxed for 14 hours. The solvent was removed, and the
 residue was purified on a silica gel column (5%-10% MeOH in DCM) to give compound 9a as a
white solid (64.8 mg, 35.4%). 'H NMR (CD 3 OD, 400 MHz) 38.10 (d,.J= 7.6 Hz, IH), 6.03 (dd,
.1 =2.0 Hz, J2 = 16.8 Hz, IH), 5.87 (d ,J= 7.6 Hz, 11H), 4.98 (in, lI H), 4.37 (dd,,J1 = 5.2 Hz, J2 =
21.6 Hz, IH), 3.59 (dd, .J = 12.0 Hz, .J = 28.4 Hz, 2H), 1.23 (d, J= 0.8 Hz, 3H).
                                            EXAMPLE 10
                                    Preparation of Compound (10a)
                                                                               0
                                            NHo                                NH
                      TBDPSO      ..
                                  >jN                        HO0
                              TBS      "F                         Hd     F
                                  P9-2                               10a
          [0269]      To a stirred solution of P9-2 (400 mg, 0.65 inmol) in MeOH (20 mL) was
added NH 4F (52 mg, 1.5 minol). The mixture was refluxed overnight.                 The solvent was
removed, and the residue was purified on a silica gel column (5~10% MeOH in DCM) to give
compound 10a (140 mg, 82.4%) as a white solid. 1H NMR (CD30D, 400 MHz) 88.05 (d, J=
8.4 Hz, I H), 6.06 (dd, J = 2.8 Hz, 12 = 16.4 Hz, I H), 5.67 (d , J = 8.0 Hz, I H), 5.08 (in, I H),
4.37 (d, J, = 5.2 Hz, J2 = 18.8 Hz, 11H), 3.59 (dd, .J =12.0 Hz, J2 = 26.4 Hz, 2H), 1.23 (s, 3H).
ESI-TOF-MS: m/z 283 [M + Na]'.
                                                 -121-

                                           EXAMPLE 11
                                   Preparation of Compound (1 1a)
                            0                                                               0
                            NH                                                         /      H
     TBDPSO                            TBDPS     OrO)N NH      NHN
                         N             TBPO                            TBDPSO
                                                          .F 0
                                                                        H 2 O OC=
                                                                                       "F
            TBS5       F                   <TBSd        'F                   TBS6     F
                  P3-5                            P11-1                          P11-2
                                       NH2                            NH2
                 TBDPS          0   N-                 HO           N
                  H2 C=C=AI'-
                                                            H
                         TBS6     V                         HO     F
                             P11-3                             11a
         [0270]        Preparation of (P11-1):    To a solution of P3-5 (2.1 g, 3.5 mmol) in
anhydrous THF (25 mL) was added ethynylmagnesium bromide (5.1 mmol) at -78 0 C. The
reaction was stirred at 0C for 3 hours. The reaction was quenched with saturated aq. NH4Cl (10
mL). The mixture was diluted with EtOAc (200 mL) and washed with water and brine. The
organic layer was dried and concentrated to give a residue. The residue was purified by column
chromatography on silica gel (eluting with DCM: MeOH = 60:1) to give P11-1 as a white solid
(870 mg, 83.3%).
         10271]        Preparation of (P11-2):   P11-1 (870 mg, 1.34 rnmol) was dissolved in
anhydrous DCM (12 mL), and methyl chloroformate (2.3 mL) and pyridine (2.5 mL) were
added at R.T. The reaction mixture was stirred at R.T. for I hour. The mixture was diluted with
DCM and washed with saturated aq. NaHCO 3. The organic layer was separated, dried and
concentrated to give a residue. The residue was purified by column chromatography on silica
gel elutingg with PE: EtOAc = 8: 1) to give a crude product as a white solid (830 mg, 88.4%).
To a mixture of Pd2 (dba)3 (55 mg, 0.06 mmol) in anhydrous DMF (12 mL) was added P(nBu)3
(35 mg, 0.17 mrnmol) and HCOONH4 (108 mg, 1.7 mmol) at R.T. under nitrogen. The reaction
mixture was stirred at R.T. for 30 min. A solution of the crude product (830 ng, 1.16 mmol) in
anhydrous DMF (16 mL) was added, and the reaction mixture was stirred at 700 C for 3 hours.
The reaction was diluted with EtOAc and washed with brine. The organic layer was separated,
dried and concentrated to give a residue. The residue was purified by column chromatography
on silica gel (cluting with PE: EtOAc = 9: 1) to give PI1-2 as a white solid (510 ing, 67.6%). 1 H
NMR (CD 30D, 400 VI Hz) 67.61-7.75 (n, 5H), 7.36-7.47 (im, 61-1), 6.04 (d,.      = 18.8 Hz, 11-1),
5.34 (t,,J= 6.8 Hz, IH), 5.21 (dd, J, = 1.2 Hz, J2 = 7.2 Hz, 1H), 5.10 (q, J, = 5.2 Hz, J 2 = 53.6
                                               -122-

Hz, 1H), 4.80-4.92 (m, 1H), 4.59-4.79 (m, 2H), 3.86 (d,       =J12.0 Hz, 1H), 3.75 (d, J= 12.0 Hz,
1H), 1.09 (s,9H), 0.92 (d,J=4.4 Hz, 9H), 0.15 (t,J=4.0 Hz, 6H).
         [02721      Preparation of (P11-3): To a solution of P11-2 (490 mg, 0.77 mmol) in
anhydrous MeCN (15 mL) was added TPSCI (700 mg, 2.31 minmol), DMAP (282 mg, 2.31
mmol) and TEA (234 mg, 2.31 mmol) at R.T. The reaction mixture was stirred at room
temperature for I hour. Then NH4OH (8 mL) was added and the reaction mixture was stirred for
another 4 hours. The mixture was diluted with EtOAc and washed with water, 1.0 M aq. HCI
and saturated aq. NaHCO3. The organic layer was separated and dried, concentrated to give the
residue which was purified by HPLC separation (McCN and 0.1% HCOOH in water) to give
P11-3 as a white solid (190 mg, 38.8%).'H NMR (CD30D, 400 MHz) 87.88 (d, .J= 7.2 Hz,
 1H), 7.63-7.70 (in, 4H), 7.37-7.48 (im,6H), 6.12 (d, J = 18.4 Hz, IH), 5.49 (d, J = 7.6 Hz, IH),
5.34 (t, J= 6.8 Hz, 1H), 4.84-5.01 (in, 21-), 4.66-4.78 (in, 2H), 3.89 (d, J= 11.6 Hz, IlH), 3.75
(d, J= 11.6 Hz, IH), 1.10 (s, 9H), 0.91 (d, J= 3.2 Hz, 9H), 0.13 (t, J= 5.2 Hz, 6H).
         [02731       Preparation of (11 a): To a solution of P11-3 (130 mg, 0.21 nmmol) in McOH
(8 mL) was added NH 4 F (I g), and the reaction mixture was refluxed for 6 hours. The mixture
was filtered, and the filtrate was concentrated in vacuo. The residue was purified by column
chromatography on silica gel (cluting with DCM:McOH = 13:1) to give compound I 1a as a
white solid (47 mg, 79.1%).'H NMR (CD 3OD, 400 MHz) 88.07 (d, J= 7.6 Hz, IH), 6.05 (dd,
J, = 1.2 Hz, J2 = 16.8 Hz, IH), 5.86 (d, J= 7.6 Hz, IH), 5.40 (dd, Jz = J2 = 6.8 Hz, IH), 4.87
4.99 (m, 3H), 4.46-4.80 (in, IH), 3.75 (d, J= 12.4 Hz, I H), 3.68 (d, J= 12.4 Hz, IH); ESI-MS:
 m/z 284.02 [M + Hf, 567.08 [2M + H].
                                            EXAMPLE 12
                                  Preparation of Compound (12a)
                         o                                 0                               NH2
                         NH                                NH
     TBDPSO        0 N-               TBDPSO            N-              TBDPSO0     0 N0
             TBSd 'F                            d     F                               IF
                 P3.4                             P12-1                           P12-2
                                   NH2
                                   N
                   HO      0N
                                   0
                           12a
                                                -123-

        [0274]       Preparation of (P12-1):       To a solution of P3-4 (500 mg, 0.8 mmol) in
anhydrous toluene (12 mL) was added DAST (0.3 mL, 2 mmol) at -65"C under nitrogen. The
reaction mixture was stirred at R.T. for 2 hours. The reaction was quenched with saturated aq.
NaHCO 3 and extracted with EtOAc. The organic layer was separated, dried and concentrated to
give the residue. The residue was purified by column chromatography on silica gel elutingg with
PE: EtOAc = 9: 1) to give P12-1 as a yellow solid (170 mg, 42.5%). 'H NMR (CD 3 OD, 400
MHz) 67.66 (dd, J, = 1.6 Hz, J2 = 18.0 Hz, 4H), 7.54 (d, J= 7.6 Hz, IH), 7.35-7.47 (in, 6H),
6.59 (dd, .J = 5.6 Hz, .12= 14.0 Hz, 1H), 5.78 (i, J= 7.6 Hz, IH), 5.05-5.24 (in, 2H), 4.93 (d, .=
7.6 Hz, IH), 4.57 (d, .= 7.6 Hz, 11-), 3.93-4.00 (in, 2H), 1.07 (d,J= 2.4 Hz, 9H).
        [0275]       Preparation of (P12-2): To a solution of P12-1 (100 mg, 0.2 mmol) in
anhydrous MeCN (5 mL) was added TPSCI (182 mg, 0.6 mmol), DMAP (68 mg, 0.6 mmol) and
TEA (61 ing, 0.6 mmol) at R.T. under nitrogen. The reaction mixture was stirred at R.T. for I
hour. NH 40H (3mL) was added, and the reaction was stirred for 2 hours. The mixture was
diluted with EtOAc and washed with water, 1.0 M HCI and saturated aq. NaHCO 3 . The organic
layer was separated, dried and concentrated to give a residue. The residue was purified by
column chromatography on silica gel (DCM:MeOH = 50:1) to give P12-2 as a yellow solid (96
ing, 96%).
        [0276]       Preparation of (12a): To a solution of P12-2 (96 mg, 0.2       mniol) in MeOH
 (5 mL) was added NH 1 F (500 mg) at R.T. The reaction was refluxed for 3 hours. The mixture
was filtered, and the residue was purified by RP HPLC (MeCN and 0.1% HCOOH in water) to
 give compound 12a as a white solid (25 mg, 48.7%). 'H NMR (CD 3OD, 400 MHz) 37.85 (d, J
=  7.6 Hz, 11H), 6.59 (dd, J, = 5.2 Hz, J2 = 12.8 Hz, 1l1-), 6.04 (d, J= 7.6 Hz, IH), 5.10-5.26 (Im,
 2H), 4.79-4.90 (m, IRH), 4.57 (d, J = 7.6 Hz, 1H), 3.82 (d, J= 12.4 Hz, 11H), 3.76 (dd,.J      = 1.6
 Hz, J2= 12.4 Hz, 1H); ESI-MS: m/z 257.9 [M + H]', 514.8 [2M + H]'.
                                           EXAMPLE 13
                                 Preparation of Compound (13a)
                     NH2                            NHMMTr                                  NH2
                                   HO                   -I                                  N
          HO      N                HO          N0              0     O OO0-p O         N
          Hd     F                 MMTrd     F                                   d   .IF
              3a                        P13-1                                 13a
        [02771       Preparation of (P13-1): To a solution of compound 3a (700 mg, 2.56 mmol)
 in anhydrous pyridine (5 mL) were added TBDPSCl (2.8 g, 10.24 mmol), imidazole (522 mg,
 7.68 mmol) and AgNO 3 (870 mg, 5.12 rnmol) at R.T. under N2. The reaction mixture was
                                                  -124-

stirred at R.T. for 3 hours. The mixture was diluted with MeOH and filtered. The mixture was
concentrated, and the residue was purified by column chromatography on silica gel elutingg with
DCM: MeOH = 80:1 ~ 40:1) to give the crude intermediate as a yellow solid (1.05 g, 80.8%).H
NMR (DMSO-d6, 400 MHz) 87.75 (d, J= 7.6 Hz, I H), 7.61-7.65 (in, 4H), 7.41-7.50 (in, 7H),
6.02 (dd, .1 = 2.8 Hz,.12 = 17.2 Hz, IH), 5.69 (d, .= 6.0 Hz, LH), 5.56 (d,J= 7.6 Hz, LH), 4.96
5.11 (in, 1H), 4.37-4.46 (in, 1H), 3.82 (d,.J= 10.8 Hz, 1H), 3.62 (d,.J= 10.8 Hz, 1H), 1.70-1.78
(in, I H), 1.53-1.59 (in, IH), 1.02 (s, 9H),0.79 (t, J = 7.6 Hz, 3H). To a solution of the crude
intermediate (1.0 g, 1.96 mmol) in anhydrous DCM (15 mL) were added sym-collidine (1.4 g,
11.76 mniol), AgNO 3 (1.0 g, 5.88 mmol) and MMTrCI (4.8 g, 15.6 mmol) at R.T. under N2 .
The reaction mixture was stirred at R.T. overnight. The mixture was filtered and concentrated.
The residue was purified by column chromatography on silica get elutingg with PE:EtOAc=2: 1)
to give crude full protected intermediates as a white solid(I.1 g, 53.1%). To a solution of the
crude intermediate (600 mg, 0.57 mmol) in THIF (5 mL) was added TBAF (446 mg, 1.71 mimol))
at R.T. The reaction was stirred at 40~50"C overnight. The crude product was purified by
column chromatography on silica gel eluted with PE:EtOAc = 3:2 to give crude P13-1 (350 mg,
75.1%) as a yellow solid.
        [02781       Preparation of (13a):    To a solution of P13-1 (300 mg, 0.37 mmol) in
CH 3 CN (2.5 mL) were added NMI (2.5 mL) and a solution of phenyl(isopropoxy-L-alaninyl)
phosphorochloridate (2.55 g, 7.4 inmol) in CH-CN (2.5 mL) at R.T. under N 2. The reaction
mixture was stirred at R.T. for 3 hours. The mixture was concentrated iii vacuo. The residue
was purified by column chromatography on silica gel (PE:EtOAc = 1:1) to give crude product as
a yellow oil (500 mg, 81%). The crude product was further treated with 80% HCOOH (70 mL)
at R.T. overnight. The mixture was concentrated in vacuo, and the crude product was purified
by RP HPLC (MeCN and 0.1% HCOOH in water) to give compound 13a as a white solid (a
mixture of two P isomers, 86 mg, 40.3% two steps). 'H NMR (CD 30D, 400 MHz) 37.75, 7.71
(2d,.J= 7.6 Hz, 1H), 7.33-7.38 (in, 2H), 7.19-7.26 (m, 31H), 6.02-6.10 (in, IH), 5.87, 5.82 (2dJ
=  7.6 Hz, 1H), 4.99-5.02 (in, 0.5H), 4.72-4.82 (m, 1.5H), 4.14-4.43 (in, 3H), 3.89-3.94 (in,
IH),1.68-1.81 (in, 6H), I.51-1.56 (in, I H), 1.30-1.43 (in, 8H), 0.96-1.01 (in, 3H) ; ESI-MS: m/z
582.93 [M + H].
                                               -125-

                                           EXAMPLE 14
                                 Preparation of Compound (14a)
                                   NHMMTr                               NHMMTr
                                             N                         jN
                                       0
                   MMTrG      F                            MMTrO     F
                          P13-1                                P14-1
                                                             NH2
                             -O
                                                 00          N
                                                PO       N
                                                   H6   IF
                                                    14a
        [0279]       Preparation of (P14-1): To a stirred solution of P13-1 (451 mg, 0.55 mmol)
and NMI (lmL) in anhydrous acetonitrile (2 mL) was added dropwise a solution of 2-chloro-8
methyl-4H-benzo[d][1,3,2]dioxapliosphinine (855 mg, 4.2 mmol) in acetonitrile (0.2 mL) at 0*C
under N2. The mixture was stirred at R.T. for 2 hours. Solution of 12 (3.2 g, 12.6 mmol),
pyridine (9 mL), H20(3 mL) and DCM(3 mL) was added. The reaction mixture was stirred for
30 mins. The reaction was quenched with NaS 2O3 solution and extracted with EA. The organic
layer was dried over Na 2 SO4 and concentrated. The residue was purified by colunn on silica
gel (PE: EA = 1:1 to 1:2) to give P14-1 (205 mg, 37%) as a white solid.
        10280]        Preparation of (14a):    P14-1 (205 ng, 0.21 mmol) was dissolved in 80%
HCOOH aq. solution, and the mixture was stirred at R.T. for 16 hours. The solvent was
removed, and the residue was purified by RP HPLC (HCOOH system) to give compound 14a as
a mixture of 2 P-isomers (24 mg, 18%). 'H NMR (CD 30D, 400 MHz) 57.60, 7.53 (2d, J= 8.0
Hz, 1H), 7.21-7.25 (in, IH), 7.02-7.12 (m, 2H), 5.95. 5.87 (2dd,Jr = 2.4 Hz, 12 = 18.0 Hz, IH),
5.71, 5.69 (2d, J= 8.0 Iz, IH), 5.38-5.53 (m, 2H), 5.06, 5.04 (2ddd, J1 = 2.4 Hz, J2 = 5.6 Hz, Js
= 54.0 H z, IH), 4.32-4.49 (in, 2H), 2.26 (d, J= 3.6 Hz, 3H), 1.83-1.92 (in, IH), 1.64-1.72 (in,
                                        31
 IH), 0.96, 0.93 (2t, J= 7.6 Hz, 3H).      P NMR (CD 30D, 162 MHz) 6-8.22, -8.50; ESI-LCMS:
m/z 456 [M + H].
                                                 -126-

                                          EXAMPLE 15
                                Preparation of Compound (15a)
                          NH2                      NHMMTr                                 NH2
                      /  IN                   / \N                O     O                 N
     TBDPSO            N          HO           N                     HN-P_-          N- 4
                  11-               o   >      NI0                 0~    IH
            TBSO     F                HO     F                     O         HC     F
                P3-8                        P15-1                               15a
         102811      Stepl. Preparation of (P15-1): To a mixture of P3-8 (2.2 g, 2.5 mmol),
AgNO 3 (844 mg, 5.0 mmol) and colliding (907 mg, 7.5 mmol) in anhydrous DCM (10 mL) was
 added MMTrCI (1.54 g, 5.0 nmmol) under N2.           The reaction mixture was stirred at R.T.
 overnight. The reaction mixture was filtered through a Buchner Funnel. The filtrate was
washed with saturated NaHCO solution and brine. The organic layer was separated, dried over
 anhydrous Na 2 SO4 and filtered. The filtrate was concentrated to dryness. The residue was
purified by column on silica gel (PE:EA = 10:1 to 1:2) to give the intermediate (2.3 g, 84%),
which was dissolved in a solution of TBAF in THF (IM, 2.6 mL) under N2. The reaction
 mixture was stirred at R.T. overnight. The residue was dissolved in EA (200 mL) and washed
with water and brine. The organic layer was separated, dried over anhydrous Na 2 SO4 and
filtered. The filtrate was concentrated to dryness, and the residue was purified by column on
silica gel (DCM/MeOH = 100:1 to 30:1) to give P15-1 as a white foam (1.3 g, 94%).
         [0282]      Preparation of (15a): To a stirred solution of P15-1 (300 mg, 0.55 mmol)
and proton sponge (235 mg, 1.1 mmol) in anhydrous McCN (9 mL) was added with a solution
of POC 3 (169 mg, 1.1 mnol) in McCN (I mL) via syringe at 0*C. The mixture was stirred at
R.T. for 40 mins. A mixture of (S)-cyclohexyl 2-aminopropanoate hydrochloride (525 mg, 2.55
mmol) and TEA (0.1 niL) was added at 0"C. The mixture was warmed to R.T. and stirred for 3
hours. The reaction mixture was quenched with saturated NaHC0 3, and extracted with EA (100
mL x 2). The combined organic layers was dried over Na 2 SO 4, concentrated and purified by
silica gel column (1~4% MeOH in DCM) to give the crude product (400 mg, 78.15%) as a
yellow solid. The crude product was treated with 80% HCOOH (50mL) at R.T. for 16 hours.
The solvent was removed, and the residue was purified by RP HPLC to give compound 15a as a
white solid (40 mg, 14%). 'H NMR (McOD, 400 MHz) c 7.82 (d, J = 7.6 Hz, IH), 6.09 (dd, J1
= 2.8 Hz, J2 = 14.0 Hz,1 H), 5.98 (d, J = 7.6 Hz, IH), 5.04 (ddd, J = 3.2 Hz, J2 = 5.6 Hz, 13 =
53.6 Hz, IH), 4.71-4.77 (ni, 2H), 4.45 (dd, J1 = 5.6 Hz, J2 = 12.4 Hz, IH), 4.14-4. 18 (m, IH),
3.97-4.01 (m, IH), 3.84-3.92 (m, 2H), 1.31-1.87 (m, 28H), 0.99 (t, J= 7.2 Hz, 3H). "P NMR
(CD3 OD, 162 MHz) d 13.94; ESI-LCMS: n/z 660 [M + H]f.
                                               -127-

                                            EXAMPLE 16
                                Preparation of Compound (16a)
               HO      o              NH2                O            0ONO    1   NH2
                  ==N            N0                  O         01         Ny-N
                                                                             N
                                    0                        NH&
                  Hd      IF O                                   HO      F 0
                       4a                                           16a
        [0283]     To a stirred solution of compound 4a (150 mg, 0.56 mmol) in anhydrous THF
(3 mL) was added dropwise a solution of t-BuMgC1 (1.2 mL, IM in THF) at -78 0 C. The
mixture was stirred at 0"C for 30 min and re-cooled to -78"C. A solution of phenyl(isopropoxy
L-alaninyl) phosphorochloridate (312 mg, 1.2 mmol) in THIF (1.0 mL) was added dropwise.
After addition, the mixture was stirred at 25"C for 16 hours. The reaction was quenched with
HCOOH (80% aq.) at 00 C. The solvent was removed, and the residue was purified on silica gel
(DCM:MeOH = 50:1 to 10:1) to give compound 16a as a white solid (24.0 mg, 15 %).'H NMR
(MeOD, 400 M1Hz) 67.76 (d, J= 7.2 Hz, IH), 7.17-7.38 (in, 5H), 6.01-6.08 (in, 2H), 5.81 (d, J
=  7.6 Hz, 1H), 5.54-5.58 (m, IH), 5.35-5.38 (in, 1H), 4.92-4.97 (in, 2H), 4.45-4.52 (ma, IH),
4.08-4.19 (in, 2H), 3.88-3.92 (in, IH), 1.28-1.33 (in, 3H), 1.20-1.22 (in, 6H); "P NMR (CD 30D,
162 MHz) S 7.36; ESI-LCMS: m/z 541.0[M + H].
                                            EXAMPLE 17
                                 Preparation of Compound (17a)
                    TBDPSO        a             O          HO           N  NO
                              ==r            NH                         N  NH
                           TBSc      "F   0                   HO      F O
                                P3-7                             P17-1
                                           O
                                      00-P- 0a
                                           NH_              rNH
                                  -
                                                Hd      'F O
                                                    17a
        [0284]       Preparation of (P17-1): To a solution of P3-7 (1.4 g, 2.3 mmol) in MeOH
(50 mL) was added NH4F (8.0 g) at R.T. The reaction mixture was refluxed overnight. After
cooling to R.T., the mixture was filtered, and the filtrate was concentrated. The crude product
                                                 -128-

was purified by silica gel column chromatography (10% MeOH in DCM) to give P17-1 as a
white solid (410 mg, 77.8%).
         [0285]       Preparation of (P17): To a stirred solution of P17-1 (60 mg, 0.19 mmol) in
anhydrous THF (3 mL) was added dropwise a solution of t-BuMgCl (0.38 mL, IM in THF) at
78*C.    The mixture was stirred at 0*C for 30 min and re-cooled to -78"C.            A solution of
plienyl(isopropoxy-L-alaninyl) phosphorochloridate (104 mg, 0.4 mmol) in THF (0.5 mL) was
added dropwise. After addition, the mixture was stirred at 25"C for 16 hours. The reaction was
quenched with HCOOH (80% aq.) at 0"C. The solvent was removed, and the residue was
purified on silica gel (DCM:MeOH = 50:1 to 10:1) to give compound 17a as a white solid ( a
mixture of two P isomers, 11.0 mg, I I %). 'H NMR (McOD, 400 MHz) 67.71 (2d, J= 8.0 Hz,
1H), 7.17-7.37 (m, 5H), 5.98-6.07 (in, 2H), 5.61,5.68 (2d, J= 8.0 Hz, 1H), 5.53-5.58 (in, 1H),
5.35-5.40 (in, I H), 5.08-5.10 (it, I H), 4.93-4.99 (m, IH), 4.52-4.53 (m, 1H), 4.16-4.21 (m, I H),
4.06-4.11 (n, IH), 3.86-3.94 (m, I H), 1.28-1.34 (in, 3 H), 1.20-1.22 (m, 6H). 1 P N MR (McOD,
 162 MHz) 63.72, 3.45. ESI-LCMS: m/z 542.0 [M + H]-.
                                             EXAMPLE 18
                                  Preparation of Compound (18a)
                            0                               0                                0
                            NH                              NH                           /     H
      TBDPSNO                           TBDPO             N             TBDPSO            N
                         SOF      -                          0-P
                                               TBSd     I                      TBSC     F
                  P3-5                              P18-1                         P18-2
                                  NH                      0
                 HO      0    N-(                    00-P-a        0     I'fl
                                 H         :              NHO           NN
                     Hd      F                                HO'     F O
                       P18-3                                      18a
         {0286]       Preparation       of      (P18-1):             To       a     solution     of
(chloromethyl)triphenylphosphonium chloride (2.1 g, 6.0 nmol) in anhydrous THF (10 mL) was
added dropwise n-BuLi (4.6 mL, 6.0 mmol) at -70'C tinder nitrogen. The reaction was stirred at
-70"C for 50 mins. A solution of compound P3-9 (950 mg, 1.5 minol) in anhydrous THF (5 mL)
was added at -70"C, and the reaction was stirred at 0"C for 3 hours. The reaction was quenched
by saturated aq. NH4CI    and extracted with EtOAc. The organic layer was separated, dried and
concentrated to give a residue. The residue was purified by column chromatography on silica
gel (cluting with PE:EtOAc = 6:1) to give P18-1 as a yellow gum (900 mg, 91.2%).
                                                 -129-

         102871     Preparation of (P18-2): To a solution of compound P18-I (600 mg, 0.91
mmol) in anhydrous THF (18 mL) was added dropwise n-BuLi (4.7 mL, 10.9 mmol) at -70"C
under nitrogen. The reaction was stirred at -70*C for 3 hours. The reaction was quenched by
saturated aq. NHCI and extracted with EtOAc. The organic layer was separated, dried and
concentrated to give a residue. The residue was purified by column chromatography on silica
gel elutingg with PE:EtOAc = 8: 15: 1) to give P18-2 as a white solid (300 mg, 53.0%).
         [02881     Preparation of (P18-3): To a solution of P18-2 (300 mg, 0.44 mmol) in
MeOH (10 mL) was added NH 4F (1.0 g) at R.T. The reaction was refluxed for 3 hours. After
cooling R.T., the mixture was filtered, and the filtrate was concentrated in vacuo. The residue
was purified by column chromatography on silica gel elutingg with DCM:McOH = 50:1-30:1)
to give P18-3 as a white solid (135 mg, 78.1%).'H NMR (CD 30D, 400 MHz) 87.84 (d, 1= 8.0
Hz, IH), 6.06 (dd, J = 1.6 Hz, J2 =19.6 Hz, IH), 5.67 (d, J= 8.4 Hz, 1H), 5.18-5.03 (in, IH),
4.50 (dd, J1 = 5.2 Hz, J 2 =21.6 Hz, IH), 3.85 (d, J= 12.4 Hz, ] H), 3.72 (d, J= 12.4 Hz, IH),
3.09 (s, LH).
         [0289      Preparation of (18a):      To a solution of P18-3 (130 mg, 0.5         nmmol) in
anhydrous THF (4 mL) was added dropwise t-BuMgCI (1.0 mL, 1.0 mmol) at -70"C under
nitrogen. The reaction was stirred at R.T. for 30 mins. A solution of phenyl(isopropoxy-L
alaninyl) phosphorochloridate in anhydrous THF(IM, 0.8 mL, 0.78 mmol) was added at -70*C,
and the reaction mixture was stirred at R.T. for 5 hours.          The reaction was quenched by
HCOOH, and the mixture was concentrated in vacuo. The residue was purified by column
chromatography on silica gel (DCM:MeOH = 60:1) to give compound 18a as a white solid (a
mixture of two P isomers, 25 mg, 7.7%). 'H NMR (CD 30D, 400 MHz) 87.64, 7.60 (2d, 1= 7.6
Hz, IH), 7.32-7.36 (in, 2H), 7.16-7.25 (in, 3H), 5.95-6.01 (m, IH), 5.67, 5.62 (2d, J = 8.0 Hz,
1H), 5.10-5.25 (in, 1H), 4.93-4.97 (in, I H), 4.49-4.59 (in, IH), 4.33-4.42 (in, 1H), 4.24-4.29 (in,
 1H), 3.86-3.94 (m, 1H), 3.25, 3.22 (2s, lIH), 1.28-1.34 (in, 3H), 1.20-1.23 (in, 6H); ESI-MS: m/z
540.2 [M + H]*.
                                                -130-

                                           EXAMPLE 19
                                  Preparation of Compound (19a)
                     NHMMTr
                                                            NHMMTr                         NHMMTr
                                           HO                             aNN.yN N
                                   O0P-c        IF rN       O       OIF-6            OrN
        Hd      IF            NC-'      O                                O~
          P15-1                             P19-1                              P19-2
                                  N/      NHMMTr             O              N    I NH2
                                        N
                                             Y               0               0
                           I   IF                                            0
                          P19-3                           0"0        19a
             0                                     X
                                                       0
        [0290]        Preparation of (P19-1):       P15-2(1.2 g, 2.2 mrnmol) was dissolved in dry
acctonitrile    (20   mL),    and    0.45   M     tetrazole   (24.0    rnL,    11.0  mmol)   and   3
(bis(diisopropylamino)phosphinooxy)propanenitrile (1.13 g, 3.74 rnmol) was added.                 The
reaction mixture was stirred for 1 hour under N2 at R.T. TBDPH (2.7 mL, 15 mmol) was added,
and the mixture was stirred for 1 hour. The reaction was quenched by Na 2 S2 0 3 solution and
extracted with EA. The organic layer was dried over Na 2 SO4 and concentrated. The residue
was purified by column on silica gel (DCM:McOH = 100:1 to 40:1) to give P19-1 as a white
solid (759 mg, 52%).
        [02911        Preparation of (P19-2):       P19-1 (750 mg, 1.14 mmol) was dissolved in
saturated NH 3 in MeOH solution. The mixture was stirred for 2 hours at R.T. The solution was
concentrated to dryness to give crude P19-2 as a yellow solid (662 mg, 100%). 'H NMR
(DMSO-d6, 400 MHz) 88.60 (s,1IH), 8.28 (s, IH), 7.48 (d,J= 7.6 Hz, IH), 7.12-7.29 (m, 12H),
6.83 (d,,J= 8.8 Hz, 2H), 6.29 (d,.J= 7.61Hz, 1H), 5.88 (d,.J= 8.8 Hz, iH), 5.10 (d,.J=4.8 Hz,
 IH), 4.42-4.45 (in, IH), 3.72 (s, 3H), 1.64-1.91 (m, 2H), 1.10-1.13 ( m, 2H), 0.83-0.86 (m, 3H).
31
  P NMR (CD30D, 400 MHz) 5-4.48; Negative-ESI-LCMS: im/z 606 [M - H-.
        [02921        Preparation of (P19-3): P19-2 (292 mg, 0.47 mmol) was co-evaporated with
pyridinc twice and dissolved in anhydrous DMF (0.5 mL). DIPEA (1.2 mL) was added and
followed by 2,2-diiethyl-propionic acid iodomethyl ester (680 ng, 2.8 inmol). The reaction
mixture was stirred at R.T. tinder N2 for 16 hours. The reaction was quenched by Na 2 S2O3
solution and extracted with EA. The organic layer was dried over Na 2 SO 4 and concentrated.
The residue was purified by column on silica gel (DCM:MeOH = 100:1 to 30:1) to give P19-3
as a white solid (95 mg, 30%).
                                                 -13 1-

        [0293]       Preparation of (19a): P19-3 (95 mg, 0.13 mmol) was dissolved in a 80%
HCOOH aq. solution, and the mixture was stirred at R.T. for 16 hours.                     The solvent was
removed, and the residue was purified by RP HPLC (McCN and 0.1% HCOOH in water) to give
compound 19a as a white solid (10 mg, 17%). 'H NMR (CD 3 OD, 400 MHz) 87.69 (d, = 7.2
Hz, IH), 5.91 (d,J= 7.6 Hz, 1H), 5.84 (d,J=22.0 Hz, IH), 5.73 (d,J= 14.0 Hz, 2H), 5.52 (d,J
= 5.2 Hz, IH), 5.13-5.22 (m, IH), 4.53-4.61 (m, IH), 4.31 (d, J= 9.6 Hz, I H), 1.92-2.08 (m,
2H), 1.23 (s, 9H), 1.03-1.07 (m, 3H); "P NMR (CD 30D, 162 MHz) 8-7.93; ESI-LCMS: m/z
450 [M + H].
                                             EXAMPLE 20
                                    Preparation of Compound (20a)
                           o                              0                         0
                           NH                             NH                        NH
                  O    N%                      >      N-                   0    N-
              Hd      F                    Hd       F              Hd         F
                  P3-1                        P20-1                     P20-2
                         0                            0                             0
                         NIH                    /     NH
                                                N                               N
                         N
          TBSd      F                 TBSO     F                 TBSO        'F
                P20-3                    P20-4                          P20-5
                             o                               NH2                            NHMMTr
                             NH                              N                              N
        TBSO     fvON#                  TBS        0     Nt.          TBScrX\.#N4         -YU
                                             ~~\11           0      '-.Nc.
            TBSC       F                    TBS&        F                    TBSG       F
                  P20-6                           P20-7                           P20-8
                                         NH2
                                         N
                                     N
                            HC      F
                                20a
        {0294]        Preparation of (P20-1): To a stirred suspension of P3-1 (20.0 g, 81.3minol),
 imidazole (15.9 g, 234.0 mmol), PPh3 (53.5 g, 203.3 nnol) and pyridine (90 nL) in anhydrous
THF (360 nL) was added dropwise a solution of 12 (41.3 g, 162.6mnol) in THF (350 mL) at
 0"C. After addition, the mixture was warmed to R.T. and stirred for 14 hours. The solution was
 quenched with aq. Na 2 S2 0 3 (150 rnL) and extracted with EA. The organic layer was dried over
                                                    -132-

Na 2 SO 4 and concentrated. The residue was purified on a silica gel column (DCM:MeOH =
 100:1 to 10:1) to afford P20-1 as a white solid (22.1 g, 76.4%). 'H NMR (CD30D, 400 MHz) S
7.70 (d, J= 8.0 Hz, IH), 5.88 (dd, J = 1.6 Hz, J2 = 20.8 Hz, IH), 5.71 (d, J = 8.4 Hz, IH), 5.24
(dd, J; = 2.0 Hz, J2 = 5.2 Hz, I H), 5.10 (dd, J, = 2.0 Hz, 12 = 5.2 Hz 1H), 3.78-3.83 (in, IH),
3.61-3.65 (in, 1H), 3.44 (dd, .J =J2 = 6.0 Hz, 1H).
         10295]       Preparation of (P20-2): To a stirred solution of P20-1 (22.1 g, 62.1 mmol)
in anhydrous THF (200 mL) was added dropwise DBU (14.2 g, 93.1 mmol) in TFIP (50 mL) at
0C over 10 mins. The mixture was stirred at 60"C for 6 hours. The reaction was quenched with
aq. NaHCO3 (200 nL) and extracted with EA. The organic layer was washed with brine and
dried over Na 2 SO 4 . The solvent was removed, and the residue was purified on a silica gel
column (McOH:DCM = 1/100 to 1/30) to afford P20-2 as a white solid (8.7 g, 61.5%). 'H NMR
(CD30D, 400 MHz) 6 7.51 (d,.J= 8.0 Hz, IFH), 6.05 (dd,.1 =1.2 Hz, J2 = 17.2 Hz, IH), 5.73 (d,
.1= 8.0 Hz, 1H), 5.26 (dd,1J; = 1.2 Hz, J2 = 4.8 Hz, 1H), 5.13 (dd,.1J = 1.2 Hz,.J 2 = 4.8 Hz, IH),
4.63 (dd, J =2.0 Hz, J2 = 3.2 Hz, IH), 4.41(dd, Jz = J2 = 2.0 Hz, IH).
         [0296]       Preparation of (P20-3): To a stirred solution of P20-2 (3.2 g, 14.0 miol) in
anhydrous pyridine(10 mL) and DCM (100 mL) was added dropwise a solution of TBSCI (4.2 g,
28.0 mrnol)at 0*C. Stirring was continued at R.T. for 18 hours. The mixture was diluted with
DCM. The organic layer was washed with brine and dried over Na 2 SO 4. The solvent was
removed, and the residue was purified on a silica gel column (10% McOH in DCM) to afford
 P20-3 as a white solid (3.4 g, 70.8%).
         [0297]       Preparation of (P20-4): To a stirred solution of NaHCO; in H2 0 (250 mL)
and acetone (200 mL) was added oxone (30.0 x 4 g) at 0*C. The mixture was warmed to R.T.,
and the distillate was collected at -78"C (120 mL) under slightly reduced pressure to give a
solution of DMDO in acetone. To a stirred solution of P20-3 (250.0 mg, 0.7 mimol) in DCM (20
mL) were added a DMDO (120 mL) solution at -40'C and MgSO 4 . The mixture was warmed to
R.T. and then stirred for 2 hours. The solution was filtrated, and the filtrate was used for the
next-step directly.
         [0298]       Preparation of(P20-5): To a stirred solution of P20-4 (500.0 mg, 1.4 rmmol)
in anhydrous DCM (50 mL) was added allyl-trimethyl-silane (760.0mg, 6.7mmol) and SnC4
(1.2 g, 4.5 mmol) at -40"C. The mixture was warmed and stirred at 0"C for I hour. The reaction
was quenched with saturated NaHCO 3 and extracted with DCM. The organic layer was dried
over Na 2 SO 4 and concentrated. The residue was purified on a silica gel column (20-50% EA in
PE) to give P20-5 as a white foam (120 mg, 41%). 'H NMR (CD 30D, 400 MHz) 6 8.01 (d, J=
8.4 Hz, IH), 6.12 (dd, J, = 3.6 Hz, J2 = 15.2 Hz, IH), 5.87-5.96 (m,I H), 5.71 (d, J = 8.4 Hz,
                                               -133-

1H), 5.06-5.22 (m, 3H), 4.60 (dd,.f J= 5.6 Hz, J 2 = 14.4 Hz, 1H), 3.72 (d,.J= 11.6 Hz, 111), 3.48
(d, J= 11.6 Hz, I H), 2.62-2.67 (m, 1H), 2.23-2.29 (m, I H); ESI-LCMS: m/z = 422 [M + Na]*.
        [0299]       Preparation of (P20-6): To a stirred solution of P20-5 (270.0 mg, 0.7 mmol)
in dry DCM were added imidazole (400.0mg, 5.9mol) and TBSCI (390.0 mg, 2.6 mmol) at
R.T. The mixture was stirred at R.T. for 18 hours. The solution was diluted with EA. The
solvent was washed with brine and dried over Na 2SO 4 . The solvent was removed, and the
residue was purified on a silica gel column (20~40% EA in PE) to afford compound P20-6 as a
white foam (280 mg, 80.7%). ESI-LCMS: m/z 537 [M + Na]*.
        [0300]       Preparation of (P20-7):     To a stirred solution of P20-6 (280.0 mg, 0.5
mmol) in dry McCN were added TPSCI (350.0 mg, 1.2 mmol), NEt 3 (400.0 mg, 4.0 nmol) and
DMAP (270.0 mg, 2.2 mmol) at R.T. The mixture was stirred at R.T. for 18 hours. The
solution was quenched with ammonium. The organic layer was washed with brine and dried
over Na 2SO1 . The solvent was removed, and the residue was purified by TLC (using EA) to
afford compound P20-7 as a white foam (240.0 mg, 85.7%). ESI-LCMS: m/z 514 [M + H]'.
         [03011      Preparation of (P20-8): To a stirred solution of P20-7 (270.0 mg, 0.5 mmol)
in dry DCM were added AgNO 3 (1.5 g, 8.8mmol), MMTrCl (450.0 mg, 1.5 mmol) and collidine
(500.0 mg, 4.1 mmol) at R.T. The mixture was stirred at R.T. for 18 hours. The solution was
diluted with DCM. The organic layer was washed with brine and dried over Na2SO4. The
solvent was removed, and the residue was purified on a silica gel column (20~40% EA in PE) to
afford compound P20-8 as a white foam (300 mg, 81.6%). ESI-LCMS: m/z 786 [M + H]'.
         [03021      Preparation of (20a): To a stirred solution of P20-8 (170.0 mg, 0.3 mmol) in
dry McOH was added NH4F (300.0 mg, 8.1 mmol), and the mixture was refluxed for 24 hours.
The solvent was removed under reduced pressure, and the residue was purified on a silica gel
column (2~5% MeOH in DCM) to give the crude product. The crude product was further
purified by RP HPLC (water and 0.1% HCOOH in McCN) to afford compound 20a as a white
solid (47.0 mg, 49.8%). 'H NMR (CD 30D, 400 MHz) -58.13 (d, J= 8.4 Hz, IH), 6.12 (dd, J, =
 3.2 Hz, J 2 = 12.0 Hz, 1H), 5.87-5.97 (m, 2H),4.98-5.14 (in, 3H), 4.45 (dd,Jr= 5.2 Hz, J 2 = 17.6
 Hz, 1H), 3.71 (d, J= 11.6 Hz, IH), 3.54 (d, J= 11.6 Hz, 1H), 2.54-2.59 (in, 1H), 2.33-2.39 (in,
 IlH); ESI-LCMS: m/z 286 [M + H] .
                                               -134-

                                         EXAMPLE 21
                                Preparation of Compound (21a)
                                      NHMMTr                         NHMMTr
                                            N                        N
                     TBSO     hA, N   -             TBSO\         N
                         TBSd     F                    TBS&      F
                             P20-8                         P21-1
                                    NHMMTr                          NH2
                                    NN
                      HO     0N                      H
                          Hd    F                       Hd     F
                            P21-2                          21a
        [03031      Preparation of (P21-1): To a stirred solution of P20-8 (250.0 mg, 0.3 mmol)
in McOH was added Pd/C (500.0 mg), and the mixture was stirred under H2 (balloon) for 18
hours at R.T. The reaction was filtered, and the solvent removed under reduced pressure. The
residue was purified by prep. TLC (30% EtOAc in PE) to afford P21-1 as a white foam (210.0
mg, 84.0%).
        [0304]      Preparation of (P21-2): To a stirred solution of P21-1 (210.0 ig, 0.3 mmol)
in dry THF was added TBAF (1 mL, Immol), and the mixture was stirred at R.T. for 18 hours.
The solvent was removed under reduced pressure, and the residue was purified by prep. TLC
(30% EtOAc in PE) to give compound 21a as a white foam (111.2 mg, 74.6%). tH NMR
(DMSO-d6, 400 MHz) 88.49 (s, 1H1), 7.75 (d,.J= 6.8 Hz, 1H), 6.83-7.32 (m, 14H), 6.25 (d, J=
7.6 Hz, IH), 5.95 (dd, J, = 4.8 Hz, J2= 14.8 Hz, IH), 5.48 (d, J= 5.6 Hz, IH), 4.86-5.15 (m,
2H), 4.15-4.21 (m, 1H), 3.72 (s, 3H), 3.38-3.49 (m, 2H), 1.24-1.58 (m, 41-), 0.84 (t, J=7.2 Hz,
3H); ESI-MS: m/z 560 [M + H].
        [03051      Preparation of (P21): Compound P21-2 (81 mg) was dissolved in a mixture
(5 mL) of formic acid (80%) and water (20%). The resulting solution was stirred at R.T. for 3
hours and then concentrated. The residue was co-evaporated with methanol/tolucne three times.
Chromatography on silica gel with 5-12% methanol in DCM gave a mixture of two compounds,
which was dissolved in methanol with a drop of concentrated aqueous ammonia and
concentrated. The residue was purified on silica gel with 5-12% methanol in DCM to give
compound 21a (27 mg) as a white solid; 'H NMR (CD30D, 400 MHz) 88.05 (d, J = 7.6 Hz,
IH), 6.06 (dd, J = 2.8 Hz, 1 2 = 16 Hz, IH), 5.87 (d , J= 7.6 Hz, IH), 5.10 (dd, J= 3.2, 5.2 Hz,
0.5H), 4.96 (dd, 3.2, 5.2 Hz, 0.5H), 4.42 (dd, J = 5.6, 17.2 Hz, IH), 3.67 (dd, J= 11.6, 76 I-z,
                                              -135-

2H), 1.70-1.79 (m, 1H), 1.31-1.61 (m, in, 3H), 0.94 (t, J= 6.8 Hz, 3H). MS: m/z 417 [M + 2
methylheptylamine]*.
                                            EXAMPLE 22
                                Preparation of Compound (22a)
                      0                              0                           0
              ~0 N -  NH
                             -                 Ni
                                                     0
                                                       H
                                                                        aN
                                                                            /    NH
                                                                                 0
                                     /  1.           0
          Hd     F                     H&      F                   Bzd     F
            P20-2                        P22-1                        P22-2
                         0                               NHBz                        NH2
                         NH                             N                            N
       BzO           N-4             BzO-           NHO                           N
                    *0                                  0             o             0
            Bzd 'F                         Bzd     F                    Hd      'F
               P22-3                         P22-4                          22a
        103061       Preparation of (P22-1):      To a solution of P20-2 (5.23 g, 23.1 mmol) in
anhydrous MeOH (50 mL) was added PbCO3(1 2 .7 g,46.3 mrnol) at R.T. A solution of 12 (11.7
g, 46.3 mmol) in MeOH (10 mL) was then added dropwise at 0"C. The reaction mixture was
stirred at R.T. for overnight. The reaction was quenched with Na 2S20 3 and dissolved in EA.
The organic layer was dried over Na2SO4 and concentrated. The residue was purified by column
(DCM/McOH = 100/1 to 20/1) to give P22-1 as a white solid (5.6 g, 71.8%).                'H NMR
(CD30D,400 MHz) 87.67(d,J=8.0 Hz, IH), 5.88(dd,1J =J2=7.6Hz, IH),5.73 (dJ=8.0
Hz, 1H), 5.24 (dd, .1 = 4.4 Hz, J2 = 6.4 Hz, 11-), 5.11 (dd, .J = 6.4 -Iz, .12 = 6.0 Hz, 1H); 4.65
(dd,Jj =20.0Hz,.J2=20.4Hz, 1-1), 3.67 (d,.J= 11.6 Hz, 1H), 3.54(d,J= 11.6 Hz, IH), 3.43
(s, 3H).
        [03071       Preparation of (P22-2): To a stirred solution of P22-1 (5.6 g, 14.5 mmol) in
anhydrous pyridine (20 mL) was added dropwise BzCl (2.9 g, 20.9 rnmol) at 0*C. The mixture
was stirred at R.T. for 10 hours. The reaction was quenched with H20, and the solution was
concentrated.   The residue was dissolved in EA and washed with saturated NaHCO3. The
organic layer was dried over Na 2SO and concentrated. The residue was purified on a silica gel
column (20~40% EA in PE) to give P22-2 as a white foam (4.9 g, 74.2%).
        f0308        Preparation of (P22-3):      P22-2 (4.9 g, 10.0 nmol), BzONa (14.4 g, 100
 mol) and 15-crown-5 (22.0 g, 100 mmol) were suspended in DMF (200 mL). The mixture
was stirred at 60-70"C for 3 days. The precipitate was removed by filtration, and the filtrate was
                                                 -136-

diluted with EA. The solvent was washed with brine and dried over Na2 SO4. The solvent was
removed, and the residue was purified on a silica gel column (20-60% EA in PE) to afford P22
3 as a white foam (2.3 g, 47.9%).
        [0309]       Preparation of (P22-4): P22-3 (2.3 g, 4.8 mmol), DMAP (1.2 g, 9.6 mmol),
TPSC (2.9 g, 9.6 mrmol) and Et3N (0.97 g, 9.6 mmol) were suspended in MeCN (10 mL). The
mixture was stirred at R.T. for 14 hours. NH 3 in THF (saturated at 00 C, 100 mL) was added to
the mixture, and the mixture stirred at R.T. for 2 hours. The solvent was removed, and the
residue was purified by column (DCM/MeOH = 100:1 to 50:1) to give the crude product (1.2 g).
The crude product was dissolved in pyridine, and BzCl (0.42 g, 3.0 mmol) was added. The
mixture was stirred at R.T. for 16 hours and quenched with water, The solvent was removed,
and the residue was purified on a silica gel colunr    (PE:EA = 2:1 to 1:1) to give P22-4 as a
white foam (460 mg, 31%).
        [0310]       Preparation of (22a): P22-4 (0.46 g, 0.8 mmol) was dissolved in saturated
methanolic ammonia (100 mL), and the mixture was stirred at R.T. for 14 hours. The solvent
was removed, and the residue was dissolved in H2 0 and washed with DCM. The aqueous phase
was lyophilized and further purified by prep. HPLC (0.1% fomic acid in water/acetonitrile) to
give compound 22a as a white solid (145 mg, 78.9 %). 1H NMR (CD3 OD, 400 MHz) 87.88 (d,
J  = 7.6 Hz, 1H), 6.03 (d, .J = 18.4 Hz, 1H), 5.87 (d,./ = 7.6 Hz, IH), 4.86-5.00 (m, IH), 4.49
(dd, .J = 23.2 Hz, .12 = 22.8 Hz, IH), 3.90 (d, /= 12.0 Hz, iH), 3.66 (d, .= 12.0 Hz, IH), 3.41
(s, 3H); ESI-MS: m/z 276 [M + H].
                                              -137-

                                           EXAMPLE 23
                                  Preparation of Compound (23a)
                              0                            0                         0
                          /   NH                         / NPMB                      NPMB
      IBOPSO               N-4            BnO y          N           BnO>       , N
       DMTrO)         -1                  HO-"'            0    -      F"'VI
             TBSd        F                     Bnd      F                Bnd      F
                   P23-1                          P23-2                     P23-3
                          O                           NH2                      NHMMTr
                           NH                        \N
      BnO            N              BnO      0N               BO           N
           Bnd      F                   Bnd 'F                    Bnd     F
              P23-4                        P23-5                     P23-6
                         NHMMTr                       NH2
                               -                    N
       HO-           N-             HO            N
                  'F                     Hd     'F
           Hd
             P23-7                          23a
        10311]         Preparation of (P23-2): To a solution of P23-1 (3.1 g, 4.5 mmol) in DMF
(30 mL) was added anhydrous K2 CO 3 (1.24 g, 9.03 mnol) and PMBC (1.40 g, 9.03 nmol).
The mixture was stirred at ambient temperature overnight. The reaction was quenched with
water and extracted with EA. The organic layer was concentrated, and the residue was purified
on a silica gel column (PE:EA = 10:1 to 4:1) to give the intermediate as a white solid (2.36 g,
74.8%). 'H NMR (CDC13, 400 MHz) J 7.29-7.88 (in, 23H), 6.83-6.98 (m, 6H), 6.35-6.45 (m,
1H), 4.51-5.50 (m, 6H), 3.89-3.95 (in, 9H), 3.66-3.71 (m, 2H),3.03 (d,J =11.2Hz, IH), 1.21 (s,
9H), 0.89 (i, 9H), 0.01-0.11 (m, 6H). The intermediate was used in the next step.
        [03121       To a stirred solution of the intermediate (11.0 g, 10.47 immol) in anhydrous
THF (100 mL) was added TBAF (8.20 g, 31.42 mmol) at R.T., and the mixture was stirred at
R.T. for 5 hours. The solution was removed, and the residue was purified on a silica gel column
(PE: EA=5:1 to 1:1) to give a second intermediate as a white solid (5.99 g, 82%).
        [03131       To a stirred solution of the second intermediate (500 mg, 0.716 minmol) in
anhydrous DMF (10 mL) was added NaH (51.5 mg, 2.14 mmol) and BnBr (365 mg, 2.14 mmol)
dropwise at 04C. The mixture was stirred at R.T. for overnight. The solution was quenched
with water and extracted with EA. The concentrated organic phase was purified on a silica gel
column (PE:EA = 10:1 to 4:1) to give a third intermediate as a white solid (496 ng, 79%).
                                                  -138-

        [0314]      The third intermediate (2.5 g, 2.84 mmol) was dissolved in 80% HOAc (25
mL) at R.T., and the mixture was stirred at R.T. for overnight. The reaction was quenched with
MeOH, and the solvent was removed. The crude was purified on a silica gel column (PE:EA           =
5:1 to 1:1) to give P23-2 as a white solid (1.2 g, 73%).
        103151       Preparation of (P23-3): To a stired solution of DAST (1.39 g, 8.68 mrnmol)
in anhydrous toluene (15 mL) was added dropwise a solution of P23-2 (1.0 g, 1.73 mmol) at
78"C. The mixture was stirred at -78"C for 30 mins. The solution was heated to 60*C gradually
and then stirred overnight. The mixture was poured into saturated Na 2CO 3 solution.           The
concentrated organic phase was purified on a silica gel column (PE:EA = 10:1 to 4:1) to give
P23-3 as a white solid (449 mg, 45%). 'H NMR (CD 30D, 400 MHz) $7.87 (d,.I = 8.4 Hz, IH),
7.27-7.37 (m, 12H), 6.82-6.84 (m, 2H), 6.14 (dd,.1 = 16.8,2.0Hz, 1H), 5.18-5.50 (m, 4H), 4.96
(s, 2H), 4.45-4.88 (m,7H), 3.67-3.89 (m, 5H).
        [0316]       Preparation of (P23-4): A mixture of P23-3 (1.20 g, 2.07 mmol) and CAN
(3.41 g, 6.23 mmol) in a solution of MeCN:Water (3:1, 10 nL) was stirred at R.T. overnight.
Brine (10 mL) was added, and the mixture was extracted with EA. The combined organic
extracts were dried and evaporated under reduced pressure. The residue was purification by
chromatography on silica gel (PE:EA = 10:1 to 2:1) to give P23-4 as a yellow solid (475 mg,
49.8%).
        [0317]       Preparation of (P23-5): To a stirred solution of P23-4 (550 mg,210 mmol)
in anhydrous McCN (10 mL) were added TPSCI (725 mg, 2.40 mmol), DMAP (293 mg, 2.40
mmol) and TEA (242 mg, 2.40 mmol) at R.T., and the mixture was stirred at R.T. overnight.
NH 40H (25 mL) was added, and the mixture was stirred for 2 hours. The solvent was removed,
and the residue was purified on a silica gel column (PE:EA = 8:1 to 2:1) to give P23-5 as a
white solid (700 ng crude).H NMR (CD30D, 400 MHz) 87.86 (d, J= 8.4 Hz, IH), 7.27-7.36
(in, 10H), 6.13 (dd, .J = 17.2 Hz, .12 = 2.0 Hz, 1H), 5.48-5.53 (m, I H), 5.11-5.26 (m, 1H), 4.44
4.74 (m, 7H), 3.89 (dd,,Jl = 10.4 Hz, J 2 = 2.0 Hz, IH), 3.69 (dd,1J1 = 10.8 Hz,Jl2 =1.6 Hz, TH).
        [0318]       Preparation of (P23-6): To a stirred solution of P23-5 (1.0 g, 2.18 mmol) in
anhydrous DCM (15 mL) was added MMTrC (2.02 g, 6.56 mmol) and AgNO 3 (1.11 g, 6.56
mmol) at R.T., and the mixture was stirred at R.T. overnight. The solid was filtered off and
washed with DCM. The filtrate was washed with brine and dried over Na 2 SO 4 The organic
phase was concentrated, and the residue was purified on a silica gel column (PE:EA = 8:1 to
2:1) to give P23-6 as a white solid (520 mg, 41%).
        [0319]       Preparation of (P23-7):     To a stirred solution of P23-6 (520 mg, 0.713
mmol) in acetone were added ammonium formate (2.0 g, 31.7 mmol, in portions) and 10%
                                                -139-

palladium on carbon (1.0 g). The mixture was refluxed for 12 hours. The catalyst was filtered
off and washed with solvent.        The filtrate was added EA and washed with brine.           The
concentrated organic phase was purified by column chromatography (DCM:MeOH = 100:1 to
15:1)and prep. TLC to give P23-7 as a white solid (270 mg, 69.0%).'H NMR (CDsOD, 400
MHz) 88.54 (s, lH), 7.73 (d, J= 7.6 Hz, 1H1), 7.13-7.32 (m1,12H), 6.83 (d, J=8.4 Hz, 2H), 6.29
(d,J=7.6 Hz, 1H), 5.99-6.04 (in, IH), 5.82 (d,J=5.6 Hz, IH), 5.39 (t,J=5.2 Hz, IH), 5.09 (t,
J = 5.2 Hz, 1H),4.32-4.58 (in, 3H), 3.54-3.72 (in, 5H). ESI-MS: m/z 549.6 [M + H]'.
         [0320]       Preparation of (23a): P23-7 (130 ng, 0.236 mmol) was dissolved in 80%
HCOOH (20 mL) at R.T., and the mixture was stirred at 50"C for 12 hours. The solvent was
removed, and the residue was co-evaporated with toluene twice. The residue was re-dissolved
in MeOH (20 mL) at 60"C and stirring was continued for 48 hours. The solvent was removed,
and the residue was purified by column chromatography (DCM:MeOH = 100:1 to 10:1) to give
compound 23a as a white solid (45 mg, 69.0%).'H NMR (CD 30D, 400 M Hz) 8 8.00 (d, J= 7.6
Hz, IH), 6.13 (dd, J = 16.0 Hz, .12 = 4.0 Hz, IH), 5.89 (d, .= 7.6 Hz, 1H), 5.18-5.21 (in, IH),
5.05-5.07 (in, iH), 4.60 (s, IH), 4.51-4.57 (m, 2H), 3.84 (dd, .1 =12.0 Hz, .12= 2.0 1-z, IH), 3.75
 (dd, J, = 12.0 Hz, J2 = 2.0 Hz, I H). ESI-MS: m/z 277.8 [M + H]-, 554.8 [2M + H]'.
                                                -140-

                                                 EXAMPLE 24
                                      Preparation of Compound (24a)
                           NH2 HOI                             NHBz                                 0
                                                               N                                    NH
       HO            N O                                                         BzO     N     N0
           Hd      F                           Bzd       F                           Bzd      F
              P24-1                                P24-2                                 P24-3
                          0                                  0                                    0
                          NH                                 NH                                   NH
      HO9             -       0           HON           Nj'                      HO      ~NN
                         HO N0          HO                   0HO-                                 O
                     -\     F                  \         F            -         ,0        4F
                                                                                        IO-
          Hd      F                          TBSd    'F                            TBSO     F
              P24-4                               P24-5                               P24-6
                              0                                          0                                    0
                              NH                                 /       NH                                   NH
    TBDPSO          0O~-N-o                                     tN      0-             T DS              0 Nj
                                              TBDPSON                                  TBDPS
          TBDO0
             TBSi      'F                           TBSc        F                             TBS6       'F
                P24-7                                    P24-8                                      P24-9
                                    0                                      NHMMTr                        NHMMTr
                                    NH                                     N                            N
           TBDPSO               N%             TBDPSO0         0     N-               HO        0
                      s-*           0                                                                   0
           -                              --                          F      --                      F
                   TBSd        F                        TBS        IF                      Hd      F
                        P24-10                             P24-11                           P24-12
                                      NH2
                                      N
                   HO       >     N
                                 .F
                         Hd     'F
                            24a
         [0321]          Preparation of (P24-2): To a solution of P24-1 (30.0 g, 100.0 mmol) in
pyridine (300 mL) was added BzCl (56.0 g, 400 mmol) at 25"C. The mixture was stirred at
25"C for 15 hours.          The mixture was concentrated and purified by column chromatography
(PE:EA = 20:1 to 2:1) to give crude P24-2 (55.0 g, 81%).
         [0322]          Preparation of (P24-3):         P24-2(55.0 g, 92 mmol) was dissolved in 80%
HOAc aq. solution, and the mixture was refluxed for 14 hours. The solvent was removed under
reduced pressure, and the residue was co-evaporated with toluene. The residue was purified on
a silica gel column (PE/EA = 4:1 to 2:1) to give P24-3 as a white solid (39.2 g, 83%).
                                                       -141-

         {0323]      Preparation of (P24-4): P24-3 (39.2 g, 83 mmol) was dissolved in saturated
methanolic ammonia, and the resulting solution was stirred at R.T. for 15 hours. The solvent
was removed, and the residue was purified on a silica gel column (DCM/MeOH = 50:1 to 20:1)
to give P24-4 (21.0 g, 95.8%).
         [0324]      Preparation of (P24-5): To a solution of P24-4 (21.0 g, 79.5 mmol) in
pyridine (250 mL) was added DMTrC (28.2 g, 83.5 mmol) at 0*C. The solution was stirred at
R.T. for 15 hours. The reaction was quenched with McOH and concentrated to dryness under
reduced pressure. The residue was dissolved in EtOAc and washed with water. The organic
layer was dried over Na 2 SO 4 and concentrated. The residue was dissolved in DCM (300 mL).
Imidazolc (13.6 g, 200 mmol) and TBSCI (30.0 g, 200 nnol) were added. The reaction mixture
was stirred at R.T. for 12 hours. The reaction mixture was washed with NaHCO 3 and brine.
The organic layer was dried over Na 2 SO 4 and concentrated. The residue (48.5 g, 79.5 mmol)
was dissolved in 80% HOAc aq. solution (400 mL). The mixture was stirred at R.T. for 20
hours. The mixture was diluted with EtOAc and washed with NaHCO3 solution and brine. The
organic layer was dried over Na 2SO4 and purified by silica gel column chromatography (1-2%
MeOH in DCM) to give P24-5 as a white solid (21.0 g, 70%). 'H NMR (400 MHz, MeOD) 3
7.83 (d,J= 8.0 Hz, IH), 6.14 (dd,J = 6.0 Hz,J     2= 10.0 Hz, IH), 5.73 (d,J= 8.4 Hz, IH), 4.38
4.46 (i, 1H), 3.89-3.91 (in, iH), 3.88 (dd,.J, = 2.8 Hz,.J 2 = 5.2 Hz, 1H), 3.72 (dd,.J = 2.8 Hz,
J2  = 5.2 Hz, IH), 0.93 (s, 9H), 0.15 (n, 6H). ESI-MS: m/z 379.1 [M + H]-.
          [0325]     Preparation of (P24-6):    To a solution of P24-5 (21.0 g, 55.6 inmol) in
 anhydrous CH35CN (200 nL) was added IBX (17.1 g, 61.1 mmol) at R.T. The reaction mixture
was refluxed for 1 hour and then cooled to 0"C. The precipitate was filtered off, and the filtrate
was concentrated to give the aldehyde as a yellow solid (21.0 g, 55.6 mmol). To a solution of
 the aldehyde (21.0 g, 55.6 mmol) in dioxane (200 mL) were added 37% CH 20 (22.2 mL, 222.4
 minmol) and 2N NaOH aq. solution (55.6 mL, 111.2 mmol). The mixture was stirred at R.T. for 2
 hours and then neutralized with AcOH to pH = 7. To the reaction were added EtOH (50 mL)
 and NaBH 4 (12.7 g, 333,6 mmol). The mixture was stirred at R.T. for 30 mins. The reaction
 was quenched with saturated aq. NH4CI. extracted with EA. The organic layer was dried over
 Na 2 SO4 and concentrated. The residue was purified by silica gel column chromatography (1-3%
 MeOH in DCM) to give P24-6 as a white solid (13.5 g, 59.5%).
          [0326]      Preparation of(P24-7): To a solution of P24-6 (13.5 g, 33.1 mmol) in DCM
 (100 mL) were added pyridine (20 mL) and DMTrCI (11.2 g, 33.1 mmol) at 0*C. The solution
 was stirred at 25 0 C for 3 hours, and then treated with MeOH (30 iL). The solvent was
 removed, and the residue was purified by silica gel column chromatography (DCM:MeOH             =
                                               -142-

  300:1 to 100:1) to give a residue. The residue was dissolved in anhydrous pyridine (150 mL)
  and TBDPSCl (16.5 g, 60 mmol) and AgNO 3 (10.2 g, 60 mmoi)       were added. The mixture was
 stirred at 25*C for 15 hours, and then filtered and concentrated. The mixture was dissolved in
 EtOAc and washed with brine. The organic layer was dried over Na 2 SO4 . Purified by silica gel
 column chromatography (DCM:McOH = 300:1 to 100:1) gave the product as a yellow solid
 (16.2 g, 85.3%). The solid was dissolved in 80% HOAc aq. solution (400 mL). The mixture
 was stirred at R.T. for 15 hours.      The mixture was diluted with EtOAc and washed with
 NaHCO 3 solution and brine. The organic layer was dried over Na 2 SO4 and purified by silica gel
 column chromatography (DCM:MeOH = 200:1 to 50:1) to give P24-7 as a white solid (9.5 g,
 86.5%).H NMR (CD 3 0D, 400 MIHz) 67.39-7.70 (in, I IH), 6.34-6.38 (in, IH), 5.12 (d, J= 8.0
 Hz, 1H), 4.79 (dd, .J = 10.0 Hz, .J = 16.0 Hz, IH), 4,14 (dd, J, = 1.6 Hz, 12 = 11.6 Hz, I H),
 3.48-3.84 (in, 2H), 3.49 (dd, JI = 1.6 Hz, .J2 = 11.6 Hz, 1H),1.12 (s, 9H), 0.92 (s, 9H), 0.16 (s,
 6H).
          [0327]      Preparation of (P24-8):     To a solution of P24-7 (6.0 g, 9.3 mmol) in
 anhydrous DCM (80 mL) was added Dess-Martin periodinanc (7.9 g, 18.6 mmol) at 0*C under
 nitrogen. The reaction was stirred at R.T. for 1 hour. The solvent was removed in vacuO, and
 the residue was triturated with diethyl ether (50 mL). The mixture was filtered through a pad of
 MgSO 4 , and the organic solvent was stirred with an equal volume of Na 2 S2 0 3 .5H2 0 in saturated
NaHCO3 (50 mL) until the organic layer became clear (approx. 10 mini). The organic layer was
 separated, washed with brine, and dried over MgSO 4 . After concentration in vacuo, P24-8 was
obtained as a red solid (5.8 g.98%).
         [03281       Preparation of (P24-9):      To a mixture of methyltriphenylphosphonium
bromide (9.6 g, 27.0 mmol) in anhydrous THIF (60 mL) was added n-BuLi (10.8 mL, 27.0
mmol) at -70"C tinder nitrogen. The reaction was stirred at 0*C for 30 mins. A solution of P24
8 (5.8 g, 9.0 mmol) in anhydrous THIF (20 mL) was added dropwise at 0C tinder nitrogen. The
reaction was stirred at R.T. for 12 hours. The reaction was quenched with NH4 CI and extracted
with EtOAc. The organic layer was separated, dried and concentrated, and the residue was
purified by silica gel column chromatography (DCM:MeOH = 300:1 to 100:1) to give P24-9 as
a white solid (3.0 g, 51%).
         [03291       Preparation of (P24-10):     To a solution of P24-9 (2.9 g, 4.5 mnol) in
anhydrous MeOH (20 mL)         was added Pd/C (1.4 g) at 25'C under hydrogen atmosphere. The
mixture was stirred at 254C for 1 hour. The solution was filtered, evaporated to dryness and
purified on a silica gel column (DCM:MeOH =3 00:1 to 100:1) to give P24-10 as a white solid
(2.3 g, 79.3 %)
                                                -143-

         103301      Preparation of (P24-11): To a solution of P24-10 (1.0 g, 1.55 mrnmol) in
anhydrous CH 3CN (20 mL) were added TPSCI (940 mg, 3.1 mmol), DMAP (380 mg, 3.1 mmol)
and NEt 3 (470 mg, 4.6 mmol) at R.T. The reaction was stirred at R.T. for 5 hours. NH 40H (8
mL) was added, and the reaction was stirred for 1 hour. The mixture was diluted with DCM
(150 mL) and washed with water, 0.1 M HCI and saturated aq. NaHCO3 . The solvent was
removed, and the residue was purified by silica gel column chromatography (PE:EA = 10:1 to
 1:1) to give the crude product as a yellow solid (900 mg, 90 %). To a solution of the crude
product in DCM (10 mL) were added MMTrCI (930 mg, 3.0 mmol), AgNOs (510 mg, 3.0
mmol) and colliding (720 mg, 6.0 mnol) at R.T. The reaction was stirred for 12 hours at R.T.
The reaction was filtered, concentrated and purified by silica gel column chromatography
(DCM:MeOH=200:1 to 50:1) to give P24-11 as a yellow solid (1.1 g, 77.6%A).
         [03311      Preparation of (P24-12):    To a solution of P24-11 (1.1 g, 1.2 mmol) in
MeOH (40 mL) was added NH 4 F (1.0 g, 30 mmol) at 25"C and stirred at 70*C for 15 hours. The
solution was filtered and evaporated to dryness, and the residue was purified by silica gel
column (DCM:MeOH = 200:1 to 20:1) to give P24-12 as a white solid (450 mg, 66.6%). 'H
NMR (400 MHz, MeOD) 658.58 (s, 1H), 7.62 (d, J= 7.6 Hz, 1H), 7.13-7.30 (in, 12H), 6.83-6.85
(in,  2H), 6.29 (d, J= 7.6 Hz, 1H), 6.18 (d,J= 6.0 Hz, 1IH), 5.94 (t, J= 8.0 Hz, IH), 5.22 (t, J=
 5.2 Hz, IH), 4.28-4.37 (in, IH), 3.72 (s, 3H), 3.57-3.62 (in, IH), 1,39-1.60 (in, 21-1), 0.79-0.84
 (in, 3H). ESI-LCMS: m/z 563.6 [M + H]*.
         [0332]       Preparation of (24a): P24-12 (250 mg, 0.44 mmol) was dissolved in 80%
 HCOOH in H2 0 (6.0 g) at 25*C. The mixture was stirred at 35*C for 15 hours. The solution
 was evaporated to dryness, dissolved in MeOH (30 mL) and stirred at 60'C for 12 hours. The
 solution was evaporated to dryness and purified by silica gel column chromatography
 (DCM:MeOH = 100:1 to 100:1) to give compound 24a as a white solid (125.6 ing, 97%). 1H
 NMR (400 MHz, McOD) 657.91 (d, J= 7.6 Hz, IH), 6.19 (t, J = 7.6 Hz, IH), 5.90 (d, J= 7.2
 Hz, IH), 4.47 (t, J=13.6 Hz, IH), 3.67 (d, J= 12.0 Hz, iH), 3.52 (d,J= 12.0 Hz, 1H), 1.73-1.82
 (in, IH), 1.53-1.63 (in, 1H), 095 (t,J=7.6 Hz, 3H). ESI-LCMS: m/z 291.9 [M + H]'.
                                               -144-

                                            EXAMPLE 25
                                    Preparation of Compound (25a)
              H               N                    HO             N
                                     :NH                                     NH
                   Hd       F         NH2            TBSd       F           NH2
                      P25-1                               P25-2
              HO              N                                      N
                      TBSGH Nz                       HO-"-
                                                     F1                        NH
                TBSd       'F        NHMMTr             TBSd      F              HMMTr
                      P25-3                                 P25-4
                                      oN
                                      0                                    :N       0
       TBDPSO         0      N                     TBDPSO         0      N/
                                     NH      -1                 z=               NH
               TBSd       F         NHMMTr                TBSO       'F           NHMMTr
                    P25-5                                       P25-6
                                      -N 0                                  ftZN      a
            TBDPSO         0     N                        HO        0          /
                       =:
                      PSV           N zNH       -            ~~       r~        NzNNH
                   TBSd        F        NHMMTr                 Hd       'F         NHMMTr
                        P25-7                                    P25-8
                                          0
                                  -N
                HO        O     N
                                        NH
                     Hd       F        NH2
                        25a
         [03331       Preparation of (P25-2):     To a solution of P25-1 (20.0 g, 70.16 mmol) in
anhydrous pyridine (200 mL) was added imidazole (19.08 g, 280.7 mmol) and TBSCI (42.10 g,
280.7 mmol) at 25*C. The solution was stirred at 25*C for 15 hours, and then concentrated to
dryness tinder reduced pressure. The residue was washed with EtOAc to give the crude product
as a white solid (36.4 g). The crude product was dissolved in THF (150 mL) and H20 (100 mL),
and then HOAc (300 mL) was added. The solution was stirred at SOT for 13 hours. The
reaction was cooled to R.T., and the mixture was concentrated to dryness under reduced
pressure. The residue was dissolved washed with EtOAc and dried to give P25-2 as a white
solid (31.2 g, 60.9 %).
        [0334]        Preparation of (P25-3): To a stirred solution of P25-2 (31.2 g, 78.2 mmol)
in anhydrous pyridine (300 mL) was added Ac2O (11.96 g, 117.3 mmol). The mixture was
stirred at 25*C for 18 hours. MMTrCI (72.3 g, 234.6 mmol) and AgNO 3 (39.9 g, 234.6 mmol)
                                                -145-

were then added. The solution was stirred at 25*C for 15 hours. And H20 was added to quench
the reaction. The solution was concentrated to dryness under reduced pressure. The residue was
dissolved in EtOAc and washed with water. The organic layer was dried over Na2SO 4 and
filtered. The filtrate was concentrated in vacuo to give a residue. The residue was purified by
silica gel (DCM:MeOH = 200:1 to 50:1) to give the product. The product was dissolved in
NH 3/MeOH (300 mL), and the mixture was stirred at 250 C for 20 hours. The solvent was
removed, and the residue was purified on a silica gel column (DCM:MeOH = 100:1 to 50:1) to
give P25-3 as a yellow solid (28.6 g, 86.5 %). 'H NMR (400 MHz, MeOD) 68.01 (s, IH), 7.23
7.35(m, 12H), 6.85-6.87 (in, 2H), 5.60 (dd, .J = 11.2 Hz,,! 2 = 5.6 Hz, 1H), 4.78-4.94 (m, IH),
4.44 (dd, .J = 8.0 Hz,]J2 = 4.8 Hz, 1-1), 3.78 (s, 3H), 3.60-3.63 (m, 1H), 3.50 (dd, .J = 32.0 Hz,
J 2 = 12.0 Hz, 2H), 3.32 (s, 3H), 0.94 (s, 9H), 0.12-0.14 (m, 61-1).
         [0335]       Preparation of (P25-4):    To a solution of P25-3 (7.24 g, 10.79 mmol) in
anhydrous CH3CN (100 mL) was added IBX (3.93 g, 14.03 mmol) at 20"C. The reaction
mixture was refluxed at 90*C for I hour.          The reaction was filtered, and the filtrate was
concentrated to give the aldehyde as a yellow solid (7.1 g). To a solution of the aldehyde (7.1 g,
 10.6 mmol) in dioxane (80 mL) was added 37% CH20 (4.2 mL, 42.4 mnol) and 2N NaOH aq,
solution (8.0 mL, 15.9 mmot). The mixture was stirred at 25*C for 2 hours and then neutralized
with AcOH to pH = 7. To reaction was added EtOH (30 mL) and NaBH4 (2.4 g, 63.6 nmol),
the reaction was then stirred for 30 mins. The mixture was quenched with saturated aq. NH4CI.
The mixture was extracted with EA, and the organic layer was dried over Na2SO 4. The solvent
was removed, and the residue was purified by silica gel column chromatography (DCM:MeOH
=  200:1 to 50:1) to give P25-4 as a yellow solid (4.86 g, 65.4%).
         [0336]       Preparation of (P25-5): To a solution of P25-4 (3.8 g, 5.4 minol) in DCM
(40 mL) were added pyridine (10 mL) and DMTrCl (1.8 g, 5.4 nnol) at 00 C. The solution was
stirred at 25*C for I hour.       The reaction mixture was treated with MeOH (15 mL) and
concentrated. The residue was purified by silica gel column chromatography (DCM:MeOH            =
200:1 to 50:1) to give the mono-DMTr protected intermediate as a yellow solid (3.6 g, 66.4 %).
To a solution of the intermediate in anhydrous pyridine (30 mL) were added TBDPSCl (2.96 g,
10.8 mmol) and AgNO 3 (1.84 g, 10.8 mmol). The mixture was stirred at 250 C for 15 hours. The
mixture was filtered and concentrated, and then dissolved in EtOAc and washed with brine. The
organic layer was dried over Na 2SO4, and then concentrated. The residue was purified by silica
gel column chromatography (DCM:MeOH = 200:1 to 50:1) to give the pure intermediate as a
white solid (3.8 g, 85.1%). To a solution of the intermediate (3.6 g, 2.9 imol) in anhydrous
DCM (50 mL) was added C12 CHCOOH (1.8 rL) in anhydrous DCM (18 mL) at -78*C. The
                                                -146-

mixture was stirred at -10*C for 30 mins.        The mixture was quenched with saturated aq.
NaHC0 3 and extracted with DCM. The organic layer was dried over Na 2 SO 4, and then purified
by silica gel column chromatography (DCM:MeOH = 200:1 to 50:1) to give P25-5 as a white
solid (2.2 g, 80.7%).
         [03371      Preparation of (P25-6): P25-5 (2.2 g, 2.3 mol) was added to a suspension of
Dess-Martin periodinane (2.5 g, 5.8 mol) in anhydrous CH 2CI2 (30 mL) at 25*C. The mixture
was stirred at 25*C for 4 hours. The solvent was removed in vacuo, and the residue triturated
with diethyl ether (30 mL). The mixture was filtered through a pad of MgSO 4 . The organic
solvent was stirred with an equal volume of Na 2 S2O3 .5H20 in saturated NaHCO 3 (30 rnL) until
the organic layer became clear (approx. 10 min). The organic layer was separated, washed with
brine, and dried over MgSO4. The solvent was removed in vacuo to give P25-6 as a yellow
solid (2.1 g, 95%).
         [0338]       Preparation of (P25-7):      To a stirred solution of methyl-triphenyl
phosphonium bromide (2.3 g , 6.6 mmol) in anhydrous THF (30 mL) was added dropwise n
BuLi (2.6 mL, 6.6 mmol, 2.5 M in THF) at -78*C over 1 minute. Stirring was continued at 0 C
for 1 hour. P25-6 (2.1 g, 2.2 mmol) was added to the mixture, and then stirred at 25"C for 15
hours. The reaction was quenched with saturated NH 4 Cl (50 mL). The mixture was extracted
with EtOAc. The combined organic phase was dried with Na2SO4, filtered and evaporated to
dryness to give a light yellow oil.         The oil was purified by column chromatography
(DCM:MeOH = 200:1 to 50:1) to give P25-7 as a white solid (1.6 g, 76%).
         [0339]      Preparation of (P25-8): To a solution of P25-7 (1.6 g, 1.7 mmol) in MeOH
(50 nL) was added NH 4 F (1.5 g, 40 mmol), and the mixture was stirred at 70"C for 15 hours.
The solution was filtered and evaporated to dryness. The residue was purified by silica gel
column (DCM:McOH = 200:1 to 20:1) to give P25-8 as a white solid (450 mg, 49%). 'H NMR
(400 MHz, MeOD) 37.95 (s, IH), 7.21-7.33 (in, 12H), 6.82-6.84 (in, 2H), 5.92 (dd, J; = 11.2
Hz, .z= 17.6 Hz, IH), 5.55-5.59 (in, IH), 5.18-5.31 (in, 2H), 4.54-4.68 (in, lIH), 4.26-4.33 (in,
 IH), 3.76 (s, 3H), 3.43 (dd,I,;= 12.4 Hz, J2 = 36.4 Hz, 2H). ESI-LCMS: m/z 584.1 [M + H].
         10340]       Preparation of (25a):   P25-8 (130 mg, 0.22 nmol) was dissolved in 80%
HCOOH and the mixture was stirred at 25"C for 1 hour. Then the solution was evaporated to
dryness. The residue was dissolved in MeOH (30 mL) and stirred at 60"C for 12 hours. Then the
solution was evaporated to dryness, and the residue was washed by EtOAc to give P25 as a
white solid (52.3 mg, 76%).' H N'MR (400 M Hz, MeOD)88.03 (s, IH), 6.17 (dd,,J1 = 3.2 Hz,1       2
=  16.8 Hz, I H), 6.03 (dd, J. = 11.2 Hz,   2 = 17.2 Hz, I H), 5.50 (dd, JI =1.6 Hz, J2 = 17.2 Hz,
                                               -147-

1H), 5.23-5.38 (in, 2H),4.76 (dd, .j = 4.8 Hz, .12 = 18.0 Hz, 1H), 3.60 (dd, .J = 12.0 Hz, .12    =
44.8 Hz, 2H). ESI-MS: m/z 334.1 [M + Na]4 .
                                            EXAMPLE 26
                                    Preparation of Compound (26a)
                               4
                               N     a                                r N      0
        TBDPSO        0     N                     TBDPSO        0     N
              0-'               NNH                      w="                  NH
               TBSd       F        NHMMTr             HOTBSd       'F        NHMMTr
                    P25-6                                       P26-1
                                          N                               -N
         TBDPSO               N                           HO            N
                     NO'(         NNH                        NCO          N NHI
                 TBSO       F        NHMMTr                   Hd      F        NHMMTr
                      P26-2                                     P26-3
                         HO            N
                             NO_' 1       N~zNH
                              HO     F       NH2
                                 26a
          [03411       Preparation of (P26-1): To a stirred solution of P25-6 (2.1 g, 2.2 mnmol) in
 pyridine was added HONH2.HCJ (0.61 g, 8.8 mol) at 25"C. The mixture was stirred at 25"C
 for 2 hours.      The mixture was concentrated, and the residue was purified by column
 chromatography (DCM:MeOH = 200:1 to 50:1) to give P26-1 as a white solid (1.8 g, 83%).
          [0342]        Preparation of (P26-2): To a stirred solution of P26-1 (1.4 g, 1.47 mmol) in
 DCM were added TEA (0.44 g, 4.4 mmol) and methanesulfonyl chloride (0.34 g, 2.9 mol) at
 0*C. The mixture was stirred at 25*C for I hour. The mixture was quenched with saturated aq.
 NaHC0 3 and extracted with DCM. The organic phase was dried with Na 2SO 4, filtered and
 evaporated. The residue was purified by column chromatography (DCM:MeOH = 200:1 to
 50:1) to give P26-2 as a white solid (1.1 g,79%).
          {03431        Preparation of(P26-3): To a solution of P26-2 (1.1 g, 1.18 mmol) in McOH
 (50 inL) was added NH 4F (1.5 g, 40 mmol), and the mixture was stirred at 70"C for 15 hours.
 The solution was filtered and evaporated to dryness. The residue was purified by silica gel
  column (DCM:MeOH = 200:1 to 20:1) to give P26-3 as a white solid (400 mg, 71%). 'H NMR
  (400 MHz, McOD) 67.80 (s, IH), 7.20-7.32 (m, 12H), 6.86-6.88 (in, 2H), 5.82 (dd, J, = 2.0 Hz,
 J2 =  20.0 Hz, 1H), 4.51-4.66 (m, 1H), 3.94 (dd, Jr = 5.2 Hz, J2= 20.8 Hz, 1H), 3.78 (s, 3H), 3.56
  (dd, J, = 12.4 Hz, J2 = 42.0 Hz, 2H). ESI-LCMS: m/z 583.1 [M + H)-.
                                                  -148-

         103441        Preparation of (26a): P26-3 (200 mg, 0.34 mmol) was dissolved in 80%
 HCOOH aq. solution. The mixture was stirred at 25"C for I hour. The solution was evaporated
 to dryness, dissolved in MeOH (30 mL) and stirred at 60"C for 12 hours. The solvent was
 removed, and the residue was washed by EtOAc to give compound 26a as a white solid (100.4
 mg, 95%). 'HNMR (400 MHz, MeOD) 87.90 (s, IH), 6.34 (dd,.J, = 2.0 Hz,,1 2 = 19.6 Hz, IH),
 5.49 (ddd, J1 = 1.6 Hz, J 2 4.4 Hz, J3 = 52.4 Hz, IH), 5.01 (dd,,J 1 = 4.8 Hz, J2 = 20.8 Hz, IH),
 3.93 (dd, .J = 12.4 Hz, J2= 44.8 Hz, 2H). ESI-MS: m/z 311.1 [M + H]*.
                                             EXAMPLE 27
                                    Preparation of Compound (27a)
                                 N                                         -N
       TBDPSO           0     N /                  TBDPSO          0     N
               O='               N NHN                                            H
               TBSd        F          NHMMTr            CI TBSd       'F        NHMMTr
                     P25-6                                       P27-1
                                        oN                                    0
       TBDPSO                 N                      HO       0     N
                     *    -PS       N   HH                                   NH
               TBSd        F         NHMMTr              HO       F         NHMMTr
                         P27-2                                  P27-3
          HO        0     N/
               Hd       F         NH2
                   27a
        [0345]         Preparation of (P27-1):    To a stirred solution of chloromethyl-triphenyl
phosphonium chloride (1.9 g       , 5.4 mmol) in anhydrous THF (30 mL) was added dropwise n
BuLi (2.16 mL, 5.4 mmol, 2.5 M in THF) at -78"C over 10 minds. Stirring was continued at
78'C for 2 hours. P25-6 (1.7 g, 1.8 mmol) was added, and the mixture and stirred at 250 C for 15
hours. The reaction was quenched with saturated N-4Cl (50 mL). The mixture was extracted
with EtOAc. The combined organic phase was dried with Na 2 SO 4 , filtered and evaporated to
dryness to give a light yellow oil. The oil was purified by column chromatography
(DCM:McOH = 200:1 to 50:1) to give P27-1 as a white solid (1.2 g, 70%).
        10346]        Preparation of (P27-2): To a stirred solution of P27-1 (1.2 g, 1.3 mmol) in
anhydrous THF (20 mL) was added dropwise n-BuLi (8.0 mL, 20 mmol, 2.5 M in THF) at
78"C over 10 minutes. Stirring was continued at -78"C for 4 hours. The reaction was quenched
                                                -149-

with saturated NH 4CI (50 mL). The mixture was extracted with EtOAc (50 x 2 mL). The
combined organic phase was dried over Na 2SO4, filtered and evaporated to dryness. The residue
was purified by column chromatography (DCM:MeOH = 200:1 to 50:1) to give P27-2 as a
white solid (1.0 g, 83%).
        {03471       Preparation of (P27-3): To a solution of P27-2 (1.0 g, 1.1 mmol) in MeOH
(40 mL) was added NH4 F (1.5 g, 40 mmol), and the mixture was stirred at 70*C for 25 hours.
The solution was filtered, and the filtrate was evaporated to dryness. The residue was purified
on a silica gel column (DCM:MeOH = 200:1 to 20:1) to give P27-3 as a white solid (240 mg,
38%). 'H NM R (400 MHz, MeOD) 87.85 (s, IH), 7.21-7.31 (in, 12H), 6.84-6.87 (m, 2H), 5.67
(dd, .J =1.6 Hz, .12 = 19.2 Hz, 1H), 4.47-4.62 (in, iH), 3.94 (dd, .J = 5.2 Hz, .J  = 22.4Hz, IH),
3.77 (s, 3H), 3.56 (dd, .J = 12.4 Hz, .12 = 47.2 HIz, 2H), 3.04 (s, 1H). ESI-LCMS: ni/z 582.1 [M
+ H]j.
        [0348]       Preparation of (27a): P27-3 (130 mg, 0.22 minmol) was dissolved in 80%
HCOOH aq. solution. The mixture was stirred at 25*C for I hour. The solution was evaporated
to dryness. The residue was dissolved in MeOH (30 mL) and stirred at 60'C for 12 hours. The
solvent was removed, and the residue was washed with EtOAc to give compound 27a as a white
solid (43.0 mg, 63%). 'H NMR (400 MHz, McOD) 87.95 (s, I1H), 6.22 (dd, J, = 2.4 Hz, J2            =
 18.4Hz, IH), 5.49 (ddd,Jj =2.0 Hz, J2       4.8 Hz, .1 = 53.2 Hz, IH), 4.77 (dd,.1J = 5.2 Hz, J2 =
20.0 Hz, IH), 3.79 (dd,Jj   =  12.4 Hz, J2 =46.8 Hz, 2H), 3.12 (s, 3H). ESI-MS: m/z 310.1 [M +
 H].
                                                 -150-

                                                EXAMPLE 28
                                        Preparation of Compound (28a)
                         HON
                                   0
                                            HcrNoN /
                                                          r-  N
                                                                     '0
                                                                                   0
                                                                                           N
                                                                                               o
        HO       0      N/                                                               N
            Hd       'F          NH2            Hd      F         NHMMTr        Hd    'F     NHMMTr
              P25-1                               P28-1                           P28-2
                                 NN
                                         NH                                    NH
                               H1 N.                                      N tz
                                                                            7
                    H         F         NHMMTr            Bzd        F       NHMMTr
                        P28-3                                  P28-4
                           N                                    rN        0
                   o       //
      BzNH                                      Ho                       NH
                            NN'
                            N*z      ._
          Bzd      'F                                HO      'F         NHMMTr
             P28-5              NHMMTr                  P28-6
       HO       0      N/
            Hd      F           NH2
              28a
         [0349]          Preparation of (P28-11: To a stirred solution of P25-1 (5.7 g. 20 rmnol) in
 anhydrous pyridine (20 mL) was added dropwisc Ac 2O (5.8 mL, 60 mmol) at 0*C. The mixture
was stirred at R.T. for 10 hours. AgNO3 (8.5 g, 50 mmol) and MMTrCl (15.5 g, 50 mmol) were
 added. The mixture was stirred at R.T. for 10 hours. The solution was quenched with saturated
NaHCO 3 and extracted with EA. The organic layer was dried over Na 2 SO4 and concentrated.
The residue was purified on a silica gel column (DCM/MeOH = 100:1 to 50:1) to afford the
 intermediate as a light yellow solid (12.1 g, 93.4%). The solid was treated with saturated NH 3 in
MeOH at R.T. for 14 hours. The solvent was removed, and the residue was purified by silica gel
column chromatography (DCM/McOH = 80:1 to 30:1) to afford P28-1 as a white solid (9.2 g,
87.5%).
         [03501          Preparation of (P28-2): To a stirred solution of P28-1 (9.2 g, 16.5mnol) in
dry THIF (300 mL) were added imidazole (9.0 g, 132 mmol) and PPh 3 (34.8 g, 132 mmol). A
solution of 12 (26.0 g, 103 mmol) in THF (100 miL) was added dropwise under N 2 at 0*C. The
mixture was stirred at R.T. for 18 hours. The reaction was quenched with Na 2S2O3 solution, and
the mixture was extracted with EtOAc.               The organic layer was dried over Na2 SO4 and
                                                    -151-

concentrated. The residue was purified by silica gel column chromatography (DCM/MeOH              =
80:1 to 30:1) to give P28-2 as a light yellow solid (10.3 g, 93.4%).
         [0351]       Preparation of (P28-3): To a stirred solution of P28-2 (10.2 g, 15.3 mmol)
in dry THF (300 mL) was added DBU (4.7 g, 30.1 mnol). The mixture was stirred at 60"C for 8
hours. The solution was diluted with NaHCO3 solution and extracted with EtOAc. The organic
layer was dried over Na 2 SO 4 and concentrated. The residue was purified by silica gel column
chromatography (PE/EtOAc = 3:1 to 1:3) to afford P28-3 as a light yellow foam (6.2 g, 75.6 %).
'H NMR (CD30D, 400 MHz) (7.71(s, 1H), 7.23-7.76 (in, 14H), 6.74 (d,.J= 0.8 Hz, 2H), 5.83
5.88 (dd, J, = 2.8 Hz, J2= 16.0 Hz, 2H), 4.57-4.89 (in, 2H), 4.30-4.35(m, I H), 4.79 (s, 3H). ESI
MS: n/z 540 [M + H]'.
         [0352]       Preparation of (P28-4): To a stirred solution of P28-4 (5.42 g, 10 mmol) in
anhydrous CH 3 OH (100 mL) were added PbCO 3 (13.7 g, 53.1mmol) followed by a solution of I2
(12.3 g, 48.9 mmol) in CH3 OH (300 mL) at 0*C. The mixture was stirred at R.T. for 10 hours.
The solution was quenched with a Na 2 S20 3 solution and extracted with DCM. The organic layer
was washed with NaHCO3 solution, dried over Na 2SO4 and concentrated.             The residue was
purified by pre-HPLC (MeCN and 0.1% HCOOH in water) to give the pure product as a white
foam (2.4 g, 34 %). The product was dissolved in dry pyridine (20 mL) and BzCl (723 mg, 5.2
mmol) was added dropwise at 0*C. The mixture was stirred at 0*C for I hour. The solution was
quenched with NaHCO; solution, and extracted with EtOAc. The organic layer was dried over
Na 2SO 4 and concentrated.      The residue was purified by silica gel column chromatography
(PE/EtOAc = 5:1 to 1:1) to afford P28-4 as a white solid (2.1 g, 77.1%).
         [0353]       Preparation of (P28-5): P28-4 (2.0 g, 2.5 mmol), BzONa (3.6 g, 25 mmol)
and 15-crown-5 (5.5 g, 25 mmol) were suspended in DMF (50 rnL). The mixture was stirred at
110-125"C for 5 days. The precipitate was removed by filtration, and the filtrate was diluted
with EA.     The solution was washed with brine and dried over Na 2SO 4. The solvent was
removed, and the residue was purified on a silica gel column (PE/EA = 10/1 to 2/1) to afford
crude P28-5 as a light yellow foam (1.6 g, 80%).
         [03541       Preparation of (P28-6):      P28-5 (1.6    g, 2.Ommol) was dissolved in
methanolic ammonia (100 mL, saturated), and the mixture was stirred at R.T. for 20 hours. The
solvent was removed, and the residue was purified on a silica gel column (DCM/MeOH = 100:1
to 20:1) to give P28-6 as a white solid (410 mg, 34.9%). 'H NMR (400 MHz, MeOD) 87.84 (s,
 IH), 7.20-7.33 (in, 12H), 6.83-6.86 (in, 2H), 5.64 (dd, J, = 1.6 Hz, J2 = 18.4 Hz, I H), 4.46-4.62
(in, iH), 4.08 (dd, ,I = 6.0 Hz,.12 = 22.0 Hz, I H), 3.76 (s, 3H), 3.58 (dd, I = 12.4 Hz, Jp = 30.4
Hz, 2H), 3.31 (s, 3H). ESI-LCMS: m/z 588.1 [M + H].
                                               -152-

         [0355]      Preparation of (28a): P28-8 (200 mg, 0.34 mmol) was dissolved in 80%
HCOOH and the mixture was stirred at 25"C for 1 hour. The solution was evaporated to
dryness, and the residue was dissolved in MeOH (30 mL) and stirred at 60*C for 12 hours. The
solvent was removed, and the residue washed with EtOAc to give compound 28a as a white
solid (46.1 mg, 43%). 'H NMR (400 MHz, MeOD) 8 7.92 (s, IH), 6.22 (dd, .J = 1.6 Hz, .12           =
 18.8 Hz, IH), 5.25 (ddd, J, = 1.6 Hz, J2 = 6.0 Hz, Js = 54.0 Hz, IH), 4.89-4.91 (m, I H), 3.87 (d,
J= 11.6 Hz, IH), 3.67 (d,J= 12.0 Hz, IH), 3.44 (s, 3H). ESI-MS: m/z 316.1 [M + H]*.
                                          EXAMPLE 29
                                Preparation of Compound (29a)
                                                                   0
                                                          HC
                                                       0/          NH
                                                   I      "1       0
                                              O-      0
                                           y0
                                           --
                                             0
         t0356]     DEAD (40% in toluene, 0.15 mL, 0.33 imol) was added to a stirred solution
of triphenylphosphine (78 ing, 0.3 nmol) in anhydrous 1,4-dioxane (0.5 mL) at 0*C under
argon. The mixture was warmed up to R.T. and compound 10a (26 mg, 0.1 mmol) and
bis(pivaloyloxymethyl)phosphate (98 ing, 0.3 mnol) were added. The resulting mixture was
stirred at 65"C for 3 days. Diisopropylethylamine (50 PL) was added, and the mixture was
stirred at 70'C for 3 days. Another reaction of the same scale was conducted separately. The
two reaction mixtures were combined and concentrated. Chromatography on silica gel with 5
 10% methanol in DCM gave the desired product (20 mg) with a minor impurity. A second
chromatography on silica gel, followed by RP HPLC with acetonitrile/water, gave the
compound (2.8 ing ) as a colorless residue; 'H NMR (CD 3OD, 400 MHz) 87.65 (d, = 8.0 Hz,
 IH), 5.94 (dd, J, = 2.4 Hz,J2= 18.8 Hz, IH), 5.70 (d ,J= 8.0 Hiz, IH), 5.69 (d,.J= 0.8 Hz, IH),
5.,68 (s, IH), 5.654 (d, J= 1.2 Hz, IH), 5.650 (s, IH), 5.21 (dd, J= 2.0, 5.2 Hz, 0.5H), 5.07 (dd,
2.0, 5.2 Hz, 0.5H), 4.42 (dd, .= 5.6, 20.8 Hz, 114), 4.14 (m, 2H), 1.223 (s, 91H), 1.220 (m, 9H);
"P NMR (CD 30D) 4.92 (s); MS: mL/z 698 [M + 2-methylheptylamine]
                                                 -153-

                                              EXAMPLE 30
                                   Preparation of Compound (30a)
                                     0              o
                                                    11
                                        01O        P-OH
                      NMMT                          O                                     NHMMT
                                         00                      0I
                                          _______0                                           0
                                                      Et3 N         O  O    -- O      O      O
                                    BOP-Cl, DIPEA, NT
              HG      F             THF; OC; 90 min                                iH
            HO       IF                                              O   O       HO3     IF
                 1-1                                                                   1-2
                                                               NH2
                                  O            0                 N
        80% aq. HCOOH                0    O-PLO             O N-O
                                                O
          35-370C: 3 h
                                      S    O           HO      F
                                                           30a
         103571         Preparation of (1-2): To a solution of 1-1 (313 mg; 0.55 mmol) in THIF (8
mL) under Ar was added a solution of triethylammonium bis(POM)phosphate in THF (prepared
from bis(POM)phosphate (215 mg ; 1.2 equiv), THF (2 mL) and Et 3N (0.1 mL; 1.3 equiv)).
The resulting mixture cooled in an ice-bath. Diisopropylethyl amine (0.38 mL; 4 equiv) was
added. BOP-Cl (280 mg; 2 equiv) and 3-nitro-1,2,4-triazole (125 mg; 2 equiv) was then added.
The reaction mixture was stirred at 0*C for 90 mins. The mixture was diluted with CH 2 C12 (60
mL) and washed with saturated aq. NaHCO3 (2 x 10 mL) and brine. The combined aqueous
layers were back extracted with CH 2 CI 2 (~20 mL). The combined organic extract was dried
(Na 2SO 4) and evaporated. The residue purified on silica (25 g column) with CH 2 C12 /i-PrOH
solvent system (2-10% gradient). Yield: 140 mg (27%).
          [0358]        Preparation of (30a): A solution of 1-2 (110 mg; 0.13 mmol) in 80% aq.
 formic acid was heated at 35-37"C for 3 hours. The mixture was evaporated to give an oily
 residue.    The residue was co-evaporated 2 times with toluene.           Purification on a silica gel
 column (10 g) with CH 2CI 2 /MeOH solvent system (4-10% gradient) to afford compound 30a
 (46 mg, 59% yield). "P-NMR (DMSO-d): 6 -4.45. MS: m/z 646 (M+46-1).
                                                        -154-

                                              EXAMPLE 31
                                    Preparation of Compound (31a)
                                     0            0
                                              O-P-OH
                                                  0
                     NHDMT                                                          NHDMT
         HO               OOEtN                                  O    -    O
                                   BOP-CI, DIPEA, NT                    O
                                   THF; 00 C; 90 min                         H
            Hd      IF                                           O   O       Hd    'F
                 2-1                                                             2-2
                                                             NH2
                                     0            0            N
             80% aq. HCOOH             0      O   -O      O  N   O
              35-370C; 3 h
                                            Oo         Hd    F
                                                         31a
         [0359]       Preparation of (2-2): To a solution of 2-1 (370 mg; 0.64 mmol) in THF (10
 mL) under Ar was added tricthylammonium bis(POM)phosphate (330 mg; 1.2 equiv).              The
 mixture cooled in ice-bath, and diisopropylethyl amine (0.42 mL; 4 equiv) was added. BOP-Ct
 (305 mg; 2 cquiv) and 3-nitro-1,2,4-triazole (137 mg; 2 equiv) was then added. The reaction
 mixture was stirred at 0"C for 90 mins. The mixture was diluted with CH2C12 (50 mL) and
 washed with saturated aq. NaHCO 3 (2 x 10 mL) and brine. The combined aqueous layers were
 back extracted with CH 2C     2 (~20 mL).      The combined organic extract was dried (Na 2SO4),
 evaporated, and the residue purified on silica (25 g column) with CH2C12 /i-PrOH solvent
 system (2-10% gradient). Yield: 154 ng (27%).
        [0360J        Preparation of (31a): A solution of 2-2 (68 mg; 0.08 mmol) in 80% aq.
formic acid was stirred at R.T. for 3 hours. The mixture was evaporated to an oily residue. The
residue was co-evaporated 2 times with toluene. Purification on a silica gel column (10 g) with
CH2C12 /MeOH solvent system (4-10% gradient; target compound cluted with 8% McOH)
afforded 31a (35 mg, 78% yield). "P-NMR (DMSO-d 6 ): 5 -4.19.           MS: m/z 580 (M-1), 646
(M+46-1), 550 (M-30-1).
                                                  -155-

                                          EXAMPLE 32
                                Preparation of Compound (32a)
                                    0                                            O
          HO     HO~~~ a O               I0    Et3NO         0   O ----OO V
                                 BOP-Cl, DIPEA, NT
             Hd     F            THF; 00C; 90min              0          Hd     'F
                3-1                                                         32a
         [03611     To a solution of 3-1 (71 mg; 0.26 mmol) in THIF (4 mL) under Ar was added
triethylammonium bis(POM)phosphate (144 mg; 1.2 equiv), and the resulting mixture was
cooled in an ice-bath, and diisopropylethyl amine (0.18 mL; 4 equiv) was added. BOP-Cl (132
 ng; 2 equiv) and 3-nitro-1,2,4-triazolc (59 mg; 2 equiv) was then added. The reaction mixture
was stirred at 0*C for I hour. The mixture was diluted with C1 2 C 2 (50 mL) and washed with
saturated aq. NaHCO 3 (2 x 10 mL) and brine. The combined aqueous layers were back
extracted with CH 2 CI2 (~20 mL).         The combined organic extract was dried (Na 2SO4,
 evaporated, and the residue was purified on silica (10 g column) with CH 2C12/MeOH solvent
 system (4-10% gradient). Compound 32a was repurified by RP-H PLC (35-90%B; A: water, B:
                                 3 P-NMR (DMSO-d,): 6 -4.14. MS: m/z 627 (M+46-1), 551 (M
 McOH). Yield 75 mg (50%).
 30-1).
                                                 -156-

                                            EXAMPLE 33
                                  Preparation of Compound (33a)
                                        S
                                                P-N
                     NHDMT                   O                                      NHDMT
                                      ETT/MeCN                                   0
                                  2) MCPBA/CH 2 Cl2        O
            HO'     F                                                        Hd    F
                4-1                                                             4-2
                                                          NH2
            80% aq.AcOH                   O-     O            O
                                0                        F
                                           O        H33a
        10362]        Preparation of (4-2): To a solution of 4-1 (0.29 g; 0.5 mmol) in McCN (8
 mL) was added 5-ethylthio-lH-tetrazole in McCN (0.25 M; 2.4 mL; 1.2 equiv).           BisSATE
 phosphoramidate (0.24 g; 1.05 equiv.) in McCN (1.5 mL) was added over 90 mins. The reaction
mixture was stirred for 4 hours at R.T., and then cooled to -404C. MCPBA (0.23 g; 2 equiv.) in
CH 2C12 (3 mL) was added.         The mixture was allowed to warm to R.T. and diluted with
EtOAc(50 nL). The mixture was washed with 10% aq. NaHSO3 (2 x 10 nL), saturated aq.
NaHC0    3 (2 x 10 mL) and brine. The mixture was then dried (Na 2 SO 4 ). The evaporated residue
was purified on silica (10 g column) with CH 2 Cl 2 /McOH solvent system (4-10% gradient) to
afford 4-2 (0.26 g, 55% yield).
        [03631        Preparation of (33a):  A solution of 4-2 (0.21 g; 0.22 mmol) in 80% aq.
AcOH (15 mL) was stirred 4 hours at R.T. The mixture was evaporated and purified on silica
(10 g column) with CH 2CI 2 /MeOH solvent system (4-10% gradient). Yield: 0.13 g (90%).      31
                                                                                               P
NMR (DMSO-d 6 ): 6 -2.00. MS: m/z 686 (M+46-1).
                                               -157-

                                          EXAMPLE 34
                             Preparation of Compounds (34a)-(34e)
                                        N          9
                                         'NH + 01-    01C
                                                   O
                                            N7
                            NH         rN,N     N         NNH
         HO
                   N         NHMMT           O              N-   -O      -N    N   NHMMT
            HO     F                                                HO     F
HO-    -O-NOO
                Rf
                V                -
                                                        2
                                                    HO-P-O-P-O-p-O
                                                                                   OH9
                                                                                       HN
                                     NH                 I    I    I
     OH OH OH
                   RO O              NH2                OH OH OH RN                   NHMMT
                    HO     F                                           HO    F
        [0364]     1,2,4-Triazol (42 mg, 0.6 mmol) was suspended of dry CH 3CN (1 mL).
Triethylamine was added (0.088 mL, 0.63 mmol), and the mixture was vortexed to obtain a clear
solution. After addition of POCl, (0.01 mL, 0.1 mmol), the mixture was vortexed and left for 20
min.    The mixture was then centrifigated.        The supernatant was added to the protected
nucleoside (0.05 mmol), and the mixture was kept at ambient temperature for I hour.
Tris(tetrabutylammonium) hydrogen pyrophosphate (180 mg, 0.2 mmol) was added, and the
mixture was kept for 2 hours at R.T. The reaction was quenched with water, evaporated,
dissolved in 80% formic acid and left for 2 hours at R.T. Formic acid was evaporated, and the
residue dissolved in water (5 mL) and extracted with EA (2 x 2 mL). The aqueous fraction was
loaded onto column HiLoad 16/10 with     Q Sepharose   High Performance (linear gradient of NaCI
from 0 to IN in 50mM TRIS-buffer (pH = 7.5)). Fractions containing the triphosphate were
combined, concentrated and desalted by RP HPLC on Synergy 4 micron Hydro-RP column
(Phenominex) using a linear gradient of methanol from 0 to 20% in 50mM tricthylammonium
acetate buffer (pH 7.5) for elution.       The following compounds shown in Table I were
synthesized according this procedure:
                                               -158-

Table I - Triphosphates obtained from Example 34
                                                        opudPNMR   "PNMR       MR  MS
                   Compound                             Pa            PP     Py   (M-)
        O     0      0                   N
   HO-P-0-P-0-P-a               O     N/
               |                              NH      -11.31        -20.82 -5.48
        OH    OH     OH //-              N                d            t     d    550.2
                             HO     F        NH2
                        34a
        O     0      0N
   HO-P-O-P-0-P-O               ON
         |     |      |                N      NH       -9.13        -18.18 -2.85
        OH    OH     OH                  N    H           d            t     d    548.2
                             HO    IF        NH2
                        34b
        O     0      0                   N
         - O      O      -                    NH      -10.95        -20.62 -5.37
        OH    OH     OH                  N                d           bs     bs   552.2
                             HO     F        NH2
                        34c
   HO-P-0-P-0-P-O               O    N
        OH          OHN/O-N
              OH OHOH    O                   NH       -11.24
                                                          d         -20.82
                                                                       t   -5.48
                                                                             d    554.2
                                                                                  542
                                           7
                            HO     F        NH,
                        34d                                      I
        O     0     O                    N
   HO-P-O--O-P-O;               O     N
       OH S   OHH    ON
                    OH   4>.             N 7
                                              NH      -12.06
                                                          d         -20.97
                                                                       t   -5.69
                                                                             d64. 549.2
                           NH&    tF         NH2
                        34e
                                                -159-

                                           EXAMPLE 35
                                 Preparation of Compound (35a)
                                           CI
                              rNNH +Ul-       I
                                        40
                                   N-\
                                     I--      N        O    O     ON=/                  N
                    N=N-        N-
                      NN      N - -N.~j~~/~
                         Ni--NI     I0      N0         1[    ||   |1            P  N
                 N\                            - HO-P-0-7-             O     O-N
       CYHO N                                          OH    OH   OH
cl                                                                   CIW
                                                                         HO    F
      HO    F
                                                  HO-P-0-P-0-P0
                                                                         I       N
                                                                                   NH 2H
                                                       OH    OH    OH              O
                                                                     CID
                                                                          HO    F
        103651      1,2,4-Triazol (42 mg, 0.6 mmol) was suspended in dry CH 3CN (1 mL).
Triethylamine was added (0.088 mL, 0.63 mmol), and the mixture was vortexed to obtain a clear
solution. After addition of POCl 3 (0.01 mL, 0.1 Imol), the mixture was vortexed and left for 20
mins. The mixture was centrifugated, and the supernatant was added to the protected nucleoside
(0.05    mmol).       The    mixture     was     kept    at ambient    temperature  for   I hour.
Tris(tetrabutylammonium) hydrogen pyrophosphate (180 mg, 0.2 mmol) was added, and the
mixture was kept for 2 hours at R.T.          The reaction was quenched with water, evaporated,
dissolved in ammonium hydroxide and left for 2 hours at R.T. The solvent was evaporated, and
the residue dissolved in water (10 mL). The mixture was loaded onto a column HiLoad 16/10
with  Q Sepharose   High Performance. Separation was done in linear gradient of NaCl from 0 to
 IN in 50mM TRIS-buffer (pH7.5).           The fractions containing the product were combined,
 concentrated and desalted by RP HPLC on Synergy 4 micron Hydro-RP column (Phenominex).
 A linear gradient of methanol from 0 to 20% in 50mM triethylammonium acetate buffer (pH
 7.5) was used for elution. MS (M-1): 532.1. "P-NMR (6 ppm): -5.12 (d), -11.31 (d) and -20.43
 (t).
                                                   -160-

                                                EXAMPLE 36
                                 Preparation of Compounds (36a)-(36d)
                                 NH2                                 N'  N
                                                                           POCL3/PO(OMc) 3
                                 N/ot                               N      pyrophosphate
                   HR       N-                           HR     N
                    HO      F                               HO F
                                                   N-N
               O     0       0                  N            N                                 H
                                                                                              NH2
           HO -O-P-O-P-O
                               I    xyO     N
                                               0
                                                              HO-O- 0 -         -O
                                                                                     -'7
                                                                                         O N0
               OH    OH      OH R                               OH      OH    OHR
                                   HO       F                                       HO     F
         [03661     2 '-Deoxy-2'-fluoro-4'-alkyl-cytidine
                                                                (0.09 mmol) was dissolved in the
 mixture of DMF (5 ml) and N,N'-dimcthylacetate in DMF (0.110 mL, 0.9 mmol). The reaction
 mixture left at R.T. overnight. The solvent was evaporated, and the residue purified by flash
 chromatography in gradient of methanol in DCM from 3%to 20%. The N-Protected nucleoside
was concentrated in vacuum, dried and dissolved in diy trimethylphosphate (0.7 mL). The
solution was cooled to 4C and POCl 3 (0.017 mL, 0.18 mrnol) was added. In I hour,
tributylamine (0.102 mL, 0.3 mmol) was added at R.T. Tributylammonium pyrophosphate (156
mg, 0.34 mmol) was then added. Dry DMF (about 0.100 mL) was added to solubilize
pyrophosphate. After 2 hours, the reaction was quenched with TEAB-buffer. The product was
isolated by ion-exchange chromatography on AKTA Explorer as described in Example 35. The
fractions containing the product were concentrated and treated with NH40H for 2 hours at R.T.
The product was desalted by RP HPLC as described in Example 35.
Table 2 - Triphosphates obtained from Example 36
                   Compound                         '-"P NMR      "PNMR        'PNMR            MS
                                                          Pap         PS             Py        (M~)
                                              NH2
          o     0       0
          11 if         11              e -I
     HO-P -O-P-O-p-O              o     N.-             -11.38      -22.88         -7.62
          OH    OH     OH /                 0             bs          bs             bs       512.1
                               Ho     F
                        36a
                                              NH 2
         O      0      0
                                                        -11.49      -20.41         -5.34
         OH     OH     OH    /                            bs          bs             bs       510.0
                       36b
                                                    -161-

                                                        "P NMR         3
                                                                         P NMR          3
                                                                                          P NMR      MS
                 Compound
                Cmpund                                        Pa             Pp               Py    (M~)
                                                    NH2
   o       a          a
HO-P-O-P-O-P-O                      O N(                  -11.96         -22.07            -5.66    508.3
   OH      OH        OH                         O             bs              t                d
                                 HO       F
                      36c
                                                    NH2
   O       0          0
HO-P-0-P-           -P-O                O                 -11.90         -23.23           -10.66    514.0
   OH       OH        OH        O0O                            d              t                d
                                 HO       F
                      36d
                                                NH2
      OH     OH       OH                        N
  HO-P-C-P-O-P-0                           N-'               1.7          -30
      HO                        OO           -             -11.77         -23.05          -9.70s    529.9
      O      O        O       1g                               d               t
                              F     4
                                 HO      F
                       36e
                                                 NH2
      OH     OH       OH                         N
  HO-P -O--                                N-(0            -11.74         -23.37           -10.85   539.22
      II     it        11             '~         0              d                              d53
      O      0        0
                                 HO       F
                       36f
                                                 NH2
      OH     OH        OH                        N
  HO-    -O-P-0-F           -               N               -11.87        -23.32           -10.83
                 II      II
                       II0                                                      t6523.9
      O      0         0          "
                                  HO      F
                       36g
                                                  NH2
      OH     OH        OH                         N
  HO-P-O- -O-p                O             N-              -11.48         -23.26           -10.63
      11      11       HI                         0             dtd526.1
      O      0         0d                                                                       d
                                  HO       F
                        36h
                                                  NH2
      OH     OH        OH                         N
       I      I         I                   H
  HO-P-O-P-O-P
      1I      11       11 O0                 N- O~0            -167         ~23-22           ~10.77  554.1
                                                                                                     54.
      O       0        0,do
                                  HO       F
                         361
                                                  NH2
       OH     OH       OH
        I      I        I
  HO-P-0--O--P-O                            N-N              -11.97         -23.34           -10.92
           11 It(~O6                                                                                 523.9
                         36j162
                                                        -162-

                                            EXAMPLE 37
                                  Preparation of Compounds (37a)
                                     NH + CI-       CI
                                              0
                                         I1-
                                        N
        HOO                       N--     N      N HO-      -O   O                    -0
                       NHs              0                                         Nr
                                                       SOH     H    OH                   H
                                                                             Hd 'IF
          [03671    Compound 37a was synthesized by reaction of phosphor(tris-triazolide) with
 4'-ethyl-2'-deoxy-2'-fluoro-uridine as described Examples 34 and 35. MS (M-1): 513.1. 3 1P
 NMR (6 ppm): -9.43 (bs), -11.68 (d) and -23.09 (bs).
                                           EXAMPLE 38
                                 Preparation of Compounds (38a)
                            NH2 POC13/PO(OMe)3/Py                                   NH2
             HO       ,N          pyrophosphate                                   N
                           d                             OH   OH      JHAI.)
               HO    'F                                                HO     F
         [0368]     The starting nuclcoside (15        mg, 0.05 rnmol) was dissolved in dry
trimethylphosphate (3 mL). The solution was cooled to 4*C. POCl 3 (0.013 mL, 0.125 mmoel)
was added, followed by pyridine (0.01 mL, 0.125 mmol). In I hour, tributylamine (0.035mL,
0.125 mmol) was added at R.T. followed by tributylammonium pyrophosphate (156 mg, 0.34
mmol). Dry DMF (about 0.100 mL) was added to solubilize pyrophosphate. In 2 hours, the
reaction was quenched with TEAB-buffer. The product was isolated by ion-exchange
chromatography on AKTA Explorer as described in Example 35. The fractions containing the
product were concentrated and treated with NH 4 0H for 2 hours at R.T. The product was
desalted by RP HPLC as described in Example 35.           MS (M-1): 529.9. "P-NMR (8 ppm):
9.42(d), -11.59(d) and -23.03(t).
                                                -163-

                                             EXAMPLE 39
                                   Preparation of Compound (40a)
                  O                                  0                             0
                  NH                                 NPMB                          NPMB
 HO HO>O0N    N  OHO
                 0                 HO      0    N                 H        NN
                                                                          0N~
     Hd      F                        Bnd      F                    BnO'      F
       40-1                             40-2                            40-3
                    0                               0                            o
                    NPMB                            NPMB                         NPMB
                    B             BnO      0    N              BO           N
                                  HOCY              0          H07>CJ'
      Bnd      F                      Bnd     F                   Bnd      F
         40-4                            40-5                         40-6
                   O                               0                            NHMMTr
                   NPMB                           NH                        'IN
 Bn            N                 B            N              Bn       0    N-
    Bnd 'IF                         Bnd      F                   Bnd     F
        40-7                           40-8                         40-9
                 NHMMTr                                NH2
 HN                                   O           N
                                        F           O0
    Hd      'I                           H       F
       40-10                                40a
         [03691        Preparation of (40-2): To a solution of 40-1 (50.0 g, 205 mmol) in pyridine
(250 mL) was added DMTrCI (75.0 g, 225.0 mmol). The solution was stirred at R.T. for 15
hours. McOH (120 mL) was added, and the mixture was concentrated to dryness under reduced
pressure. The residue was dissolved in EA and washed with water. The organic layer was dried
over Na 2 SO 4 and concentrated to give the crude 5'-O-DMTr intermediate (80.52g) as a light
yellow solid. The intermediate was dissolved in anhydrous DMF (300 mL), and K2C0 3 (80.52g,
583.2 mmol) was added followed by PMBCI (31.7 g, 109.2 mmol). The mixture was stirred at
R.T. overnight. The reaction was diluted with EA and washed with brine. The organic phase
was dried over Na 2SO 4 and concentrated to give crude 5'-O-DMTr-N3-PMB FdU (98.8 g) as a
light yellow solid. The solid was dissolved in DMF (300 mL), and NaH (10.42 g, 260.5 mmol)
was added followed by BnBr (73.8 g, 434.2 mmol). The reaction was stirred at R.T. overnight
and then was quenched with water. The solution was diluted with EA and washed with brine.
The organic phase was dried over Na 2SO 4 and concentrated to give the crude fully blocked FdU
intermediate, which was purified on a silica gel column (PE:EA = 10:1 to 3:1) to the pure fully
blocked FdU (101.1 g).        The intermediate was treated with 80% HOAc (900 mL) at R.T.
                                                    -164-

overnight, and the solvent was removed. The residue was purified on a silica gel column to give
40-2 as a white foam (42.1 g, 30.2% for 4 steps).
        [03701      Preparation of (40-3):     To a solution of 40-2 (42.1 g, 92.6 mmol) in
anhydrous CH 3CN (300 mL) was added IBX (28.5 g, 121.7 mmol) at R.T. The reaction mixture
was refluxed for 1 hour and then cooled to 0*C. The precipitate was filtered-off, and the filtrate
was concentrated to give the crude aldehyde (39.22 g) as a yellow solid. To a solution of the
aldehyde (39.22 g) in 1,4-dioxane (250 mL) was added 37% C-20 (28.1 mL, 345.6 mmol) and
2N NaOH aqueous solution (86.4 mL, 172.8 mmol). The mixture was stirred at R.T. for 2 hours
and then neutralized with AcOH to pH = 7. EtOH (200 mL) and NaBH4 (19.7 g, 518.6 mmol)
were added, stirred at R.T. for 30 mins. The mixture was quenched with saturated aqueous
NH 4CI, and extracted with EA. The organic layer was dried over Na 2 SO 4 and concentrated.
The residue was purified by silica gel column chromatography (PE:EA = 4:1 to 2:1) to give 40-3
(25.5 g, 55.7%) as a white solid.
        [0371]      Preparation of (40-4): To a stirred solution of 40-3 (25.5 g, 52.5 mmol) in
anhydrous pyridine (150 mL) and anhydrous CH3CN (150 mL) was added BzCI (6.6 g, 52.47
mmol) dropwisc at 04C. The mixture was stirred at R.T. for 14 hours. The reaction was
quenched with H2 0, and the solution was concentrated. The residue was dissolved in EA and
washed with saturated NaHCO 3. The organic layer was dried over Na 2 SO 4 and concentrated.
The residue was purified on a silica gel column (PE/EA = 5:4) to give the mono-Bz protected
intermediate (18.1 g, 60.0%) as a white foam. To a stirred solution of this intermediate (18.1 g,
30.68 mmol) in DMF (100 mL) were added Cs 2 CO3 (30.0 g, 92.03 mmol) and BnBr (10.4 g,
61.36 mmol). The mixture was stirred at R.T. overnight. The reaction was quenched with
saturated NH 4 CI aq., extracted with EA and washed with brine. The solvent was removed to
give crude 40-4 (19.3g, 95.1%) as a light yellow solid.
        [0372]      Preparation of (40-5): To a stirred solution of 40-4 (19.3 g, 28.4 mmol) in
anhydrous MeOH (230 mL) was added NaOMc (24.9 g, 460 mmol) at R.T. The mixture was
stirred for 1 hour. The reaction was quenched with AcOH (10 mL) and concentrated. The
residue was purified on a silica gel column (PE/EA = 1/2) to afford 40-5 (11.2 g, 54.0%) as a
white solid.
        [0373]      Preparation of (40-6): To a stirred solution of compound 40-5 (200 mg,
0.347 mmol) in anhydrous DCM (5 mL) was added DMP (168 mg, 0.674 mmol) at R.T. The
mixture was stirred at R.T. for 2 hours. The solvent was removed, and the residue was purified
on a silica gel column (PE:EA = 5:1 to 1:1) to give the aldehyde crude as a light yellow solid
(200 mg). T o a stirred solution of the aldehyde (200 mg) in anhydrous THIF (5 mL) was added
                                              -165-

MeMgBr (1.0 mL, 1.01 mmol) at -78"C. The mixture was stirred at -78*C for 1 hour. The
reaction was quenched with saturated NH 4C aq and extracted with EA.                The concentrated
organic phase was purified by column chromatography (PE: EA = 5:1 to 1:1) to give 40-6 (a
mixture of stereomers, 135 mg, 65%) as a white solid.
         [03741        Preparation of (40-7): To a stirred solution of DAST (1.64 g, 10.17 mmol)
in anhydrous toluene (40 mL) was added dropwise a solution of compound 40-6 (1.2 g, 2.03
mmol) at -78*C. The mixture was stirred at -78 0 C for 30 mins. The solution was warmed to
60*C slowly and stirring was continued overnight. The mixture was poured into a saturated
Na 2 CO 3 solution. The concentrated organic phase was concentrated and purified on a silica gel
column (PE:EA = 10:1 to 3:1) to afford 40-7 as a white solid (1.08 g, 83.88%). IH NMR
(CD 30D, 400 MHz) 37.87 (d, J = 8.4Hz, I H), 7.27-7.37 (in, 12H), 6.82-6.84 (in, 2H), 6.14 (d, J
=1 6.8, 2.0Hz, 11-1), 5.18-5.50 (in, 4H), 4.96 (s, 2H), 4.45-4.88 (in, 7H), 3.67-3.89 (m, 5H).
         [0375]        Preparation of (40-8): A mixture of compound 40-7 (0.91g, 1.54 inmol) and
CAN (2.53 g, 4.61 inmol) in a 3:1 solution of MeCN:water (10 in L) was stirred at R.T.
overnight. Brine (10 mL) was added, and the mixture was extracted with EA. The combined
organic    extracts were dried and evaporated           under reduced     pressure. Purification by
chromatography on silica gel column with PB: EA=10:1 to 2:1 afforded 40-8 as a yellow solid
(305 mg, 41.96%).
         [0376]        Preparation of (40-9): To a stirred solution of 40-8 (350 mng, 0.74 mmol) in
anhydrous McCN (8 inL) were added TPSCI (449 mg, 1.48 mmol), DMAP (180 ing, 1.48
mmol) and TEA (374 mg, 3.70 mmol) at R.T.               The mixture was stirred at R.T. overnight.
NH 40H (15 mL) was added, and the mixture was stirred for 2 hours. The solvent was removed,
and the residue was purified on a silica gel column with PE: EA=8:1 to 1:1 to afford the crude
(380 ing crude), which was dissolved in anhydrous DCM (10 mL). A mixture of MMTrC
(695mg, 2.25mmol) and AgNO 3 (380mg, 2.25 nmol) was added at R.T., and the mixture was
stirred at R.T. overnight. The solid was filtered off and washed with DCM. The filtrate was
washed with brine and dried over Na 2 SO4 . The concentrated organic phase was purified on a
silica gel column (PE:EA = 8:1 to 2:1) to afford 40-9 as a yellow solid (460 mg, 81.33%).
         [0377]        Preparation of (40-10): To a stirred solution of compound 40-9 (450 mg,
 0.61 minmol) in acetone were added ammonium formate (1.29 g, 20.6mmol, in portions) and 10%
palladium on carbon (1.0 g). The mixture was refluxed for 12 h. The catalyst was filtered off
 and washed with acetone.        The filtrate was diluted with EA and washed with brine. The
 concentrated organic phase was purified by column chromatography (DCM:MeOH = 100:1 to
 15:1) to afford 40-10 as a white solid (250 mg, 72.8%). 1H NMR (DMSO-d6, 400 M Hz) 38.56
                                                  -166-

(s, 1H), 7.73 (d, J= 7.6 Hz, iH), 7.14-7.28 (m, 12H), 6.84 (d, = 8.8 Hz, 2H), 6.30 (d, = 7.6
 Hz, IH), 6.03-6.08 (m, iH), 5.84 (d, J = 5.2 Hz, IH), 5.33-5.35 (in, 1H), 4.97-5.18 (in, IH),
4.86-4.90 (in, IH), 4.34 (d, J = 4.4 Hz, 1H), 3.72 (s, 3H), 3.54-3.57 (m, 2H), 1.28 (dd, J, = 6.4
Hz,.12 = 25.6 Hz, 3H). ESI-MS: m/z 563.50 [M + H]'
         [0378]          Preparation of (40a): 40-10 (101 mg, 0.179 mmol) was dissolved in 80%
HOAc (20 mL) at R.T. The mixture was stirred at 504C for 5 hours. The solvent was removed,
and the residue was co-evaporated with toluene twice. The residue was purified by column
chromatography (DCM:MeOH = 100:1 to 10:1) to afford 40a as a white solid (36.6 mg,
70.26%). 'H NMR (CD 3OD, 400 MHz) 67.98 (d,.1 = 7.6 Hz, 1H), 6.20-6.24 (m, iH), 5.92 (d, .J
= 7.2 Hz, 1H), 5.17-5.30 (in, IH), 4.99-5.14 (in, IH), 4.51-4.86 (in, IH), 3.78 (d, J = 1.6 Hz,
21H), 1.35-1.43 (n, 3H). ESI-MS: m/z 291.84 [M + H], 582.81 [2M + Hf.
                                              EXAMPLE 40
                                    Preparation of Compound (41a)
                        0                                 0                           o
                        NH                                NBz                         NH
 TBDPS      0       NI              TBDPSO       C   N-O           TBDPSO           N
       TBSd       F                       TBSd      F                    TBSd      F
            41-1                               41-2                           41-3
                          NH2                              NH2
                      el-\N                          (/   N
  TBDPS     r    jN       O              HO       NJ
        TBSO        F                        HG      F
              41-4                               41a
         [03791          Preparation of (41-2): To a solution of 41-1 (3 g, 4.8 mmol) in anhydrous
DCM (50 mL) were added BzCI (1.3 g, 9.6 imol), DMAP (1.1 g, 9.6 inmol) and NEt, (4 mL) at
R.T. The reaction was stirred at R.T. for 2 hours. Water was added, and the reaction was stirred
for another I hour. The mixture was diluted with DCM (150 nL) and washed with water, 0.1 M
HCl and saturated aqueous NaHCO 3 . The solvent was removed, and the crude product was
purified by silica gel column chromatography (25% EtOAc in PE) to give 41-2 as a yellow solid
(2.8 g, 80.0%).
        [0380]           Preparation of (41-3): A mixture of 41-2 (2.6 g, 3.6 mnol) and Pd(OAc) 2
(100 ing) in DCM (50 mL) was suspended in a solution of CH2N 2 in Et2 0 (generated by
standard procedure, 350 mL) at -784C. The reaction was stirred to R.T. overnight. The mixture
was quenched with HOAc, and the reaction was stirred for another I hour. The mixture was
diluted with EtOAc (150 iL) and washed with water and saturated aqueous NaHCO3 . The
                                                    -167-

solvent was removed, and the crude was dissolved in NH 3 .MeOH (sat., 100 mL). The reaction
was stirred to R.T.     overnight.   The crude product was purified by silica gel column
chromatography (25% EtOAc in PE) to give 41-3 as a yellow solid (800 mg, 35.2%).
        [0381]     Preparation of (41-4):    To a solution of 41-3 (800 mg, 1.3 mmol) in
anhydrous CH3 CN (50 mL) were added TPSCI (755 mg, 2.5 mmol), DMAP (305 mg, 2.5 mmol)
and NEt3 (400 mg, 4 mmol) at R.T. The reaction was stirred at R.T. for 2 hours. NH 40H (25
mL) was added, and the reaction was stirred for another I hour. The mixture was diluted with
DCM (150 mL) and washed with water, 0.1 M HCI and saturated aqueous NaHCO 3. The
solvent was removed, and the crude product was purified by silica gel column chromatography
(25% EtOAc in PE) to give 41-4 as a yellow solid (340 mg, 42.5%).
        [03821     Preparation of (41a): To a solution of 41-4 (200.0 ng) in MeOH (10 mL)
was added NH 4 F (600 ng). The reaction was refluxed for 24 hours. The solvent was removed,
and the residue was purified by column chromatography on silica gel (DCM: MeOH = 15: 1) to
give 41a (50.0 mg, 55.9%) as a white solid. lH NMR (CD 30D, 400 M Hz) 3 8.13 (d, J= 7.6
Hz, IH), 6.01 (dd, .1 = 2.4 Hz, J2 = 15.6 Hz, IH),5.85 (d, J= 7.6 Hz, 1H), 5.04-4.89 (m,IH),
4.52 (dd, .J = 5.2 Hz, .12 = 19.6 Hz, IH), 3.66 (s, 2H), 1.00-0.94 (in, IH), 0.54-0.30 (in, 4H);
 ESI-MS: m/z 285.82 [M + H]*, 570.84 [2M + H].
                                              -168-

                                             EXAMPLE 41
                                   Preparation of Compound (42a)
                        H                            NH                              NH
     HOoN                           HO                  O                   o N
                                                     0/             HO-'*
         Hd     F                   MMTrd      F                     MMTrG F
           42-1             0              42-2             0             42-3           o
                            NH                              NH                      /    NH
            fo           N             N-iHO                          TB ON-         N
                       TfO J0                                      -B
           MMTrd       F                  MMTrd       'F               MMTrd      IF
                  42.4                           42-5                         4
                          NHDMTr                            NHDMTr            42-6       NHDMTr
                         1N                             HN                             -\N
                                                  0      No          ON
        HO           N O
       C2b1-~-,                          c1->C\                                 'Y
        MMTrd 'F                          MMTrd       'F                MMTrd       F
               42-7                             42-8                           42-9
                               NH2
              0N
              O              N
            -o~
                  HGEF
                      42a
        [03831         Preparation of (42-2): To a solution of 42-1 (50 g, 203 mmol) in anhydrous
pyridine (200 mL) was added TBDPSCl (83.7 g, 304 mmol, 1.5 eq). The reaction was stirred
overnight at R.T. The solution was concentrated under reduced pressure to give a syrup, which
was partitioned between ethyl acetate and water. The organic layer was separated, washed with
brine, dried over magnesium sulfate and concentrated to give the 5'-OTBDPS ether as a white
foam (94 g). The crude ether was dissolved in anhydrous DCM (300 mL), and silver nitrate
(66.03 g,388.4 mnol, 2.0 eq) and collidine (235 mL, 1.94 mol, 10 eq) were added. The mixture
was stirred at R.T., and MMTrCI (239.3 g, 776.8 nmol, 4 eq) was added. After being stirred
overnight at R.T., the mixture was filtered through Celite and filtrate was diluted with MTBE.
The solution was washed successively with IM citric acid, diluted brine and 5% sodium
bicarbonate.    The organic solution was dried over sodium sulfate and concentrated under
vacuum to give the fully protected intermediate as a yellow foam. The crude intermediate was
dissolved in anhydrous THF (250 iL) and treated with TBAF (60 g, 233 mmol, 1.2 cq). The
mixture was stirred for 2 hours at R.T., and the solvent was removed under reduced pressure.
The residue was taken into ethyl acetate and washed brine. After drying over magnesium
                                                  -169-

sulfate, the solvent was removed in vacuo. The residue was purified by column chromatography
(PE:EA = 5:1 to 1:1 ) to give 42-2 as a white foam (91 g, 86.4%).
          [0384]      Preparation of (42-3): To a solution of 42-2 (13.5 g, 26 mmol) in DCM (100
mL) was added pyridine (6.17 mL, 78 mmol, 3 eq). The solution was cooled to 0"C and Dess
Martin periodinane (33.8 g, 78 mmol, 3 eq) was added. The mixture was stirred for 4 hours at
R.T. and quenched by the addition of a 4% Na 2S203/4% sodium bicarbonate aqueous solution
(to pH 6, -150 mL). The mixture was stirred for another 15 mins. The organic layer was
separated, washed with diluted brine and concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was
 dissolved in dioxane (100 mL), and the solution was treated with 37% aqueous formaldehyde
 (21.2 g, 10 eq) and 2N aqueous sodium hydroxide (10 eq). The reaction mixture was stirred at
 R.T. overnight. The reaction was quenched with saturated NH 4 CI (-150 mL), and the mixture
 was concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was partitioned between ethyl acetate
 and 5% sodium bicarbonate. The organic phase was separated, washed with brine, dried over
 magnesium sulfate and concentrated.        The residue was purified by column chromatography
 (MeOH:DCM = 100: l-50: 1) to give 42-3 as a white foam (9.2 g, 83.6%).
           [0385]      Preparation of (42-4):   42-3 (23 g, 42.0 mmol) was co-evaporated with
  toluene twice. The residue was dissolved in anhydrous DCM (250 mL) and pyridine (20 mL).
 The solution was cooled to -351C. Triflic anhydride (24.9 g, 88.1 mmol, 2.1 eq) was added
  dropwise over 10 mins. At this temperature, the reaction was stirred for 40 mins and then was
  quenched with water (50 mL) at 00C. The mixture was stirred 30 mins, and extracted with EA
  (150 mL x 2). The organic phase was dried over Na 2 SO4, and filtered through a silica gel pad.
  The filtrate was concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by column
  chromatography (PE:EA = 100:1- 1:1) to give 42-4 as a brown foam (30.0 g, 88.3%).
            [03861     Preparation of (42-5): 42-4 (30 g, 36.9 mmol) was co-evaporated twice with
  toluene and dissolved in anhydrous DMF (150 mL). The solution was cooled to 0*C, and
   treated with sodium hydride (60% in mineral oil; 1.5 g, 40.6 mmol). The reaction was stirred at
   R.T. for 1 h. Lithium chloride (4.6 g, 110.7 mmol, 3 eq) was added. Stirring was continued for
   2 hours when LCMS indicated complete conversion of the anhydro triflate intermediate to
   anhydro-chloro compound. The mixture was taken into 100 mL of half saturated ammonium
   chloride and ethyl acetate. The organic phase was separated, washed with diluted brine and
   concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was dissolved in THF (150 mL), and the
   solution was treated with IN aqueous sodium hydroxide (-41 mL, 40.1 mmol, 1.1 eq). The
    mixture was stirred at R.T. for lh.     The reaction was diluted with half saturated sodium
   bicarbonate (-60 mL) and extracted with EA. The organic phase was dried (magnesium sulfate)
                                                 -170-

   and concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by column chromatography
   (DCM:MeOH = 300:1-60:1) to give 42-5 as a yellow foam (18.3 g, 87.6%).
            [03871    Preparation of (42-6):    To a solution of 42-5 (18.3 g, 32.33 mmol) in
  anhydrous DCM (150 mL) was added TBSCI (17.7 g, 64.6 mmol) and imidazole (6.6 g, 97
  mmol). The reaction was stirred overnight at R.T. The reaction was diluted with water and
  extracted with DCM. The organic layer was separated, washed with brine, dried over Na SO
                                                                                             2   4
  and concentrated. The residue was purified by column chromatography (DCM:MeOH =
  300:1-80:1) to give 42-6 as a white foam (18.4 g, 83.7%).
            [0388]    Preparation of (42-7): A solution of 42-6 (18.4 g, 27,1 mmol), DMAP (6.6
  g, 54.0 mmol) and TEA (5.4 g ,54.0 mmol) in MeCN (450 mL) was treated with 2,4,6
  triispropylbenzenesulfonyl chloride (16.3 g, 54.0 mmol). The mixture was stirred at R.T. for 3
  hours. NH 4 OH (70 mL) was added, and the mixture was stirred for 2 hours. The solution was
 evaporated under reduced pressure, and the residue was purified on a silica gel column
 (DCM/MeOH = 100:1 to 15:1) to give the crude (18.0 g). The crude was dissolved in
 anhydrous DCM (150 mL). Collidine (8.1 g, 66.3 mmol, 2.5 eq), silver nitrate (4.5 g, 26.5
 mmol, 1.0 eq) and DMTrCI (13.4 g, 39.7 mmol, 1.5 cq) were added, The reaction was stirred
 overnight at R.T. The mixture was filtered through Celite. The filtrate was washed with brine
 and extracted with DCM. The organic layer was separated, dried over Na 2SO4 and
 concentrated. The residue was purified by column chromatography (PE:EA = 60:l-3:1) as a
 yellow foam. The foam was dissolved in THF (150 mL) and TBAF (10.4 g, 39.7 mmol, 1.5 eq)
 was added. The reaction was stirred at R.T. After being concentrated, the mixture was washed
 with brine and extracted with EA. The organic layer was separated, dried over Na2S04 and
 concentrated. The residue was purified by column chromatography (PE:EA =60:1-EA) to give
42-7 as a yellow foam (21.3 g, 92.4%).
           [03891    Preparation of (42-8): To a solution of 42-7 (2.0 g, 2.3 mmol) in anhydrous
 DCM (20 mL) was added Dess-Martin periodinanc (1.95 g, 4.6 mmol) at 0*C under nitrogen.
The reaction was stirred at R.T. for 5 hours. The mixture was diluted with EtOAc (100 mL),
and washed with a mixture of saturated aqueous Na2 S2O3 and saturated aqueous NaHCO . The
                                                                                           3
crude product was purified by column chromatography on silica gel (PE: EtOAc = 2: 1) to give
42-8 (1.8 g, 90%) as a yellow solid.
          [0390]     Preparation of (42-9): To a solution of tetramethyl methylenediphosphonate
(390 mg, 1.68 mmol) in anhydrous THF (10 mL) was added NaH (84 mg, 2.1 mmol) at OC
under nitrogen. The reaction was stirred at 0*C for 30 min. A solution of 42-8 (1.2 g, 1.4 mmol)
in anhydrous THF (10 mL) was added dropwise at 00C. The mixture was stirred at R.T. for I h.
                                              -171-

 The reaction was quenched with saturated aqueous NH 4C, and the crude product was purified
by column chromatography on silica gel (DCM: MeOH = 150: 1) to give 42-9 (1.2 g, 88.2%) as
 a yellow solid. 'H NMR (DMSO-d6, 400 M Hz) 5 8.51 (s, IH), 7.46-7.09 (m, 22H), 6.88-6.82
 (m, 6H), 6.62 (q, J = 17.2 Hz, J2 = 22.4 Hz, IH), 6.12 (d, J= 7.2 Hz, 1), 5.86-5.75 (m, 2H),
 5.43 (d, J = 25.2 Hz, IH), 4.63 (dd, Jj = 4.8 Hz, J2 = 21.2 Hz, IH), 4.45 (d, J = 12.0 Hz, IH),
 3.94 (d, J= 12.0 Hz, IH), 3.72 (s, 91-), 3.53 (q, Ji = 11.2 Hz, J2 = 16.0 Hz, 6H); ESI-MS: m/z
 971.59 [M + H]*.
         [03911       Preparation of (42aL: A solution of 42-9 (300 mg) in 80% HOAc (26 mL)
was stirred at 80-90'C for 2 h. The solvent was removed, and the crude product was purified by
column chromatography on silica gel (DCM: MeOH 20: 1) to give 42a (70 mg, 57%) as a white
solid. 'H NMR (DMSO-d6, 400 M Hz) d 7.61 (d, J= 7.6 Hz, 1H), 7.35 (d, J= 15.2 Hz, 21-),
6.72 (q, J = 17.6 Hz, .12 = 24.4 Hz, iH), 6.23 (d, .= 6.0 Hz, 11-1), 5.99-5.85 (in, 2H), 5.74 (q, .=
7.2 Hz, lI H), 5.37-5.21 (m, IH), 4.69-4.61 (m, 11H), 3.96 (d, J = 12.4 Hz, 1H), 3.82 (d, J     12.0
Hz, IH), 6.72 (q, J, = 5.2 Hz, J 2 = 10.8 Hz, 6H); ESI-MS: m/z 397.81 [M + H].
                                            EXAMPLE 42
                                  Preparation of Compound (43a)
                  0                                 0                               0
                  NPMB                              NPMB                            NH
 BnO-         N-%nO                       .lO  N                   BnO-     Q    N
     Bnd     'F                         Bnd                             Bn      F
         43-1                             43-2                             43-3
                   NHMMTr                       NHMMTr                               NH2
                   N                            N                                  IN
  BnO           N                HO                                 /HO          N
      Bno                            Hd     F                            Hd     F:
        43-4                           43-5                                 43a
        [0392]        Preparation of (43-2):   To a stirred solution of 43-1(3.8 g, 6.6 mmol) in
anhydrous DMF (100mL) was added NaH (2.2 g) followed by CH 3 I (9.3 g, 66 mmol) at 0"C.
Stirring was continued at R.T. overnight. The reaction was quenched with saturated NH 4C aq.
The mixture was diluted with EA and washed with brine. The organic layer was dried over
Na2 SO 4 and concentrated.      The residue was purified by silica gel column chromatography
(PE:EA = 2:1) to give 43-2 (3.0 g, 70%) as a white solid.
        [0393]        Preparation of (43-3): A mixture of 43-2 (3.0 g, 5.1 mmol) and CAN (5.56
g, 10.2 mmol) in a 3:1 solution of McCN:Water (16 mL) was stirred at R.T. overnight. The
                                                -172-

solution was diluted with brine (10 mL ) and was extracted with EA. The combined organic
extracts were dried and evaporated under reduced pressure. Purification by chromatography on
silica (PE:EA = 1:1) gave 43-3 as a yellow solid (1.71 g, 72%).
         [03941     Preparation of (43-4): To a stirred solution of 43-3 (1.7 g, 3.6 mmol) in
anhydrous McCN (50 mL) were added TPSCI (2.2 g, 7.2 mmol), DMAP (880 mg, 7.2 mmol)
and TEA (1.1 g 10.8 mmol) at R.T. The mixture was stirred at R.T. overnight. NH 40H (25
mL) was added, and the mixture was stirred for 2 hours. The solvent was removed, and the
residue was purified on a silica gel column (PE:EA = 8:1 to 2:1) to give the intermediate (1.4 g).
The intermediate was dissolved in anhydrous DCM (30 mL), and MMTrCI (1.6 g, 5.2 mmol),
AgNOs (1.4 g, 7.8 mmol) and collidine (1.57 g, 13 mmol) were added. The mixture was stirred
at R.T. overnight. The solid was filtered off and washed with DCM. The filtrate was washed
with brine and dried over Na 2 SO4. The concentrated organic phase was purified on a silica gel
column (PE:EA = 3:2) to give 43-4 (1.1 g, 57.9%) as a white solid.
         [03951     Preparation of (43-5): To a stirred solution of 43-4 (550 mg, 0.74 mmol) in
acetone were added ammonium formate (1.0 g, 15.8 mmol, in portions) and 10% palladium on
carbon (1.0 g). The mixture was refluxed for 48 hours. The catalyst was filtered off and washed
with the acetone.    The filtrate was diluted with EA, washed with brine and dried.           The
concentrated organic phase was purified by column chromatography (DCM:MeOH = 50:1) to
give 43-5 (330 mg, 72%).
         [03961     Preparation of (43a): 43-5 (200 mg, 0.36 mmol) was dissolved in 80%
CH 3CHOOI (20 mL) at R.T. The mixture was stirred at 60"C for 12 hours. The solvent was
removed. The residue was purified by column chromatography (DCM:MeOH = 10:1), and the
resulting solid was washed with DCM to give pure 43a as a white solid (44mg, 42%). IH NMR
(CD30D, 400 MHz) 8 8.02 (d,J          7.2 Hz, 1H), 6.14 (dd,.1I = 3.6 Hz,.1 2 = 15.2 Hz, 1H), 5.88
(d, J= 7.2 Hz, IH), 5.10 (ddd, Ji =4.0 Hz, J2 = 5.2 Hz,,hJ = 53.6 Hz, IH), 4.47 (dd, Ji = 5.2 Hz,
J2 = 14.8 Hz, IH), 3.84 (d,. = 12.0 Hz, IH), 3.70 (d,.J= 12.0 Hz, IH), 3.58-3.64 (m, 2H), 3.36
(s, 3H). ESI-MS: m/z 290 [M + H]
                                               -173-

                                          EXAMPLE 43
                               Preparation of Compound (44a)
                                1) POMO- -O       Et3NH                       N
                       OPOMO                   EN0                             :,
                N     NH           BOP-CI, DIPEA, NT     O
               HN   N              THF;r.t.;90min          O
                                                           0  O-
                                                              OP          ON N    N   NH2
                    N NHMMT
                  t4't
                                2) 80% aq. HCOOH                    _
      -O'                          35*C; 30 mins.                    ON -
        Hd                                                 0 0
                                                           OF         Hd     'F
           44-1                                                          44a
         [03971    To a solution of triethylammonium bis(POM)phosphate (0. 3 mmol, prepared
from 100 mg of bis(POM)phosphate and 50 1tL of Et3N) in THF (3 mL) was added nucleoside
44-1 (150 mg; 0.26 mnol). The mixture was cooled in ice-bath. Diisopropylethyl amine (0.18
mL; 4 equiv) was added then, followed by BOP-Cl (132 mg; 2 equiv) and 3-nitro- 1,2,4-triazole
(59 mg; 2 equiv). The reaction mixture was stirred at 0"C for 90 mins., and then diluted with
CH 2CI 2 (30 mL) and washed with saturated aq. NaHCO3 and brine. The combined aqueous
layers were back extracted with CH 2C12. The combined organic extract was dried (Na 2SO 4),
evaporated, and the residue purified on silica (10 g column) with CH 2C12 /i-PrOH solvent
system (3-10% gradient). The obtained mixture of products were treated for 30 mins at 35*C
with 80% aq. HCOOH, and then evaporated and coevaporated with toluene. The evaporated
residue was purified on silica (10 g column) with CH 2C12 /MeOH solvent system (5-10%
gradient) to obtain 44a (8 mg, 5%). "P-NMR (DMSO-d,): 8 -5.07. MS: m/z = 668 (M+46-1).
                                                  -174-

                                                EXAMPLE 44
                                      Preparation of Compound (45a)
                                          0
                                                      0
                                               O   -P-OH
                                                     0
                               0~                 0
            HO             N    O                                     o    O-PpOO         N   0
            Cl-                        BOP-CI, DIPEA, NT                   rOCI
             DMTd          F           THF; 04C 90 min                  O      DMT      'F
                     45-1                                                          45-2
                                                               0
                                       0                         NH
            80% aq.HCOOH                  0    O   -        O  N
             r.t.; 30 min                         o2
                                            O 0         HC     F
                                                           45a
        [03981            Preparation   of (45-2):          To   a  solution  of      triethylammonium
bis(POM)phosphate (0. 7 mrnol, prepared from 233 mg of bis(POM)phosphate and 0.1 mL of
Et3N) in THF (8 mL) was added nucleoside 45-1 (253 mg; 0.42 mrnmol), followed by
diisopropylethyl amine (0.36 mL; 5 equiv), BOP-CI (268 mg; 2.5 equiv) and 3-nitro-l,2,4
triazole (120 mg; 2.5 equiv). The reaction mixture was stirred at R.T. for 2 hours. The mixture
was diluted with CH2Cl2 (40 mL) and washed with saturated aq. NaHCO 3 and brine. The
combined aqueous layers were back extracted with CH2C 2 . The combined organic extract was
dried (Na 2 SO4), evaporated, and the residue was purified on silica (10 g column) with
hexancs/EtOAc solvent system (40-100% gradient) to yield 45a (180 mg, 47%).
        [0399]            Preparation of (45a): A solution of compound 45-2 (0.12 g; 0.13 mmol) in
80% aq. HCOOH (8 rnL) was stirred 30 mins. at R.T. The mixture was evaporated,
coevaporated with toluene and purified on silica (10 g column) with CH 2CI2 /MeOH solvent
system (4-10% gradient) to yield 45a (55 mg, 70%). "P-NMR (DMSO-dr>): 8 -4.36. MS: m/z =
647 (M+46-1).
                                                     -175-

                                             EXAMPLE 45
                                    Preparation of Compound (46a)
                                NHMMT                                        NHMMT
                     HO               O    tMe2CHC(0)20             C2LO            O
                                  CID6                                       Vy
                        Hd      F                                      d     F
                           46-1                                            0   46-2
                                                            NH2
                                                  0            N
                                                 O          N    O
                      80% aq. HCOOH ,
                         360C; 3 h
                                                    d     'F
                                                         Ot 46a
         [04001        Preparation of (46-2): A mixture of 46-1 (170 rg; 0.3 mmol) in pyridine (3
mL) and isobutyric anhydride (0.1 muL; 2 equiv) was stirred o/n at R.T. The mixture was
concentrated, and the residue was partitioned between EtOAc (30 mL) and saturated aq.
NaHCO 3. The organic layer was washed with water, brine and dried (Na 2 SO 4). The residue
was purified on silica (10 g column) with a hexancs/EtOAc solvent system (30 to 100%
gradient) to afford 46-2 (180 mg, 85%).
         [04011         Preparation of (46a): A solution of 46-2 (0.18 g; 0.25 mmol) in 80% aq.
HCOOH (5 mL) was heated for 3 hours at 36C. The mixture was then evaporated,
coevaporated with toluene and purified on silica (10 g column) with a CH 2CI2/MeOH solvent
system (4-10% gradient) to afford 46a (75 mg, 70%). MS: m/z = 434 (M+1).
                                              EXAMPLE 46
                                      Preparation of Compound (47a)
                NHDMT                                     NHDMT                              NH2
               IN                                0                                           N0N.
                                                                                               L
   HO               O   [MeCH 2C(0) 20           OO                0%r HCON                       0
           clPy                                 ei-'.V                 3Q/O7
                                                                         h            cOOH
      HO       F                                    0     F
          46-1                                         0   47-2                            o  47a
           [0402]       Preparation of (47-2): 47-2 was prepared from 46-1 (274 mg, 0.46 mmol)
 and propyonic anhydride (0.12 mL, 2 equiv.) in pyridine (5 mL) in the same manner as
 described for 46-2 (260 mg, 80%).
                                                     -176-

          104031       Preparation of (47a): 47-2 (120 mg, 0.2 mmol) was treated with 80% aq.
 HCOOH at R.T. for 3 hours. The mixture was evaporated, coevaporated with toluene and
 purified on silica (10 g column) with a CH 2C12/McOH solvent system (4-10% gradient) to yield
 47a (62 mg, 75%). MS: m/z = 404 (M-1).
                                               EXAMPLE 47
                                      Preparation of Compound (48a)
             NHDMT                                     NHDMT                             NH 2
   HO        NO        [MeCH 2C(0)]2O            0    N    0 80% aq. HCOOH       0-OJI        0
        46-                                           48.2                              48a
         [04041       Preparation of (48-2): 48-2 was prepared from 46-1 (150 mg, 0.27 mmol)
and valeric anhydride (0.11 mL, 2 equiv.) in pyridine (3 mL) in the same manner as described
for 46-2 (150 mg, 73%).
        [0405]        Preparation of (48a): 48-2 (140 mg, 0.1 8 mmol) was treated with 80% aq.
HCOOH at R.T. for 3 hours. The mixture was evaporated and purified on silica (10 g column)
with a CH 2CI2/MeOH solvent system (4-10% gradient) to yield 48a (70 mg, 84%). MS: m/z =
462 (M+1).
                                                  -177-

                                               EXAMPLE 48
                         Preparation of Compounds (49a). (50a) and (51a)
            NHDMT                                        NHDMT           NHDMT                   NHDMT
                        N                                  N                NN
                      CHH)COOH
                  CH(cH 2                   NO                 HO                N               N0OO
  C~              DeC, DMAP; Py                                Cl-             +     cl-C
     H6    F                                     0      F          0    F                       IF
        46-1                                                                               51-2
                                                   49-2              50-2
                                    80% ag. HCOOH
                                         r.t. 3h     I4
                                                          NH2             NH2                     NH2
                                          0             I               1l-        0N
                                                            NN             ON
                                               C          N'1O HO         FN          C           N
                                                 6       F         0      F              4    1ad
                                                     49a              50a
        [0406]         Preparation of (49-2). (50-2) and (51-2): To a solution of 46-1 (1.26 g, 2.12
mmol) in pyridine (15 mL) were added n-octanoic acid (0.34 mL, 1.0 equiv.), DCC (60% in
xylene; 0.81 mL, I equiv.) and DMAP (52 mg; 0.2 cquiv.). The resulting mixture was stirred
for 6 hours at R.T. The mixture was evaporated, and the residue partitioned between CH 2 CI2
(100 mL) and saturated aq. NaHCO 3 (25 mL). The organic layer was washed with water, brine
and dried (Na 2 SO4). The residue was treated with toluene. The solid material was filtered off,
and the filtrate was purified on silica (25 g column) with a heaxancs/EtOAc solvent system (30
 100% gradient) to yield 49-2 (0.57 g, 32%), 50-2 (0.18 g, 12%), and 51-2 (0.2 g, 13%).
         104071        Preparation of (49a): A mixture of 49-2 (114 mg, 0.13 mmol) and 80% aq.
formic acid was stirred for 3 hours at R.T. The mixture was evaporated and coevaporated with
toluene and purified on silica (10 g column) with a CH 2 CI2/MeOH solvent system (2-8%
gradient) to yield 49a (53 mg, 75%). MS: m/z = 544 (M-l).
         104081        Preparation of (50a): 50a (44 mg, 75% yield) was prepared from 50-2 (104
mg, 0.14 mmol) in the same manner as described for 49a by using a 4-10% gradient of MeOH in
CH 2 CI2 for purification. MS: m/z = 418 (M- 1).
         [0409]        Preparation of (51a): 51a (60 mg, 71% yield) was prepared from 50-2 (140
 mg, 0.2 mmol) in the same manner as described for 49a by using a 4-10% gradient of MeOH in
 CH2Cl 2 for purification. MS: m/z=418 (M-l).
                                                      -178-

                                                   EXAMPLE 49
                                           Preparation of Compound (52a)
                  NH2                                             NH2
                               N                                   N                                NH2
      o           NNO         N-Boc -- Valne          HO          NA 0    HCI/dioxane      HO
          ek-',                DIVJ00OAP,
                                       TEA, THF       0 1 7 \j0             EIOAQ           H     Iy
                                                                                                   4 JN
        Hd      1F             80 0c;1h                          F                         c
                                                   HN                                       0             2xHCI
            7a                                  O-A         52-2                      H2N
                                                                                                52a
            10410]         Preparation of (52-2): A solution of N-(tert-butoxycarbonyl)-L-valinc (0.41
 g, 1.9 mmol) and carbonyldiimidazole (0.31 g, 1.9 mmol) in THF (9 mL) was stirred at R.T. for
  1.5 hours. The mixture was then stirred at 40"C for 20 mins. The mixture was added to a
 solution of 7a (0.42 g, 1.43 nmol) and DMAP (25 mg, 0.2 mmol) in DMF (8 mL) and TEA (4
 mL) at 80C. The reaction mixture was stirred at 80"C for I h, then cooled and concentrated.
The residue was partitioned between tert-butyl methyl ether (100 mL) and water. The organic
 layer was washed with water, brine and dried (Na 2 SO4). The residue was purified on silica (25 g
column) with a CH2Cl 2/McOH solvent system (2-10% gradient) to yield 52-2 (0.32 g, 90% in
the mixture with 5'-isomer), which was repurified by RP-HPLC (10-100% B; A: water, B:
MeOH). Yield: 0.25 g (35%).
           [0411]         Preparation of (52a): A solution of 52-2 (0.12 g; 0.24 mmol) in EtOAc (0.6
mL) was treated with HCI/dioxanc (4 M; 0.6 mL) for 20 mins. with vigorous shaking. The
white precipitate was filtered, washed with diethyl ether and dried to yield 52a as the
dihydrochloride salt (95 mg; 85%). MS: m/z = 391 (M-1).
                                                   EXAMPLE 50
                                          Preparation of Compound (53a)
                NHDMT                                                 NHDMT                   2 x HCI    NH2
                                                       NH0              N                 H2N  o
    HO         itO    N-Boc-L-Valine.OH EtaN               C         N      1) c doH              o       N   0
                       DIPEA, BopCl. NT                                     2 O/oae           C  >1IA1
    DMTd        F      r.:.1 h                            DMT&        F        HF                H2)
          53-1                                                  53-2                                 53a
          [0412]          Preparation of (53-2): To a solution of N-Boc-Val-OH (0.16 g, 0.74 mmol)
and Et 3 N (0.14 nL, 1.0 mmol) in THIF was added 53-1. The resulting mixture was evaporated,
coevaporated with pyridine and toluene and dissolved in THE (4 nL). DIPEA (0.38 mL, 2.2
   mrnol) was added, followed by BOP-CI (0.28 g, 1.1 mnol) and 3-nitro-1,2,4-triazole (0.13 g, 1.1
mmol). The reaction mixture was stirred at R.T. for I h. The mixture was diluted with CH CI2
                                                                                                            2
                                                       -179-

(40 mL) and washed with saturated aq. NaHCO 3 and brine. The combined aqueous layers were
back extracted with CH 2 CI2 . The combined organic extract was dried (Na 2 SO 4 ), evaporated, and
the residue was purified on silica (10 g column) with a hexanes/0.5 % Et 3N/EtOAc solvent
system (20-100% gradient) to yield 53-2 (0.39 g, 8 1%).
         104131       Preparation of (53a): A mixture of 14-2 (0.37 g, 0.33 mmol) and 80% aq.
HCOOH (10 mL) was stirred at R.T. for 3 hours. The mixture was evaporated, and the residue
was partitioned between water and CH 2 CI2 . The aqueous layer was washed with CH 2 C12 and
evaporated. The solid residue was suspended in EtOAc (1.5 mL) and treated with 4N HCt in
dioxane (1.5 mL) with vigorous shaking. The solid was filtered, washed with diethyl ether and
purified by RP-HPLC (A: 0.5N HCOOH in water, B: 0.5 N HCOOH in acetonitrile). The
resulting formic acid salt of 5'-0-valyn ester was converted into 53a dihydrochloride salt (63
mg, 40%) by suspending in EtOAc (2 mL) and treatment with 4N HCI/dioxane (2 mL). MS:
m/z= 391 (M-1).
                                           EXAMPLE 51
                                  Preparation of Compound (39a)
                                   N    o                            N     o
                TBDPSON                          TBDPSO            N
                      TBSd     F      NHMMTr            TBSO39-2 F       NHMMTr
                                       N                           N    o
                 HO\,A ON      /                   HO      &N      /
                    HOPF         tM~                   Hdz    IF
                       393        NHMMTr                  39a          NH2
         [0414]       Preparation of (39-2): A solution of 39-1 (1.3 g, 1.4 mmol) in anhydrous
MeOH (20 mL) was charged with Pd/C (1.3 g) and stirred at 25"C under hydrogen (1 atm)
 atmosphere for I hour. The solution was filtered, evaporated to dryness, and purified on a silica
 gel column (DCM:MeOH = 100:1 to 50:1) to give 39-2 (1.2 g, 92.3 %)as a white solid.
         [04151       Preparation of (39-3): To a solution of 39-2 (1.2 g, 1.3 mmol) in MeOH (40
 mL) was added NH 4F (370 mg, 10 mmol) at 250C and stirred at 600C for 6 hours. The solution
was filtered, evaporated to dryness, and purified on a silica gel column (DCM:MeOH = 200:1 to
 20:1) to give 39-3 as a white solid (249 mg, 30.7%). 'H NMR (MeOD, 400 MHz) 6 7.92 (s,
 I H), 7.19-7.33 (in, 12H), 6.83-6.85 (m, 2H), 5.50 (dd, Ji= 4.0 Hz, J2 = 14.8 Hz, IH), 4.19-4.88
 (m, 1), 4.22 (dd, Ji = 5.2 Hz, 12 = 16.0 Hz, 11), 3.76 (s, 3H), 3.41 (dd, J1 = 12.0 Hz, 12 = 36.8
 Hz, 2H), 1.52-1.74 (m, 2H), 0.87 (t, J= 7.6 Hz, 3H); ESI-LCMS: m/z 586.1 [M + H].
                                               -180-

          [04161      Preparation of (39a): A solution of 39-3 of 80% formic acid/20% water (3
mL) stood at RT for 2 hours, and then was concentrated to dryness. The residue was co
evaporated with MeOH/toluene (3 times) and then ethyl acetate added. The suspension in ethyl
acetate was heated at 70'C for 5 mins. The solvent was removed using a pipet. This washing
was repeated 3 times. The resulting product (44mg) was further purified on reverse-phase
 HPLC using acetonitrile/water as mobile phase to give 39a (20 mg) as an off-white solid. 1I
NMR (DMSO, 400 MHz) 67.92 (s, IH), 10.82 br, IH), 7.96 (s, IH), 6.56 (s, 2H), 5.99 (dd, J =
6.0, 12.8 Hz, IH), 5.65 (d, J= 4.8 Hz, 1-1), 5.58, 5.45 (2t, J= 5.2 Hz, 0.5H, 0.5H), 5.25 (br, 1H),
4.19-4.88 (in, iH), 4.22 (dd,i = 5.2 Hz,]J2 = 16.0 I-Iz, IH), 3.76 (s, 3H), 3.41 (ddI = 12.0 Hz,
J2 = 36.8 Hz, 2H), 1.52-1.74 (in, 2H), 0.87 (t, J= 7.6 Hz, 3H); ESI-LCMS: m/z 443.6 [M + 6
methyl-2-hcptylamine)]*.
                                           EXAMPLE 52
                            Preparation of Compounds (55a) and (56a)
                          00                                                               0
                         NHO                          NHO                O     O             NH
                 N O               HO-P-O           N  O        HO--O          P---O       N    O
      CHO                               CI-0                       HO   HO   HO C
            d    F                          H'     F-                                      F
                                               55a                                     56a
            OCH3
         [0417]      1,2,4-Triazol (21 mg, 0.3 imol) was dissolved in the mixture of CH 3CN (0.7
mL) and Et3 N (44 pL, 0.31 mmol). POC3 (9u1, 0.1 mmol) was added, and the mixture was kept
at R.T. for 20 mins. The white precipitate was filtered, and the filtrate added to the dry
nucleoside (28 mg, 0.05 mmol). The reaction was controlled by TLC and monitored by the
disappearance of the starting nucleoside. After completion of the reaction, tetrabutylammonium
salt of pyrophosphate (150 mg) was added, followed by DMF (0.5 mL) to get a homogeneous
solution. After 1.5 hours at ambient temperature, the reaction was diluted with water (4 mL)
and extracted with DCM (2 x 5 mL). The combined organic extracts were evaporated, dissolved
in 5 mL of 80% HCOOH and left for 2 hours at R.T. The reaction mixture was concentrated and
distributed between water (5 mL) and DCM (5 mL). The aqueous fraction was loaded on the
column HiLoad 16/10 with       Q Sepharose   High Performance. Separation was done in a linear
gradient of NaCl from 0 to IN in 50mM TRIS-buffer (p17.5). Two fractions were obtained.
The first fraction, containing the monophosphate (55a) was eluted at 70-75%B. and triphosphate
                                                -181-

(56a) was eluted at 75-80%B. Both fractions were desalted by RP HPLC on Synergy 4 micron
Hydro-RP column (Phenominex). A linear gradient of methanol from 0 to 30% in 50mM
triethylammonium acetate buffer (pH 7.5) was used for elution. The corresponding fractions
were combined, concentrated and lyophilized 3 times to remove excess of buffer.
                                          EXAMPLE 53
                               Preparation of Compounds (56b-e)
                             OCH3
                             NH                                            NH2
                               SN                O    O     O                N
                 HO      O N      0          HO-P-O-P -O-P 0               N O
                                                HO HO HO
                    HG      F                                    H       IF
         [04181     1,2,4-Triazol (21 mg, 0.3 mmol) was dissolved in the mixture of CH 3 CN (0.7
mL) and Et 3 N (44 pL, 0.31 rnmol). POCh (9ul, 0.1 mmol) was added, and the mixture was kept
at R.T. for 20 mins.      The white precipitate was filtered, and the filtrate added to the dry
nucleoside (28 mg, 0.05 mmol). The reaction was controlled by TLC and monitored by the
disappearance of the starting nucleoside. After completion of the reaction, tetrabutylammonium
salt of pyrophosphate (150 mg) was added followed by DMF (0.5 mL) to get a homogeneous
solution. After 1.5 hours at ambient temperature, the reaction was diluted with water (4 mL)
and extracted with DCM (2 x 5 mL). The combined organic extracts were evaporated, dissolved
 in 5 mL of 80% HCOOH and left for 4 hours at 38*C. The reaction mixture was concentrated
 and distributed between water (5 mL) and DCM (5 mL). The aqueous fraction was loaded on
the column HiLoad 16/10 with      Q Sepharose High Performance. Separation was done in a linear
 gradient of NaCl from 0 to IN in 50 mM TRIS-buffer (pH7.5). Two fractions were obtained.
The triphosphate (56b-e) was eluted at 75-80%B. Desaltin was performed by RP HPLC on
 Synergy 4 micron Hydro-RP column (Phenominex). A linear gradient of methanol from 0 to
 30% in 50 mM triethylammonium acetate buffer (p-1 7.5) was used for elution. The
 corresponding fractions were combined, concentrated and lyophilized 3 times to remove excess
 ofbuffer.
                                               -182-

Table 3 - Triphosphates obtained from Example 53
                       Compound                           MS                P"PNMR"PNMR
                                                                         3PNMR
                                                         (M-1)     Pa        P          Py
                                         0
   HO-      -                    N                    373.00   +3.64 (s) NA        NA
                      HO
                      0.
                                F    0
                            55a
        O         0         0
   HO--O-P-O-P-O                         O    NN               -6.67               -11.51
        OH       OH         OH Cl                     532.95   -6.74(d)  -21.87(t) -11.63(d)
                                    HO       F
                           56a
                                                 NH2
     HOP-     -    -      P0    -"                              63                  -15
        H-                    -             N         526.05   -6.33     -22.48(t) -11.53
       OH       O          H
                          OH                                   -6.47(d)               1.64(d)
                                  HO      F
                           56b
                                                NH2
       o        o        0                f
       OHO O-            - O               N          516.00   -63.2(bs) -22.45(t) -11.64(d)
                                 HO     'F
                           56c
                                            NH2
       O        0        0
   HO-P-O-P O-P-                        N524.4                 -10.57    -23.31(t) -11.31
       OH      OH        oH                                    -10.67(d)           -11.94(d)
                                HO     F
                           56d
                                               NH2
        O        0         0
        H-O         -      P                   0      529.8    -6.17(bs)
        OH       OH        OH F-7                                        21.96(bs)   11.42(bs)
                                   HO     F
                           56e
                                                     -183-

                                         EXAMPLE 54
                                 Preparation of Compound (57a)
                                0                                           0
                          N     O
                   HO ONH2N'I                          /4      >     N      N~  NH2
                                                                                 NH 2
                  HO--O-4       N    NH2            3
                  HO     F                                      O     IF
                                                                   O
        [04191      2'-Deoxy-2'-fluoro-4'-C-(etheniyl)ganosine (25a, 31 mg, 0.1 mmol) was
dissolved in dry pyridine (3 mL). Isobutyric anhydrate (50 uL, 0.3 mmol) was added. The
reaction mixture was kept at ambient temperature. After 40 hours, isobutyric anhydrate (100
pL, 0.6 mmol) was added, and the reaction mixture was left overnight. The pyridine was
evaporated. The residue was purified by silica gel chromatography using a gradient of methanol
in DCM from 3% to 10% to yield 57a (20 mg, 50%). 'H NMR (DMSO-d6) 6: 10.72 (s, 1H),
7.88 (s, I1H), 6.47 (s, 2H), 6.18-6.13 (dd, 1H), 5.90-5.83 (dd, 1H), 5.79-5.62 (m, 2H), 5.49-5.44
(d, IH), 5.35-5.32 (d, IlH), 4.28-4.25 (d, 11-), 4.12-4.10 (d, 1IH), 2.60-2.45 (m, 21-1), 1.12-1.09
 (m, 6H), 1.02-0.96 (in, 6H); m/z 452 (M+1).
                                                -1 84-

                                                    EXAMPLE 55
                                         Preparation of Compound (58a)
                     o                                      0                          0
                      NH                                   NPMB                        NPMB
    HO       Ny                      - DMTrO         N       0                      N
        Hd      F                              Hd 'F                       Bnd F
           58-1                                  58-2                        58-3
                       o                                      0                          0
                       NPMB                              /    NPMB                       NPMB
      HBO          N-<oN                            0    N            :  BO
                                                             0z"'        Ho             0
        BnO       F                            Bnd      F                   Bnd      F
            58-4                                  58-5                         58-6
                     o                                         0                         NH2
                 /   NPMB                                      NH                        N
   Bn       0                                         IN                  no     ixN%
                                                                                  0nAO~~
    B              N                         B                                           0
       Bnd     'F                               Bnd      F                  Bn4 'F
           58-7                                     58-8                        58-9
                                       NH2
                                       N
                       HO     0N
                           HF          0
                           Hd    'IF
                              58a
         [04201           Preparation of (58-2): To a solution of 58-1 (50.0 g, 205 mmol) in pyridine
 (250 mL) was added DMTrCI (75.0 g, 225.0 mmol). The solution was stirred at R.T. for 15
 hours. MeOH (120 mL) was added, and the mixture was concentrated to dryness under reduced
pressure. The residue was dissolved in EA and washed with water. The organic layer was dried
over Na 2 SO 4 and concentrated to give the crude DMTr protected derivative (80.5 g, 89%)
                                                                                                    as a
light yellow solid. Dried K2C0         3  ( 80.52 g, 583.2 mmol) and then PMBCI (31.7 g, 109.2 mnol)
were added to a stirred solution of the DMTr protected derivative (80 g, 146 mmol)
                                                                                                      in
anhydrous DMF (300 mL). The stirring was continued at ambient temperature for overnight.
The reaction was monitored by TLC. The mixture was diluted with EA and washed with water.
The organic layer was dried over Na 2 SO 4 and concentrated to give 58-2 (98.8 g, 90%)
                                                                                                as light
yellow solid.
        [04211           Preparation of (58-3): NaH (10.4 g, 260.5 mmol) and BnBr (73.8 g, 434.2
mmol) were added to a stirred solution of 58-2 (98.8 g, 147.9 mmol) in anhydrous
                                                                                              DMF (300
mL), and the stirring was continued at 25"C overnight. The reaction was monitored by TLC.
                                                        -185-

The reaction was quenched with water, extracted with EA and washed with brine. The solvent
was removed, and the residue was purified on silica gel (PE: EA= 10:1 to 3:1) to give the Bn
protected derivative (101.1 g, 90%) as a light yellow solid. The Bn protected derivative (101.1
g, 133.4 mmol) was dissolved in 80% HOAc (900 mL) at 25*C. The mixture was stirred at 25*C
overnight. The reaction was quenched with MeOH, and the solvent was removed to give the
alcohol (42.1 g, 70%) as a white foam. To a solution of the alcohol (42.1 g, 92.6 mmol) in
anhydrous CH3CN (300 mL) was added IBX (28.5 g, 121.7 mmol) at 25*C. The reaction
mixture was refluxed for 1 hour and then cooled to 0*C. The precipitate was filtered-off, and the
filtrate was concentrated to give 58-3 (39.2 g, 93%) as a yellow solid.
         [0422]       Preparation of (58-4): To a solution of 58-3 (39.2 g, 86.39 mmol) in 1,4
dioxane (250 mL) was added 37% CH2O (28.1 mL, 345.6 mmol) and 2N NaOH aqueous
solution (86.4 rnL, 172.8 mmol). The mixture was stirred at 25"C for 2 i and then neutralized
with AcOi to pH = 7. To the reaction were added EtOH (200 mL) and NaBH 4 (19.7 g, 518.6
mmol). The mixture was stirred at 25"C for 30 mins. The reaction was quenched with saturated
aqueous NH 4CI. The mixture was extracted with EA, and the organic layer was dried over
Na2 SO 4 and concentrated. The residue was purified by silica gel column chromatography (PE:
 EA = 4:1 to 2:1) to give the diol derivative (25.5 g, 55%) as a white solid. To a stirred solution
 of the diol derivative (25.5 g, 52.5 mmol) in anhydrous pyridine (150 mL) and anhydrous
 CH 3CN (150 mL) was added BzCl (6.6 g, 52.47 mmol) dropwise at 0*C. The mixture was then
 stirred at 25 0 C for 14 h.     The reaction was quenched with H20, and the solution was
 concentrated. The residue was dissolved in EA and washed with NaHCO;. The organic layer
 was dried over Na 2 SO 4 and concentrated.     The residue was purified on a silica gel column
 (PE/EA = 5:4) to give 58-4 (18.1 g, 60%) as a white foam.
          [0423]      Preparation of (58-5): Cs 2 CO 3 (30.0 g, 92.0 mmol) and BnBr (10.4 g, 61.3
 mmol) were added to a stirred solution of compound 58-4 (18.lg, 30.6 mmol) in anhydrous
 DMF (300 mL), and stirring was continued at 25"C overnight. The reaction was quenched with
 NH 4 C1,  extracted with EA and washed with brine. The solvent was removed to give the Bz
 protected derivative (19.3 g, 95%) as a light yellow solid.        To a stirred solution of the Bz
 protected derivative (19.3 g, 28.4 mmol) in anhydrous MeOH (230 mL) was added NaOMe
 (24.9 g, 460 mrnmol) at 25"C for 1 i. The reaction was quenched with AcOH (10 mL) and
 concentrated. The residue was purified on a silica gel colunm (PE/EA = 1/2) to afford 58-5
  (11.2 g, 54%) as a white solid.
          [0424]       Preparation of (58-6): To a stirred solution of 58-5 (200 mg, 0.347 mmol) in
  anhydrous DCM (5 mL) was added DMP (168 mg, 0.674 mrnmol) at 25*C. The mixture was
                                                -186-

  stirred at 25"C for 2 h. The solvent was removed, and the residue was purified on a silica gel
  column (PE: EA = 5:1 to 1:1) to give the aldehyde derivative (161 mg, 81%). To a stirred
  solution of the aldehyde derivative (200 mg, 0.348 mmol) in anhydrous THF (5 niL) was added
  MeMgBr (1.0 mL, 1.01 nmol) at -78"C. The mixture was stirred at -78"C for I h. The reaction
  was quenched with NH 4 CI and extracted with EA. The concentrated organic phase was purified
  by column chromatography (PE: EA = 5:1 to 1:1) to give 58-6 (135 mg, 65%).
           [04251     Preparation of (58-7): To a solution of 58-6 (900 mg, 1.5 mmol) in DCM
  was added DMP (2.5 g, 6.0 mmol) at O"C. After stirring at 0"T for I h, the mixture was
  quenched with Na 2 S2 0 3 . The solvent was removed, and the residue was purified on a silica gel
  column (PE: EA = 5:1 to 1:1) to give tle ketone derivative (700 ng, 78%). To a solution of the
 ketone derivative (700 mg, 1.52 mmol) in MeOH was added NaBH 4 in portions. After stirring
  at the same temperature for 1 h, the mixture was quenched with water. The solvent was
 removed, and the residue was purified on a silica gel column (PE: EA = 5:1 to 1:1) to give 58-7
 (500 mg, 71%).
          [0426]      Preparation of (58-8): To a stirred solution of DAST (1.39 g, 8.68 mmol) in
 anhydrous toluene (15 mL) was added dropwise a solution of 58-6 (1.0 g, 1.73 mmol) at -78"C.
 The mixture was stirred at -78"C for 30 mini.     The solution was warmed to 25"C slowly and
 stirring continued overnight. The mixture was poured into a saturated Na 2CO3 solution. The
 concentrated organic phase was purified on a silica gel column (PE: EA=10:1 to 4:1) to give the
 fluoride derivative (449 rig, 45%). A mixture of the fluoride derivative (1.20 g, 2.07 mmol) and
 CAN (3.41 g, 6.23 mmol) in a 3:1 solution of MeCN and water (10 mL) was stirred at 25"C
 overnight. Brine (10 mL) was added, and the mixture extracted with EA. The combined
 organic extracts were dried and evaporated under reduced pressure.                Purification by
chromatography on silica with PE: EA = 10:1 to 2:1 gave 58-8 as a yellow solid (475 mg, 50%).
          [0427]      Preparation of (58-9): To a stirred solution of 58-8 (550 mg, 210 mmol) in
anhydrous McCN (10 mL) were added TPSCI (725 mg, 2.40 mmol), DMAP (293 mg, 2,40
mmol) and TEA (242 mg, 2.40 mmol) at 25"C. The mixture was stirred at 25"C overnight.
NH40H (25 mL) was added and stirred for 2 h. The solvent was removed, and the residue was
purified on a silica gel column (DCM: McOH = 10:1) to give 58-9 (300 mg). 'H NMR (CD 0D,
                                                                                              3
400 MHz) 6 7.70 (d, J = 8.4 Hz, I H), 7.25-7.36 (in, 10H), 6.13 (dd, J = 2.8, 16.8 Hz, I H), 5.40
(d,.1 = 7.6 Hz, IH), 5.15 (in, 1H), 4.81 (d,.1 = 11.6 Hz, 1H), 4.40-4.52 (in, 4H), 3.82 (d, J= 8.8
Hz, 7H), 3.62 (d,J= 9.6 Hz, 7H), 1.35 (dd,.J= 2.8, 14.4 Hz, 3H). ESI-MS: m/z 472.1 [M + H]
                                               -187-

         10428]            Preparation of (58a): A I M boron trichloride solution in CH 2CI2 (3.2 mL;
3.2 mmol) was added dropwise to a solution of 58-9 (200 mg, 0.42 mmol) in anhydrous CH 2 CI2
(10 mL) at -78*C. The mixture was slowly (in 4 h) warmed to -30 *C and stirred at -30 to -20"C
for 3 h. Ammonium acetate (I g) and MeOH (5 mL) were added, and the resulting mixture
allowed to warm to ambient temperature. The solvent was removed, and residue purified by RP
HPLC (0-60% B; A: 50 mM aqueous TEAA, B: 50 mM TEAA in McOH) to yield 58a (75 mg).
  H NMR (CD 30D) 6 7.97 (d, IH), 6.20 (dd, 1 H), 5.92 (d, 1 H), 5.22 (dt, I H), 4.98 (dq, I H),
4.58 (dd, I H), 3.73 (m, 2 H), 1.40 (dd, 3 H). "F NMR (CD 30D) 6 -205.80 (m, 1 F), -188.54 (m,
 I F). ESI-MS: m/z 290.4 [M - Hf.
                                                EXAMPLE 56
                                      Preparation of Compound (59a)
                        0                                   0                            0
                        NH                                  NH                           NH
    HO          N                        HO        N               0                 N
                                                               0         HOCXJ(
        Hd     F                           TBSO      F                     TBSG     F
          59-1                                  59-2                           59-3
                             0
                                      TBPS                       0
   TBDPSO                   NH        T                    NrO\N          H&>TB             NH2
                  HO,,,,*   0                               rN
                              HOHO                                                   -F9'
          TBSO         F                     TBSd       'F  O                 HO
              59-4                                59-5                           59a
         [0429]            Preparation of (59-2):    To a solution of 59-1 (100.0 g, 406.5 mmol) in
pyridine (750 mL) was added DMTrCl (164.9 g, 487.8 mmol). The solution was stirred at R.T.
for 15 h. MeOH (300 mL) was added, and the mixture was concentrated to dryness under
reduced pressure. The residue was dissolved in EtOAc and washed with water. The organic
 layer was dried over Na 2SO4 and concentrated. The residue was dissolved in DCM (500 mL).
To this solution were added imidazole (44.3 g, 650.4 mmol) and TBSCI (91.9 g, 609.8 nmol).
The resulting reaction mixture was stirred at R.T. for 14 h. The reaction solution was washed
with NaHCO 3 and brine. The organic layer was dried over Na2 SO 4 , and concentrated to give the
crude product as a light yellow solid. The crude product (236.4 g, 356.6 mmol) was dissolved in
 80% HOAc aqueous solution (500 nL). The mixture was stirred at R.T. for 15 h. The mixture
was diluted with EtOAc, washed with NaHCO- solution and brine. The organic layer was dried
over Na 2 SO4 and purified on a silica gel column chromatography (1-2% MeOH in DCM) to give
59-2 (131.2 g, 89.6%) as a light yellow solid. 'H NMR (DMSO-d6, 400 MHz) 811.39 (s, IH),
                                                       -188-

7.88 (d,.1 = 7.2 Hz, iH), 5.89 (dd, J= 18.0 Hz, J      2.0 Hz, iH), 5.64 (d, J= 8.0 Hz, 1H), 5.21
 (dd, J, = J2 = 7.2 Hz,I H), 5.18-5.03 (in, IH), 4.37-4.29 (in, IH), 3.86 (dd, J= 3.2 Hz, J = 3.2
 Hz, 3H), 3.78-3.73 (m, 1H), 3.51-3.56 (m, IH), 3.31 (s, IH), 0.89 (s, 9H), 0.11 (s, 6H); ESI-MS:
m/z 802 [M + H]*.
         [0430]        Preparation of (59-3):  To a solution of 59-2 (131.2 g, 364.0 mmol) in
anhydrous CH3CN (1200 mL) was added IBX (121.2 g, 432.8 mmol) at R.T. The reaction
mixture was refluxed for 3 h and then cooled to 0"C. The precipitate was filtered-off, and the
filtrate was concentrated to give the crude aldchyde (121.3 g) as a yellow solid. The aldeliyde
was dissolved in 1,4-dioxane (1000 mL). 37% CH 2O (81.1 mL, 1.3536 mol) and 2M NaOH
aqueous solution (253.8 mL, 507.6 mmol) were added. The mixture was stirred at R.T. for 2 hi
and then neutralized with AcOH to pH = 7. To the solution were added EtOH (400 mL) and
NaBHl     (51.2 g, 1.354 miol). The mixture was stirred at R.T. for 30 mins and quenched with sat.
aqueous NH 4CL. The mixture was extracted with EA. The organic layer was dried over Na 2SO4
and concentrated. The residue was purified by silica gel column chromatography (1-3% MeOH
in DCM) to give 59-3 (51.4 g, 38.9 %)as a white solid.
         [04311        Preparation of (59-4):  To a solution of 59-3 (51.4 g, 131.6 mmol) in
anhydrous DCM (400 mL) were added pyridine (80 mL) and DMTrCI (49.1 g,144.7 mmol) at
0*C. The reaction was stirred at R.T. for 14 h, and then treated with MeOH (30 mL). The
solvent was removed, and the residue was purified by silica gel column chromatography (1-3%
MeOH in DCM) to give the mono-DMTr protected intermediate as a yellow foam (57.4 g,
62.9%). To the mono-DMTr protected intermediate (57.4 g, 82.8 mmol) in CH 2Ci2 (400 mL)
was added imidazole (8.4 g, 124.2 mmol) and TBDPSCI (34.1 g, 124.2 mmol). The mixture
was stirred at R.T. for 14 h. The precipitated was filtered off, and the filtrate was washed with
brine and dried over Na 2 SO 4 . The solvent was removed to give the residue (72.45 g) as a white
solid, which was dissolved in 80% HOAc aqueous solution (400 mL). The mixture was stirred
at R.T. for 15 h. The mixture was diluted with EtOAc, washed with NaHCO, solution and
brine.     The organic layer was dried over Na 2 SO4 and purified by silica gel column
chromatography (1-2% MeOH in DCM) to give 59-4 (37.6 g, 84.2%) as a white solid. 'H NMR
(CD30D. 400 MH z) 37.76 (d, J= 4.0 Hz, I I), 7.70 (dd,J= 1.6 Hz, J= 8.0 Hz, 2H), 7.66-7.64
(m, 2H), 7.48-7.37 (m, 6H), 6.12 (dd, J = 2.8 Hz, J = 16.8 Hz, IH), 5.22 (d, J = 8.0 Hz,
 IH).5.20-5.05 (m, IH), 4.74 (dd,.J= 5.6 Hz, J = 17.6 Hz, 1H), 4.16 (d, J= 12.0 Hz, IH), 3.87
3.80 (n, 2H), 3.56 (d,,J= 12.0 Hz, IH), 1.16 (s, 9H), 0.92 (s, 9H), 0.14 (s, 6H).
         [0432]       Preparation of (59-5):    To a solution of 59-4 (3.0 g, 4.78 mmol) in
anhydrous DCM (100 mL) was added Dess-Martin periodinanc (10.4 g, 23.9 mmol) at 000
                                               -189-

under nitrogen. The reaction mixture was stirred at R.T. for 5 h. The mixture was poured into
NaHCO 3 and Na 2 S2 O3 (1:1) aqueous solution. The organic layer was dried over anhydrous
Na 2SO4 and concentrated to give a residue. The residue was purified on a silica gel column
(20% EtOAc in PE) to give the intermediate (2.5 g, 83.1 %) as a white solid.
        [0433]       To a mixture of bromotriphenyl(propyl)phosphorane (6.45 g, 16.8 mnol) in
anhydrous THF (3 mL) was added t-BuOK (16.8 mL, 16.8 mmol) at 0*C under nitrogen. The
reaction mixture was stirred at 0*C for 50 mins. A solution of the above intermediate (1.5 g, 2.4
mmol) in anhydrous THF (3 mL) was added dropwise at 0*C under nitrogen. The reaction
mixture was stirred at R.T. for 3 h. The reaction was quenched by NH4CI aqueous solution and
extracted with EtOAc. The organic layer was dried over anhydrous Na 2SO 4 and concentrated to
give a residue. The residue was purified on a silica gel column (20% EtOAc in PE) to give 59-5
(1.3 g, 83%) as a white solid.
         [0434]        Preparation of (59a):    To a solution of 59-5 (300 mg, 0.45 mmol) in
 anhydrous CH3 CN (2 mL) were added TPSCI (341 mg, 1.13 nmol), DMAP (138 mg, 1.13
 mmol) and NEt; (571 mg, 5.65 mmol) at R.T. The reaction mixture was stirred at R.T. for 2 h1.
 NH4OH (1 mL) was added, and the reaction mixture was stirred for 1 h. The mixture was
 diluted with EA and washed with water. The organic layer was dried and concentrated to give a
 residue. The residue was purified on a silica gel column (2% MeOH in DCM) to give the
 cytidine derivative (285 mg, 95.0%) as a white solid.
         [04351       To a solution of the cytidine derivative (280 mg, 0.43 mmol) in MeOH (10
 mL) was added NH 4F (1.0 g) at R.T. The reaction mixture was refluxed for 12 h. The mixture
 was filtered, and the filtrate was concentrated. The residue was purified on a silica gel column
 (10% McOH in DCM) to give 59a (81 mg, 61%) as a white solid. 'H NMR (CD 30D, 400 MHz)
 68.11 (d,.J= 8.0 Hz, iH), 5.91 (dd,.J= 1.2 Hz,.J= 17.6 Hz, IH), 5.90 (d,J= 7.6 Hz, IH), 5.57
 5.59 (m, 2H), 4.82-4.96 (m, I H), 4.42 (dd, J= 4.8 Hz, J= 24.4 Hz, I H), 3.72 (d, J = 12.4 Hz,
  IH) 3.58 (d, J= 12.4 Hz, IH), 2.31-2.41 (m, 2H), 0.99 (t, J= 7.6 Hz, 3H). ESI-TOF-MS: m/z
 300.1 [M+H] .
                                            EXAMPLE 57
                                   Preparation of Compound (60a)
    TBDPSO                   O         TBDPSO       O0O                                      NH2
                       N NH                             N                  HO           N  N
           TBSO      F                        TBSO 'F                    /    HO      F
                59-5                               60-1                           60a
                                                 -190-

           [0436]      Preparation of (60-1): To a solution of 59-5 (450 mg, 0.69 mmol) in MeOH
  (10 mL) was added Pd/C (200 mg) at R.T. The reaction mixture was stirred R.T. for 1 h under
  H2  (balloon). The mixture was filtered, and the filtrate was concentrated to give crude 60-1 (440
  mg, 97.1%) as a white solid.
           [0437]      Preparation of (60a):     To a solution of 60-1 (440 mg, 0.67 nmol) in
  anhydrous CH 3 CN (2 mL) were added TPSCI (510 mg, 1.68 mmol), DMAP (205 mg, 1.68
  mmol) and NEt3 (338 mg, 3.35 mmol) at R.T. The reaction mixture was stirred at R.T. for 2 h.
 NH 40H (1 mL) was added, and the reaction was stirred for 1 h. The mixture was diluted with
  EA and washed with water. The solvent was removed. The crude product was purified on a
 silica gel column (2% MeO-I in DCM) to give the cytidine derivative (205 mg, 46.5%) as a
 white solid.
          [0438]     To a solution of the cytidine derivative (205 mg, 0.31 mmol) in MeOH (6
 mL) was added NH 4 F (0.6 g) at R.T. The reaction mixture was refluxed overnight. After
 cooling to R.T., the mixture was filtered. The filtrate was concentrated, and the residue was
 purified on a silica gel column (10% MeOH in DCM) to give 60a (59 mg, 62.8 %) as a white
 solid.  1H NMR    (CD 3 0D. 400 MHz) 88.09 (d, J= 7.6 Hz, IH), 6.01 (dd, J= 3.2 Hz, J= 15.6
 Hz, IH), 5.89 (d, .1= 7.2 Hz, 1H), 4.95-5.12 (in, IH), 4.41 (dd, J= 5.2 Hz, J= 17.2 Hz, 1H),
 3.75 (d,.J= 12.0 Hz, IH) 3.56 (d,.J= 11.6 Hz, IH), 1.73-1.80 (n, 1H), 1.55-1.63 (in, 11), 1.40
 1.46 (in, 4H), 0.92 (t, 1= 7.6 Hz, 3H). ESI-MS: m/z 301.8 [M + H] .
                                             EXAMPLE 58
                                    Preparation of Compound (61a)
                                          0
                                          NH
                    TBDPS0             tO
                                      N..0       TBDPO            N    O
                          TBS&     'F                 TBSd       0
                                                                 OF
                              59-4                        61-1
                   TBDPSO      o       N                 HO          N    NH2
                         TBSd      F O                      Hd     F
                              61-2                             61a
         [04391      Preparation of (61-1):       To a solution of 59-4 (1.5 g, 2.39 mmol) in
anhydrous DCM (100 mL) was added Dess-Martin periodinanc (5.2 g, 11.95 mmol) at 0*C
under nitrogen. The reaction mixture was stirred at R.T. for 5 h. The mixture was poured into
NaHCO 3 and Na 2 S2 O3 solution and washed with brine.          The organic layer was dried with
anhydrous Na 2 SO4, and concentrated to give the crude intermediate (1.5 g) as a white solid.
                                                -191-

         104401     To a solution of the crude intermediate (1.5 g, 2.39 mmol) in THF (12 mL)
was added methylmagnesium bromide (2.4 mL, 7.2 mmol) dropwise at 0"C. The resulting
mixture was stirred at 0*C for 2 h. After the starting material was consumed, the reaction was
quenched with saturated NH 4CI. The reaction mixture was extracted with DCM. The organic
layer was washed with brine, dried and concentrated to give crude 61-1 (1.5 g).
         [0441]        Preparation of (61-2):    To a solution of 61-1 (1.5 g, 2.39 mmol) in
anhydrous DCM (50 mL) was added Dess-Martin periodinane (4.5 g, 10.6 mmol). The reaction
mixture was stirred at R.T. overnight. The mixture was poured into NaHCO 3 and Na2S 2 03
aqueous solution. The organic layer was separated, washed with brine, dried and concentrated
to give a residue. The residue was purified on a silica gel column (10% EtOAc in PE) to give
the intermediate (907 mg, 58.6%) as a white solid.
         [0442]      To a mixture of bromo(methyl)triphenylphosphorane (5.0 g, 14 mmol) in
anhydrous THF (8 mL) was added t-BuOK (12.6 mL, 12.6 mmol) at 0"C under nitrogen. The
mixture was stirred at R.T. for 50 mins. A solution of the above intermediate (900 mg, 1.4
mmol) in anhydrous THF (4 mL) was added dropwise at 00 C under nitrogen. The reaction
 mixture was stirred at R.T. for 3 h. The reaction mixture was quenched with NH 4 Cl aqueous
 solution and extracted with DCM. The organic layer was separated, washed with brine, dried
 and concentrated to give a residue. The residue was purified on a silica gel column (5%EtOAc
 in PE) to give 61-2 (700 mg, 78.0%) as a white solid.
          [04431       Preparation of (61a):    To a solution of 61-2 (298 mg, 0.46 mmol) in
 anhydrous CH 3CN (5.5 mL) were added TPSCI (346.5 mg, 1.14 mmol), DMAP (139.6 mg, 1.14
 mmol) and NEt 3 (115.6 mg, 1.14 mmol) at R.T. The reaction mixture was stirred at R.T. for 2 h.
 NH4OH (1 mL) was added, and the mixture was stirred for another 1 h. The mixture was diluted
 with DCM and washed with water. The organic layer was separated, washed with brine, dried
 and concentrated to give a residue. The residue was purified on a silica gel column (2% McOH
 in DCM) to give the cytidine derivative (250 mg, 85.0%) as a white solid.
          10444]      To a solution of the cytidine derivative (250 ing, 0.39 mmol) in MCOH (10
 mL) was added NHAF (1.0 g) at R.T. The reaction was refluxed for 12 h. The mixture was
 filtered, and the filtrate was concentrated. The residue was purified on a silica gel column (10%
  MeOH in DCM) to give 61a (55 ing, 49%) as a white solid. 'H NMR (CD 3 0D. 400 MHz) 38.11
  (d,.J= 7.6 Hz, 11H), 6.21 (dd,.J= 4.2 Hz,.J= 14.0 Hz, 111), 5.91 (d,J= 7.6 Hz, IH), 5.10 (dt, J=
  4.8 Hz,J= 53.6 Hz, 11H), 5.13 (brs, 1H), 5.00 (brs, IH), 4.46 (dd,.J= 4.8 Hz,1I= 11.6 Hz, IN),
  3.83 (d,.J= 11.6 Hz, IH), 3.54 (d, J= 11.6 Hz, IH), 1.84 (s, 31H). ESI-MS: m/z 285.9 [l + H]
                                                 -192-

                                            EXAMPLE 59
                                   Preparation of Compound (62a)
                                                               0                              NH 2
     TBDPSO       O            O                               NH                             NH2
                                                                                      0    N
                               H           TBDPSO           NH
            TN
                                                 TBSO     'F                       H'    'F
                61-2                                 62-1                           62a
          [04451       Preparation of (62-1): To a solution of 61-2 (400 mg, 0.63 mmol) in MeOH
  (10 mL) was added Pd/C (400 mg) at R.T. The reaction was stirred at R.T. for 5 h under H2
  (balloon). The mixture was filtered, and the filtrate was concentrated to give crude 62-2 (350
    ng, 87%) as a white solid.
          {04461       Preparation of (62a):    To a solution of 62-1 (350 ing, 0.55 mmol) in
  anhydrous CH 3 CN (6 mL) were added TPSCI (414 mg, 1.4 mmol), DMAP (166.8 mg, 1.4
  mmol) and NEt 3 (138.1 mg, 1.4 mmol) at R.T. The reaction mixture was stirred at R.T. for 2 h.
 NH 40H (1 mL) was added, and the reaction was stirred for another I I.           The mixture was
  diluted with EA and washed with water.           The organic layer was separated, dried and
  concentrated to give a residue. The residue was purified on a silica gel column (2% McOH in
 DCM) to give the cytidine derivative (300 mg, 85%) as a white solid.
          104471     To a solution of the cytidine derivative (300 mg, 0.47mmol) in McOH (10
 mL) was added NH4F (l.5g) at R.T.          The reaction mixture was refluxed overnight.      After
 cooling to R.T., the mixture was filtered. The filtrate was concentrated. The crude product was
purified on a silica gel column (10% McOH in DCM) to give 62a (83 ng, 61%) as a white solid.
 '-I NMR (CD 3 OD, 400 MHz) 38.12 (d,.       = 7.6 Hz, I H), 6.22 (dd,.J= 6.4 Hz,.J= 12.4 Hz, IH),
 5.94 (d, J= 7.6 Hz, IH), 5.25 (dt, J= 5.6 Hz,.J= 54.0 Hz, 1I1), 4.38 (t, J= 4.8 Hz, IlH), 3.72 (d,
.1= 11.6 Hz, 1H), 3.67 (d,.J= 11.6 Hz, 1H), 2.31-2.42 (in, IH), 0.99 (2d,,I= 7.2 Hz, 6H). ESI
MS: m/z 287.8 [M + HI
                                               -193-

                                              EXAMPLE 60
                                   Preparation of Compound (63a)
                   0                               0                                  0
                   NH                         <NH                                    NH
                                  HO           N                     HO
      Hd F                        MMTrd       F                      MMTrd      F
        63-1               O             63-2                              63-3       O
                     /     NH                  O/NH
                       f OC-0N                                                   N
       TfO->3J 0I.~
        MMTr        "F                 MMTrd        F                MMTrd      F
                63-4      0                    63-5         NH2             63-6             NHDMTr
                        e~NH                                N                                NN
     TBSO            N                TBSO              N                   O            N
        C-"WJ            .                                                    r     0   Na-'
        MMTrO       F                    MMTrd F                           MMTrd r
               63-7                              63-8                             63-9
                       NHDMTr                                 NHDMTr
                             N1            0             /1NN                   0
                                                                                PO
                                      CNO-               N                   OC               Nr    NH2
         CI'L          0C~                                    0       -         cY.
      MMTrd F                              MMTrd 'F                                 HO       F 0
           63-10                                  63-11                                  63a
        10448]          Preparation of (63-2): To a solution of 63-1 (50 g, 203 mmol) in anhydrous
pyridine (200 mL) was added TBDPS-Cl (83.7 g, 304 mnol). The reaction was allowed to
proceed overnight at R.T. The solution was concentrated under reduced pressure to give a
residue. The residue was partitioned between ethyl acetate and water. The organic layer was
separated, washed with brine, dried over magnesium sulfate and concentrated under reduced
pressure to give 5'-OTBDPS ether as awhite foam (94 g ).
        [04491        To a solution of the 5'-OTBDPS ether (94.0 g, 194.2 mmol) in anhydrous
DCM (300 mL) were added silver nitrate (66.03 g, 388.4 mmol) and collidine (235 nL, 1.94
mol). The mixture was stirred at R.T. After most of silver nitrate was dissolved (~15 min), the
mixture was cooled to 0*C. Monomethoxytrityl chloride (239.3 g, 776.8 mmol) was added as a
single portion, and the mixture was stirred overnight at R.T. The mixture was filtered through
Celite, and the filtrate was diluted with MTBE. The solution was washed successively with IM
citric acid, diluted brine and 5% sodium bicarbonate. The organic solution was dried over
sodium sulfate and concentrated under vacuum to give the fully protected intermediate as a
yellow foam.
                                                      -194-

           [04501    The fully protected intermediate was dissolved in toluene (100 mL), and the
   solution was concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was dissolved in anhydrous THF
   (250 mL) and treated with TBAF (60 g, 233 mmol). The mixture was stirred for 2 hours at R.T.,
   and the solvent was removed under reduced pressure. The residue was taken into ethyl acetate,
  and the solution was washed with saturated sodium bicarbonate and brine. After drying over
  magnesium sulfate, the solvent was removed in vacuum. The residue was purified by column
  chromatography (PE: EA= 5:1, 1:1) to give 63-2 (91 g, 86.4%) as a white foam.
           [04511     Preparation of (63-3): To a solution of 63-2 (13.5 g, 26 mmol) in DCM (100
  mL) was added pyridine (6.17 mL, 78 mmol). The solution was cooled to 0"C and Dess-Martin
  periodinanc (33.8 g, 78 mmol) was added as a single portion. The reaction mixture was stirred
  for 4 h at R.T. The reaction was quenched with Na 2 S2 0 3 solution (4%) and sodium bicarbonate
  aqueous solution (4%) (the solution was adjusted to pH 6, ~150 mL). The mixture was stirred
  for 15 min. The organic layer was separated, washed with diluted brine and concentrated under
  reduced pressure. The residue was dissolved in dioxane (100 mL), and the solution was treated
 with 37% aqueous formaldehyde (21.2 g, 10 eq) and 2N aqueous sodium hydroxide (10 cq).
 The reaction mixture was stirred at R.T. overnight. After stirring for 0.5 h at R.T., the excess of
 aqueous sodium hydroxide was neutralized with saturated with NH 4 CI (~150 mL). The mixture
 was concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was partitioned between ethyl acetate
 and 5% sodium bicarbonate. The organic phase was separated, washed with brine, dried over
 magnesium sulfate and concentrated. The residue was purified by column chromatography
 (MeOH: DCM= 100:1-50:1) to give 63-3 (9.2 g, 83.6%) as a white foam.
          [0452]      Preparation of (63-4):    63-3 (23 g, 42.0 mmol) was co-evaporated with
 toluene twice. The residue was dissolved in anhydrous DCM (250 mL) and pyridine (20 mL).
The solution was cooled to -35"C. Triflic anhydride (24.9 g, 88.1 mmol) was added dropwise
over 10 mins. The reaction was stirring for 40 min at -35"C. When TLC (PE: EA= 2:1 and
DCM: MeOH= 15:1) showed that the reaction was complete, the reaction was quenched with
water (50 mL) at 0*C. The mixture was stirred 30 mins, extracted with EA. The organic phase
was dried over Na 2 SO4 and filtered through a silica gel pad. The filtrate was concentrated under
reduced pressure. The residue was purified by column chromatography (PE: EA= 100:1-1:1) to
give 63-4 (30.0 g, 88.3%) as a brown foam.
          [0453]     Preparation of (63-5): 63-4 (30 g, 36.9 mmol) was co-evaporated twice with
toluene. The resulting bis-triflate was dissolved in anhydrous DMF (150 mL), cooled to OT and
treated with sodium hydride (60% in mineral oil; 1.5 g, 40.6 mmol, 1.1 eq). The reaction
mixture was stirred at R.T. for I h until TLC (DCM: McOH = 15:1) showed the disappearance
                                                -195-

of the bis-triflate and formation of the 2,5'-anhydro intermediate. Lithium chloride (4.6 g, 110.7
mmol, 3 cq) was added, and the stirring was continued for 2 It. The mixture was taken into 100
mL of half saturated ammonium chloride and ethyl acetate. The organic phase was separated,
washed with diluted brine and concentrated under reduced pressure to give 63-5.
         104541       Preparation of (63-6):    63-5 was dissolved in THF (150 mL), and the
solution was treated with IN aqueous sodium hydroxide (~41 mL, 40.1 mmol, 1.1 eq).             The
mixture was stirred at R.T. for 1 I. The reaction was monitored by LCMS. The reaction was
diluted with half saturated sodium bicarbonate (~60 mL) and extracted with ethyl acetate. The
organic phase was dried (magnesium sulfate) and concentrated under reduced pressure.
Purification of the residue by column chromatography (DCM: MeOH= 300:1-60:1) gave 63-6
(18.3 g, 87.6%) as a yellow foam.
         10455]        Preparation of (63-7):   To a solution of 63-6 (18.3 g, 32.33 mmol) in
anhydrous DCM (150 mL) was added TBS-CI (17.7 g, 64.6 mmol) and imidazole (6.6 g, 97
mmol). The reaction was allowed to proceed overnight at R.T. The reaction was diluted with
water and extracted with DCM. The organic layer was separated, washed with brine, dried over
Na 2 SO 4 and concentrated.      Purification of the residue by column chromatography (DCM:
McOH=300: L80: 1) gave 63-7 (18.4 g, 83.7%) as a white foam.
         [04561        Preparation of (63-8): A solution of 63-7 (18.4 g, 27.1 mmol), DMAP (6.6
g, 54.0 mmol) and TEA (5.4 g,54.0 mmol) in MeCN (450 mL) was treated with 2,4,6
triispropylbenzenesulfonyl chloride (TPSCI, 16.3 g, 54.0 mmol). The mixture was stirred at
 R.T. for 3 h. NH3 H20 (70 mL) was added, and the mixture was stirred for 2 h. The solution
was evaporated under reduced pressure, and the residue was purified on a silica gel column
 (DCM: McOH= 100:1 to 15:1) to give 63-8 (18.0 g) as a light yellow solid.
         10457]        Preparation of (63-9):    To a solution of 63-8 (18.0 g, 26.5 mmol) in
 anhydrous DCM (150 mL) was added colliding (8.1 g, 66.3 mmol, 2.5 eq), silver nitrate (4.5 g,
 26.5 mmol, 1.0 eq) and DMTrCI (13.4 g, 39.7 mmol, 1.5 eq). The reaction was allowed to
 proceed overnight at R.T. The mixture was filtered. The filtrate was washed with brine and
 extracted with DCM.       The organic layer was separated, dried over Na 2 SO 4 and concentrated.
 The residue was purified by column chromatography (PE: EA= 60;             3:1) as a yellow foam.
 The foam was dissolved in TIF (150 mL), and TBAF (10.4 g, 39.7 mrnmol, 1.5 eq) was added.
 The reaction was allowed to proceed overnight at R.T. The mixture was concentrated, washed
 with brine and extracted with EA.        The organic layer was separated, dried over Na2 SO 4 and
 concentrated. Purification of the residue by column chromatography (PE: EA =60: LEA) gave
 63-9 (213 g, 92.4%) as a yellow foam.
                                                 -196-

          [04581      Prenaration of (63-10):    To a solution of 63-9 (2.0 g, 2.3 mmol) in
 anhydrous DCM (20 mL) was added Dess-Martin periodinane (1.95 g, 4.6 mmol) at 0"C under
 nitrogen. The reaction was stirred at R.T. for 5 h. The mixture was diluted with EtOAc (100
 mL) and washed with a mixture of saturated aqueous Na 2 S2 0 3 and saturated aqueous NaHCO 3 .
 The crude product was purified by column chromatography on silica gel (PE: EtOAc = 2: 1) to
 give 63-10 (1.8 g, 90%) as a yellow solid.
          [0459]      Preparation    of   (63-11):        To     a   solution     of   tetramethyl
 methylenediphosphonate (390 mg, 1.68 mmol) in anhydrous THF (10 mL) was added NaH (84
 mg, 2.1 mmol) at 0C under nitrogen. The reaction was stirred at 0"C for 30 minl. A solution of
 63-10 (1.2 g, 1.4 minol) in anhydrous THIF (10 mL) was added dropwise at 00C. The reaction
 mixture was stirred at R.T. for I h. The reaction was quenched by saturated aqueous NH4CI,
 and the crude product was purified by column chromatography on silica gel (DCM: MecOH =
 150: 1) to give 63-11 (1.2 g, 88.2%) as a yellow solid. 'H NMR (DMSO-d6, 400 M Hz) 8 8.51
 (s, 1H), 7.46-7.09 (m, 22H), 6.88-6.82 (m, 6H), 6.62 (q, J, = 17.2 Hz, j2 = 22.4 Hz, 1H), 6.12 (d,
J= 7.2 Hz, iH), 5.86-5.75 (m, 2H), 5.43 (d,J= 25.2 Hz, IH), 4.63 (dd,.J= 4.8 Hz,1 = 21.2 Hz,
 1H), 4.45 (d,. = 12.0 Hz, IH), 3.94 (d,. = 12.0 Hz, 1H), 3.72 (s, 9H), 3.53 (q,.J= 11.2 Hz,J=
 16.0 Hz, 6H). ESI-MS: n/z 971.59 [M + H]*.
         [04601      Prenaration of (63a): A solution of 63-11 (1.0 g, 1.03 mmol) in 80% HOAc
(46 mL) was stirred at 80-90"C for 2 I. The solvent was removed, and the crude product was
purified by column chromatography on silica gel (DCM: MeOH = 20: 1) to give an intermediate
(337 mg, 82.3%) as a white solid. The intermediate was dissolved in MeOH and wet Pd/C (300
ing) was added. The reaction mixture was stirred under H2(1 atm) for I I and then filtered. The
solvent was removed, and the residue was purified on a silica gel column (DCM: MeOH= 20:1)
to give 63a (192 mg, 63.9%) as a white solid. 1H NMR (CD 3 0D, 400 MHz) 87.60 (d, J= 7.6
Hz, iH), 5.87 (d,1= 7.2 Hz, iH), 5.70(dd, ,= 2.0 Hz, .= 21.6 Hz,1H), 5.31(m, IH), 4.67 (dd, j
=5.6 Hz, J= 19.6 Hz, H), 3.80(m, 2H), 3.75 (2d, J= 2.4 Hz, 6H), 1.92-2.20 (m, 4H). -"PNMR
(CD 3 0D, 162 MHz) 6 35.77. ESI-MS: m/z 400.0 [M + H]'.
                                              -197-

                                              EXAMPLE 61
                                    Preparation of Compound (64a)
      0     0                               0     0
               II  IIIID                            I
    A          N                          A    F 0
         64-1                                 64-2
                  NHDMTr                  ,     \0
                                                ,                                 1,0
           C 0 NNF                                               NHDMTr     F                 -  NH2
               Cl                                            N              Cl: -A'
 MMTr'        IF                        MMTrO           FH                      HO        F O
        63-10                                         64-3                            64a
         104611          Preparation of (64-2): To a solution of 64-1 (1.0 g,4.3 mmol) in THF (20
mL) was added NaH (120 mg, 3.0 mmol), and the reaction mixture was stirred at 00C for I h1.
Selectfluor (1.2 g, 3.4 mmol) was added into the reaction mixture. The crude product was
purified on a silica gel column and eluted with EA to give 64-2 (500 mg, 57%) as a white solid.
'H NMR (CD 3 OD, 400 MHz) 35.65 (dt, J = 14.0 Hz, J = 44.8 Hz, IH), 3.90 (d,J = 9.6 Hz,
 12H).
          [0462]         Preparation of (64-3):       To a solution of compound 64-2 (390 mg, 1.68
mmol) in anhydrous THF (10 nL) was added NaH (84 mg, 2.1 mml) at 0C under nitrogen.
The reaction mixture was stirred at       oC   for 30 mins. A solution of 63-10 (1.2 g, 1.4 mmol) in
anhydrous THF (10 mL) was added dropwise at 0C. The reaction mixture was stirred at R.T.
 for I h. The reaction was quenched with saturated aqueous NH 4CI and concentrated to give a
residue. The residue was purified on a silica gel column (DCM: MeOH= 150: 1) to give crude
 64-3 (1.2 g, 88.2%) as ayellow solid.
          10463]         Preparation of (64a): A solution of crude 64-3 (230 mg, 0.23 mmol) in 80%
 HOAc (3 mL) was stirred at 80-900C for 2 h. The crude product was purified on a silica gel
 column elutedd with DCM: MeOH= 20:1) to give 64a (54 ng, 53.7%) as a white solid.                  -I
 NMR (DMSO, 400 MHz) 37.69 (d, J = 7.2 Hz, I H), 7.37 (d, J = 1.6 Hz, 2H), 6.62-6.78 (in,
  1H), 6.40 (d, = 5.6 Hz, IH), 6.03-6.07 (in, IH), 5.77 (d,J= 7.6 Hz, IH), 5.61-5.64 (m, I H),
 5.48-5.51 (in, I H), 4.60-4.64 (in, IH), 4.38 (d, J = 11.6 Hz, I H), 3.98 (d, J= 11.6 Hz, I -), 3.75
 (2d, J = 11.6 Hz, 6H). ESI-MS: m/z 416.3 [M + H].
                                                       -198-

                                              EXAMPLE 62
                                    Preparation of Compound (65a)
                                             NHDMTr                              NH2
                                    0      N
                                 Io       N                 O
                                    Cl                           -,.             0
                                                              Cl
                            MMTrO      'F                            Hd    F
                                  64-3                                  65a
          f04641      A solution of crude 64-3 (230 mg, 0.23 mmol) in 80% HOAc (3 mL) was
 stirred at 80-90 0 C  for 2 h. The crude product was purified on a silica gel column (cluted with
 DCW: McOH= 20:1) to give 64a (52 mg, 33.7%) as a white solid.                 'H NMR (DMSO, 400
 MHz) 657.59 (d,        = 7.2 Hz, 1H), 7.32 (s, 2H), 6.25-6.28 (im, iH), 5.86-6.02 (m, 2H), 5.73 (s,
  iH), 5.31 (d, J= 14.0 Hz, IH), 4.72 (d,J= 16.4 Hz, IH), 3.90 (d,J= 10.0 Hz, IH), 3.73 (2d,J
 =11.6   Hz, 6H).
                                             EXAMPLE 63
                                    Preparation of Compound (66a)
                                      NH2                                            NH2
                       F            N                                 0
                             O   NN
                                             0l"                                     0
                        Hd     IF                                         HG      F
                           64a                                               66a
         [04651       A solution of 64a (130 mg, 0.3 mmol) in EA:MeOH (5:1, 20 mL) was stirred
under H2 (15 Psi) at R.T. for 2 h. The reaction mixture was filtered and concentrated to give a
residue. The residue was purified on a silica gel column (DCM: MeOH= 20: 1) to give 66a (70
mg, 54%) as a white solid. 'H NMR (DMSO, 400 MHz) r7.61 (d,J= 7.2 Hz, IH), 5.87 (d, J =
7.2 Hz, IH), 5.58-5.80 (in, IH), 5.26-5.47 (m, 2H), 4.97-5.03 (m, 1H), 5.58-5.80 (m, 1H), 3.73
3.94 (m, 6H), 2.33-2.59 (n, 2H). ESI-MS: m/z 418.3 [M + H]J.
                                                 -199-

                                             EXAMPLE 64
                                     Preparation of Compound (67a)
           0    0                               0   0
              67-1                                67-2
                         NHDMTr                                NHDMTr        V-0
                                                 FN
                                                  FN                        F                  NH2
                   VN 0_             _
                                          f00S         0- N-4
                                                       0      0             c-.    0     N'r
      MMTrd        'F                          MMTrd      F                     HO     F
             63-10                                   67-3                           67a
          [04661         Preparation of (67-2): To a solution of 67-1 (2.0 g, 6.9 mmol) in THF (20
                                                                                            0
mL) was added NaH (110 mg, 2.8 mmol), and the reaction mixture was stirred at 0 C for 1 I.
Selectfluor (5.0 g, 13.6 mmol) was added into the reaction mixture. The reaction was quenched
with saturated NI-4Cl and extracted with EA.              The organic layer was separated, dried and
concentrated to give the crude product. The crude product was purified on a silica gel column
(cluted with EA) to give 67-2 (600 mg, 28.3%) as a white solid. '1H NMR (CD3OD, 400 MHz) S
5.65 (dt, J= 14.0 Hz, J= 44.8 Hz, IH), 4.24-4.46 (in, 8H), 1.35-1.39 (in, 12H).
           [0467]         Preparation of (67-3):    To a solution of 67-2 (2.14 g, 7.0 mmol) in
                                                                             0                   The
anhydrous THF (10 mL) was added NaH (84 mg, 2.1 mmol) at 0 C under nitrogen.
reaction mixture was stirred at 0C for 30 mins.             A solution of 63-10 (3.0 g, 3.5 mmol) in
anhydrous THF (10 mL) was added in dropwise at OC. The reaction mixture was stirred at R.T.
for I h. The reaction was quenched with saturated aqueous NH4Cl and concentrated to give a
 residue. The residue was purified on a silica gel column (DCM: MeOH=150: 1) to give crude
 67-3 (2.9 g, 79.5%) as a yellow solid.
           [04681         Preparation of (67a): A solution of crude 67-3 (1.0 g, 0.98 mmol) in 80%
 HOAc (25 mL) was stirred at 80-90 0 C for 2 h. The crude product was purified on a silica gel
 column elutedd with DCM: MeOH= 20:1) to give 67a (133 mg, 32.5%) as a white solid.                IH
 NMR (DMSO, 400 MHz) 87.67 (d, J= 7.2 Hz, IH), 7.34 (d, J= 12.8 Hz, 2H), 6.33-6.69 (m,
  I H), 6.05 (d, J= 6.8 Hz, I H), 6.00-6.05 (m, IH), 5.76 (d, J= 7.6 Hz, IH), 5.45-5.61 (in, IH),
 4.60-4.63 (m, IH), 4.08-4.14 (in, 5H), 1.23-1.29 (m, 61-1). "P NMR (DMSO, 162 MHz) 8 1.93,
  1.30. ESI-MS: m/z 466.1 [M + Na]f.
                                                     -200-

                                               EXAMPLE 65
                                     Preparation of Compound (68a)
                      rO
                               FC N NH2                             F                       NH2
                  HO       "F O                                         HO
                                                                         d     "F   O
                        67a                                                 68a
          [0469]        To a solution of 67a (130 mg, 0.29 mmol) in MeOH (20 mL) was stirred
  under H2 (15 Psi) at R.T. for 2 I The reaction mixture was filtered and concentrated to give a
 residue. The residue was purified on a silica gel column (eluted with DCM: MeOH= 20:1) to
 give a mixture of diastereomers of 68a (90 mg, 69.2%) as a white solid. 'H NMR (DMSO, 400
 MHz) 37.61-7.68 (m, I H), 7.28-7.38 (in, 2H), 5.89-5.95 (in, IiH), 5.58-5.79 (m, 2H), 5.18-5.39
 (in, 2H), 4.53-4.85 (m, 1H), 4.04-4.39 (in, 4H), 3.71-3.83 (m, 2H), 2.21-2.35 (m, 2H), 1.21-1.27
 (in, 6H). "P NMR (DMSO, 162 MHz) 6 18.2, 18.02, 17.73, 17.56. ESI-MS: m/z 446.1 [M +
 H]'
                                              EXAMPLE 66
                                     Preparation of Compound (69a)
                                                     0
                          0
                                                 N                                     0
                         NH                   04I                                      NH
    T         O     NN                                                HO      o
   TfO-          t-O            -    TfO"'                          MeS                0
     MMTrG       'F                    MMTr        IF                 MMTrO'      F
             63-4                             69-1            NH2            69-2NH
                            NH             ~N2
   MMTrON0             NO.              MMTrO               Nf0 O          HO~ 0         N- 1\\N
                       Wi  0              MeS"                    -      MeS-"'                0
       MMTrd         'F                     MMTrd         F                     Hd     'F
                69-3                                 69-4                           69a
         [04701          Preparation of (69-1):     63-4 (3.0 g, 3.69 mmol) was co-evaporated twice
with toluene. The resulting bis-triflate was dissolved in anhydrous DMF (20 niL). The solution
was cooled to 0C and treated with sodium hydride (60% in mineral oil; 177 mg, 0.43 mmol).
The reaction was stirred at R.T. for I i (TLC (PE: EA =2:1) showed complete disappearance of
the bis-triflate and clean formation of the 2',5'-anhydro intermediate). The reaction mixture was
used for the next step without any further workup
                                                    -201-

         [04711      Preparation of (69-2):  To the above stirred reaction mixture was added
NaSMe (9.0 g, 0.13 mmol) and 15-Crown-5 (4.87 g, 22.14 mmol) at 0"C under nitrogen. The
solution was stirred at R.T. for 2 I (TLC (PE: EA= 1:1) showed the reaction was complete).
The reaction was quenched with water. The mixture was extracted by EtOAc, washed with
brine, and dried over MgSO 4. The mixture was filtered and concentrated to give a residue. The
residue was purified on a silica gel column (PE: EA= 5:2) to give 69-2 (1.23 g, 59.0%) as a
white foam.
         104721      Preparation of (69-3): To a stirred solution of 69-2 (1.34 g, 2.32 mmol) in
anhydrous DCM (10 mL) was added MMTrCI (1.32 g, 4.64 mmol), AgNO3 (1.17 g, 6.96 mol)
and Collidine (1.41 g, 11.6 mol) at R.T. under nitrogen. The reaction mixture was stirred at
R.T. for 1 h (TLC (PE: EA= 1:1) showed the reaction was complete). The mixture was filtered
and concentrated. The residue was purified on a silica gel column (PE: EA= 8:1) to give 69-3
(1.3 1g, 66.5%) as a white foam.
         104731      Preparation of (69-4):   To a solution of 69-3 (900 mg, 1.06 mmol) in
anhydrous MeCN (9 mL) was added DMAP (259 mg, 2.12 mmol), TEA (214 mg, 2.12 mmol)
and TPSCI (640 mg, 2.12 mmol) at R.T. under nitrogen. The reaction mixture was stirred at
 R.T. for 2 h (TLC (DCM: McOH=10:1) showed the reaction was complete). NH40H (10 mL)
was added, and the reaction mixture was stirred for another I h (LCMS showed the reaction was
complete). The solution was diluted with water, extracted with EtOAc. The organic layer was
washed with IM HCJ, saturated NaHCO3 and brine, and dried over MgSO 4 . The mixture was
filtered and concentrated to give a residue. The residue was purified on a silica gel column
 (DCM: McOH= 70:1) to give 69-4 (870 mug, 68.5%) as a white solid.
          104741     Preparation of (69a):   69-4 (800 mg, 0.95 mmol) was dissolved in 80%
 HOAc aq. (50 mL). The reaction mixture was heated to 75"C overnight (LCMS showed the
 reaction was complete). The reaction mixture was concentrated and purified on a silica gel
 column (DCM: MeOH= 15:1) to give 69a (180 iug, 62.5%) as a white solid. 'IHNMR (CD 30D,
 400 MHz) (58.05 (d,.J= 7.2 Hz, IH), 6.11 (dd,.J =3.2 Hz J = 15.6 Hz, IH), 5.87 (d,.J= 7.6
 Hz, IH), 5.05 (dt, J = 4.8 Hz, J = 53.6 Hz, IH), 4.47 (dd, J=5.2 Hz J = 17.6 Hz, IH), 3.83 (d,
J= 12.0 Hz, 2H), 2.84 (d,l= 14.4 Hlz, 2H), 2.15 (s, 3H). ESI-MS: m/z 305.8 [M + H]
                                              -202-

                                           EXAMPLE 67
                                  Preparation of Compound (70a)
                                     0                                    0
                                  N                                    / NOH
                      MMTrd        'F                               0
                               63-5                               70a
        [04751     To a solution of 63-5 (100 g, 182.5 mmol) in MeCN (2 L) was added 6N HCI
aq. (15 g). The mixture was stirred at 40"C for 7 h, and then neutralized to pH = 5-6 with a
25% ammonia solution (~8 g). The mixture was filtered to give a solid, which was further
washed by PE to give an intermediate (32.2 g, 60%) as a white solid. To a mixture of the
intermediate (32.2 g, 109.5 mnol), TEA (22.1 g, 219 mmol) and DMAP (1.34 g, II mmol) in
MeCN (1 L) was added with isobutyric anhydrous (69.2 g, 438 mmol). The mixture was stirred
at R.T. for 3 h. The reaction was quenched by the addition of water (200 mL) and extracted
with 2-Mc-THF (800 mL). The organic layer was washed with saturated NaHCO3 and brine.
The organic layer was dried and concentrated to give a residue, which was purified by a silica
gel column (10% toluene in heptanc) to give 70a (42.3 g, 89%) as a white solid. IH NMR
(CD 30D, 400 MHz) 67.65 (d,.J = 8.0 Hz, 11-I), 5.95 (dd,.J= 2.8, 20.4 Hz, 1H), 5.55-5.74 (m,
3H), 4.33-4.41 (m, 2H), 3.88 (s, 2H), 2.57-2.72 (m, 2H), 1.14-1.22 (m, 12H).
                                           EXAMPLE 68
                                 Preparation of Compound (71a)
                                    /NHO
                TfO       0   N-1__
                                    0               Br-"
                 MMTrG      '                        MMTrd      F
                        63-4                               71-1
                                        SNH                                  2
               MMTrO      tO. N       O                  HO        0
                  Br-"'Vj             0                  Br -""            0
                  MMTrd       *                               Hd       F
                         71-2                                      71a
                                              -203-

         [0476]      Preparation of (71-1): To a solution of 63-4 (4.2 g, 5.17 mmol) in DMF (50
mL) at 0"C was added NaH (227 mg of 60% dispersion, 5.7 mmol). The mixture was stirred at
0*C for 2 h ,and then LiBr (1.34 g, 15.5 mmol) was added. The mixture was stin-ed overnight at
R.T., diluted with EA (150 mL) and washed successively with water and brine. The organic
layer was dried over Na 2SO4 and concentrated. The residue was purified on a silica gel column
eluted with 10% EA in PE to give 71-1 as a yellow solid (2 g, 66%)
         [0477]      Preparation of (71-2): To a solution of 71-1 (1.74 g, 2.9 mmol) in THF (20
mL) at 0"C was added IN NaOH (3.2 mL, 3.2 mmol), and the mixture was stirred at 0"C for 2 h.
The mixture was partitioned between EA (100 nL) and water (20 mL), and the organic layer
was dried over Na 2 SO 4 and evaporated to dryness. The residue was purified on a silica gel
column cluted with 20% EA in PE to give the 5'-O-I derivative as a yellow solid (1.6 g, 90%).
        [0478]      To a solution of 5'-OH derivative (2.3 g, 3.76 mmol) in anhydrous DCM (20
mL) were added colliding (0.8 g, 6.7 mol) and MMTrCI (2.7 g, 8.7 mmol). The reaction mixture
was stirred at R.T. overnight. The mixture was filtered and washed successively with saturated
aqueous NaHCO 3 and brine, dried over Na 2SO4 and concentrated. The residue was purified on a
silica gel column eluted with 10% EA in PE to give 71-2 as a yellow solid (2.4 g, 73%).
        [04791       Preparation of (71a): To a solution of 71-2 (2.4 g, 2.72 mmol) in anhydrous
CH3 CN (30 mL) were added TPSCI (1.65 g, 5.44 mmol), DMAP (0.663 g, 5.44 mmol) and NEt3
(1.5 nL) at R.T. The mixture was stirred at R.T. for 3 h, and 28% aqueous ammonia (30 mL)
was added. The mixture was stirred for 1 I. The mixture was diluted with EA (150 mL) and
washed successively with water, saturated aqueous NaHCO 3 and brine.            The solvent was
removed, and the residue was purified on a silica gel column eluted with 2% MeOH in DCM to
give a cytidine derivative as a yellow solid (1.5 g, 62%).
        [0480]     The cytidine derivative (1.35 g, 1.5 mmol) was dissolved in 80% AcOH (40
mL), and the mixture was stirred at 60'C for 2 h. The mixture was concentrated, and the residue
was purified on a silica gel column using 5% MeOH in DCM as elute to give 71a as a white
solid (180 mg, 35 %). 'H NMR (McOD, 400 MHz) 68.00 (dJ= 7.2 Hz, 1H), 6.12 (dd, J= 3.6
Hz,. = 15.6 Hz, lIH), 5.88 (d,J= 7.6 Hz, 1H), 5.10 (dd,.J= 4.8 Hz,J= 53.2 Hz, IH), 4.59 (dd,
J= 5.2 Hz, J= 16.4 Hz, IH), 3.95 (d, J= 11.6 Hz, 1IH), 3.76 (d, J= 11.6 Hz, 1H), 3.70 (d, J=
 11.6 Hz, 1H), 3.63 (d, J= 11.2 Hz, IH); ESI-TOF-MS: m/z 337.9 [M + H],
                                                -204-

                                               EXAMPLE 69
                                      Preparation of Compound (72a)
                       0                        HO         0                                 O
                       NH                                  NH                                NH
          C-       N        NHo-Hr                     N             -Hr<o                 N
      MMTr'       F                        MMTrd      F                       MMTrd      IF
             63-6                                72-1                                72-2
                         0                                  NH2                              NH2
                      /NH                                   N
   MMTrO N<O                           . MMTrO     0                       N-# HO      0
                                -lI"-      c-y              o   -l",                 \       o
       MMTrC       'F                       MMTrd      F                          HC      F
            72-3                                  72-4                                72a
         [0481]         Preparation of (72-1): To a solution of 63-6 (1.0 g, 1.8 mmol ) in 1, 4
dioxane (2 mL) was added TEA (3 mL) and 37% HCHO (3 mL). The reaction mixture was
stirred for 10 h at 60"C. The reaction was concentrated to dryness under vacuum, and the
residue was purified by column on a silica gel column (DCM: McOH = 100:1-30:1) to give 72-1
(470 mg, 45%) as a white foam. 'H NMR (DMSO-d6, 400 MIz) 811.4 (s, 1H), 7.27-7.49 (in,
 13H), 6.89 (d, J = 8.8 Hz, 2H), 4.90-4.95 (in, IH), 4.58 (dd, J= 5.2 Hz, J= 23.6 Hz, IH), 3.96
4.07 (in, 4H), 3.73 (s, 3H), 3.50-3.62 (in, IH), 3.37-3.39 (in, IH), ESI-TOF-MS: m/z 596.9 [M +
HI].
         [04821          Preparation of (72-2):      To a solution of 72-1 (430 mg, 0.72 mmol) in
dioxane (2 mL) was added 30% CH-COOH (0.7 mL) and Pt0 2 (290 ing). The reaction mixture
was stirred under H2 (latm) at R.T. for 2 h. The mixture was filtered, and the filtrate was
concentrated to dryness. The residue was purified on a silica gel column (DCM: MeOH =
 100:1-30:1) to give 72-2 (268 mg, 64%) as a white foam. 'H NMR (DMSO-d6, 400 MHz) S
 11.3 (s, IH), 7.27-7.46 (in, 13H), 6.88 (d,J= 8.8 Hz, 2H), 5.78 (d,J=20.8 Hz, IH), 5.06-5.08
(t, J = 20.8 Hz, I H), 4.49 (dd, J = 4.2 Hz , J = 24.4 Hz, I H), 3.94-4.04 (in, 2H), 3.70 (s, 3H),
3.59-3,63 (in, 11-1), 3.52-3,53 (in, 11H), 3.34-3.40 (in, 1H), 1.66 (s, 3H). ESI-TOF-MS: m/z 580.9
[M + H].
         [04831         Preparation of (72-3):       To a solution of 72-2 (260 mg, 0.45 mmol) in
anhydrous DCM (3 mL) was added AgNO 3 (228 mg, 1.35 mmol), colliding (223 mg, 1.8 imol)
and MMTrCl (456 mg, 1.35 imol). The mixture was stirred at R.T. for 10 h . The reaction
mixture was filtered, and the filtrate was concentrated to dryness. The residue was purified on a
silica gel column (PE: EA = 50:1-3:1) to give 72-3 (303 mig, 80%) as a white foam.
         [04841          Preparation of (72-4):      To a solution of 72-3 (300 mg, 0.35 mmol) in
anhydrous CH 3CN (3 mL) was added DMAP (107 mug, 0.88 mmol), TEA ( 141 mng, 1.4 mmol)
                                                      -205-

and TPSCI (106 mg, 0.35 mmol) at R.T. The reaction mixture was stirred at R.T. for 4 h.
NH 40H (1 mL) was added, and the mixture was stirred at R.T. for another I h. The solvent was
removed, and the residue was partitioned by EA and water. The organic layer was washed by
brine twice, dried and concentrated to give a residue. The residue was purified on a silica gel
column (PE: EA = 50:1-3:1) to give 72-4 (270 mg, 90%) as a white foam.
        10485]        Preparation of (72a): 72-4 (260 mg, 0.31 mmol) in 10 mL of 60% HCOOH
was stirred at R.T. for 2 h. The solvent was removed, and the residue was washed with EA to
give 72a (31 mg, 32%) as a white powder. 'H NMR (MeOD, 400 MHz) 67.85 (d, J = 0.8 Hz,
IH), 6.12 (dd,     = 4.0 Hz, 1= 15.2 Hz, IH), 5.08-5.22 (m, IH), 4.58 (dd,      = 4.8 Hz, 1= 14.8
Hz, IH), 3.92 (d, J= 15.6 Hz, IH), 3.74-3.84 (in, 3H), 1.94 (d, J= 0.8 Hz, lIH). ESI-TOF-MS:
m/z 307.9 [M + H]*.
                                           EXAVIPLE 70
                                  Preparation of Compound (73a)
                      0                                 0                                  0
                      NH                                NH                                 NH
     O            N                                   N                    BzN
    MMTrO        F                           H 1 F                             BzG      F
            63-6                                73-1                               73-2
                                     HO                               HO
                                        NH                               NH
                                        N                               NN
                      BzO           N                N
                          Bzd      F                        HO     F
                               73-3                            73a
        104861        Preparation of(73-1): 63-6 (600 mg, 1.06 minmol) in formic acid (5 mL, 80%
in water) was stirred at R.T. overnight. Completion of the reaction was determined by TLC
(DCM: McOH= 10:1). The solvent was removed to give crude 73-1 (290 mg, 93.2%).
        104871        Preparation of (73-2):   To a solution of 73-1 (290 mg, 0.98 mmol) in
pyridine (5 mL) and acetonitrile (5 mL) was added BzCI (371 mg, 2.65 mmol). The reaction
mixture was stirred at 0"C for 0.5 h. The reaction was warmed to R.T. and stirred for 2 h.
Completion of the reaction was determined by LCMS. The reaction was quenched with water
and extracted with EA. The organic layer was washed with brine, dried over MgSO 4 , filtered
and concentrated. The residue was purified on a silica gel column (DCM: MeOH= 200:1) to
give 73-2 (245 mg, 49.8%) as a white solid.
                                               -206-

         [04881      Preparation of (73-3):     To a solution of 73-2 (245 mg, 0.49 mmol) in
anhydrous acetonitrile (2.5 mL) was added TPSCl (394 mg, 0.98 mmol), DMAP (119.5 mg, 0.98
mmol) and TEA (98 mg, 0.98 mmol). The mixture was stirred at R.T. for 3 h1.NH 2 OH-HCI (68
mg, 0.98 mmol) and DBU (368 mg, 1.47 mmol) were added, and the reaction mixture was
stirred at R.T. for 2 hi. The reaction mixture was diluted with water and extracted with EtOAc.
The combined organic layer was washed with IM HCI, saturated NaHCO 3 and brine, dried and
concentrated. The residue was purified on a silica gel column (DCM: MeOH= 20:1) to give 73
3 (49 mg, 32.9%) as a white solid.
         [0489]      Preparation of (73a): 73-3 (49 mg, 0.1 mmol) in NH 3/McOH (30 mL) was
stirred at R.T. for 2 days. The solvent was removed. The residue was purified on a silica gel
column (DCM: MeOH= 30:1) to give 73a (12.9 mg, 44.0%) as a white solid. 'H NMR (DMSO
d6 , 400 MHz) 8 10.07 (brs, 1H), 9.68 (brs, H), 7.02 (d,J=8.0 Hz, IH), 6.06 (dd,J= 6.4 Hz,J
= 13.6 Hz, IH), 5.94 (d,.J= 5.6 Hz, 1H), 5.60 (d,,J= 8.4 Hz, IH), 5.36 (t,.J= 5.2 Hz, lH), 5.16
(dt,.J=5.2 Hz,.J= 53.6 Hz, 1H), 4.31-4.35 (m, IH), 3.58-3.76 (in, 2H), 3.57-3.58 (in, 2H). ESI
TOF-MS: m/z 308.1 [M - H]*.
                                             EXAMPLE 71
                                    Preparation of Compound (74a)
                                                       0                                   NH
                     o
                       H                               NH                                  N
    H                      .N-    .  MMTrO       0            -A.      MMTrO    cY      NI
                               0                       0
     MMTrd      F                         MMTrd     F                       MMTrd      F
          63-6                                 74-1                               74-2
                                           NH
                                          /N
                         HO       O     N
                         CI--e
                               Hd     'F
                                 74a
         10490]       Preparation of (74-1):      To a solution of 63-6 (1.2 g, 2.12 mmol) in
anhydrous DCM (20 imL) were added collidine (750 mg, 6.51 mol) and MMTrCI (2.6 g, 8.5
mmol). The reaction mixture was stirred at R.T. overnight. The reaction was filtered and
washed successively with saturated aqueous NaHCO 3 and brine, dried over Na 2SO4 and
concentrated. The residue was purified on a silica gel column cluted with 10% EA in PE to give
74-1 as a yellow solid (1.4 g, 72%).
                                                 -207-

        [04911       Preparation of (74-2): To a stirred solution of 74-1 (600 mg, 0.715 mmol) in
anhydrous acetonitrile (6 mL) were added TPSC (432 mg, 1.43 mmol), DMAP (174 mg, 1.43
mmol) and TEA (144 mg, 1.43 mmol). The mixture was stirred at R.T. for 2 h. Completion of
the reaction was determined by TLC (DCM: MeOH= 10:1). CH3NH 2 (310 mg, 10 mmol) was
added dropwise at 0"C. The reaction mixture was stirred at R.T. for 2 h. The mixture was
diluted with water and extracted with EtOAc. The combined organic layer was washed with IM
HCI, saturated NaHCO 3 and brine. The solvent was removed, and the residue was purified by
prep-TLC (DCM: MeOH= 10:1) to give 74-2 (307 mg, 50.45%) as a white solid.
        [0492]       Preparation of (74a): 74-2 (300 mg, 0.352 mmol) in formic acid (10 mL,
80% in water) was stirred at R.T. overnight. Completion of the reaction was determined by
TLC (DCM: McOH= 10:1). The solvent was removed to dryness. The residue was dissolved in
20 mL of methanol. Ammonia (0.5 mL) was added, and the mixture was stirred at R.T. for 5
mins. The solvent was removed, and the residue was washed with PE (5X) to give 74a (103 mg,
95.3%) as a white solid. 1H NM R (DMSO-dl6 , 400 MHz) 87.79 (d,J= 4.8 Hz, IH), 7.72 (d, J=
5.2 Hz, 1H), 6.10 (dd, 1= 4.4 Hz, J= 14.8 Hz, IH), 5.97 (brs, 1H), 5.73 (d,1 = 7.6 Hz, 11H),
5.39 (brs, 1H), 5.08 (dt,1 = 4.2 Hz,1 = 53.2 Hz, IH), 4.37-4.40 (in, IH), 3.73 (s, 2H), 3.54-3.70
(in, 2H), 2.73 (d, J= 4.4 Hz, 3H). ESI-TOF-MS: m/z 308.1 [M + H] t .
                                              -208-

                                                 EXAMPLE 72
                                      Preparation of Compound (75a)
                                0
                                  O 7  OH    OH3C(H                               2 C)i -O
                                                                                         7         ODMTr
      H3C(H2C)  17-Br         75-2               O      O (CH 2)7 CH3                       7OH
           75-1                                    75-3
                                                   N(i-Pr)2                                  N(i-Pr) 2
                   H3C(H  2 C) -0
                               17         OH   C PO            CN      H3C(H2C--0          0 F 0 -     CN
                                      OBn                                             OBn
                            75-5
                                                                                     7 5-6
                         NHDOMTr
           HOAo          N-     /                                          NHDMTr
                                                                           NN
                         0        H3C(H 2 C) -1 7             00 -0xo,
       MMTrd@       Ia
                  63-9                                          CN
                                                      NC     MMTrO      F
                                                           75-7
                                                NH2
   H3C(H2C)17-O             I0P.'               NH2
                        Nae CI0
                             75a   HO     F
         104931          Preparation of (75-3): To a stirred solution of 75-1 (20.0 g, 151 mmol) in
anhydrous THIF (200 mL)was added NaH (7.8 g, 196 mmol) in portions at 0*C. The mixture
was stirred for I h, and 75-2 (65.0 g, 196 mmol) was added dropwisc at 0"C. The mixture was
stirred at R.T. for 10 h. The reaction was quenched with water and extracted with EA. The
reaction was washed with brine, and the organic layer was concentrated to obtain crude 75-3 (72
g).
         [04941          Preparation of (75-4):      Crude 75-3 (72 g, 151 mmol) was dissolved with
80% CH3COOH (300 mL) and stirred for 10 It. The solvent was removed tinder reduced
pressure. The residue was dissolved in EA and washed with saturated NaHCO 3 and brine
successively. The organic layer was dried over Na 2 SO4 and concentrated to dryness. The
residue was purified on a silica gel column to give the crude intermediate, which was dissolved
in anhydrous pyridine (80 mL) and DCM (400 mL). A solution of DMTrCI (56.0 g, 166 mmol)
in DCM (150 mL) was added dropwise at 0*C. The mixture was stirred at R.T. for 10 h. The
reaction mixture was concentrated to dryness, and the residue was purified by column on silica
gel (PE: EA= 2:1) to give 75-4 (58.5 g, 61%).
                                                       -209-

        104951        Prenaration of (75-5): To a stirred solution of 75-4 (10.0 g, 15.5 mmol) in
anhydrous DMF (80 mL) was added NaH (0.8 g, 20 mmol) at 0"C. The mixture was stirred at
R.T. for I h, and BnBr (33.8 g, 20 mmol) was added. The reaction mixture was stirred at R.T.
for 10 h. The reaction was quenched with water and extracted with EA. The reaction was
washed with brine, and the organic layer was concentrated to give the crude intermediate (10.5
g, 92%) as a white foam. The crude intermediate (10.2 g, 13.8 mnnol) in 80% CH 3COOH (100
mL) was stirred at R.T. for 12 h. The solvent was removed. The residue was dissolved in EA,
washed with saturated NaHCO3 and brine successively, dried and concentrated to give a residue.
The residue was purified on a silica gel column twice (PE: EA= 3:1) to give 75-5 (4.2 g, 70%)
as a white foam.
        [04961        Preparation of (75-6): To a solution of 75-5 (4.0 g, 9.2 mmol) in anhydrous
CH 3CN (30 mL) was added DIPEA (6.1                   g, 47.6 mmol) and 2-cyanoethyl N,N
diisopropylchlorophosphoramidite (2.8 g, 11.9 mmol). The mixture was stirred at R.T. for 2 h.
The solvent was removed, and residue was partitioned by EA and saturated NaHC0 3 . The
organic layer was dried over MgSO4 and concentrated to give a residue. The residue was
purified on a silica gel column (PE: EA= 3:1) to give 75-6 (5.1 g, 88 %) as a white solid.
        [04971        Preparation of (75-7): To a solution of 75-6 (1.0 g, 1.6 mmol) and 63-9 (925
mg, 1.1 mmol) in anhydrous McCN (I mL) was added tetrazole (12 mL, 0.45M in McCN, 5.5
mmol) dropwise at R.T. After stirred for 3 h, TBDPI- (0.96 mL, 5M 4.8 mmol) was added. The
reaction mixture was stirred at R.T. for I h. The mixture was diluted with EA and washed with
saturated Na 2SO 3 and brine, dried over anhydrous Na 2SO 4 and concentrated. The residue was
purified by silica gel chromatography (PE/EA = 50:1 to 1:1) to give 75-7 (1.1 g, 73.3%) as a
white solid.
        [0498]        Preparation of (75a): 75-7 (1.0 g, 0.7 mmol) in 60% HCOOH (3 mL) was
stirred at R.T. for 12 h. The solvent was removed. The residue was dissolved in EA and
washed with saturated NaHCO3 and brine successively, dried and concentrated to give a residue.
The residue was purified twice on a silica gel column (DCM : MeOH= 30:1) to give crude 75a
(510 mg, 86%) as a white foam. To a solution of crude 75a (275 mg, 0.33 mmol) in C2H50H
was added a few drops IN NaOH until pH-7.0. The mixture was stirred for 0.5 h. The mixture
was concentrated to give a residue. The residue was purified by HPLC (McCN and water,
neutral system) to give 75a (sodium salt, 170 mg, 64%) as a white solid. 'H NMR (CD 30D, 400
MIHz) 38.01 (d,.J= 7.6 Hz, 1H), 7.23-7.37 (in, 5H), 6.22 (dd,.J= 3.6 Hz,J= 14.4 Hz, 11-1), 6.01
(d, J= 7.6 Hz, lI H), 5.01-5.16 (im, IH), 4.63-4.72 (m, 2H), 4.52-4.11 (in, IH), 4.23-4.29 (m, I H),
3.91-4.09 (m, 3H), 3.69-3.81 (in, 3H), 3.51-3.60 (in, 2H), 3.41-3.45 (m, 2H), 1.48-1.55 (m, 2H),
                                                -210-

1.21-1.35 (m, 32H), 0.87-0.91 (m, 3H). -"PNMR (CD 30D, 162 MHz) 5 -0.223. ESI-TOF-MS:
m/z 788.3 [M - H]f.
                                              EXAMPLE 73
                                   Preparation of Compound (76a)
                           O                                0                       Br     0
                      /    NH                               NH                             NH
         HO      0       -4N                              NAcO-,%O.N-co                NAO
             Hd     'F                         Acd     'F                      Acd    F
                73-1                               76-1                           76-2
                                      F     0                               F     NH2
                                       F NH                                       N
                                       N- 1                      HO       0
                         ActO          Nl                                     N
                              cr~h          0Y                  C>{J
                              AcG 'F                                 Hd     IF
                                 76-3                                    76a
         104991         Preparation of (76-1): To a solution of 73-1 (4.1 g, 13.95 nmol) in pyridine
(40 mL) was added Ac20 (3.13 g, 30.68 nmol) at R.T., and the mixture was stirred overnight.
The mixture was concentrated, and the residue was purified on a silica gel column (PE: EA=
3: 1) to give 76-1 (4.0 g,75.9%).
         105001         Preparation of (76-2): To a solution of 76-1 (1.3 g, 3.44 mmol) in pyridine
(20 nL) was added NBS (1.22 g, 6.88mmol) at R.T., and the mixture was stirred overnight. The
mixture was concentrated, and the residue was purified on a silica gel column (PE: EA= 4:1) to
give 76-2 (1.43 g, 72.2%).
         [05011         Preparation of (76-3):   To a solution of 76-2 (770 mg, 1.68 nmmol) in
dioxane (10 nL) was added Me 6 Sn2 (11 g, 3.36 nmol) and (PPh) 2 PdCl 2 (100 mg) under N2
atmosphere. The mixture was heated at 80"C for 4 h. The mixture was concentrated, and the
residue was purified on a silica gel column to give an intermediate (400 mg, 43.96%). To a
solution of the intermediate (330 mg, 0.61 mmol) in anhydrous McCN (3 mL) was added
Selectflour@ (462 mg, 1.34 mnimol) at R.T. The mixture was stirred at R.T. for 2 days. The
mixture was concentrated, and the residue was purified on a silica gel column (PE: EA= 4:1) to
give 76-3 (100 ng, 41.5%).
         [05021         Preparation of (76a): To a solution of 76-3 (100 ng, 0.25 nimol) in McCN
(2 rnL) was added DMAP (62 mg, 0.51mmol), TEA (51 mg, 0.51 mnmol) and TPSCI (153 mg,
0.51 mmol). The mixture was stirred at R.T. for 0.5 h. NH 3.H2 0 (0.75 mL) was added. The
                                                 -211-

mixture was stirred at R.T. for 0.5 h. The mixture was extracted with EtOAc and washed with
IN HCI and brine. The organic layer was dried and concentrated. The residue was purified on a
silica gel column (PE: EA= 1:1) to give an intermediate (60 mg, 60.1%). The intermediate (50
mg, 0.13 mmol) in NH 3 /MeOH (5 mL) was stirred at R.T. for 3 h.               The mixture was
concentrated, and the residue was purified on a silica gel column (MeOH: DCM= 1:10) to give
76a (30 mg, 76.2%). 'H NMR (CD 3 0D, 400 MHz) 88.25 (d, .1= 6.8 Hz, I H), 6.09 (d,J= 16.0
Hz, IH), 5.00 (dt,J=4.0Hz,J= 53.2 Hz, IH), 4.48-4.54 (m, 1H), 3.73-3.95 (m,4H). ESI-TOF
MS: m/z 312.1 [M + H]t .
                                           EXAMPLE 74
                                 Preparation of Compound (77a)
                                   0                                         0)
                               N       NH                                  N
                                 N   '
                                      NH
                                                               O        (/<
                                                                        K',
              TBDMSO       -\jN    N     NHMMT          :     HO     O       N    NH2
                TBDMSO'        F                                 HO       'F
                        77-1                                        77a
         [05031      77-1 (680 mg, 0.8 mmol) and triphenylphosphine (312 mg, 1.2 mmol) were
dissolved in the mixture of 5 mL of dioxine and 0.25 mL of dry ethanol.             A solution of
diisopropyl azadicarboxylate (40% w solution in toluene, 1.28 mmol) in 3 rnL of dioxane was
added, and the mixture was stirred at R.T. for 2 h. The mixture was evaporated to dryness. The
residue was dissolved in 10 mL of THF, cooled down to 4"C and 2 equivalents of TBAF in THF
were added. The mixture was warmed up to R.T. and the solvent was evaporated. The resulting
nucleoside was treated with 80% HCOOH at R.T. for 3 h, and then the acid was evaporated.
Isolated by isocratic silica gel chromatography using mixture of DCM (950 mL), MeOH (50
mL), and NH40H (2.5 mL) for elution gave 77a (80mg, 30%). H'-NMR (DMSO-D 6 ) 8: 8.06 (s,
 IH), 6.41 (s, 2H), 6.11-6.06 (dd, IH), 5.98-5.89 (dd, IH), 5.65-5.64 (d, IH), 5.34-5.26 (in, 2H),
5.18-5.11 (in, IH), 4.58-4.50 (dt, IH), 4.42-4.36 (q, 2H), 3.50-3.28 (in, 2H), 1.30 (t, 3R). MS:
384 (M-1+HCOOH).
                                               -212-

                                           EXAMPLE 75
                                  Preparation of Compound (78a)
                      NH2                               NH2                                 NHMMTr
   HO                              HO           NN       N
                                                                       HOO                   N
        HO~N          J                                 N-j                             /  N
        Hd     F                    TBSOi     F                          TBS(5     F
            78-1                              78-2                                78-3
                   N    NHMMTr                           N     NHMMTr                          N   NH2
   TBSO"O N            N N             TBSO         O          N                  O      0   N      N
     HO           N                 N                       N/                 C-     "       N    >
       TBS6      F                        TBS6       IF                             Hd      F
              78-4                                 78-5                                 78a
          105041       Preparation of (78-2):    To a solution of 78-1 (10.0 g, 37.17 mmol) in
anhydrous pyridine (100 mL) was added imidazole (9.54 g, 140.4 mmol) and TBSCI (21.1 g,
 140.4 mol) at 25"C. The solution was stirred at 25'C for 15 h. The solution was concentrated
to dryness under reduced pressure. The residue was dissolved in EtOAc (200 mL) and washed
with water and brine.      The organic layer was separated, dried over anhydrous Na 2 SO4 and
 filtered. The filtrate was concentrated in vacuo to give a residue. The residue was purified by a
silica gel column (PE/EA = 10:1 to 2:1) to give an intermediate (11.8 g, 64%). To an ice-cold
solution of the intermediate (11.8 g, 23.7 rnrnol) in CH 2C2 (150 mL) was added a solution of p
toluenesulfonic acid monohydrate (8.2 g, 47.5 mmol) in small portion under N 2. The mixture
was stirred at 25"C for 30 min, and then washed with saturated aq. NaHCO 3 . The organic layer
was separated, dried over anhydrous Na 2 SO 4 and filtered.           The filtrate was concentrated in
vacuum to give a residue, which was purified by silica gel (PE/EA = 10:1 to 1:1) to give 78-2
(6.7 g, 74%) as a solid.
          [0505]       Preparation of (78-3):     To a solution of 78-2 (6.7 g, 17.5 mmol) in
anhydrous pyridine (50 mL) was added TMSCI (2.8 g, 26.2 mmol) in small portions at 000
under N 2 . The reaction mixture was stirred at 25"C overnight. AgNO 3 (77.8 g, 510 mmol) and
MMTrCI (156.8 g, 510 mmol) in anhydrous pyridine (50 mL) was added in small portions under
N 2. The reaction mixture was stirred at 25"C overnight. Ammonia (30 mL) was added, and the
reaction mixture was stirred for 30 min. The mixture was filtered through a Buchner funnel, and
the filtrate was washed with saturated NaHCO 3 solution and brine.               The organic layer was
separated, dried over anhydrous Na 2SO 4 , filtered and concentrated. Chromatography on silica
gel (PE:EA = 10:1 to 2:1) gave an amine protected derivative (6.1 g, 53%). To a solution of
pyridine (142 mg, 1.8 mmol) in anhydrous DMSO (2 mL) at 0 C was added TFA (1.3 mg, 0.9
mmol) dropwise. The mixture was stirred at 2 5'C until a clear solution formed. The solution
                                                 -213-

was then added into a solution of the amine protected derivative (1.0 g, 1.5 mmol) and DCC
 (0.95 g, 4.6 mmol) in anhydrous DMSO at 0*C dropwise. Stirring was continued at 25*C for 10
 h. Water (10 mL) was added, and the mixture was stirred at 25*C for 1 h. The precipitate was
removed by filtration, and the filtrate was extracted with EtOAc (20 mL). The organic layer was
washed with brine (20 mL) and then dried over Na 2 SO4. The solvent was removed, and the
residue was purified on a silica gel column (EA:PE = 10:1 to 2:1) to give the aldehyde
derivative (850 mg, 85%). To a solution of the aldehyde derivative (2.6 g, 4.0 mmol) in 1,4
dioxane (30 mL) was added 37% CH 20 (1.3 g, 16.0 mmol) and 2N NaOH aqueous solution (3.0
mL, 6.0 mmol). The mixture was stirred at 25"C for 2 h and then neutralized with AcOH to
pH= 7 . To the reaction were added EtOH (10 mL) and NaBH 4 (912 mg, 24.0 mmol). The
reaction was stirred for 30 mins, and then quenched with saturated aqueous NH4Cl. The mixture
was extracted with EA, and the organic layer was dried over Na 2 SO4. Purification by silica gel
column chromatography (EA: PE = 10:1 to 2:1) gave 78-3 (1.1 g, 40%) as a yellow solid.
        105061       Preparation of (78-4):   A stirred solution of 78-3 (685 mg, 1.0 mmol) in
anhydrous CH 3CN (5 mL) and anhydrous pyridine (5 mL) was cooled to 0"C. BzC (126 mg,
0.9 mmol) was added, and the reaction mixture was stirred at 25"C. After 1.5 h, water (5 mL)
was added, The resulting mixture was extracted with DCM (2x30 mL). The combined extracts
were washed with a saturated aqueous solution of NaHCO 3 (20 mL), dried over MgSO 4 , and
evaporated under reduced pressure.          The residue was purified by silica gel column
chromatography (DCM: McOH = 200:1 to 50:1) to give the Bz-protected derivative (679 mg,
86%). To a stirred solution of Bz-protected derivative (432 mg, 0.55 mnol) in anhydrous DMF
(5 mL) was added imidazole (258 mg, 3.85 mmol) and TBSCI (240.0 mg, 1.65mmol). The
mixture was stirred for 15 I. Water (10 mL) was added, and the mixture was extracted with EA.
The combined extracts were washed with aqueous solution of NaHCO 3 (60 mL) and brine (60
mL), dried over MgSO4, and evaporated under reduced pressure to give the two-TBS protected
derivative (680 mg, 137 %). The two-TBS protected derivative (680 mg, 0.75 mmol) was
dissolved in anhydrous CH 3OH (5 mL), and NaOCH3 (162 mg, 3.0 mmol) was added. The
reaction mixture was stirred at 350 C for 2 h. The reaction was quenched with 80 % AcOH (3
mL) and extracted with DCM (2x50 mL). The combined extracts were washed with aqueous
solution of NaHCO 3 (20 mL), dried over MgSO 4 , and evaporated under reduced pressure. The
residue was purified by silica gel column chromatography (EA: PE = 20:1 to 3:1) to give 78-4
(239 mng, 40%) as a white foam.
        [0507]       Preparation of (78-5): 78-4 (239 mg, 0.30 mmol) was co-evaporated with
toluene three times to remove H20. To a solution of 78-4 in DCM (5 mL) was added DMAP
                                               -214-

(182 mg, 1.50 nmol) and TfCI (69 mg, 0.45 minmol) at 0"C under N2. The mixture was stirred
0*C for 40 mins. Completion of the reaction was determined by LCMS. The mixture was
concentrated to give the crude Tf-derivative (353 ing). To a solution of the Tf-derivative in
DMF (5 mL) was added LiCi (31 mg, 0.76 mmol) at 0*C tinder N2 . The mixture was stirred at
25*C for 40 mins.       The mixture was washed with NaHCO3 and extracted with EA.            The
combined organic layer was dried over Na 2 SO 4 and concentrated to give crude 78-5 (268 mg) as
a light yellow oil.
         [0508]      Preparation of (78a): To a solution of 78-5 (268 mg, 0.328 nmol) in MeOH
(5 mL) was added NH 4F (37 mg, 0.984 mmol) at 25*C for 4 l. The solution was filtered and
evaporated to dryness. The residue was dissolved in -ICOOH (20 mL) and H2 0 (4 mL) at 25*C.
The mixture was stirred at 25*C for I h and concentrated. The mixture was dissolved in MeCN
and purified by prep-HPLC to give 78a (32 mg) as a white solid. 'H NMR (MeOD, 400 MHz) 5
8.33 (s, IH), 8.20 (s, 1H), 6.32 (dd,.J= 5.6, 12.4 Hz, 1H), 5.77 (m, 1H), 4.69 (m, lH), 3.85 (in,
 IH). ESI-MS: m/z 317.9 [M + H],
                                           EXAMPLE 76
                                  Preparation of Compound (79a)
                          NHMMTr                            NHMMTr                       NHMMTr
  TBDPSO        ON       N            BDPSO      O N      N           TBDPSO      0   N   N
      HO-'             N                 O=-'           N
         TBSd     F                       TBS6      F                       TBScS    F
             78-4                              79-1                                 79-2
                                                                   N    NH2
                                N    NHMMTr
                                     "N              HO          ~NN
              TBDPSO           N   N~-           y   HO      j   N   N' 1
                    TBS6      F                         HO'     F
                         79-3                                  79a
         [0509]       Preparation of (79-1):     To a solution of 78-4 (1.1 g, 1.33 mmol) in
anhydrous DCM (6.6 mL) at 0*C under nitrogen was added Dess-Martin periodinane (1.45 g,
3.33 mol). The mixture was stirred at 25 0 C for 4 I. The solvent was removed in vacuum, and
the residue triturated with niethyl-t-butyl ether (30 nL). The mixture was filtered through a pad
of MgSO 4 , and the organic solvent was stirred with an equal volume of Na 2S20 3 in 30 mL of
saturated NaHCO 3 until the organic layer became clear (approx. 10 in). The organic layer was
separated, washed with brine, and dried over MgSO 4. Prior to removing the solvent in vacuum,
the residue was purified on a silica gel column (PE: EA= 7:1) to give 79-1 (750 ng, 75%) as a
white solid.
                                                -215-

        [0510]        Preparation of (79-2):         To a stirred solution of methyl-triphenyl
phosphonium bromide (1.74 g, 4.89 mnol) in anhydrous THF (8 rnL) was added n-BuLi (1.91
mL, 4.89 mmol, 2.5 M in THF) at -78*C dropwise. The mixture was stirred at 0"C for 1 h. 79
1 (750 mg, 0.81 mmol) was added, and the mixture stirred at 25"C overnight. The reaction was
quenched with saturated NH 4 Cl (30 mL), and extracted with EtOAc (2x30 mL). The combined
organic phase was washed with brine, dried with MgSO 4 , filtered and evaporated to dryness to
give a light white solid. The solid was purified by column chromatography (PE: EA = 5:1) to
give 79-2 (440 mg, 60%).
        [0511]        Preparation of (79-3): To a solution of 79-2 (440 mg, 0.48 mmol) in MCOH
(8 mL) was added Pd/C (500 mg, 10%) at R.T. under hydrogen atmosphere. The mixture was
stirred at R.T. for 1.5 h. The mixture was filtered, and the filtrate was concentrated to dryness.
Crude 79-3 (365 mg, 83%) was used for the next step without further purification.
        [0512]        Preparation of (79a): 79-3 (365 mg, 0.40 mmol) in MeOH (50 mL) was
added NH 4F (5.6 g, 0.15 mmol), and the solution was heated to refluxed overnight. Completion
of the reaction was determined by LCMS.             The mixture was filtered, and the filtrate was
concentrated to dryness. The residue was purified on a silica gel column (PE: EA = 3:1) to give
the amine protected derivative (173 mg, 77%) as a white solid. The amine protected derivative
(100 mg, 0.18 mmol) in formic acid (4.4 mL) was stirred at 25"C overnight. The solution was
concentration to dryness, and the residue was purified on a silica gel column (PE: EA = 1:3) to
give 79a (40 mg, 90%) as a white solid. 'H NMR (400MHz, CD3 OD) 3 8.25 (s, 1H), 8.09 (s,
 IH), 6.14 (dd, J= 6.0, 12.8 Hz, IH), 5.58 (i, lIH), 4.45-4.48 (in, IH), 3.60 (q, 2H), 1.66-1.74
(in, 2H), 0.88(t, 3H); ESI-MS: m/z 297.9 [I + H]f.
                                           EXAMPLE 77
                                  Preparation of Compound (80a)
                       NHMMTr                                NHMMTr                       NHMMTr
                        N                                      N                           N
    H          N                         BnO      0    N    N           BnO        N
                                               2
           H        N--               DMTrO-     Y9'      N --          HO
     TBS      F                             Bn        F                    BnO    F
             78-3                                   80-1                         80-2
                                   NHMMTr                               NH2
               TBSO        O0   N
                                N   N
                                                                      N
                                                         HO      O N    N
                   TBS        F                              Hd   F
                          80-3                                    80a
                                                 -216-

         [0513]       Preparation of (80-1): To a solution of 78-3 (4.4 g, 6.4 minol) in anhydrous
pyridine (5 mL) and DCM ( 25 mL). A solution of DMTrCI (2.37 g, 7.04 mmol) in DCM (5
mL) was added dropwise at 0*C under N2 . After 2 h, the reaction was quenched with CH3OH
and concentrated to dryness. The residue was purified on a column of silica gel (PE: EA =
 100:1 to 2:1) to obtain the DMTr protected derivative (4.3 g, 68%).          The DMTr protected
derivative (2.2 g, 2.5 mmol) in IM TBAF (2.5 mL) of THIF (2.5 mL) solution was stirred at
25"C for 3 h. The solvent was removed in vacuum, and the residue was purified by column
chromatography (PE/EA= 50:1 to 1:2) to give the diol derivative (1.86 g, 96%). To a solution
of the diol derivative (1.3 g, 1.5 mmol) in anhydrous THF (5 mL) was added NaH (132 mg, 3.3
mmol) at 0*C. The mixture was stirred for 1 h, and TBI (276 mg, 0.75 mmol), and BnBr (558
mg, 3.3 mmol) was added.         The mixture was stirred for 10 h at 25C.        The reaction was
quenched with water, and the solvent was evaporated. The mixture was extracted with EA and
brine. The organic layer was dried over Na 2 SO 4, and evaporated to afford the crude product.
The product was purified by silica gel (PE/EA = 100:1 to 3:1) to afford 80-1 (1.4 g, 90%) as a
white foam.
         [05141       Preparation of (80-2):    To a solution of 80-1 (1.3 g, 1.23 mmol) in
anhydrous DCM (17 mL) was added Cl2CHCOOH (1.57 g, 12.3 mmol) at -78"C. The mixture
was stirred at -20-10*C for 40 mins. The reaction was quenched with saturated NaHCO3 , and
diluted with DCM (50 mL). The mixture was washed with brine, and the organic solution was
dried over Na 2 SO 4 and concentrated in vacuum. The residue was purified on a silica gel column
(PE/EA = 100:1 to 1:1) to give 80-2 (652 mg, 70%) as a white foam.
         [05151       Preparation of (80-3):   To a solution of 80-2 (630 mg, 0.84 mmol) in
anhydrous DCM (5 mL) was added DAST (1.35 g, 8.4 mmol) at -78"C. The mixture was
gradually warmed to 0"C. The reaction was quenched with saturated NaHCO3. The mixture
was diluted with DCM (50 mL) and washed with brine. The organic solution was dried over
Na 2 SO 4 and concentrated in vacuum. The residue was purified on a silica gel column (PE/EA     =
100:1 to 2:1) to give 80-3 as a white solid (302 mg, 48%).
         [0516]       Preparation of (80a): A mixture of 80-3 (210 mg, 0.28 mmol) and Pd(OH)2
(200 mg) in methanol (3 mL) was stirred at 0"C at 40 psi H2 for 20 h. Pd(OH) 2 was filtered off,
and the filtrate was concentrated to dryness. The residue was purified by column (DCM/McOH
=  10:1) to give 80a (12 mg). ' H NMR (400MHz, CD30D) 88.33 (s, I H), 8.20 (s, IH), 6.33 (dd.
J= 6.0, 13.2 Hz, I H), 5.79 (t,.J= 5.6 Hz, 1H), 5.66 (t,J=5.2 Hz, IH), 4.52-4.80 (in, 31-), 3.80
3.82 (m, 2H). ESI-MS: m/z 302.0 [I + H] .
                                               -217-

                                             EXAMPLE 78
                                     Preparation of Compound (81a)
                   N                     HN                                 HO-N
   H0>Q< N           /ONNH                                /     NH          HON ON- /N
            H61         NH                                    NH~                             NH
        H       F         NH2              TBSd     'F         NH2             TBSO    F        NHMMTr
                81-1                                  81-2                                 81-3
                                                            T                   N
                  HoO 0         N/                          TBDPSONA    0     N/
                  HO-    VJ        N7 N                          HO-               NH
                   TBSO       F       NHMMTr                       TBSd    F        NHMMTr
                              81-4                                        81-5
                           N     'oHo_                             fN     o
   TBDPSO                                             HO             N
          TBSN       F          HMMTr                           F       NH2
                     81-6                                        81a
         [05171          Preparation of (81-2):    To a solution of 81-1 (20.0 g, 70.2 mmol) in
anhydrous pyridine (200 mL) was added imidazole (19.1 g, 280 mmol) and TBSCI (42.1 g, 281
mmol) at 25*C.        The solution was stirred at 25"C for 15 h, and then concentrated to dryness
under reduced pressure. The residue was dissolved in EtOAc and then filtered. The filtrate was
concentrated to dryness to give the TBS protected derivative (36.4 g, 99%). The TBS protected
derivative (36.5 g, 71.1 mmol) was dissolved in THIF (150 mL). H20 (100 mL), and then AcOH
(300 mL) were added. The solution was stirred at 80"C for 13 h. The reaction was cooled to
R.T., and then concentrated to dryness under reduced pressure to give 81-2 (31.2 g, 61%) as a
white solid.
          [05181         Preparation of (81-3):    To a solution of 81-2 (31.2 g, 78.2 mmol) in
anhydrous pyridine (300 mL) was added Ac20 (11.9 g, 117.3 mmol). The mixture was stirred at
25"C for 18 i. MMTrCl (72.3 g, 234.6 nmol) and AgNO 3 (39.9 g, 234.6 mmol) were added,
and the solution was stirred at 25"C for 15 I. H20 was added to quench the reaction and the
solution was concentrated to dryness under reduced pressure. The residue was dissolved in
EtOAc and washed with water. The organic layer was dried over Na 2SO 4 and filtered. The
filtrate was concentrated in vacuum to give a residue, which was purified by silica gel
(DCM:MeOH = 200:1 to 50:1) to give the MMTr protected amine derivative (35.2 g, 63%).
The MMTr protected amine derivative (35.2 g, 49.3 mmol) was dissolved in NH 3/MeOH (300
mL). The mixture was stirred at 25'C for 20 h. The solution was evaporated to dryness, and
purified by a silica gel column (DCM: MeOHI- = 100:1 to 50:1) to give 81-3 as a yellow solid
(28.6 g, 87%).
                                                  -218-

         [0519]        Preparation of (81-4):     To a solution of 81-3 (12.0 g, 17.9 mmol) in
anhydrous DCM (200 mL) was added Dess-Martin periodinane (11.3 g, 26.8 mmol) at 0*C. The
mixture was stirred at 0*C for 2 h, and then at R.T. for 2 h. The mixture was quenched with a
saturated NaHCO 3 and Na2S 2 0 3 solution. The organic layer was washed with brine (2X) and
dried over anhydrous Na 2SO 4 . The solvent was evaporated to give the aldehyde (12.6 g), which
was used directly in the next step. To a solution of the aldehyde (12.6 g, 18.0 nmol) in 1,4
dioxane (120 mL) was added 37% HCHO (11.6 g, 144 mmol) and 2N NaOH aqueous solution
(13.5 mL, 27 mmol), The mixture was stirred at 25"C overnight. EtOH (60 mL) and NaBH 4
(10.9 g, 288 mmol) were added, and the reaction was stirred for 30 mins. The mixture was
quenched with saturated aqueous NH 4 Cl, and then extracted with EA. The organic layer was
dried over Na 2 SO 4 , and purified by silica gel column chromatography (DCM: MeOH = 200:1 to
50:1) to give 81-4 (7.5g, 59%) as a yellow solid.
         [05201        Preparation of (81-5): To a solution of 81-4 (3.8 g, 5.4 mmol) in DCM (40
mL) was added pyridine (10 mL) and DMTrCl (1.8 g, 5.4 mmol) at 0*C. The solution was
stirred at 25*C for I h. MeOH (15 mL) was added, and the solution was concentrated. The
residue was purified by silica gel column chromatography (DCM: MeOH = 200:1 to 50:1) to
give the MMTr protected derivative (3.6 g, 66%) as a yellow solid. To a solution of the MMTr
protected derivative (3.6 g, 3.6 mmol) in anhydrous pyridine (30 mL) was added TBDPSCI
(2.96 g, 10.8 mmol) and AgNO 3 (1.84 g, 10.8 mmol). The mixture was stirred at 250 C for 15 h.
The mixture was filtered and concentrated. The mixture was dissolved in EtOAc and washed
with brine. The organic layer was dried over Na 2 SO4 ., and then purified by silica gel column
chromatography (DCM: MeOH = 200:1 to 50:1) to give the TBDPS protected derivative (3.8 g,
85.1%) as a solid. To a solution of the TBDPS protected derivative (3.6 g, 2.9 mmol) in
anhydrous DCM (50 mL) was added C12CHCOOH (1.8 mL) in anhydrous DCM (18 mL). The
mixture was stirred at -784C for I h. CI 2 CHICOOH (3.6 mL) was added at -784C. The mixture
was stirred at -10*C for 30 mins. The mixture was quenched with saturated aqueous NaHCO 3
and extracted with DCM. The organic layer was dried over Na 2 SO 4, and then purified by silica
gel column chromatography (DCM: MeOH = 200:1 to 50:1) to give 81-5 (2.2 g, 80%).
         [0521]        Preparation of (81-6):    To an ice cooled solution of 81-5 (800 mg, 0.85
mmol) in anhydrous DCM (20 mL) was added pyridine (336 mg, 4.25 mmol) and Tf 2O (360 mg,
1.28 mmol) dropwise. The reaction mixture was stirred at 04C for 15 mins. The reaction was
quenched by ice water and stirred for 30 mins. The mixture was extracted with EtOAc, washed
with brine (50 nL) and dried over MgSO 4 . The solvent was evaporated to give the crude
bis(triflate) derivative. To the bis(triflate) derivative (790 mg, 0.73 mmol) in anhydrous DMF
                                                  -219-

(35 mL) was added LiCl (302 mg, 7.19 mmol). The mixture was heated to 40*C and stirred
overnight. Completion of the reaction was determined by LCMS. The solution was washed
with brine and extracted with EtOAc. The combined organic layers were dried over MgSO4,
and the residue was purified on a silica gel column (DCM/MeOH = 100:1) to give 81-6 (430
mg, 61%).
        [0522]         Preparation of (81a): To 81-6 (470 mg, 0.49 mmol) in MeOH (85 mL) was
added NH 4F (8.1 g, 5.92 mmol), and the solution was heated to reflux overnight. The mixture
was filtered, and the filtrate was concentrated to dryness. The residue was purified on a silica
gel column (DCM/MeOH = 20:1) to give the diol (250 mg, 84%) as a white solid. The diol (130
mg, 0.21 mmol) in formic acid (5 rnL) was stirred at 25*C overnight.              The solution was
concentration to dryness, and the residue in MeOH (30 mL) was stirred at 70*C overnight.
Completion of the reaction was determined by LCMS and HPLC. The solvent was removed,
and the crude product was washed with EtOAc to give 81a (58 mg, 81%) as a white solid. 'H
NMR (DMSO-d6 , 400 MHz) 5 10.73 (br, 1H), 7.98 (s, lH), 6.58 (br, 2H), 6.08 (q, .1= 4.8, 9.2
Hz, 2H), 5.64 (dt, J      5.6, 52.8 Hz, iH), 5.40 (m, iH), 4.52 (m, IH), 3.80-3.82 (m, 2H), 3.64 (q,
2H). ESI-MS: m/z 333.8 [M +H]', 666.6 [2M +H]'
                                             EXAMPLE 79
                                    Preparation of Compound (82a)
                         N      'o                       _N     0                             oN
  TBDPSO              N               TBDPSO            NH                           N    /
                 HO.                                                                         NHI
         TBSd      'F        NHMMTr         TBSO      F      NHMMTr         Hd    'F        NHMMTr
              81-4                                82-1                               82-2
              HO        0    N/                            HON/
                   HO'     F       NHMMTr                     HO    F       NH2
                            82-3                                     82a
        10523]         Preparation of (82-1):    To a solution of 81-4 (310 mg, 0.33 mnol) in
anhydrous DCM (10 mL) was added pyridine (130 mg, 1.65 mmol) and Tf 2O (139 ng, 0.49
mmol) diluted by DCM dropwise at 0*C. The mixture was stirred at 0*C for 15 mins. The
reaction was quenched with ice cold water. The organic layer was separated and washed with
brine. The organic layer was dried over Na 2SO 4 and evaporated to give to give the triflate
derivative (420mg crude), which was used directly in the next step. To a solution of the triflate
derivative (420 Ing crude) in anhydrous pentan-2-one was added Nal (396 mg, 2.64 mmol). The
                                                 -220-

mixture was stirred at 40*C for 3 h, and then dissolved with EtOAc. The organic layer were
washed with Na 2 S20 3 twice and washed with brine. The organic layer was dried over Na 2 SO 4
and evaporated to give a residue. The residue was purified by a column (DCM: MeOH = 300:1
to 100:1) to give 82-1 (195 mg, 56% for two steps).
        105241       Preparation of (82-2): To a solution of 82-1 (650 mg, 0.62 mmol) in MeOH
(10 mL) was added NH 4 F (45.8 g, 12.4 mmol). The mixture was refluxed overnight. The
mixture was filtered and evaporated to dryness. The residue was purified on a silica gel column
(DCM/MeOH = 200:1 to 20:1) to give 82-2 (250 mg, 58%).
        [0525]       Preparation of (82-3): To a stirred solution of 82-2 (300 mg, 0.43 mmol),
Et3N (217 mg, 2.15 mmol) in anhydrous MeOH (10 mL) was added 10% Pd/C (50 mg). The
mixture was stirred in a hydrogenation apparatus (30 psi hydrogen) at R.T. overnight. The
catalyst was filtrated off, and the filtrate was evaporated to give a residue. The residue was
purified on a silica gel column (DCM/MeOH = 200:1 to 20:1) to afford 82-3 as a white solid
(180 mg, 73%).
        [0526]       Preparation of (82a): 82-3 (110 img, 0.19 mmol) was dissolved in HCOOH
(18 g) and H20 (6 g) at 25*C, and stirred for I l. The solution was evaporated to dryness,
dissolved in MeOH (30 mL). The mixture was stirred at 60*C for 12 I. The solution was
evaporated to dryness, and dissolved in EtOAc (50 mL). The mixture was stirred at 60'C for I
 i. The mixture was filtered and washed with EtOAc to give 82a as a white solid (45.3 mg,
80%). 'H NMR (400MHz, MeOD) 88.00 (s, LH), 6.11-6.15 (m, IH), 5.35-5.50 (m, 1H), 4.53
4.59 (m, IH), 3.54-3.64 (m, 2H), 1.26 (s, 3H). ESI-MS: m/z 299.76 [M + 1], 598.66 [2M + 1].
                                           EXAMPLE 80
                                 Preparation of Compound (83a)
   Ho           N                     HO            N                             N
                      NH2                  HO             NHMMTr         HO     F      NHMMH
           81-1                                    83-1                           83-2
                               N    0                                N    0
                            N                           HO         N
      ---------       .N         NH         ....         0-X'          NNH
                  BzO     F       NHMMTr                    Hd   F      NH2
                          83-3                                   83a
        105271       Preparation of (83-1):    81-1 (5.7 g. 20 nnol) was co-evaporated with
pyridine three times, and then dissolved in pyridine (20 mL). The mixture was cooled to 0*C
and Ac 2O (5.8 mL, 60 mmol) was added dropwise. The mixture was stirred at 25*C for 10 h,
                                               -221-

and then cooled to 0*C. AgNO 3 (8.5 g, 50 mmol), and then MMTrCI (15.5 g, 50 mmol) were
added in portions. The mixture was stirred at 25*C for 10 h. The reaction was quenched with
saturated NaHCO3 and extracted with EA.         The organic layer was dried over Na 2SO 4 and
concentrated. The residue was purified by silica gel column chromatography (DCM/MeOH =
100:1 to 50:1) to afford the Ac protected derivative (12.1 g, 93%) as a light yellow solid. The
Ac protected derivative (12.1 g) was dissolved in methanolic NH 3 (saturated). The mixture was
stirred at 25*C for 14 I. The solvent was removed, and the residue was purified on a silica gel
column (DCM/MeOH = 80:1 to 30:1) to give 83-1 (9.2 g, 87%).
         [0528]      Preparation of (83-2): To a stirred solution of 83-1 (9.2 g, 16.5 mmol) in
dry THF (300 mL) was added imidazole (9.0 g, 132 mmol) and PPh3 (34.8 g, 132 mmol). A
solution of 12 (26.0 g, 103 mmol) in THF (100 mL) was added dropwise tinder N2 at 04C. The
mixture was stirred at 25"C for 18 i and then quenched with a Na 2 S2O3 solution. The mixture
was extracted with EtOAc. The organic layer was dried over Na 2 SO4 and concentrated. The
residue was purified on a silica gel column (DCM/MeOH = 80:1 to 30:1) to give the iodide
derivative (10.3 g, 93%) as a light yellow solid. To a stirred solution of the iodide derivative
(10.2 g, 15.3 mmol) in dry THF (300 mL) was added DBU (4.7 g, 30.1 mmol). The mixture was
stirred at 60*C for 8 h. The solution was diluted with a NaHCOs solution and extracted with
 EtOAc. The organic layer was dried over Na 2 SO 4 and concentrated. The residue was purified
on a silica gel column (PE/EtOAc= 3:1 to 1:3) to afford 83-2 (6.2 g, yield 76%).
          105291     Preparation of (83-3): To a stirred solution of 83-2 (5.42 g, 10 mmol) in
 anhydrous CH30H (100 mL) was added PbCO 3 (13.7 g, 53.1 mmol). A solution of 12 (12.3 g,
 48.9 mmol) in CH-1 30H (300 mL) was added dropwise at 0*C. The mixture was stirred at 25"C
 for 10 h. The solution was quenched with a Na 2 S2 0 3 solution and extracted with DCM. The
 organic layer was washed with a NaHCO3 solution, dried over Na 2SO 4 and concentrated to give
 a residue. The residue was purified by HPLC (0.1% HCOOH in water and MeCN) to give the
 desired methoxyl derivative (2.4 g, 34%). To a stirred solution of the methoxyl derivative (2.4
 g, 3.4 mmol) in dry pyridine (20 mL) was added BzCl (723 mg, 5.2 mmol) dropwise at 0*C.
 The mixture was stirred at 0"C for 1 h. The solution was quenched with a NaHCO 3 solution and
 extracted with EtOAc. The organic layer was dried over Na 2 SO 4 and concentrated. Purified by
 a silica gel column (PE/EtOAc = 5:1 to 1:1) afforded 83-3 (2.1 g, 77%) as a white solid.
          [0530]      Preparation of (83a): 83-3 (2.0 g, 2.5 mmol), BzONa (3.6 g, 25 mmol) and
  15-crown-5 (5.5 g, 25 mmol) were suspended in DMF (50 mL). The mixture was stirred at 110
  125"C for 5 days. The precipitate was removed by filtration, and the filtrate was diluted with
  EA. The solution was washed with brine and dried over Na 2 SO4 . The solvent was removed,
                                               -222-

  and the residue was purified on a silica gel column (PE/EA = 10/1 to 2/1) to afford the crude Bz
 protected derivative (1.6 g, 80%). The Bz protected derivative (1.6 g, 2.0 mmol) was dissolved
  in methanolic ammonia (100 rnL), and the mixture was stirred at 25*C for 20 i. The solvent was
 removed, and the residue was purified by a silica gel column (DCM/MeOH = 100:1 to 20:1) to
 the diol derivative as a white solid (410 mg, 35%). The diol derivative (200 mg, 0.34 mnol)
 was dissolved in HCOOH (24 g) and H2 0 (6 g) at 25"C, and the mixture was stirred at 250 C for
  I h. The solution was evaporated to dryness, and dissolved in MeOH (30 mL). The mixture
 was stirred at 60'C for 12 h. The solution was evaporated to diyness and dissolved in EtOAc
 (50 mL). The mixture was stirred at 60"C for 1 h. The mixture was then filtered and washed
 with EtOAc to give 83a as a white solid (46.1 mg, 43%). 'H NMR (CD30D, 400MHz) 87.92 (s,
  I H), 6.22 (dd, J= 1.6, 18.8 Hz, 11H), 5.17-5.32 (in, IH), 4.89-4.91 (in, I H), 3.77 (in, 2H), 3.44
 (s, 3H). ESI-MS: m/z 316.1 [M + H].
                                                           EXAMPLE 81
                                                Preparation of Compound (84a)
                                                    0
    BzO       0    F                        BzO            OMs                  BzO                        cl
                       \tp -*.\-4F                                               RzO(           F-  /    N
        BzO'     F                              Bzd      F                           Bd       F       N
             84-1                                    84-2                                     F         NH 2
                    Bz      F      C              HN                                          O               N        0
    BZONCy         N   /jo       N        -             "           -/       NH                        0        /N    N
        Bzd      F             NHMMTr                   HO      IF         NHMMTr              TBSO       F          NHMMTr
            84-4                                           84-5                                       84-6
                                                        - N     0N                                       0
                    HoO0FN                                               TBDPSO'0             N
                      0
                    HO-                F        NNH                             HON~               N     H
                       TBSd            F         NHMMTr                          TBS&      'F         NHMMTr
                                   84-7                                                84-8
                               N        0                                   [rN      0                                fN      0
    TBDPSON             N              N                   HO                 NO    NH
           TBSO       F              NHMMTr                     Hd       F        NHMMTr                   Hd      '        NH2
                  84-9                                             84-10                                        84a
          10531]            Preparation of (84-2): To a stirred solution of 84-1 (100.0 g, 265.9 nmol) in
dry THF (1000 mL) was added Li(O-t-Bu) 3AlH (318.9 nL, 318.9 mmol) at -78"C under N2.
The mixture was stirred at -78 0 C for 1 i and then at R.T for 1 i. The reaction mixture was
cooled to -50"C and quenched with ice and a saturated NH 4 CI solution.                                       The mixture was
extracted with EtOAc. The organic layer was dried over Na 2 SO 4 and concentrated to afford the
                                                                 -223-

1'-OH derivative (100.5 g) as a white solid. To a stirred solution of the l'-OH derivative (100.5
g, 265.9 mmol) in dry DCM (600 mL), NEt3 (110 mL) and MsCI (45.5 g, 298.0 mmol) were
added dropwise at 0*C. The mixture was stirred at R.T. for 2 h. The mixture was quenched with
ice water at 0*C and extracted with DCM.              The organic layer was dried over Na 2 SO 4,
concentrated and purified on a silica gel column (PE: EA = 50:1 to 5:1) to afford 84-2 (113.4 g,
yield: 93.9%) as a white solid.
         10532]        Preparation of (84-3): To a suspension of compound 6-chloro-9H-purin-2
amine (70.1 g, 414.7 mmol), HMDS (480 mL) and (NH 4)2SO 4 (0.8 g) was added dry DCE (400
mL). The mixture was refluxed under N2 for 18 I and then cooled to R.T. To the silylated 2
amino-6-chloropurine solution was added 84-2 (78.0 g, 171.Immol) and TMSOTf (60 mL,
331.9 mmol).       The mixture was refluxed overnight, concentrated and neutralized with a
NaHCO3 solution.        The resulting precipitate was filtered, and the filtrate was extracted with
EtOAc.      The organic layer was dried over Na 2 SO 4 and concentrated.        Chromatography on a
silica gel column (PE: EA = 5:1 to 2:1) gave 84-3 (10.8 g, yield: 11.9%) as a light yellow solid.
         [0533]        Preparation of (84-4): To a suspension of 84-3 (30.0 g, 56.6 mmol) in DCM
 (300 mL) were added MMTrCl (34.9 g, 113.2 mmol) and AgINO 3 (19.3 g, 113.2 mmol). The
 reaction mixture was cooled to 0*C, and collidine (18.0 g, 150 mmol) was added. The resulting
 suspension was stirred at R.T. for 12 h. The suspension was filtered. The filtrate was extracted
 with DCM and washed with a NaHCO 3 solution. The organic layer was dried over Na 2 SO 4 and
 concentrated. Purification by a silica gel column (PE: EA = 20:1 to 3:1) to give 84-4 (35.0 g,
 yield: 77.9%) as a light yellow solid. 'H NMR (CDCl3 . 400 MHz) 6 7.94-7.96 (in, 4H), 7.05
 7.58 (m, 18H), 6.62-6.67 (m, 2H), 6.55 (dd, J = 6.0 Hz, J= 9.6 Hz, I H), 5.60-5.66 (in, I H),
 4.69-4.76 (m, 2H), 4.55-4.58 (in, IH), 3.64 (s, 1H). ESI-MS: m/z 802 [M + H].
         {9534]         Preparation of (84-5): To a stirred solution of 84-4 (35.0 g, 43.6 mimol) in
  dry MeOH (400 mL) was added NaOMe (23.5 g, 436 nimol) and 2-mercapto-ethanol (30.6 g,
  392.4 mmol). The mixture was refluxed overnight. The pH was adjusted to 9-10 with CO2 .
 The precipitate was filtered, and the filtrate was concentrated.         Purification on a silica gel
  column (PE: EA = 10:1 to 1:1) gave pure 84-5 (24.0 g, yield 95.7%) as a light yellow solid.
          [05351        Preparation of (84-6): To a solution of 84-5 (24.0 g, 41.7 mmol) in pyridine
  (250 mL) was added DMTrCl (28.2 g, 83.5 mmol) at 0*C. The solution was stirred at R.T. for
   15 h. McOH (50 mL) was added, and the mixture was concentrated to dryness under reduced
  pressure. The residue was dissolved in EtOAc and washed with water. The organic layer was
  dried over Na 2 SO 4 , filtered, concentrated and purified by a silica gel column (DCM: MeO-1 =
  200:1 to 50:1) to give a first intermediate (27.6 g) as a yellow solid. To a solution of the first
                                                   -224-

  intermediate (27.6 g, 31.5 mmol) in DCM (200 mL) was added imidazole (4.3 g, 63 mmol) and
  TBSCI (9.5 g, 63 mmol). The mixture was stirred at R.T. for 12 It The solution was washed
  with NaHCO 3 and brine. The organic layer was dried over Na 2SO 4 , filtered, concentrated and
  purified by a silica gel column (DCM: MeOH = 200:1 to 100:1) to give a second intermediate
  (30.2 g) as a yellow solid. To a solution of the second intermediate (30.2 g, 30.4 mmol) in
 anhydrous DCM (50 mL) was added C12CHCOOH (20 ml) in anhydrous DCM (500 mL). The
  mixture was stirred at -78*C for I h. C12CHCOOH (30 mL) was added at -784C. The mixture
 was stirred at -20*C for 2 h. The mixture was quenched with saturated aqueous NaHCO 3 and
 extracted with DCM. The organic layer was dried over Na 2 SO4 , and then purified by a silica gel
 column (DCM: MecOH = 200:1 to 30:1) to give 84-6 (18.0 g, 62.5%) as a white solid. 'H NMR
 (400MHz, McOD) 38.27 (s, I H), 7.16-7.38 (m, 12H), 6.79-6.83 (m, 2H), 6.42 (dd, J= 4.4 Hz, J
 = 10.0 Hz, IH), 4.54-4.62(m, IH), 3.92 (d,./     =  8.8 Hz, 214), 3.74 (s, 3H), 3.70-3.72 (in, 1H),
 0.92 (s, 9H), 0.11-0.13 (in, 6H). ESI-LCMS: m/z 690.0 [M + [-].
          [0536]       Preparation of (84-7): 84-6 (7.0 g, 10.0 mmol) was added to a suspension of
 DMP (10.6 g, 25 mmol) in anhydrous CH 2 C 2 (100 mL) at 0"C. The mixture was stirred at 25*C
 For 2 h. The solvent was removed in vacuo, and the residue triturated with diethyl ether (100
 mL). The mixture was filtered through a pad of MgSO 4 . The organic solvent was stirred with
 an equal volume of Na 2S20 3 .5H2 0 in 100 mL of saturated NaHCO 3 until the organic layer
 became clear (10 min). The organic layer was separated, washed with brine, and dried over
 MgSO 4 . The solvent was removed in vacuo to give a third intermediate as a red solid (6.5 g,
 95%). To a solution of the third intermediate (6.5 g, 9.5 mmol) in 1,4-dioxane (80 mL) was
 added 37% CH 20 (6.0 mL, 60 mmol) and 2N NaOH aqueous solution (9.5 mL, 19 mmol). The
mixture was stirred at 25*C for 2 h and then neutralized with AcOH to pH 7. EtOH (30 mL) and
NaB-1,a (3.8 g, 100 mmol) were added, and the mixture was stirred for 30 mins. The mixture
was quenched with saturated aqueous NH4Cl, and then extracted with EA. The organic layer
was dried over Na 2SO4. Purification by a silica gel column (DCM: MeOH = 200:1 to 30:1)
gave 84-7 (4.2 g, 58.3%) as a yellow solid.
         [0537]       Preparation of (84-8): To a solution of 84-7 (4.2 g, 5.8 mmol) in DCM (50
mL) was added pyridine (5 mL) and DMTrC (1.9 g, 5.8 mmol) at -204C. The solution was
stirred at 0*C for 2 h.      The reaction mixture was treated with MeOH (15 mL), and then
concentrated. The residue was purified by a silica gel column (DCM: MeOH = 200:1 to 50:1) to
give the fourth intermediate (1.3 g) as a yellow solid. To a solution of the fourth intermediate
(1.3 g, 1.3 mmol) in anhydrous pyridine (15 mL) was added TBDPSCI (1.1 g, 3.9 mmol) and
AgNO 3 (0.68 g, 4.0 mmol). The mixture was stored at 25*C for 15 h. The mixture was filtered,
                                               -225-

concentrated, dissolved in EtOAc and washed with brine. The organic layer was dried over
Na 2 SO 4. Purification by a silica gel column (DCM: MeOH = 200:1 to 100:1) gave a fifth
intermediate (1.4 g) as a solid. To a solution of the fifth intermediate (1.4 g, 1.1 mmol) in
anhydrous DCM (50 mL) was added C12CHCOOH (0.7 ml) in anhydrous DCM (18 mL). The
mixture was stirred at -78*C for I h.       C12 CHCOOH (1.5 ml) was added at -78*C, and the
mixture was stirred at -204C for 1.5 h. The mixture was quenched with saturated aqueous
NaHCO 3 and extracted with DCM. The organic layer was dried over Na 2 SO 4 . Purification by a
silica gel column (DCM: MeOH = 200:1 to 50:1) gave 84-8 (650 mg, 11.6%) as a white solid.
           10538]     Preparation of (84-9): To a solution of pyridine (521 mg, 6.59 mmol) in
anhydrous DMSO (5 mL) was added TFA (636 mg, 5.58 mmol) dropwise at 10"C under N2.
The mixture was stirred until a clear solution foned. To this solution (0.8 mL) was added a
mixture of 84-8 (650 mg, 0.68 mmol) and DCC (410 mg, 2.0 mmol) in anhydrous DMSO (5
mL) at R.T. under N2 . The mixture was stirred at 20 "C overnight. Water (30 mL) was added.
The mixture was diluted with DCM (30 mL) and filtered. The filtrate was extracted with DCM.
The organic layers were washed with saturated aqueous NaHCO3 , dried over Na 2 SO 4 and
concentrated in vacuo. The crude product was purified on a silica gel column (PE: EA = 10:1 to
 1:1) to give the sixth intermediate (600 mg) as a yellow solid. To a stirred solution of Methyl
triphenyl-phosphonium bromide (714 mg, 2.0 mmol) in anhydrous THF (5 mL) was added n
BuLi (0.8 mL, 2.0 mmol, 2.5 M in THF) at -78*C dropwise over I min. Stirring was continued
at 0 *C for I h. The sixth intermediate (600 mg, 0.63 mmol) was added to the mixture, and the
mixture was stirred at 25*C for 15 h. The reaction was quenched with saturated NH4 C (20 mL)
and extracted with EtOAc. The combined organic phase was dried with Na 2 SO 4 , filtered and
evaporated to dryness to give a light yellow oil.            The oil was purified by column
chromatography (DCM: MeOH = 200:1 to 50:1) to give 84-9 (250 mg, 38.5%) as a yellow solid.
           f05391     Preparation of (84-10): 84-9 (250 mg, 0.26 mmol) was dissolved in THF
(5.0 mL). TBAF (131 mg, 0.5 nmol) was added at 20"C, and stirring was continued for 2 h.
The solution was evaporated to dryness. The residue was dissolved in EA (50 mL) and washed
with water (2X). The solution was evaporated to dryness, and purified by a silica gel column
(PE: EA = 10:1 to 1:2) to give 84-10 (57.6 mg, 36.9%) as a white solid. 1H NMR (400MHz,
MoOD) 8 8.34 (s, 1H), 7.15-7.38 (m, 12H), 6.79-6.82 (m, 2H), 6.44 (dd, .J=2.0 Hz,.J= 10.0 Hz,
 lI H), 6.01 (dd, J= 11.2 Hz, J= 17.6 Hz, IH), 5.51 (dd,.f= 1.6 Hfz,,J= 17.2 Hz, IH), 5.35 (dd, J=
 1.6 Hz,.J= 17.2 Hz, 1-1), 4.68-4.76 (m, IH), 3.74 (s, 3H), 3.63(dd,.J= 2.0 Hz, J= 12.8 Hz, 1IH)
3.52(dd,.J= 2.0 Hz, .= 12.8 Hz, 11-1). ESI-LCMS: m/z 602.0 [M + H].
                                                -226-

         [0540]        Preparation of (84a): A solution of 84-10 (27 mg) in 1.5 mL of 80% formic
acid stood at R.T. for 4.5 h and then concentrated to dryness. The residue was mixed with water
and lyophilized.      McOH (1.5 mL) and TEA (0.1 mL) were added, and the mixture was
concentrated. The precipitate from MeOH and EtOAc was filtered and washed with EtOAc to
give 84 (9.3 mg) as a slightly-amber solid. 'HNMR (CD 30D. 400 MHz) 88.44 (s, 11H), 6.57 (d,
J= 10.8 Hz, IH), 6.05 (dd, J=17.6 Hz, 10.8 Hz, IH), 5.45 (dd, J= 17.6 Hz,J= 1.6 Hz, IH),
5.37 (dd, .J= 10.8 Hz, 1.6 Hz, 1H), 4.78 (dd, J        18.4 Hz, 17.2 Hz, 1H), 3.67 (d, ,1= 12.4 Hz,
 IH), 3.56 (dd,J= 12.4 Hz, 2.0 Hz, IH); ESI-MS: m/z 328.4 [M -H]~.
                                            EXAMPLE 82
                                  Preparation of Compound (85a)
                NHDMT                                   NHDMT                                 NH2
  DMTO          NIO                         DMTO                                    HOO       N
        H$    -F                                       IF                                   'F
            85-1                                    0t
                                                    85-2                                   85a
         [05411        Preparation of (85-2): A mixture of 85-1 (200 mg; 0.22 mmol) in pyridine
(2.5 mL) and isobutyric anhydride (44 L; 1.2 equiv) was stirred R.T. overnight. The mixture
was concentrated, and the residue partitioned between EtOAc (50 mL) and water. The organic
layer was washed with IN citric acid, water, saturated aqueous NaHCO 3 and brine. The mixture
was dried with Na 2SO 1. The solvent was evaporated and the residue was purified on a silica
column (10 g column) using hexanes/EtOAc (30 to 100% gradient) to give 85-2 (0.16 g, 75%).
         [05421        Preparation of (85a): A solution of 85-2 (0.16 g; 0.16 mmol) in 80% aq.
HCOOH (5 mL) was stirred at R.T. for 3 h. The solvent was evaporated and then co-evaporated
with toluene.      Purification on a silica column (10 g column) with CH 2 Cl 2 /MeOH (4-10%
gradient) gave 85a (43 mg, 74%). 'H-NMR (DMSO-d 6 ): 5 7.75 (d, I H), 7.33 (d, 2 H), 6.07 (dd,
I H), 5.75 (d, I H), 5.55 (dd, I H), 5.43 (dt, I H), 5.43 (t, I H), 3.79 (dd, 2 H), 3.63 (ddd, 2 H),
2.64 (sept, I H), 1.12 (d, 6 H). MS: n/z = 362.1 [M+1]
                                                 -227-

                                            EXAMPLE 83
                                  Preparation of Compound (86a)
              NHDMT                                       NHOMT                                NH2
   HO             O                                                    0                         NOO
   ci0-     c-0>                             c
                                             I--0         N                         ci-No_
   MMTo       F                              MMTO        F                             Hd      F
         86-1                                       86-2                                   86a
         [05431        Preparation of (86-2):     86-2 was prepared using a similar procedure for
preparing 85-2 with the following: 86-1 (220 mg; 0.22 mmol), (2.5 rmL), isobutyric anhydride
(0.13 mL; 3.6 cquiv), EtOAc (30 mL), and hexanes/EtOAc (30 to 100% gradient) to give 86-2
(175 mg, 85%).
         f0544]        Preparation of (86a):      86a was prepared using a similar procedure for
preparing 85a with the following: 86-2 (117 mg; 0.13 mmol), 80% aq. HCOOH (4 mL) and
CH 2 C12 /MeOLH (4-10% gradient) to give 86a (36 mg, 77%). 'H-NMR (DMSO-d 6 ): 5 7.58 (d, 1
H), 7.29 (d, 2 H), 6.00 (s, 1 FL), 5.73 (d, 1 H), 5.24 (ddd, 1 H), 4.55 (dd, I H), 4.22 (dd, 2 H),
3.80 (dd, 2 H), 2.58 (sept, 1 H), 1.08, 1.07 (2d, 6 H). MS: m/z = 364 [M+1].
                                             EXAMPLE 84
                                  Preparation of Compounds (87a)
              NHDMT                                       NHDMT                                 NH 2
                          N                                 NN
                                           887-2                                            8
                                                     87-2                                   87a
          105451       Preparation of (87-2): 87-2 was prepared using a similar procedure for
preparing 46-2 with the following: 87-1 (178 mg, 0.3 mmol), hexanoic anhydride (0.14 mL, 2
 equiv.), pyridine (3 mL) to give 87-2. (120 mg, 50%).
          [05461       Preparation of (87a):      87a was prepared using a similar procedure for
 preparing 85a with the following: 87-2 (120 mg, 0.15 mmol), 80% aq. HCOOH and CH 2C 2
 /MeCOH (4-10% gradient) to give 87a (62mg, 85%). 'H-NMR (CDC 3 ): 6 8.2 (br, I H), 7.42 (d,
  1 H), 6.8 (br, 1 H), 6.03 (d, I H), 5.77 (dd, 1 H), 5.64 (dd, 1 H), 5.51 (ddd, 1 H), 4.43 (dd, 2 H),
 3.82 (dd, 2 H), 2.41 (m, 2 H), 2.33 (in, 2 H), 1.64 (m, 4 H), 1.31 (in, 8 H), 0.82 (in, 6 H). MS:
 m/z= 488 [M-1].
                                                   -228-

                                             EXAMPLE 85
                                   Preparation of Compound (88a)
                 NHDMT                                    NHDMT                                   NH2
   DM T O    -\N     o
                          I        2I        DMTO
                                                          'N
                                                          N__O
                                                          N                          HO tN           O
        HS5.'F                                      $   '                                      'F
             85-1                               1$6o1
                                                      88-2                                  88a
         [05471        Preparation of (88-2):    88-2 was prepared using a similar procedure for
 preparing 85-2 with the following: 85-1 (220 mg; 0.24 mmol), pyridine (3 mL), dodecanoyc
 anhydride (0.12 g; 1.3 equiv), EtOAc (50 nL) and hexancs/EtOAc (25 to 80% gradient) to give
 88-2 (0.22 g, 85%).
         [05481        Preparation of (88a):     88a was prepared using a similar procedure for
 preparing 85a with the following:       88-2 (0.19 g; 0.17 mmol), 80% aq. HCOOH (5 mL) and
 CH2CI2 /MeOH (4-10% gradient) to give 88a (66 mg, 82%). 'H-NMR (DMSO-d): 6 7.77 (d, I
 H), 7.35 (d, 2 H), 6.07 (dd, 1 H), 5.77 (d, 1 H), 5.60 (dd, 1 H), 5.55 (ddd, 1 H), 5.43 (t, I H),
3.78 (dd, 2 H), 3.65 (ddd, 2 H), 2.41 (in, 2 H), 1.56 (in, 2 H), 1.24 (in, 16 H), 0.85 (in, 3 H).
 MS: rn/z = 474 [M-I].
                                             EXAMPLE 86
                              Preparation of Compounds (89a) and (90a)
                 NHDMT                                     NHDMT                                  NH,
                                                                                     0                 O
                   N
       A-     o I~                         0   01-P    o 'IN                                          0
                                                 A-Nc                          0   0
       MMTd.,'F                                  cl di-"                                  He"
                       89.189-2                                                              8i a
                                                                                 0   0       890a II NH
                                                                                            Hd F
                                                                               0-0-A?           Dl
                                                                                                      0
        [05491         Preparation of (89-2): To a solution of 89-1 (175 ing; 0.8 mmol) ii McCN
(2.5 mL) at 0"C was added TMSBr (0.28 mL; 10 equiv.). The mixture was stirred at R.T. for
h, evaporated and treated with water. The obtained white solid was filtered, dried and washed
                                                 -229-

with CH 2CI2 . The white solid was then dissolved in NMP (2 mL) and treated with DIPEA (94
pL; 3 equiv.) and pivaloyloxymethyliodide (84 pL; 3 equiv.). The mixture was stirred at R.T.
for I day, and then partitioned between water (20 mL) and tert-butyl methyl ether (TBME; 60
mL). The organic layer was washed with saturated aqueous NaHCO 3 , water and brine. The
combined aqueous washings were back extracted with TBME (2 x 20 mL). The combined
organic extract was dried and purified on a silica column (10 g column) with CH 2CI 2 /i-PrOH
(2-10% gradient) to give 89-2 (42 mg, 26%).
         105501      Preparation of (89al: A solution of 89-2 in 80% aq. HCOOH was stirred at
R.T. for 3 h. The solvent was evaporated and then co-evaporated with toluene. Purification on
a silica column (10 g column) with C1 2 C12 /MeOH (4-15% gradient) gave 89a (17 mng, 74%).
'H-NMR (CD 3OD): 6 7.47 (d, I H), 6. 28 (dd, I H), 6.04 (dd, I H), 5.77-5.71 (m, 2 H), 5.53 (n,
4 H), 5.18 (ddd, I H), 5.60 (dd, I H), 3. 77 (dd, 2 H), 1.08 (in, 18 H). "P-NMR (CD 3 0D): 6
 17.64. MS: m/z = 598 [M+1].
         10551]      Preparation of(90a): A mixture of 89a (12 mg; 0.02 mmol) in EtOH (1 mL)
and Pd/C (10%; 2.5 mg) was stirred overnight under an atmospheric pressure of hydrogen. The
mixture was filtered through a Cclitc pad. The solvent was evaporated and the product was
purified on a silica column (10 g column) with CH 2 C12 /MeOH (4-17% gradient) to give 90a (6
mg, 50%). 'H-NMR (CD 3 0D): 8 7.51 (d, I H), 5.79 (d, I H), 5.65-5.54 (m, 5 H), 5.20 (ddd, I
                                                                                                 31P
 H), 5.60 (dd, 1 H), 3.70 (dd, 2 -1), 2.17-2.06 (in, 1 H), 2.02-1.87 (in, 3 H), 1.13 (in, 18 H).
NMR(CD30D): 833.16. MS: m/z= 600 [M+l].
                                                -230-

                                            EXAMPLE 87
                                  Preparation of Compound (91a)
                                       0
                                     0   0      -P-OH
                          NHDMT          0    O                                       NHDMT
                 HO     y     O                                O-O
                 MMTO     F                                         OO     MMTO       F
                      86-                                            0           91-2
                                                              NH2
                                           O                    N
                                     o   O^O-Z-O          0N     -O
                                                  cl
                                         0Y           Hd     F
                                                   091      a
                                              T
          [0552]      Prenaration   of (91-2):          To     a solution     of        triethylammonium
bis(isopropyloxycarbonyloxyincthyl)phosphate           (0.33mmol,      prepared     from      110    mg  of
bis(POC)phosphate and 0.1 mL of Et3N) in THIF (2 mL) was added 86-1 (100 mg; 0.11 mmnol),
followed by diisopropylethyl amine (0.19 mL; 10 equiv), BOP-CI (140 mg; 5 equiv) and 3-nitro
 1,2,4-triazole (63 mg; 5 equiv). The mixture was stirred at R.T. for 90 mins., and then diluted
with CH 2 C2 (30 mL). The mixture was washed with saturated aqueous NaHCO3 and brine.
The mixture was dried with Na 2 SO 4 . The solvent was evaporated, and the residue was purified
on a silica column (10 g column) with hexanes/EtOAc (40-100% gradient) to give 91-2 (117
mg, 90%).
         105531       Preparation of (91a):      91a was prepared using a similar procedure for
preparing 85a with the following:      91-2 (87 mg; 0.07 mnol), 80% aq. HCOOH (5 mL) and
CH 2 C 2 /MeOH (4-15% gradient) to give 91a (36 mg, 85%). 'H-NMR (CD 3CN): 8 7.67 (dd, 1
H), 6.35 (dd, I H), 6.1 (br, 2 H), 5.82 (d, I H), 5.62 (m, 4 H), 5,22 (dm, I H), 4.98 (br, IH), 4.89
(m, 2 1-1), 4.49 (d, 1 H), 4.34 (in, 2 H), 3.88 (dd, 2H), 1.29 (d, 6 H), 1,28 (d, 6 H);           3 1P-NMR
(CD 3 CN): 5-4.49. MS: m/z = 606 [M+I].
                                                 -231-

                                           EXAMPLE 88
                                  Preparation of Compound (92a)
                        0
                                             0
                              NH       POMO-P -0  EI3 NH
          HO        N   N   NHMMT        POMO
          MMTd      F                                                   N
                92-1
                                                                               o'
                                         NH              0N
                 o     O -O         N  N     HMMT              O-P           N    N NHMMT
                    o o   MMT&     F                       0   0   MMTC      F
                                92-2                                      92-3
                                                         0
                                   O                       NH
                                      0    OP          N N   NH2
                                           0         /
                                         S     Hd      F
                                                   92a
         [0554]        Prenaration of (92-2) and (92-3):     To a solution of triethylammonium
bis(POM)phosphatc (0. 48 mmol, prepared from 176 mg of bis(POM)phosphate and 0.15 mL of
Et3N) in THF (2 mL) was added 92-1 (150 mg; 0.18 mmol) followed by diisopropylethyl amine
(0.31 mL; 10 equiv), BOP-Cl (229 mg; 5 equiv), and 3-nitro-1,2,4-triazolc (103 mg; 5 equiv).
The mixture was stored at R.T. for 90 mins., and then diluted with CIH2C2 (30 mL). The
mixture was washed with saturated aqueous NaHCO 3 and brine. The mixture was dried with
Na 2 SO 4 . The solvent was evaporated, and the residue was purified on a silica column (10 g
column) with CH 2 CI2 /i-PrOH (2-10% gradient) to obtain 92-2 (44 mg, 21%) and 92-3 (73 mg,
28%).
          105551        Preparation of (92a): A mixture of 92-2 and 92-3 (73 mg and 44 mg) and
80% aq. HCOOH (3 mL) was heated for 30 mins., at 35*C. The solvent was evaporated and
 then coevaporated with toluene. The solvent was evaporated, and the residue was purified on a
 silica column (10 g column) with CH2CI2 /MeOH (4-10% gradient) to obtain 92a (40 mg, 75%).
 'H-NMR (DMSO-D 6): 6 10.6 (br, I H), 7.76 (s, I H), 6.44 (br, 2 H), 5.99 (dd, I H), 5.83 (d, 1
                                                  -232-

  H), 5.53-5.27 (2 m, 6 H), 4.39 (dt, 1 H), 4.04 (m, 2 H), 1.17 (s, 3 H), 1.06, 1.08 (2 s, 18 H).  31P
  NMR (DMSO-d6 ): 8 -4.09. MS: m/z = 608 [M+1].
                                                 EXAMPLE 89
                                      Preparation of Compound (93a)
                             0
                         N     NH             POMO-P-C     EtNH
             HO          N   N    NHMMT              OPOM
             MMrd        F                                                            0
                  93.10
                                                                            O        0)
                                                                                 0
                                           0
                                                         <O                        O    'N
                                                                 o                 N
                                                  1              0
                 O      O-P-   0         N      NHMMT              OO-P-O          N       NHMMT
                 O      O  MMTd       F                            O    O MMT6    F
                                  93-2                                         93-3
                                                               0
                                       o    O-  -O         N         NH2
                                       02O          Hd    IF
                                                       93a
         [0556J         Preparation of (93-2) and (93-3): 93-2 and 93-3 (68 mg and 80 mg,
respectively) were prepared in the same manner from 93-1 (200 mg; 0.23 mmol) and bis(POM)
phosphate (230 mg) with DIPEA (0.4 mL), BopCl (290 mg), and 3-nitro-1,2,4-triazole (130 mg)
in THIF (3 ml) as 92-2 and 92-3 from 92-1.
        [0557]          Preparation of (93a): 93-2 and 93-3 (68 rmg and 80 mg, respectively) were
converted into 93 (42 mg) with formic acid in the same manner as 92 from 92-2 and 92-3. 'H
NMR (DMSO-D 6 ): 6 7.73 (s, I -1), 6.46 (br, 2 H), 6.04 (dd, I H), 5.91 (dd, I H), 5.87 (d, I H),
5.48 (d, 4 H), 5.33 (in, 1 H), 5.24 (ddd, I H), 4.60 (dt, 1 H), 4.07 (in, 2 H), 1.07, 1.06, 1.05 (4 s,
18 H). "P-NMR (DMSO-d 6 ): 6-4.37. MS: m/z=620 [M+1].
                                                     -233-

                                              EXAMPLE 90
                                   Preparation of Compound (94a)
                                 0                                                          0
      0                    N0N                                         0              (1N      NH
        o    O-               N       NH2
                                                                     0   O-P0           NNN       NH2
         O    O     Hd     F                                             O      H       F
                       93a                                                          94a
        105581     To a solution of 93a (53 mg; 0.09 mmol) in EtOH (2 mL) was added 10%
Pd/C (10 mg). The mixture stirred under hydrogen at atmospheric pressure for 1 h. The mixture
was filtered through a Celite pad, and the filtrate evaporated. Purification on a silica column (10
g column) with CH 2 Cl 2 /MeOH (4-11% gradient) yielded 94a (45 mg, 81%). 'H-NMR (DMSO
D6): 6 10.6 (bi, 1 H), 7.81 (s, I H), 6.4 (br, 2 I), 5.97 (dd, I H), 5.85 (d, I H), 5.60-5.44 (m, 5
H), 4.37 (m, I H), 4.11 (ddd, 2 H), 1.66 (m, 2 H), 1.09, 1.06 (2 s, 18 H), 0.81 (7, 3 H); 3 1P-NMR
(DMSO-d6): 8 -4.10. MS: m/z= 622 [M+I ].
                                               EXAMPLE 91
                           Preparation of Compounds (95a) and (96a)
                                                                                                 (N
                     0                                          0                                 N-N
                    CN                          CIO         N     H                          N
             VO "/ N H                          0     '       -                              N' -N
                                          -          -
                                                     =O   O                                O
              70a                                       95-1                          95-2
                                                                                  NH2
                                        O <NH 2
                             0-\                                             N.   N
                                                                    HO        N
                           CIO_         NO.
                                  o    F                               HCt F
                                           95a                            96a
         105591      Preparation of (95-1):       To a solution of 5-Anino-2H-[ 1,2,4]triazin-3-one
 (180 mg, 1.5 mmol) in HMDS was added a catalytic amount of (NH4)4SO 4 . The mixture was
 heated to reflux for 5 h. HMDS was evaporated to give a crude product. To a solution of the
 crude product in anhydrous CH 3 CN was added 70a (220 ig, 0.5 mmol) and TMSOTf (0.45 mL,
 2.5 mmol). The mixture was heated to reflux for 24 h in a scaled tube. The reaction was
                                                    -234-

  quenched with NaHCO 3 and diluted with EA.              The organic solvent was removed, and the
  residue was purified by prep-TLC first, and the by RP-HPLC (0.5% HCOOH in water and
  McCN) to give the pure 95-1 (100 mg, 46%).
           [05601       Preparation of (95-2):      To a solution of 95-1 (80 mg, 0.18 mmol) in
  anhydrous CH-I   3CN was added 1,2,4-triazole (911 mg, 11.7 mmol) and TEA (1.45 g, 14.4 mmol).
 The mixture was cooled to 0*C and POCI3 was added. The reaction mixture was stirred at 25"C
 for 24 h. The solvent was evaporated and partitioned with EA and water. The organic layer was
 concentrated to give the crude 95-2 (80 mg, 90%).
          105611        Preparation of (95al: 95-2 (90 mg, 0.18 Immol) was dissolved in 20 mL of
 saturated THF ammonia. The resulting solution was stirred at 25"C for 2 h. The solvent was
 removed, and the residue was purified on a silica gel column (EA: PE = 6:1) to give 95a as a
 white solid (70 ng, 70%).
          [05621        Preparation of (96a): 95a (70 mg, 0.16 mmol) was dissolved in 20 mL of
 saturated MeOH ammonia. The resulting solution was stirred at 25"C for 2 h. The solvent was
 removed, and the residue was purified by RP-HPLC (0.5% HCOOH in water and McCN) to
 give 96a (5 mg, 11%) as a white solid. 'H NMR (CD 30D, 400 MHz) 37.57 (s, iH), 6.35 (dd, J
 = 3.6 Hz, J= 15.6 Hz, IH), 5.45-5.47 (in, IH), 4.70 (dd,i = 4.8 Hz, J= 16.2 Hz, IH), 3.83 (s,
 2H), 3.71 (d, J= 1.6 Hz, 2H). ESI-TOF-MS: m/z 295.1 [M + H].
                                             EXAMPLE 92
                                  Preparation of Compounds (97a-g)
                           NH2                               N
                           N                        0
                                     :      HOR "I"     N
             HOR        N       0RI
                   HO -R                        HO    R2
                                            N--g\           N-H                      NH2
                 o                            JN               0   0    0            N
             HO-P-O-P-O-O               NJ                 HO-P-O-P- O-p-O      o
                 OH    OH    OH R1j                           OH   OH   OH R
                                  HO   R2                                    HO   R2
         [0563]       Dry nucleoside (0.05 mmol) was dissolved in a mixture of DMF (3 mL) and
DMA-DMF (0.04 mL, 0.1 mmol). The reaction was kept at ambient temperature for 4 h1and
then evaporated to dryness. The residue was dissolved in a mixture of PO(OMe) 3 (0.7 mL) and
pyridine (0.3 mL). The mixture was evaporated in vacuum for 15 min. at 42 0 C, than cooled
down to R.T. N-Methylimidazole (0.009 mL, 0.11 mmol) was added followed by POC13 (9111,
0.11 mmol). The mixture was kept at R.T. for 20-40 mins. The reaction was controlled by
                                                  -235-

LCMS and monitored by the appearance of the corresponding nucleoside 5'-monophosphate.
After completion of the reaction, tetrabutylammonium salt of pyrophosphate (150 mg) was
added, followed by DMF (0.5 mL) to get a homogeneous solution.             After 1.5 h at ambient
temperature, the reaction was diluted with water (10 mL). The mixture was loaded on the
column HiLoad 16/10 with       Q Sepharose High   Performance, and separation was done in a linear
gradient of NaCI from 0 to IN in 50mM TRIS-buffer (pH7.5). The triphosphate (97a-f) was
eluted at 75-80%B. The corresponding fractions were concentrated. The residue was dissolved
in 5% ammonium hydroxide, kept for 15 min. at R.T. and concentrated. Desalting was achieved
by RP HPLC on Synergy 4 micron Hydro-RP column (Phenominex). A linear gradient of
methanol from 0 to 30% in 50mM triethylammonium acetate buffer (pH 7.5) was used for
clution. The corresponding fractions were combined, concentrated and lyopliilized 3 times to
remove excess of buffer.
Table 4 - Trinhosphates obtained from Examnle 92
                                                    MS          PNMR      "PNPNMR
                   Compound                        (M-1)         Pct         Pp            Py
                                            NH2
          O     0      0,
      HO-P--P-O-P-O                    N-                    -6.71                    -11.35
          OH    OH     OHO                      528.0        -6.71       -21.43(t)
          OH    OH      IM-\                                 -6.82(d)                    1.3(
                                                                                      -I 1.47(d)
                               HO     F
                     97a
                                           NH2
           O    0      0
                                        <N
      HO-P-O-P-       P-OP        O    N-{                                            -11.44
            H      H    1/s_                    544.0        -6.25(bs)   -21.45(bs)   -11.56(d)
                       9T                                                             ___11.56(d)
                     97b
                                          NH2
           o     o     0
       HO-P-O-P-O-P-                  N                      -8.86                     11.81
           OH    OH    OH   ,0           0      575.7        -86         -22.15(8)
           OH    OH    OHBr                     575.7        -9.00(d)    -. 95(t)     -l1.94(d)
                     97c
                                         NH2
           OH   OH    OH            /   \N
        HO-P-O-P-O-P-O         N                             -9.41
           O        o cV                        545.9        -9.44(d)    -23.04 (t)   -12.13(d)
                           HO       F
                     97d
                                        NH2
             OH   OH OH
         HO-P-O-P-O-P-O         o     -N                     -10.32                   -11.84
             0    0        D552.1                            -10.44(d)   -23.26(t)    -11.96(d)
                      97e
                                                -236-

                                                    MS         3 PNMR     3 PNMR       31
                                                                                         P NMR
                   Compound                        (M-1)          Pa         Pp            Py
                                         NH2
            O    o                   d
            11   it    11
        HO-P-O-P-O-P-OO               N  O      508.4         -8.30 (bs) -22.72(bs)   -11.51
                                                                                       11 C
            OH   OH   OH                                                              -11.63(d)
                            HO      F
                      97f
                                     F
           0   O Oo                 _    NH2
        HO-P-O-P-O-P-O            r     NH
           OH OH H G HHOH O    NTN501
                                 N                               -9.17           -2311.97
                                                               -9.29 (d)  -. 04 (t)         02.9(d)
                       HO      F
                      97g
                                             EXAMPLE 93
                           Preparation of Compounds (98a-e) and (99a)
        105641      Dry nucleoside (0.05 mmol) was dissolved in a mixture of PO(OMe)3 (0.7
mL) and pyridine (0.3 mL). The mixture was evaporated in vacuum for 15 mins. at 42 0C, than
cooled down to R.T. N-Mcthylimidazole (0.009 mL, 0.11 mmol) was added followed by POCb
(9pl, 0.11 mmol). The mixture was kept at R.T. for 20-40 mins. The reaction was controlled by
LCMS and monitored by the appearance of the corresponding nucleoside 5'-monophosphate.
After completion of the reaction, tetrabutylammonium salt of pyrophosphate (150 mg) was
added, followed by DMF (0.5 mL) to get a homogeneous solution. After 1.5 h at ambient
temperature, the reaction was diluted with water (10 mL) and loaded on the column HiLoad
16/10 with   Q Sepharose    High Performance. Separation was done in a linear gradient of NaCl
from 0 to IN in 50mM TRIS-buffer (pH7.5). The triphosphate (98a-e) was eluted at 75-80%B.
The corresponding fractions were concentrated.         Desalting was achieved by RP HPLC on
Synergy 4 micron Hydro-RP column (Phenominex), A linear gradient of methanol from 0 to
30% in 50mM triethylammonium acetate buffer (pH 7.5) was used for elution.                       The
corresponding fractions were combined, concentrated and lyophilized 3 times to remove excess
of buffer.
Table 5 - Compounds obtained from Example 93
                                                  MS           PNMR      -"PNMR       "PNMR
                Compound(M-)                                     P.
         0 0        0                      o
     HO-6-O----O                         NH                -5.21
         OH OH OH
                                                                                     -11.09
                               ,                           -5.538.0-20.56(t)              2
                         HO      F       NH2                -. 33(d)                 -I 1.20(t)
                     98a
                                                -237-

                                                                                                     3 P NMR
                                                             MS          P NMR         P NMR
                   Compound                                (M-1)             Pa           Pp             PY
      OH     OH 0                           N
  HO-P-0-P-C--O                         N
      If      11 1                                                                                  -11.76
      O      0          "ci-            N        N          556.2    -10.85(bs)     -23.11(bs)         1.88(d)
                           HO         F
                         98b
                                                NH2
    HO-P0-0P---O                       N         N                                                  -11.68
         6H OH OH )<J A'N                                   540.4    -8.86(bs)       -23.84(t)      -11.80(d)
                         F HO         F
                         98c                           ______          _____         ____         _
                                                NH2
         O     O9                      (N
                                                 N
    HO-P-O-P-O-P-0
           HO-4-4O                0 N                                 -9.35                          -11.60
         OH OH OHN                            N-            536.0                     -23.05(t)      -11.60
                                                                      -9.47(d)                       -11.72(d)
                             HO0       F
                         98d
                                               NH
             OH     OH    OH                 1j
             I      I      I                                              -10.54                        -11.80
         HO-P-O-P0-PO           -0       N-O4                              -10.66       -23.26        -1.93(d)
                                  HO      F
                          98e
                                         O
                                   t <NH
               HO-P-O-          0    N
                   OH O .-            No                      357.2        1.42(s)         NA             NA
                         HO        F
                          99a
                                                     EXAMPLE 94
                                            Preparation of Compound (100a)
                          NH,                                    NH2                      o                    NH2
                     /  .N                     HON                                 HO        o                 N
  Met                 N                        HON                                    HO      He c         N
                          00\f
                   \--cI-"*
            Hd      F                               Hd      F                                       Hd     F
                100-1                                  100-2                                            100a
          t05651            Preparation of (100-2): To an icc-cold solution of 100-1 (22 mg; 0.055
nmol) in acetonitrile (0.5 mL) was added TMSBr (80 PL; 10 equiv.). The resulting mixture
was stirred at R.T. for 1 h. The mixture was concentrated, and the residue was partitioned
between water and diethyl ether. The aqueous layer was washed with Et 20, neutralized with
triethylammonium bicarbonate buffer and lyophilized to yield the triethylammonium salt of 100
2.
                                                              -238-

          [0566]           Preparation of (100a):         100-2 was rendered anhydrous by coevaporating
   with pyridine and toluene.          Anhydrous 100-2 was dissolved in HIMPA (1 mL) and 1,1
   carbonyldiimidazole (32 mg; 0.2 mmol) was added. The mixture was stirred at R.T. for 6 h. A
  solution of tetrabutylammonium pyrophosphate (0.22 g; -0.2 mrnol) in DMF (2 mL) was added.
  The mixture was stirred overnight at R.T. The mixture was diluted with triethylammonium
  acetate buffer and purified by RP-HPLC with a gradient 0-60% B (A: 50 mM aqueous TEAA,
  B: 50mM TEAA in McOH) and repurified by RP-HPLC with a gradient 0-30% B to give 100a.
  3 P-NMR (D2 0): 8 3.22 (d, IP), -8.21 (br, I P), -22.91 (br, 1 P). MS: m/z = 528 (M-1).
                                                   EXAMPLE 95
                                      Preparation of Compound (100b)
                         NH2                                 NH2
                                      N0                                                                NH2
  Mea                                  HHO                N0
                        MoO                                               HN
                              -*.,.
                                                                                O    :
                                                                                    HO              N-4o
                                                                                                       a
           Hd    IF                             Hd      IFH                                      .I
              100-3                                 100-4
         [0567]           Preparation of (100-4): 100-4 was prepared from 100-3 (54 mg; 0.13 mmol)
 in acetonitrile (1.3 mL) with TMSBr (0.18 mL) using a similar procedure as described for the
 preparation of 100-2.
         [0568]          Preparation of (100b):         100b was prepared from 100-4 in HMPA (2 mL)
 with CDI (84 mg) and tetrabUtylammonium pyrophosphate (0.5 g) in DMF (2 mL) using a
 similar procedure as described for the preparation of 100a. 3 P-NMR (D 0): 6 17.90 (d, IP),
                                                                                   2
 9.00 (d, 1 P), -22.91 (t, 1 P). MS: iz = 530 (M-1).
                                                 EXAMPLE 96
                                     Preparation of Compound (100c)
                          NH2                                   NH2          a                          NH,
        M
        C           /N                   HO                 N-\N           HOA
    MeO~    c0"        -                   HO6
                                              C1-"
                                                                             HO  f 0HCi-"           /   N
                                                                  OYN   ~H                         FdF j
            HG     IF                              Hd     -F                             HO' .          0I
             100-5                                    100-6                                    100c
        105691           Preparation of (100-6): 100-6 was prepared from 100-5 (40 mg; 0.09 mmol)
in acetonitrile (I nL) with TMSBr (0.1 mL) using a similar procedure as described
                                                                                                      for the
preparation of 100-2.
                                                       -239-

         [0570]       Preparation of (100c): 100c was prepared from 100-6 in HMPA (1.5 mL)
with CDI (50 mg) and tetrabutylammonium pyrophosphate (0.3 g) using a similar procedure as
described for the preparation of 100a. "P-NMR (D 20): 6 -7.13 (br, IP), -10.14 (d, I P), -22.84
(br, 1 P). ' 9F-NMR (D20): 8 -117.53 (dd, I F), -197.8 (m, I F). MS: m/z = 545.5 (M-1).
                                           EXAMPLE 97
                          Preparation of Compounds (100d) and (100e)
                      NH2                            NH2                O                     NH2
                F   N                     F          N              HO'   O  0               N
        C                             HO                                  O HO C
            H                              Hd    F                                Hd    IF
              100-7                          100-8                                   100d
                                                                        o                     NH2
                                                                    HOtfP\o9              /   N4
                                                                     HO Hdo PV             N1
                                                                             HO            H
                                                                                  Hd     IF
                                                                                      100e
          [05711      Preparation of (100-8): To an ice-cold solution of diastereomers 100-7 (35
 mg; 0.08     rmol) in acetonitrile (1 mL) was added TMSBr (0.1 mL; 10 equiv.). The resulting
 mixture was stirred overnight at R.T. and then concentrated.        The residue was partitioned
 between water and CH 2Cl2 . The aqueous layer was washed with CH 2 C12 , neutralized with
 triethylammonium bicarbonate buffer and lyophilized to yield the triethylammonium salt of 100
 8.
          [0572]       Preparation of (100d) and (100e):     100-8 was rendered anhydrous by
 coevaporating with pyridine and toluene. Anhydrous 100-8 was dissolved in DMF (1.5 mL) and
 CDI (54 mg; 0.3 mmol) was added. The mixture was stirred at R.T. for 7 h. A solution of
 tetrabutylammonium pyrophosphate (0.3 g; ~0.3 mmol) in DMF (4 mL) was added.                   The
 mixture was stirred at R.T for 3 days. The mixture was diluted with triethylammonium acetate
 buffer. Two consecutive RP-HPLC purifications with a gradient 0-60% B (A: 50 mM aqueous
 TEAA, B: 50mM TEAA in McOH) and 0-40% B gave 100d and 100e as single diastereomers.
  100d: "P-NMR (D 2 0): 8 4.28 (dd, IP), -6.37 (d, 1 P), -22.36 (t, I P). MS: m/z= 548.1 (M-1).
  100e: 3'P-NMR (D2 0): 6 4.13 (dd, IP), -6.38 (d, 1 P), -22.46 (t, 1 P). MS: m/z = 548.1 (M-1).
                                                  -240-

                                               EXAMPLE 98
                                     Preparation of Compound (101a)
                             0                                   0
                                                                                                   0
                             NH                                  NH
    TBDPSO         0    N                  TBPSOt ON                          TBDPSO              NH
        HOC                                      OJN
            TBSd      'F                          TBSd      F                       TBS'       'F
                 59-4                                 101-1                              101-2
                                              NH2                                NH2
                                             N                               H'N
                       TBDPSO\           N                        Ho     0
                              TBS       F                            HO     F
                                  101-3                                101a
          [05731         Preparation of (101-1):      To a solution of 59-4 (1.5 g, 2.39 mmol) in
 anhydrous DCM (100 rnL) was added Dess-Martin periodinane (5.2 g, 11.95 mmol) at 0*C
 under nitrogen. The mixture was stirred at R.T. for 5 h. The mixture was poured into NaHCO
                                                                                                      3
 and Na2 S2 0 3 aq. Solution. The organic layer was washed with brine, dried over with anhydrous
 Na 2 SO4, and concentrated to dryness to give the crude 101-1 (1.5 g) as a white solid, which was
 used for the next step without further purification.
          [0574]         Preparation       of      (101-2):           To       a      mixture        of
bromo(isobutyl)triphenylphosphorane (4.8 g, 12.03 mmol) in anhydrous THIF (8 mL) was added
 t-BuOK( 11.2 mL, 11.2 mmol) at 0*C under nitrogen. The mixture was stirred at R.T. for I h. A
solution of 101-1 (1.0 g, 1.6 mmol) in anhydrous THIF (4 mL) was added dropwise at 0*C. The
mixture was stirred at R.T. for 3 h. The reaction was quenched with a NH 4 CI aq. solution and
extracted with DCM. The organic layer was dried and concentrated to give a residue, which was
purified by silica gel column chromatography (5% EtOAc in PE) to give 101-2 (793 mg, 74.4%)
as a white solid.
         [0575]         Preparation of (101-3):    To a solution of 101-2 (364 mg, 0.547 mmol) in
anhydrous CH3 CN (6 mL) were added TPSCI (414 mg, 1.37 rnmol), DMAP (167 mg, 1.37
mmol) and NEt3 (138 mg, 1.37 mmol) at R.T. The mixture was stirred at R.T. for 2 h. NH 4 0H
(6 mL) was added, and the mixture was stirred for another I h. The mixture was diluted with
DCMi and washed with a NaHCO 3 aq. solution.                  The organic layer was separated and
concentrated to give a residue, which was purified by silica gel column chromatography (2%
MeOH in DCM) to give 101-3 (347 mg, 95.0%) as white solid.
                                                   -241-

         [0576]      Preparation of (101a): To a solution of 27-3 (347 mg, 0.52 mmol) in MeOH
(10 mL) was added NH 4F (1.5 g) at R.T. The reaction mixture was refluxed for 12 h, and then
filtered. The filtrate was concentrated in vacuo, and the residue was purified by silica gel
column chromatography (10% MeOH in DCM) to give 101a (87 mg, 53%) as a white solid. IH
NMR (CD 30D, 400MHz) 38.11 (d,J= 7.6 Hz, 1H), 6.03 (dd, J = 1.2, 17.6 Hz, IH), 5.88 (d, J
= 7.2 Hz, 1H), 6.03 (dd,.J= 1.6, 11.6 Hz, 1N), 5.39 (d,.J= 10.8 Hz, IH), 4.88 (dd, J= 3.2, 60.0
Hz, 1H), 4.41 (dd, J= 4.8, 24.4 Hz, 1H), 3.70 (d, J= 12.4 Hz, 1), 3.57 (d,.J= 12.0 Hz, iH),
3.08-3.14 (in, 1H), 0.94-0.98 (in, 6H). ESI-MS: m/z 626.9 [2M + H]-.
                                          EXAMPLE 99
                                 Preparation of Compound (102a)
                        o0                                  0                               0
                                                         /  NH       2                      NH
   TBDPSO           N    O                  Ho                N           HO            N
                        0
           TBS    F                              H      F                      Hd     F
                   0N            O                  TB       F                    H,      F
                      102-3                          102.4                           102a
          [0577]      Preparation of (102-1): To a solution of 101-2 (1.0 g, 1.5 mnmol) in MeOH
 (20 mL) was added NH 4 F (6 g) at R.T., and the mixture was refluxed overnight. After cooling
 to R.T., the mixture was filtered, and the filtrate was concentrated. The residue was purified by
 silica gel column chromatography (8 % MeOH- in DCM) to give 102-1 (400 mg, 85%) as a
 white solid.
          {0578]      Preparation of (102-2):     To a solution of 102-1 (400 mng, 1.27 mmol) in
  MeOH- (10 mL) was added Pd/C (400 mg) at R.T. The mixture was stirred at R.T. under a
 balloon of H2 for 1.5 hi. The mixture was filtered, and the filtrate was concentrated in vacuo to
  give 102-2 (400 mg, 99 %) as a white solid.
           10579]      Preparation of (102-3): To a solution of 102-2 (400 mng, 1.26 mmol) in
  anhydrous DMF (5 mnL) were added imidazole (968 mg, 14.2 mnmol), and TBSCI (1.5 g, 10.0
  mmol) at R.T. The mixture was stirred at 50"C overnight. The mixture was diluted with DCM
  and washed with a NaHCO 3 aq. solution. The organic layer was dried and concentrated. The
                                                  -242-

  residue was purified by silica gel column chromatography (10% EA in PE) to give 102-3 (676
  mg, 98 %) as a white solid.
          [0580]       Preparation of (102-4): To a solution of 102-3 (676 mg, 1.24 mmol) in
  anhydrous CH 3CN (6 mL) were added TPSCI (941 mg, 13.11 mmol), DMAP (379 ng, 3.11
  mmol) and NEt (314 mg, 3.11 mmol) at R.T. The reaction was stirred at R.T. for 3 h. NH 0H
                                                                                            4
  (1 mL) was added, and the reaction was stirred for 4 h. The mixture was diluted with DCM and
  washed with a NaHCO3 solution. The organic layer was dried and concentrated. The residue
  was purified by silica gel column chromatography (2% MeOH in DCM) to give 102-4 (450 mg,
  67%) as a white solid.
          [05811      Preparation of (102a):       To a solution of 102-4 (450 mg, 0.83 mmol) in
 MeOH (10 mL) was added NH4 F (2 g) at R.T. The reaction mixture was refluxed overnight.
 After cooling to R.T., the mixture was filtered, and the filtrate was concentrated. The residue
 was purified by silica gel column chromatography (8 % MeOH in DCM) to give 102a (166.6
 mg, 64%) as a white solid. '1- NMR (CD 30D, 400MHz) S8.09 (d, .= 7.6 Hz, 1H), 6.07 (d, J=
 3.6 Hz, IH), 6.05 (d,.J= 2.8 Hz, IH), 5.89 (d, J= 7.6 Hz, IH), 5.03 (dd, J= 5.2, 57.2 Hz, IH),
 4.41 (dd, J= 4.2, 17.2 Hz, IH), 3.74 (d, J= 12.0 Hz, IH), 3.54 (d, J= 12.0 Hz, IH), 1.23-1.78
 (in, 5H), 0.90 (d,.1= 6.4 Hz, 6H). ESI-MS: m/z 631.1 [2M + H]i.
                                            EXAMPLE 100
                                  Preparation of Compound (103a)
                                  00
                             /    NH/                                 NH
                HON                                  AcO          NH
                                                                     0
                MMTrO       FF                                  -F
                         MM~rb:
                           'IFAcO'                             .F
                       103-1
                                                            103-2
                                    F     NHBz                           F    NH2
                                          N                                HN
                       AcO       a    N-4    ________         HO           N
                           Ac5      F                              Hd    F
                               103-3                                  103a
        [05821       Preparation of (103-2):       103-1 (3.8 g, 6.9 mmol) in 80% AcOH aq. was
stirred at 50"C for 4 h. The mixture was concentrated to give a residue, which was purified by
silica gel column chromatography (5% MeOH in DCM) to give the uridine derivative (1.5 g,
                                                 -243-

78.2%) as a white solid. To a solution of the uridine derivative (1.5 g, 5.4 mmol) in Py (10 mL)
was added Ac 2O (1.38 g, 13.5 mmol) at R.T. The mixture was stirred at R.T. for 12 h. The
mixture was concentrated to give a residue, which was purified by silica gel column
chromatography (20% EA in PE) to give 103-2 (1.3 g, 68%) as a white solid.
         [0583]          Preparation of (103-3):      To a solution of N-(5-fluoro-2-hydroxy-1,2
dihydropyrimidin-4-yl)benzamide (0.5 g, 2.1 mmol) in anhydrous PhC1 (5 mL) was added
ammonium sulfate (6 mg, 0.043 mmol), followed by HMDS (0.7 g, 4.3 mmol). The mixture
was heated to 1304C for 8 h. The mixture was concentrated tinder vacuum to 2 mL, and then
cooled to 0*C. TMSOTf (310 mg, 1.4 mmol) was then added. After stirring for 10 min at 04C,
 103-2 (150 mg, 0.4 mmol) in PhCl (5 mL) was added. The mixture was stirred at 130*C for 10
 h. The mixture was concentrated, and the residue was re-dissolved in DCM (10 mL), washed
 with water (5 mL) and saturated NaHCO3 . The organic layer was dried over Na2 SO 4 ,
 evaporated to dryness and the crude product was purified by silica gel column chromatography
 (60% PE in EA) to give 103-3 (30 mg, 16%) as a white solid.
          [05841         Preparation of (103a):      A solution of 103-3 (150 mg, 0.34 mol) in
 NH 3/MeOH (10 mL) was stirred at R.T. for 3 h. The mixture was concentrated, and the residue
 was purified by HPLC separation (0.1% HCOOH in water and MeCN) to give 103a (60 mg,
 60%) as a white solid. '1- NMR (CD 3 OD, 400MHz) 68.28 (d,.J= 6.8 Hz, IH), 6.10 (dd, J=
 2.0, 15.2 Hz, IH), 4.99-5.15 (in, 1H), 4.62-4.65 (in, IH), 4.49-4.55 (in, 2H), 3.89 (dd, J= 1.6,
  12.0 -lz, 11H), 3.75 (dd,.J= 1.2, 12.0 Hz, IH-). ESI-MS: m/z 613.1 [2M + Na]-.
                                              EXAMPLE 101
                                     Preparation of Compound (104a)
                   F      NHBz                            F                             F    0
                                    NNH                                                      NH
     AcO              N                    : AcO             N:              HO           N
       F&N             (  0~                   F-..&
          Acd      'F                            Ac         F                    Hd      F
              103-3                                   104-1                         104a
           105851         Preparation of (104-1): 103-3 (150 ng, 0.31 mmol) was dissolved in 80%
  aqueous acetic acid (3 mL). The solution was heated to reflux for 2 h. The mixture was cooled
  to ambient temperature and diluted with water (5 mL), neutralized to pH>7 with saturated
  NaHCO, and extracted with EA. The organic layer was dried and evaporated to dryness. The
  residue was purified by silica gel column chromatography (50% EA in PE) to give 104-1 (80
  mg, 70%) as a white solid.
                                                     -244-

           [0586]         Preparation of (104a): 104-1 (80 mg, 0.22 mmol) in saturated NH3/MeOH
  (10 mL) was stirred at R.T. for 3 h. The mixture was concentrated, and the residue was purified
  by silica gel column chromatography (5% MeOH in DCM) to give 104a (40 mg, 60%) as a
  white solid. tH NMR (CD 30D, 400MHz) 68.30 (d, J= 6.8 Hz, IH), 6.18 (dd, J= 4.0, 14.0 Hz,
  IH), 5.13-5.65 (m, IH), 4.52-4.56 (m, IH), 3.980-3.95 (m, 2H), 3.76 (s, 3H). ESI-MS: m/z
  319.1 [M + Na].
                                              EXAMPLE 102
                                    Preparation of Compound (105a)
                                        0
                                      O    O11 O0-P-OHO
                          NHDMT                                                         NHDMT
                            N              Op 0ON                     0
                  HO ON         I                                                           0
                              O              O      E0                  O-P O      ON       O0
                                       BOP-CI, DIPEA,                     O
                  0     F              N;THF                       Oy          HO     'F
                    105-1                                             O           105-2
                                                              NH2
                                       0
               80% aq.HCOOH          O   O    O-O                 O
                                          O    0   9HO        F
                                            0              10sa
         [0587]         Preparation of (105-2):           To    a solution  of      triethylammonium
bis(isopropyloxycarbonyloxymethyl)phosphate            (0. 065 mmol, prepared from 22 mg of
bis(POC)phosphate and Et 3N) in THF was added 105-1 (31 mg; 0.05 mmol). The resulting
mixture evaporated, and the residue was rendered anhydrous by coevaporation with pyridine,
followed by toluene. The anhydrous evaporated residue was dissolved THF (1 rmL) and cooled
in an ice-bath. To the solution was added diisopropylethyl amine (35 ytL; 4 equiv), followed by
BOP-Cl (25 mag; 2 equiv) and 3-nitro- 1,2,4-triazole (II ing; 2 equiv). The mixture was stirred at
0"C for 90 min. The mixture was diluted with CH 2 CI2, washed with saturated aq. NaHC0 and
                                                                                                3
brine, and dried with Na 2SO4. The evaporated residue was purified on silica (10 g column) with
a CH 2 C 2 /i-PrOH solvent system (3-10% gradient) to give 105-2 (13 rag, 28%).
                                                  -245-

        [0588]        Preparation of (105a): A solution of 105-2 (13 mg; 0.014 mmol) in 80% aq.
HCOOH (2 mL) was stirred at R. T. for 3 h. The mixture was evaporated and then coevaporated
with toluene. The product was purified on silica (10 g column) with a CH 2C2/MeOH solvent
system (4-15% gradient) to give 105a (7 mg, 78%). 'H-NMR (DMSO-d): 8 7.52 (d, 1 H), 7.28,
7.24 (2 br s, 2 H) 5.92 (dd, 1 H), 5.74 (d, I H), 5.69 (d, I H), 5.62 (d, 4 H), 4.97 (ddd, I H), 4.82
(in, 2 H), 4.38 (dt, 1 H), 4.07 (i, 2 H), 1.23 (in, 12 H), 1.04 (m, 1H), 0.37 (in, 4 H). "P-NMR
(DMSO-d 6 ): 8 -4.51. i9F-NMR (DMSO-d 6 ): 6 -199.23 (dt). MS: m/z = 598.4 (M+1).
                                              EXAMPLE 103
                                    Preparation of Compound (106a)
                                              0
                                      OO        O- -OH
                                                   0
                                                                                        NHDMT
                         NHDMT
                                             000                                          N
                                                                0
                             IY                      EtsN        o1   O   O 0               a
            HO                0
             SBOP-C,                            DIPEA,                    O
                H(d      F              NT; THF                     O   a      HO'      F
                    106-1                                                          106-1
                                                              NH2
              80% aq.HCOOH            0     O--         O   O NN
                                                0 O-'         NL
                                            O       /    HO   F
                                              0106a
                                              O
          105891         Preparation of (106-1): 106-1 (15 mug; 30% yield) was prepared in the same
  manner from 43-5 (32 mg; 0.057 mmol) and bis(POC)phosphate (24 ing) with DIPEA (40 L),
  BopCl (29 mg) and 3-nitro-1,2,4-triazole (13 mg) as 105-2 from 105-1.
          [05901          Preparation of (106a): 106-1 (15 mg) was converted in formic acid to 106a
  (8 ng; 78% yield) in the same manner as 105-2 to 105a. 'H-NMR (DMSO-d 6 ): 8 7.55 (d, I H),
  7.32, 7.27 (2 br s, 2 H) 6.06 (dd, I H), 5.84 (d, I H), 5.73 (d, 1 H), 5.61 (d, 4 H), 5.08 (ddd, 1 H),
  4.83 (in, 2 H), 4.36 (in, I -1), 4.21 (dd, H), 4.16 (dd, I H), 3.56 (d, I H), 3.49 (d, 1 H), 3.28 (s, 3
  H), 1,25, 1.24 (2 d, 12 H).      P-NMR (DMSO-d 6 ): 6 -4.45. MS: m/z = 602.4 (M+1).
                                                      -246-

                                              EXAMPLE 104
                                   Preparation of Compound (107a)
                                        0
                                                0-P-OH
                        NHDMT                                                            NHDMT
                    HO0                                          0 0
            HO          N   NE
                            O                O   O EtN3N       O        0-   -O          NIO
                                      BOPCI, DIPEA,                        0        OY
                Hd     F              NT;THF                        0   0     F H       F
                  40-10                                               O            107-1
                                                              NH2
              80% aq.HCOOH          0     0       -O               O
                                          O    O
                                               0     F Hd   'F
                                                 0        107a
                                            'T
         [05911       Preparation of (107-1): 107-1 (30 mg; 30% yield) was prepared in the same
 manner from 40-10 (65 mg; 0.115 mmoi) and bis(POC)phosphate
                                                                        (49 mg) with DIPEA (80 gL),
 BopCl (58 mg) and 3-nitro-1,2,4-triazole (26 mg) as 105-2 from 105-1.
         [05921       Preparation of(106a): 107-1 (30 mg) was converted in formic acid to 107a
(15 mg; 73% yield) in the same manner as 105-2 to 105a. 'H-NMR (DMSO-d): 8 7.60 (d, I
H), 7.36, 7.32 (2 br s, 2 H) 6.02 (in, 2 H), 5.74 (d, I H), 5.62 (m, 4 H), 5.17 (dd d, I H), 4.99 (dq,
 I H), 4.83 (in, 2 H), 4.61 (in, I H), 4.19 (m, 2 H), 1.40 (dd, 3 H), 1.24, 1.23 (2 d, 12 H). 31
                                                                                                    P
NMR (DMSO-dg): 6 -4.52. "F-NMR (DMSO-d 6 ): 8 -185.92 (in, I F), -200.48 (d, I F). MS: m/z
= 604.3 (M+II).
                                            EXAMPLE 105
                                 Preparation of Compound (108a)
                                                                                 NH2
                                   NH 2                           O             N
                                rlIN                        )JO              N
                   HO      O   N__
                                    HS            'F0                         108a
                        Hd                        -247
                                                  -247-

         [0593]     To a solution of 4'-ethyl-2'-fluorocytidine (50 mg, 0.183 mmol) in DMF (1
mL) were added DCC (113 mg, 0.55 mmol), isobutyric acid (48.5 pl, 0.55 mmol) and DMAP
(22 mg, 0.183 mnol). The mixture was stirred at R.T. overnight. The mixture was filtered, and
the filtrate was concentrated with a rotary evaporator until half of its original volume was
achieved. EA was added to the mixture. The mixture was washed with water, followed by
brine.    The mixture was dried over anhydrous Na 2 SO 4 and concentrated in vacuo to give a
residue, which was purified by silica gel with DCM/ McOH=95:5 to give 108a (40.8 mg, 54%)
as a white solid. 'H NMR (DMSO-d6, 400 MHz) 6 7.67 (d, J= 7.2 Hz, IH), 7.34 (br s, 2H),
5.85, 5.8 (2d, .1= 21.2, 22 Hz, lH), 5.72 (d, 1= 7.6 Hz, IH), 5.55-5.41 (in, 2H), 4.1 (q, 2H),
2.68-2.52 (m, 2H), 1.77-1.64 (m, 2H), 1.13, 1.14 (2s, 2 x3H), 1.09-1.07 (in, 6H), 0.96 (t, J  7.6
Hz, 3 H); MS m/z 414 (M-H), 829 (2M+-H4 ).
                                          EXAMPLE 106
                                 Preparation of Compound (109a)
                                        0                                 0
                            O            NH                            /   NH
                          FH        J           -            HO         N
                                                             F  HC    F
          105941    3',5'-diacetylnucleoside   (36 mg, 1 mmol) was dissolved in methanol
 saturated with NH 4 0H and kept overnight at R.T. The solvent was evaporated, and the product
 isolated by column chromatography in gradient of methanol in DCM from 0 to 15% on a 1Og
 Biotage cartridge. The product was 109a obtained (20 mg, 73%). 'H-NMR (DMSO-d,): 6 11.4
 (s, IH), 11.84-11.82 (d, 1H); 6.10-6.05 (m, I1H), 5.95-5.83 (d, IH), 5.71 (s, IH), 5.65-5.63 (d,
  iH), 5.37-3.36 (t, IH), 5.26-5.20 (t, 1H), 5.11-5.07 (t, iH), 4.56-4.55 (in, IH), 4.46-4.33 (in,
 2H), 3.58-3.56 (in, 2H). MS 277.2 (M-H).
                                                -248-

                                          EXAMPLE 107
                                  Preparation of Compound (110a)
                                F    NHBz
                         0       /\                     F   NHBz                    F   0
             -N      -                          ON0tJ
                                HN                                            HNH
             0                            HO      0                           H'
                 70a                                110-1                     110a
        [0595]        Preparation of (110-1):   To a solution of 70a (6.55 g, 2.1 mmol) and the
benzoyl protected base moiety (2.3 g, 5.3 mmol) in PhCl (50 mL)was added TMSOTf (3.6 g,
 16.1 mmol). After addition, the mixture was heated to 140'C for 8 h. The mixture was cooled
to R.T., and evaporated to give a residue. The residue was re-dissolved in DCM and washed
with saturated NaHCO3 and brine. The organic layer was dried and concentrated to give a
residue, which was purified by silica gel column (40% EA in PE) to give 110-1 (300 mg, 10%)
as a white solid.
        [05961       Preparation of (I10a):   110-1 (300 mg, 0.55 mmol) in 80% aqueous acetic
acid (5 mL) was heated to reflux for 2 h. The mixture was cooled to ambient temperature and
diluted with water (5 mL), and then extracted with EA. The organic layer was washed with
saturated NaHCO 3 and brine. The mixture was dried and concentrated to give a residue, which
was purified by silica gel column (10% EA in PE) to give the protected uridine derivative (180
mg, 70%) as a white solid. The protected uridine derivative (180 mg, 0.4 mmol) in saturated
NH 3/MeOH (10 mL) was stirred at R.T. for 3 h.           The mixture was concentrated to give a
residue, which was purified by preparative HPLC (0.1% HCOOH in water and MeCN) to give
110a (80 mg, 60%) as a white solid. 'H NMR (CD 30D, 400MHz) 68.31 (d, J= 6.8 Hz, lH),
6.17 (dd,.J= 4.0, 14.0 Hz, 11H), 5.13-5.27 (m, 11H), 4.52-4.56 (m, 1H), 3.92 (dd,. = 12.0, 58.8
Hz, 2H). ESI-TOF-MS: m/z 334.7 [M + Na] .
                                               -249-

                                                 EXAMPLE 108
                                       Preparation of Compound (11la)
                     NH2 .HeI                  NHBz                    NHBz                   NHBz
                     N                         N                 (NN                     (\N
    HO                ONA -     HO0NA4         -                       -
        Hd      F                   Hd      F             Hd     F                Hd 'F
          111-1                       111-2                111-3                   111.4
                   NHBz                       NHBz                       NHBz                           NH2
                   N                          N                      <N                             /  \N
                   o                        N           BzO                            HO            N
                N~
              -(F                VC-                       N{WJ.Fp                           *
      Hd      F                   B        F                Bzd     -F                      Hd    'F
        111-5                        111-6                    111-7                           111a
           [0597]          Preparation of (111-2):  Compound 111-1 (30.0 g, 0.1 mol) was suspended
in anhydrous pyridine (300 mL) and stirred at room temperature (R.T.) for I hour.                           The
suspension was cooled to 0"C and TMSCI (27.3 g, 0.25 mmol) was added dropwise. After
addition was complete, the mixture was warmed to R.T. and stirred for 30 min. The mixture
was then re-cooled to 000 and BzCl (15.5 g, 0.11 inol) was added dropwise. The mixture was
warmed to R.T. and stirred overnight. The reaction was cooled to 0*C and quenched with H2 0.
Aqueous ammonia was added, and the reaction was stirred at R.T. for 2 hours. The solution was
concentrated and the residue was taken up into ethyl acetate (EA) and H20. The aqueous phase
was extracted with EA several times, and the combined organic layers were dried over Na 2SO4
and concentrated. The residue was purified on a silica gel column to give compound 111-2 as a
white solid (28.2 g, 76%). ESI-LCMS: m/z=368 [M+Na]'.
            [0598]          Preparation of (111-3): To a stirred suspension of compound 111-2 (18.4 g,
 50 mnmol), PPh 3 (22.3 g, 85 mmol) and pyridine (25 mL) in anhydrous THIF (300 mL) was added
 a solution of 12 (19.05 g, 75 mmol) in THIF (80 mL) dropwisc at 0*C. After addition, the mixture
 was warmed to R.T. and stirred for 60 hours. The precipitate was removed by filtration, and the
 filtrate was concentrated. The residue was dissolved in dichloromethane (DCM) and washed
 with saturated Na 2 S2 O3 aqueous solution and then brine. The organic layer was dried over
 Na 2 SO 4 and concentrated. The residue was purified on a silica gel column to afford compound
 111-3 (16.4 g, 69%). ESI-LCMS: m/z=478 [M+-].
            [0599]          Preparation of (111-4):   To a stirred solution of compound 111-3 (17.0 g,
 35.6 mmol) in anhydrous dimethylformarnide (DMF) (300 mL) was added dropwise a solution
 of t-BuOK (10.0 g, 89.1 mmol) in DMF (120 mL) at 0"C over 20 min. Stirring was continued at
  0C for 45 min, and then concentrated hydrochloric acid (4.5 mL) was added. A pH value of 8-9
 was achieved by adding a saturated NaHCO 3 solution.                      The precipitate was removed by
                                                      -250-

   filtration, and the filtrate was diluted with ethyl acetate. The solution was washed with brine
   and dried over Na2SO. The solvent was removed, and the residue was purified on a silica gel
   column to afford compound 111-4 as a white solid (8.6 g, 69%). ESI-LCMS: m/z=350 [M+H]*.
             [06001     Preparation of (111-5): To a stirred solution of Bn Et 3NCI (37.4 g, 0.16
  mol) in McCN (600 mL) was added NaN 3 (10.8 g, 0.16 mol). The mixture was sonicated for 20
  min, and then stirred at R.T. for 16 hours. The solution was filtrated into a solution of
  compound 111-4 (11.5 g, 32.9 mmol) and N-mothylmorpholine (3.5 g) in anhydrous THF (200
  mL). The mixture was cooled to 0"C and a solution off 2 (33.6 g, 0.14 mol) in THF (100 mL)
  was added dropwise. Stirring was continued at 0-10"C for 20 hours. N-Acetyl cystein was
  added until no gas evolved. Saturated Na 2 S20 3 aq. was added until a light yellow solution was
  achieved. The solution was concentrated and then diluted with EA. The organic phase was
  washed with brine and dried over Na2 SO 4 . The solvent was removed, and the residue was
  purified on a silica gel column to give compound 111-5 (14.7 g, 84%). ESI-LCMS: m/z=519
  [M+H]'.
            [06011      Preparation of (111-6): To a stirred solution of compound 111-5 (12.5 g,
  24.8 mmol) in anhydrous pyridine (200 mL) was added BzCl (4.3 g, 30 mmol) dropwise at 0"C.
 The mixture was then stirred at R.T. for 10 hours. The reaction was quenched with H20, and the
 solution was concentrated. The residue was dissolved in EA and washed with saturated
 NaHCO3. The organic layer was dried over Na2 SO4 and concentrated. The residue was purified
 on a silica gel column to give compound 111-6 as a white foam (11.2 g). ESI-LCMS: m/z=623
 [M+H]*.
            [0602]      Preparation of (111-7):    Compound 111-6 (9.43 g, 15.2 rnmol), BzONa
 (21.9 g, 152 mmol) and 15-crown-5 (33.4 g, 152 mmol) were suspended in 200 mL DMF. The
 mixture was stirred at 60-70"C for 3 days. The precipitate was removed by filtration, and the
 filtrate was diluted with EA. The solvent was washed with brine and dried over Na2 S04. The
 solvent was removed, and the residue was purified on a silica gel column to afford compound
 111-7 as a white foam (4.4 g, 46%). ESI-LCMS: mlz=617 [M-H]'.
           [06031      Preparation of (111a): Compound 111-7 (4.4 g, 7.13 mmol) was dissolved
 in 100 mL of saturated methanolic ammonia, and the resulting solution was stirred at R.T. for 14
hours.       The solvent was removed, and the residue was purified on a silica gel column
(DCM/MeOH =30:1 to 10:1) to give 111a as a whitesolid (1.9 g, 88%). 'H NMR (CD 30D, 400
M Hz) 6 7.70 (d, J= 7.6 Hz, IH), 6.40 (t,1J= 7.2 Hz, 1), 5.93 (d,J= 7.6 Hz, 1H), 4.50 (t,J=
 13.2 Hz, 1-1), 3.88 (dd, J = 12.0 Hz, J2 = 26.8 Hz, 2H); ESI-MS: m/z=305 [M+H]-, 609
[2M+H]'.
                                                 -251-

                                            EXAMPLE 109
                                   Preparation of Compound (112a)
                          NH2                            NHBz                        NHBz
                          N                              NN
        HO           N               :HN                                          N
             HO      F                       H       F                   HEY     F
               112-1                           112-2                        112-3
                       NHBz                           NHBz                          NHBz
                              N                       NN
                        N                        NON                       N
         HE     'F                       HO    'F                     Bz      'F
            112-4                          112-5                          112-6
                          NHBz                           NH2
                          NZ-;                           N
       BzON           N                 HON          N
            Bzd      F                      HE      F
               112-7                           112a
         j06041         Preparation of (112-2): To a stirred solution of compound 112-1 (21.0 g,
85.7 mmol) in DMF (100 mL) was added benzoyl anhydride (9.66 g, 87 mmol) in portions. The
mixture was stirred at R.T. overnight. The solvent was removed under reduced pressure, and the
residue was triturated with CH2CI2 to give compound 112-2 as a white solid (29.90 g, 100%).
         10605]         Preparation of (112-3): To a stirred suspension of compound 112-2 (10.0 g,
28.65 mmol), PPh 3 (15.01 g, 57.30 mmol) and pyridine (20 mL) in anhydrous THF (100 mL)
was added dropwise a solution of 12 (14.55 g, 57.30 mmol) in THIF (50 mL) at 0"C. After
addition, the mixture was warmed to R.T. and stirred for 14 hours. The reaction was quenched
with saturated aqueous Na2 S20 3 (150 mL) and extracted with EA (100 mL, 3 times). The
organic layer was dried over Na 2 SO4 and concentrated. The residue was purified on a silica gel
column (DCM/MeOH = 100:1 to 50:1) to afford compound 112-3 (4.61 g, 35.1%) as a white
solid.
         10606]         Preparation of (112-4):    To a stirred solution of compound 112-3 (4.6 g,
10.02 mmol) in anhydrous DMF (100 mL) was added dropwise a suspension of t-BuOK (3.36 g,
30.06 mmol) in DMF (20 mL) at 00C over 10 min. The mixture was stirred at R.T. for 2 hours.
The mixtures was then quenched with saturated aqueous NH 4Cl (50 mL), and extracted with
THF and EA. The organic layer was washed with brine and dried over Na 2SO4. The solvent
                                                   -252-

was removed, and the residue was purified on a silica gel column (MeOH/DCM = 1/100 to 1/30)
to afford compound 112-4 as white solid (3.30 g, 99.6%).
        [06071       Preparation of (112-5): To a stirred solution of BnEt 3NCI (11.69 g, 50.2
mmol) in MeCN (50 mL) was added NaN 3 (3.26 g, 50.2 mmol). The mixture was sonicated for
20 min and then stirred at R.T. for 16 hours. The solution was filtrated into a solution of
compound 112-4 (3.31 g, 10.02 mmol) and NMM (5.02 g, 50.2 mmol) in anhydrous THF (80
mL). The mixture was cooled to 0*C, and a solution of 12 (12.5 g, 50.2 mmol) in THF (40 mL)
was added dropwise. Stirring was continued at 0-10*C for 20 hours. N-Acetyl cystein was
added until no gas evolved. Saturated aqueous Na 2 S2 O3 was added until a light yellow solution
achieved. The solution was concentrated and then diluted with EA. The organic phase was
washed with brinc and dried over Na 2SO 4 . The solvent was removed, and the residue was
purified on a silica gel column (PE:EA:DCM = 1:1:1) to give compound 112-5 (14.7 g, 84%) as
a white foam. 'H NMR (CD 3 OD, 400 MHz) 8 11.41 (s, 1H), 8.19 (d,1 = 7.2 Hz, 1H), 8.00 (d,J
= 7.2 Hz, I H), 7.62-7.66 (m, I H), 7.50-7.54 (m, 2H), 7.39 (d, J = 7.2 Hz, I H), 6.44 (d, J = 6.8
Hz, 1H), 6.13 (d, .=    20.4 Hz, 1H), 5.36-5.41 (n, 1H), 4.70-4.76 (m, 1H4), 3.72 (dd, .r   = 17.6
Hz,.2= 11.6 Hz, 2H).
        [0608]       Preparation of (112-6): To a stirred solution of compound 112-5 (3.6 g, 7.20
mmol) in anhydrous pyridine (80 mL) was added BzCI (1.31 g, 9.36 mmol) dropwise at 0"C.
The mixture was stirred at R.T. for 10 hours. The reaction was quenched with H20, and the
solution was concentrated. The residue was dissolved in EA and washed with saturated aqueous
NaHCO3 . The organic layer was dried over Na 2SO4 and concentrated. The residue was purified
on a silica gel column (PE/EA = 10/1 to 1/1) to give compound 112-6 (3.2 g, 73.7%) as a pale
yellow foam.
        [0609]       Preparation of (112-7): Compound 112-6 (2.0 g, 3.31 mniol), BzONa (4.76
g, 33.1 mmol) and 15-crown-5 (7.28 g, 33.1 mmol) were suspended in DMF (100 nL). The
mixture was stirred at 60-70'C for 3 days. The precipitate removed by filtration, and the filtrate
was diluted with EA. The solution was washed with brine and dried over Na 2 SO 4. The solvent
was removed, and the residue was purified on a silica gel column (PE/EA = 4/1 to 2/1) to afford
compound 112-7 as a light yellow foam (1.0 g, 50.7%).
        [06101       Preparation of (112a): Compound 112-7 (0.5 g, 0.84 inmol) was dissolved
in methanolic ammonia (30 mL), and the mixture was stirred at R.T. for 14 hours. The solvent
was removed, and the residue was purified on a silica gel column (DCM/McOH = 30:1 to 10:1)
to give t12a as white solids (0.11 g, 4 1.8%). IHNMR (CD 30D, 400 MHz) 87.83 (d, J = 7.6
Hz, IH), 6.10 (dd,.Jr = 19.6 Hz,.J 2 = 1.6 Hz, INH), 5.94 (d,. = 7.6 Hz, IH), 5.10 (ddd,.11 = 53.6
                                               -253-

Hz,.12 = 5.2 Hz, .J3 = 1.2 Hz, IH), 4.57 (t, J= 5.2 Hz, IH), 3.82 (dd, .I = 38.0 Hz, 12= 12.4 Hz,
2H-I); ESI-MS: m/z=287 [M + H], 573 [2M+H].
                                             EXAMPLE 110
                                  Preparation of Compound (113a)
                                              . BzO           N     NH
             HO
                rtH_         y NH
                             Nt
                                      _    _   BzO       '
                                                           1
                 HO      OH                       BzO        OBz
                   113-1                              113-2
                                   O      NHBz                               NH2
                                                                    0
                                        NN                             NN
                     BZ N3 .                               HOHO        O  N
                   BzO            Bz <N
                       Bzc5      OBz                            d      O
                           113-3                                  113a
          [0611]       Preparation of (113-2): To a stirred solution of compound 113-1 (4.6 g, 16.2
                                                                                          0
 mmol) in anhydrous pyridine (40 mL) was added BzCI (7.3 g, 51.8 mmol) dropwise at 0 C. The
 mixture was stirred at R.T. for 14 hours. The reaction was quenched with H20 and the solution
 was concentrated. The residue was dissolved in EA and washed with saturated NaHCO 3 . The
 organic layer was dried over Na 2SO 4 and concentrated. The residue was purified on a silica gel
 column (PE/EA = 10/1 to 1/1) to give compound 113-2 (7.4 g, 84.1%).
           [06121       Preparation of (113-3): Compound 113-2 (7.4 g, 12.4 mmol), DMAP (3.1 g,
 24.8 mmol), TPSCI (7.5 g, 24.8 mol) and Et 3N (2.5 g, 24.8 mnol) were suspended in MeC2N (50
 mL). The mixture was stirred at R.T. for 14 hours. The solvent was removed, and the residue
 was dissolved in NI-I3 (200 mL) in THF. The mixture was stirred at R.T. for 2 hours. The
 solvent was removed, and the residue was purified on a silica gel column (DCM/MeOH = 100:1
  to 50:1) to give the crude product. The crude product was dissolved in anhydrous pyridine (50
                                                                   0
  rnL), and BzCI (1.7g, 12.2 mmol) was added dropwise at 0 C. The mixture was stirred at R.T.
  for 14 hours. Tile reaction was quenched with H20, and the solution was concentrated. The
  residue was dissolved in EA and washed with saturated NaHCO 3. The organic layer was dried
  over Na 2SO 4 and concentrated. The residue was purified on a silica gel column (PE/EA = 10/1
  to 1/1) to give compound 113-3 as a white foam (4.2 g, 48.4%).
            [0613]       Preparation of (113a): Compound 113-3 (4.2 g, 6.0 mmol) was dissolved in
   200 mL of saturated methanolic ammonia, and the mixture was stirred at R.T. for 14 hours. The
   solvent was removed and then water added. The aqueous mixture was washed with DCM
   several times and lyophilized to give 113a as a white solid (1.5 g, 88%). 'H NMR (CD 30D, 400
                                                   -254-

    MHz) ( 7.74 (d, J= 7.2 Hz, IH), 6.43 (d, J= 5.6 Hz, IH), 5.87 (d, .= 7.6 Hz, 1H), 4.39 (dd, Jz
    = 2.4 Hz, 12 = 5.6 Hz, I H), 4.15 (d, J = 5.6 Hz, IH), 3.80 (s, IH). ESI-MS: m/z=285
                                                                                          [M+H]t
                                              EXAMPLE 111
                                           RSV Antiviral Assays
            [06141     CPE reduction assays are performed as described by Sidwell and Huffran et
   al., App/ Microbiol. (1971) 22(5):797-801 with slight modifications. HEp-2 cells (ATCC) at a
   concentration of 6000 cell/well are infected with RSV Long strain (ATCC) at a multiplicity of
   infection (m.o.i.) of 0.01, and each of the test compounds are provided to duplicate wells at final
   concentrations starting from 100 tM using 1/3 stepwise dilutions. For each compound, two
   wells are set aside as uninfected, untreated cell controls (CC), and two wells per test compound
   receive virus only as a control for virus replication (VC). The assay is stopped after 6 days,
   before all of the cells in the virus-infected untreated control wells exhibited signs of virus
   cytopathology (giant cell formation, syncytia). At the end of the incubation, 20 m1 of cell
   counting kit-8 reagent (CCK-8, Dojindo Molecular Technologies, Inc.) are added to each well.
  After 4 hour incubation, the absorbance is measured in cach well according to manufacturer's
  instruction, and the 50% effective concentration (EC50 ) is calculated by using regression
  analysis, based on the mean O.D. at each concentration of compound.
           [0615]      RT-PCR based assays were performed in HEp-2 cells (ATCC: CCL-23) at a
  concentration of 20000 cell/well were plated in 96 well plates and incubated overnight. Each of
  the test compounds were 1/3 serially diluted and closed to HEp-2 cells in duplicates. The highest
  final concentration for each compound was 100 uM. After 24 hour compound
                                                                                     pre-incubation,
  RSV A2 (ATCC: VR- 1540) at MOI of 0.1 was added. Two wells per compound were set aside
 as uninfected, untreated cell controls (CC), and four wells per test compound received virus only
 as a control for virus replication (VC). The assay was stopped 4 days after virus infection and
 conditioned media was removed for viral RNA isolation. The quantities of the RSV virus were
 measured by real-time PCR using a set of RSV specific primers and probe. The data was
 analyzed with Prism software with EC50 defined as drug concentration that reduced the viral
 load 50% from the viral control (VC).
          [0616]      Standard RSV polymerase assays were conducted in the presence of 3 ' L
 extract of RSV-infected cells in a reaction buffer containing 50mM tris-acetate pH 8, 120mM K
acetate, 4.5mM MgCI2 , 5% glycerol, 2mM EDTA, 50ug/mL BSA, and 3mM DTT. Varying
concentration of test compounds were used to initiate RNA synthesis for 120 mins at 30'C,, and
radioactive 33P GTP (15 uCi) was used as tracer. The reaction was stopped by adding 50 mM
EDTA, and RNA samples were purified through G-50 size exclusion spin columns and phenol
                                                  -255-

chloroform extraction. The radio-labeled RNA products were resolved by electrophoresis on a
6% polyacrylamide TBE gel, and visualized and quantitated after being exposed on a
phosphorimager screen. Polymerase inhibition experiments (IC5 o) were conducted the same
way in the presence of increasing concentration of test compounds.
         106171     Compounds of Formula (I), Formula (II) and Formula (III) are active in the
assay as noted in Tables 6 and 7. In Table 6, 'A' indicates an ECSO < 2 gM, 'B' indicates an
EC 0 of 2 pM and < 10 gM and 'C' indicates an EC 0 10 ptM and <50 pM. In Table 7, 'A'
indicates an ECso < 1 PM, 'B' indicates an ECo of >l pM and < 10 p.M and 'C' indicates an
EC 0     10 gM and < 100 AM.
Table 6 - Activity of compounds as determined by RSV polymerase assay
               No.    EC 0 No.      ECjO     No.     EC 0   No.    ECso No.    EC 0
               35a      A    36i    B        56c       A     97b     A    97g    A
               36a      A    36j    B        56da      A     97c     A    98b    A
               36c      A    56a    B        56e       A     97d     A    98c    A
               36e      A    56a     B       97a       A
 Table 7 - Activity of compounds as determined by RT-PCR assay
       No.    ECo     No.    ECso    No.     EC 0    No.    ECs0   No.   ECo    No.   ECo
        Ia      C      14a    A      28a      B      48a      B    81a     B   106a     C
        2a      C     20a     B      30a      A      50a      A    82a     A   108a     B
        3a      A     21a     A      31a       B     52a      A    83a     B     -
        4a      C     22a      C     33a      A      58a      C    85a     A     -
        7a      A     23a     A       39a      B     69a      A    86a     A      -
        9a      C      25a     C      41a      B     71a      A     87a    A      -
        Ila     B      26a     B      46a      B     73a      C     92a    C      -
        13a     C      27a     B      45a      C      76a     A    105a    C      -
                                           EXAMPLE 112
                                     Influenza Antiviral Assay
          [0618      Human lung carcinoma A549 cells (ATCC, Manassas, VA) were plated at a
  density of 5 x 104 cells/mL (5 x 103 cells/well) in assay media (Ham's F12 media supplemented
  with 0.3% FBS, 1% penicillin/streptomycin (all Mediatech, Manassas, VA) and 1% DMSO
  (Sigma-Aldrich, St Louis, MO)) in black 96-well plates. After 24 hours, serially diluted test
                                                 -256-

  compounds were added to cells and incubated for an additional 24 hours. Cells were infected
  with 250 IU/well of Influenza strain A/WSN/33 (H INI) (Virapur, San Diego CA) and incubated
  for 20 hours at 370 C, 5% CO 2 . The cell culture supernatant was aspirated off and 50 gL of 25
  pM    2 '-( 4 -Mcthylumbelliferyl)-a-D-N-acetylneuraminic
                                                              acid (Sigma-Aldrich) dissolved in 33
  mM MES, pH 6.5 (Emerald Biosystems, Bainbridge Island, WA) was added to the cells. After
  incubation for 45 mins at 304C, reactions were stopped by addition of 150 gL stop solution (100
 mM glycine, pH 10.5, 25% ethanol, all Sigma-Aldrich). Fluorescence was measured with
 excitation and emission fitters of 355 and 460 nm, respectively, on a Victor X3 multi-label plate
 reader (Perkin Elmer, Waltham, MA). Cytotoxicity of uninfected parallel cultures was
 determined by addition of 100 gLof CcllTiter-Glo@)reagent (Promega, Madison, WI), and
 incubation for 10 mins at R.T. Luminescence was measured on a Victor X3 multi-label plate
 reader.
           [0619]       Compounds of Formula (1), Formula (II) and Formula (III) are active in the
 assay as noted in Table 8, where 'A' indicates an EC50 < 20 AM, 'B' indicates an EC5 of >20
                                                                                          0
 pM and < 100 pM and 'C' indicates an EC5o > 100 gM and <250 pM.
 Table 8- Activity of compounds
                             No.      %X)Inhibition      No.  % Inhibition
                               la           C            20a        C
                              2a            C           21a         C
                              3a            C           22a         C
                              4a            C           23a         C
                              6a            C           25a        A
                              7a            C           26a         C
                              9a            C           27a        B
                             12a            C           28a        C
                             16a            C           30a        C
                             17a           C            31a        C
                             18a           C            39a        B
                                            EXAMPLE 113
                                          Influenza Pol Assay
          f0620]      Recombinant influenza polymerase trimmer is obtained as described (Aggarwal
S. et al., PLoS ONE 2010). Standard RNA polymerization assays are conducted in the presence
                                                  -257-

of 0.15 uM enzyme, 1.5 uM 50-mer oligonueleotide template, 400 uM AG primer and varying
concentration of the test compounds are incubated together for 40 minutes at 30*C. Radioactive
33P GTP are used as the tracer and the radio-labeled RNA products are resolved by
electrophoresis on a 15% polyacrylamide TBE gel, and is visualized and quantitated after being
exposed on a phosphorlmager screen. Polymerase inhibition experiments (IC 5 0) are conducted
the same way in the presence of increasing concentration of test compounds.
                                        EXAMPLE 114
                        Parainfluenza virus-3 (PIV-3) RT-PCR Assays
        [0621]      RT-PCR based assays were performed in A549 cells (ATCC: CCL-185).
A549 cells at a concentration of 20,000 cells/well were plated in 96 well plates and incubated
overnight. Each of the test compounds were 1/3 serially diluted and dosed to A549 cells in
duplicates. The highest final concentration for each compound was 100 uM. After 24 hour
compound pre-incubation, human parainfluenza virus 3 (hPIV3, ATCC: VR-93) at multiplicity
of infection (MOI) of 0.1 was added. Two wells per compound were set aside as uninfected,
untreated cell controls (CC), and four wells per test compound received virus only as a control
for virus replication (VC). The assay was stopped 7 days after virus infection and conditioned
media was removed for viral RNA isolation. The quantities of the hPIV3 virus were measured
by real-time PCR using a set of hPIV3 specific primers and probe. The data was analyzed with
Prism software with EC 0 defined as drug concentration that reduced the viral load 50% from
the viral control (VC). The results are provided in Table 9 and show Compounds of Formula
(1), Formula (II) and Formula (III) are active against PIV-3, where 'A' indicates an ECso < 20
iiM, 'B' indicates an ECs0 of 20 gM and < 100 pM and 'C' indicates an EC 0       100 gM.
Table 9
            No.        ECo (pM)        No.       EC-o (pM)        No.     EQo (pM)
             3a            A          22a            C            71a          C
             6a            C           23a           C            llla         A
             7a            A           40a           C            112a         A
             9a            C          43a            C            1l3a         C
            20a            C           69a           A
                                        EXAMPLE 115
      Parainfluenza virus-3 (PIV-3) Enhanced Green Fluorescent Protein (eGFP) Assay
        106221      HPIV3-cGFP based assays were performed in A549 cells (ATCC: CCL-185).
A549 cells at a concentration of 20,000 cells/well were plated in 96 well plates and incubated
overnight. Each of the test compounds were 1/3 serially diluted and dosed to A549 cells in
                                              -258-

duplicates. The highest final concentration for each compound was 100 uM. After 24 hour
compound pre-incubation, hPIV3-eGFP, (Roth et. al,, Antiviral Res. (2009)         82(l):12-21.) at
MOI of 0.1 was added. Two wells per compound were set aside as uninfected, untreated cell
controls (CC), and four wells per test compound received virus only as a control for virus
replication (VC).      The assay was stopped 3 days after virus infection by removing the
conditioned media and adding RIPA lysis buffer at 50 ul/well. The cGFP fluorescence signal in
the lysis buffer was detected in a Victor 3 plate reader. The data was analyzed with Prism
software with ECo defined as drug concentration that reduced the viral load 50% from the viral
control (VC).     The results are provided in Table 10 and show Compounds of Formula (I),
Formula (II) and Formula (Ill) are active against PIV-3, where 'A' indicates an EC50 < 20 pM,
'B' indicates an EC 0 of >20 aM and < 100 aM and 'C' indicates an EC      0   100 aM.
Table 10
                           No.         ECo (gM)         No.     ECso (sM)
                            3a            A             40a         C
                            4a            C             43a         C
                            6a    |       C             69a         B
                            7a            A             71a  |      C
                            9a            C        |lila            A
                           20a            C             112a        A
                           22a            C             113a        C
                           23a            C
                                          EXAMPLE 116
                           Parainfluenza virus-3 (PIV-3) Plaque Assay
         [06231     MA-104 cells were grown in 24-well plates to a confluency of 90% in the
presence of minimal essential medium (MEM) supplemented with 10% fetal bovine serum and
antibiotics (C-EMEM). The cells were then washed twice with non-complete minimal essential
medium (NC-EMEM).          Test articles were dissolved in DMSO to a stock concentration of 10
         [0624]     An aliquot of 0.5mL of the test article at various concentrations was then
inoculated in triplicate wells and incubated for 60 minutes at 370 C with 5% CO 2 for the
diffusion of test article into MA-104 cells. After the incubation period, a stock of human PIV
type 3 was thawed and diluted with NC-EMEM to achieve a viral concentration of 104 pfiu/mL.
An aliquot of 0.1 rnL was then inoculated into all the wells except for the negative and test
article toxicity control wells. Upon infection, the plates were incubated for 72 hours at 37*C at
5% CO 2. After incubation, the plates were examined under microscopy to record cytotoxicity.
                                               -259-

The supernatants collected for viral quantification using a standard plaque assay using MA-104
cells as the indicator cells.
         [06251      To perform the plaques assay, MA-104 cells were grown to confluence in 24
well plates. The cells were washed with serum-free medium prior to inoculation of duplicate
wells with serial 10-fold dilutions of supernatant sample. After 1 hour incubation at 37*C, the
samples were aspirated and 1.0 mL of methyl cellulose overlay media was added to each well.
After 6 days of culture, the cells were fixed and stained with 0.06% crystal violet in 1%
glutaraldehyde and viral plaques enumerated. The data was analyzed with Prism software with
ECs0 defined as drug concentration that reduced the viral load 50% from the viral control (VC).
Table 11 provides the results and show Compounds of Formula (I), Formula (II) and Formula
(111) are active against PIV-3, where 'A' indicates an EC50 < 20 gM.
Table II
                                           No.    EQo (pM)
                                            3a         A
                                          |7a   |      A
                                           lila        A
                                            EXAMPLE 117
                          Human mnetapneumovirus (hMPV) TCID5 oAssav
          [06261     LLC-MK2 cells were grown in 24-well plates to a confluency of 90% in the
 presence of minimal essential medium (MEM) supplemented with 10% fetal bovine serum and
 antibiotics (C-EMEM). The cells were then washed twice with non-complete minimal essential
 medium (NC-EMEM). Test articles were dissolved in DMSO to a stock concentration of 10
 mM.
          [06271      An aliquot of 0.5mL of the test article at various concentrations was then
 inoculated in triplicate wells and incubated for 60 minutes at 37*C with 5% CO 2 for the
 diffusion of test article into LLC-MK2 cells. After the incubation period, a stock of human
 metapneumovirus was thawed and diluted with NC-EMEM to achieve a viral concentration of
  101 pfu/mL. An aliquot of 0.1 mL was then inoculated into all the wells except for the negative
  and test article toxicity control wells. Upon infection, the plates were incubated for 7 days at
  37*C at 5% CO 2 . After incubation, the plates were examined under microscopy to record
  cytotoxicity. The supernatants collected for viral quantification using a standard TCID50 assay
  using LLC-MK2 cells as the indicator cells. The data was analyzed with Prism software with
  ECs0 defined as drug concentration that reduced the viral load 50% from the viral control (VC).
  The results of the assay arc shown in Table 12 and show Compounds of Formula (1), Formula
                                                 -260-

 (II) and Formula (III) are active against human metapneumovirus, where 'A' indicates an ECs      <
                                                                                                0
 20 gM.
Table 12
                                           No.    ECao (pM)
                                            3a         A
                                       |    7a  |      A
                                         | 11a |       A
         [0628]     Although the foregoing has been described in some detail by way of
illustrations and examples for purposes of clarity and understanding, it will be understood by
those of skill in the art that numerous and various modifications can be made without departing
from the spirit of the present disclosure. Therefore, it should be clearly understood that the
forms disclosed herein are illustrative only and are not intended to limit the scope of the present
disclosure, but rather to also cover all modification and alternatives coming with the true scope
and spirit of the invention.
                                               -261-

WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
         1.      Use of an effective amount of a compound selected from Formula (I), Formula
(II), and Formula (Il1), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt of the foregoing, for amelioring or
treating a viral infection caused by a virus selected from a henipavirus, a morbillivirus, a
respirovirus, a rubulavirus and a metapneumovirus, wherein the compound is selected from
Formula (1), Formula (11), and Formula (III) has one of the following structures:
                  RIAD                BlA                                             BIB
                    R                                          0A111R11BH    O        tmi1
                           7
                         /X2           5A                             H                R
                         -   '                                   R1B
                         *     RSA R4A
                                        (I)                                (I)
                                            0
                                       RP             R7C
                                           R~c
                                             /               O
                                     R2Cc       ..         REc      1~c
                                                             0
                                          Rsc R3cjn111nil1H
                                               RS..IRI.
                                                   Hee
                                                 R4c             Rc
                  wherein:
                  B 1A B' and BIC are independently an optionally substituted heterocyclic base or
          an optionally substituted heterocyclic base with a protected amino group;
                  RIA is selected from the group consisting of hydrogen, an optionally substituted
                                                                                1A                   2A
                                                                     R6AO-                RaAO-_p
                                                                               I                    I
          acyl, an optionally substituted O-linked amino acid,                OR7 A,               RSA  and
                 Z3A
           Rio
                 R1 1A.
                                                                                                          3
                  when the dashed line (---) of Formula (1) is a single bond, R2A is CH 2, and R ^
          is 0 (oxygen);
                   when the dashed line (----) of Fonnila (I) is absent,         R 2 A is  selected from the
           group consisting of an optionally substituted C1.6 alkyl, an optionally substituted C2-6
           alkenyl, an optionally substituted C2.6 alkynyl, an optionally substituted C3.4 cycloalkyl,
           an optionally substituted -O-Cr, alkyl, an optionally substituted -0-C 34 alkenyl, an
                                                    -262-

  optionally substituted -O-C 3 .6 alkynyl and cyano, and R3 A is selected from the group
  consisting of OH, -OC(=O)R",A and an optionally substituted 0-linked amino acid;
                                                                                  R5 B      6B
                                                                                               R 7B
                                                                               kO
          RmI 1 is selected from the
                                          group consisting of 0, OH,                       0
       R2B        9B         0                              0
                  Z2           ROB,   \1)                       Rl1 13, an optionally substituted
  N-linked amino acid and an optionally substituted N-linked amino acid ester derivative;
          RIC and R2C are independently selected from the group consisting of O , OH, an
                                                                                R9C     R10c
                                                                                          rR11c
 optionally              substituted         Ci6        alkoxy,                          0
           2        13
        R1c  C    RR       0
                                                                        , an optionally substituted
 N-linked amino acid and an optionally substituted N-linked amino acid ester derivative;
 or
                              o        0
                   1
                   R6 0     -P-
                      R~eO---O--        P-01
                                          -
                             OR 1 7 C  ORiac
         RIC is                              - n and R2 c is O~ or OH;
        R2 3 and R3t           are independently selected from the group consisting of an
 optionally substituted Ca.c alkyl, an optionally substituted C2 .6 alkenyl, an optionally
substituted C2-6 alkynyl, an optionally substituted C3.6 cycloalkyl, an optionally
substituted -0-C 6 alkyl, an optionally substituted -0-C 3 -6 alkenyl, an optionally
substituted -0-C    3 6.  alkynyl and cyano;
        RIC is selected from the group consisting of OH, -OC(=O)R"c and an optionally
substituted 0-linked amino acid;
        R4 A, R3" and R5 are independently a halogen;
        R , 3Rn and R6 Care independently hydrogen or halogen;
        R6 A, RIA and RSA are independently selected from the group consisting of absent,
hydrogen, an optionally substituted C-24 alkyl, an optionally substituted C2-2 4 alkenyl, an
                                            -263-

optionally substituted C 2 -2 4 alkynyl, an optionally substituted C3 -6 cycloalkyl, an
optionally substituted C3 .6 cycloalkenyl, an optionally substituted aryl, an optionally
substituted heteroaryl, an optionally substituted aryl(C-A alkyl), an optionally substituted
*-(CR 5AR"^)pI-0-C         24   alkyl,   an    optionally   substituted  *-(CR^7ARA)q-0-C24
              R19A      R20A
                              R21 A      R2 2A    R23A jk
alkenyl,                0           ,Z                       R24A                           25A
                                                            0
                      0
                                                      O
                        O      R 28A
    R 2 eA     R27A                  and                 R29A ; or
                             0                O
                     R2O--O-P
                              I                I
                             OR 13A           OR 4 A
          R6A is                                    - M and R7^ is absent or hydrogen; or
          R6 A^ and R7A are taken together to form a moiety selected from the group
                                                          *
 consisting of an optionally substituted                           and an optionally substituted
                      wherein the oxygens connected to R^ and R'^, the phosphorus and the
 moiety form a six-membered to ten-membered ring system;.
          R9    is independently selected from the group consisting of an optionally
 substituted C1 24 alkyl, an optionally substituted C2-24 alkenyl, an optionally substituted
 C2-24 alkynyl, an optionally substituted C3.6 cycloalkyl, an optionally substituted C3.6
 cycloalkenyl, NR(JAR 3 A, an optionally substituted N-linked amino acid and an
 optionally substituted N-linked amino acid ester derivative;
          R'0"A and R'  IA are independently an optionally substituted N-linked amino acid or
 an optionally substituted N-linked amino acid ester derivative;
          R 2 A, R^3 A and RI1A are independently absent or hydrogen;
          each R^5 A, each    RI6 A,  each  RI7 A and each R 3'Aare independently hydrogen, an
 optionally substituted    Cu-2 4 alkyl or alkoxy;
                                               -264-

            R 19,   R20A,  R2A, R 23A, RSB, R 6, R8B, R9B, R9c, RiC, R12C and R13c are
 independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen, an optionally substituted
 CI- 2 4 alkyl and an optionally substituted aryi;
            R21^,  R   A, R7, R   0B, R"c and RIac are independently selected from the group
 consisting of hydrogen, an optionally substituted C-           24 alkyl, an optionally substituted
 aryl, an optionally substituted -0-C- 2 4 alkyl and an optionally substituted -0-aryl;
            R25 ^, R2 A, R'" 3 and R15t arc independently selected from the group consisting of
hydrogen, an optionally substituted         C- 24 alkyl and an optionally substituted aryl;
            RIsC, R17c and RISC are independently absent or hydrogen;
            R2 6A and R2 A are independently -C=N or an optionally substituted substituent
selected from the group consisting of C2-8 organylcarbonyl, C2 -8 alkoxycarbonyl and C -
                                                                                                 28
organylaminocarbonyl;
            R2 MAis selected from the group consisting of hydrogen, an optionally substituted
C   24-alkyl,     an optionally substituted C2 -24 alkenyl, an optionally substituted C 2-24
alkynyl, an optionally substituted C3 -6 cycloalkyl and an optionally substituted C3-6
cycloalkenyl;
           R3A and R 3^\ are independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen,
an optionally substituted C- 2 4-alkyl, an optionally substituted C 2 -24 alkenyl, an optionally
substituted C 2 -24 alkynyl, an optionally substituted C3.6 cycloalkyl and an optionally
substituted C3 -6 cycloalkenyl;
           for Formula (1Il), -----    is a single bond or a double bond;
                    when ----- is a single bond, each R7 C and each Rae is independently
           hydrogen or halogen; and
                    when ------     is a double bond, each R7c is absent and each R               is
           independently hydrogen or halogen;
           R",A and   R"C are independently an optionally substituted CI2 4 -alkyl;
           m and n are independently 0 or 1;
           p and q are independently selected from the group consisting of 1, 2 and 3;
           r is I or 2;
          ZIA, z2A, Z3A, z 4^, z"1 , Z2B and Z'e are independently 0 or S; and
          provided that when the dashed line (--)              of Formula (I) is absent; RIA is
             Z2 A
RIAO-p
             R9A     wherein RSA is an unsubstituted C1 4 alkyl or phenyl optionally para
                                              -265-

         substituted with a halogen or methyl and RA is methyl ester, ethyl ester, isopropyl ester,
         n-butyl ester, benzyl ester or phenyl ester of an amino acid selected from the group
         consisting of glycine, alanine, valine, leucine, phenylalanine, tryptophan, methionine and
         proline; RA is OH; R4^ is fluoro; R5A is fluoro or hydrogen; and B IAis an unsubstituted
         uracil; then R 2A cannot   be -OCH3j;
                 provided that when the dashed line (--)          of Formula (1)is absent; RIA is H; RIA
         is OH; R4A is fluoro; RSA is fluoro; and BIA is an unsubstituted cytosine; then R2A cannot
         be allenyl;
                  provided that when the dashed line (--)         of Fonnula (1)is absent; RIA is H; R3A
         is OH; R4A is fluoro; RSA is hydrogen; and B"^ is an unsubstituted thymine; then R2A
         cannot be C alkyl substituted with an N-amido; and
                  provided that when the dashed line (--)         of Formula (I) is absent; RIA is H; R3A
         is OH; R4A is fMuoro; R5A is fluoro; and BI Ais an unsubstituted cytosine; then R2 Acannot
         be ethynyl.
         2.       A method for ameliorating or treating a viral infection caused by a virus
comprising administering to or contacting a cell in a subject with an effective amount of a
compound selected from Formula (I), Fonnula (II), and Fonmula (III), or a pharmaceutically
acceptable salt of the foregoing, wherein the virus is selected from a henipavirus, a
morbillivirus, a respirovirus, a rubulavirus and a metapneumovirus, and wherein the compound
is selected from Formula (1), Formula (II), and Formula (111) has one of the following structures:
                   RA                                                               OA B18
                                                                          28
                                 R2AIIIIIII
                                  0      (10                      rR         I".
                                                                   R                   R4B
                                                                    8
                              RSA    R4A                     Z
                              (I)                                                ()
                                          RP           R   c
                                        R2C      -       Rc           BIc
                                             RRe R3cm.               "iH
                                                    H          .. ~e
                                                   R4c            REc
                                                         (III)
                  wherein:
                  BIA B" and B"' are independently an optionally substituted heterocyclic base or
         an optionally substituted heterocyclic base with a protected amino group;
                                                    -266-

        RA is selected from the group consisting of hydrogen, an optionally substituted
                                                                                        2A
                                                                    Z1A
                                                        RF ---              RSAO
acyl, an optionally substituted 0-linked amino acid,                ORiA,             RSA   and
       Z 3A
R1OA-     -
       RiI^A
        when the dashed line (----) of Formula (I) is a single bond, R2 'Ais CH 2 , and RA
is 0 (oxygen);
        when the dashed line (--)      of Formula (I) is absent, R2A is selected from the
group consisting of an optionally substituted CM alkyl, an optionally substituted C26
alkenyl, an optionally substituted C26 alkynyl, an optionally substituted C3A cycloalkyl,
an optionally substituted -0-C-      alkyl, an optionally substituted -0-C 3 6 alkenyl, an
optionally substituted -O-C 3 6 alkynyl and cyano, and R3A is selected from the group
consisting of OH, -OC(=O)R",A and an optionally substituted O-linked amino acid;
                                                                                  RB    6B
                                                                                RR    5
        RIB  is selected from the group consisting of O, OH,                           0
                                                       O
     RSE       92       0
    O          Z          R 10 ,                  S         R 1 , an optionally substituted
N-linked amino acid and an optionally substituted N-linked amino acid ester derivative;
        RIc and R2 c are independently selected from the group consisting of O', OH, an
                                                                            R9G      R10C
                                                                            SR11c
optionally           substituted       C1 4,        alkoxy,                          0
                                                        0
       R 12C    R 13c 0
       R            lc        1                -"S           R1 5 c
                            R                                       , an optionally substituted
N-linked amino acid and an optionally substituted N-linked amino acid ester derivative;
or
                                        -267-

                           o           O
                   RcO -PO--P-O
                           OR 17c      OR 18C
         Ric is                              -n    and R2C is O-or OH;
         R2B           3
                 and R c    are independently selected from the group consisting of an
optionally substituted C1 - alkyl, an optionally substituted C2.6 alkenyl, an optionally
substituted C2 6 alkynyl, an optionally substituted C3 .6 cycloalkyl, an optionally
substituted -0-CI-6 alkyl, an optionally substituted -O-C-6 alkenyl, an optionally
substituted -0-C 3 6- alkynyl and cyano;
         R4C is selected from the group consisting of OH, -OC(=O)R"C and an optionally
substituted 0-linked amino acid;
         R4^, R" and Rc are independently a halogen;
         R ^, R" and Rc are independently hydrogen or halogen;
         R 6 A,  RIA and RSA are independently selected from the group consisting of absent,
hydrogen, an optionally substituted C-24 alkyl, an optionally substituted C2-24 alkenyl, an
optionally substituted C 2 -24 alkynyl, an optionally substituted C3-6 cycloalkyl,          an
optionally substituted C3 .6 cycloalkenyl, an optionally substituted aryl, an optionally
substituted heteroaryl, an optionally substituted aryl(C1 6 alkyl), an optionally substituted
                6
*-(CRSAR         A),0-C1 24     alkyl,   an optionally      substituted *-(CRAR A)q-O-C124
              R19A      R20A
                             R 2 1A      R2 2A    R23A O                              0
                                                                                         2
alkenyl,                 OZ                          4
                                                       A     R 2 4A                        5A
                             O00               R            O
                             00
    R 2 6A      R27A                and                  R29A; or
                             0               O
                     R2O--O-P
                              I
                             OR13A           OR14A
         R6 A   is                     -             M and RJA is absent or hydrogen; or
                                              -268-

         RGA and RIA are taken together to form a moiety selected from the group
                                                       *
consisting of an optionally substituted                         and an optionally substituted
                      wherein the oxygens connected to R6 A and R7 A, the phosphorus and the
moiety form a six-membered to ten-membered ring system;.
         R9     is independently selected from the group consisting of an optionally
substituted C-    24  alkyl, an optionally substituted C2 -24 alkenyl, an optionally substituted
C2 -24 alkynyl, an optionally substituted CI.6 cycloalkyl, an optionally substituted C3-6
cycloalkenyl, NOAR        3A   , an optionally substituted N-linked amino acid and an
optionally substituted N-linked amino acid ester derivative;
         RA and R'^ arc independently an optionally substituted N-linked amino acid or
an optionally substituted N-linked amino acid ester derivative;
         R 1^, R'A and R M^ are independently absent or hydrogen;
         each RI^, cach R IA, each R"' and each R               are independently hydrogen, an
optionally substituted C 1 24 alkyl or alkoxy;
         R1A, R2      A,  R2 A, RS,    R ', R6 , R ,     R 9 B,  R9 (, R    RB    and R13C are
independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen, an optionally substituted
C- 24 alkyl and an optionally substituted aryl;
         R2 1A, R2 A, R 7B, R 01 ,Rtic and Rt 4t are independently selected from the group
consisting of hydrogen, an optionally substituted C-24 alkyl, an optionally substituted
aryl, an optionally substituted -0-C- 24 alkyl and an optionally substituted -0-aryl;
         R2      R^,Rl IBand RISC are independently selected from the group consisting of
hydrogen, an optionally substituted CI-24 alkyl and an optionally substituted aryl;
                   7
         RI6C, R    C  and RISC are independently absent or hydrogen;
         RA and R27 A are independently -C N or an optionally substituted substituent
selected from the group consisting of C2 .8 organylcarbonyl, C2-s alkoxycarbonyl and C2-9
organylaminocarbonyl;
         R2 S^ is selected from the group consisting of hydrogen, an optionally substituted
C1 24-alkyl, an optionally substituted C2- 4 alkenyl, an optionally substituted C2- 2 4
alkynyl, an optionally substituted C3.6 cycloalkyl and an optionally substituted C3.6
cycloalkenyl;
                                           -269-

        R31A and R31A are independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen,
an optionally substituted C2 4 -alkyl, an optionally substituted C2 -24 alkenyl, an optionally
substituted C2-24 alkynyl, an optionally substituted C3 -6 cycloalkyl and an optionally
substituted C3 -6 cycloalkenyl;
        for Formula (III), -----is a single bond or a double bond;
                 when ----- is a single bond, each R7C and each RSC is independently
        hydrogen or halogen; and
                 when ------    is a double bond, each R7 C is absent and each R8 c is
        independently hydrogen or halogen;
        R",A and R"C are independently an optionally substituted C1 24 -alkyl;
        m and n are independently 0 or 1;
        p and q are independently selected from the group consisting of 1, 2 and 3;
        r is I or 2;
        z I, z 2, Z3A, z4^, z11, Z23 and Z'' are independently 0 or S; and
        provided that when the dashed line (--)          of Formula (1) is absent; RIA is
            2A
 RSAO-P
           R9 A    wherein R3A is an unsubstituted C14 alkyl or phenyl optionally para
substituted with a halogen or methyl and R9A is Methyl ester, ethyl ester, isopropyl ester,
n-butyl ester, benzyl ester or phenyl ester of an amino acid selected from the group
consisting of glycine, alanine, valine, leucine, phenylalanine, tryptophan, methionine and
proline; R^ is OH; R4A is fluoro; R5A is fluoro or hydrogen; and B'A is an unsubstituted
uracil; then R2 ^ cannot be -OCH 3;
        provided that when the dashed line (--)      of Formula (I) is absent; RIA is H; R3A
is OH; R4A is fluoro; RA is fluoro; and B1 A is an unsubstituted cytosine; then R2 A cannot
be allenyl;
         provided that when the dashed line (--)     of Fonnula (I) is absent; R'^A is H; R 3A
is OH; R4A is fluoro; RA is hydrogen; and BIA is an unsubstituted thymine; then R2A
cannot be C, alkyl substituted with an N-amido; and
         provided that when the dashed line (--)     of Formula (I) is absent; RI^ is Hj; R3A
 is OH; RA is fluoro; R3^ is fluoro; and B1A is an unsubstituted cytosine; then R2^ cannot
be ethynyl.
 3.      The use of Claim I or the method of Claim 2, wherein the virus is a henipavirus.
4.       The use or method of Claim 3, wherein the henipavirus is a nipahvirus.
                                         -270-

         5.      The use of Claim ] or the method of Claim 2, wherein the virus is a morbillivirus.
         6.      The use or method of Claim 5, wherein the morbillivirus is the measles virus.
         7.      The use of Claim I or the method of Claim 2, wherein the virus is a respirovirus.
         8.      The use or method of Claim 7, wherein the respirovirus is human parainfluenza
virus 1.
         9.      The use or method of Claim 7, wherein the respirovirus is human parainfluenza
virus 3.
         10.     The use of Claim I or the method of Claim 2, wherein the virus is a rubulavirus.
         11.     The use or method of Claim 10, wherein the rubulavirus is the mumps virus.
         12.     The use or method of Claim 10, wherein the rubulavirus is human parainfluenza
virus 2.
         13.     The use or method of Claim 10, wherein the rubulavirus is human parainfluenza
virus 4.
         14.     The use of Claim I or the method of Claim 2, wherein the virus is a
mctapneumovirus.
         15.     The use or method of Claim 14, wherein the metaphenumovirus is human
metapneumovirus,
         16.     The use of any one of Claim I or 3-15 or the method of any one of Claims 2-15,
wherein the compound is a compound of Formula (1).
                                                                           ZA
                                                                  RAO
         17.     The use or method of Claim 16, wherein R'     is         OR A.
         18.     The use or method of Claim 17, wherein R6A and R7A are both hydrogen.
         19.     The use or method of Claim 17, wherein R A and R7 Aare both absent.
         20.     The use or method of Claim 17, wherein one of R6A and R7 A is hydrogen, and the
other of R6A and R7 A is selected from the group consisting of an optionally substituted C       24
alkyl, an optionally substituted C2. 24 alkenyl, an optionally substituted C2-24 alkynyl, an
optionally substituted C3.36 cycloalkyl, an optionally substituted C3.6 cycloalkenyl, an optionally
substituted aryl, an optionally substituted heteroaryl and an optionally substituted aryl(C 1 6
alkyl).
        21.      The use or method of Claim 20, wherein the other of R6A and R7 A is an optionally
substituted C1. 24 alkyl.
        22.      The use or method of Claim 17, wherein both R6 A^and R7 A are independently
selected from the group consisting of an optionally substituted C-24 alkyl, an optionally
                                               -271-

substituted C 2 -24 alkenyl, an optionally substituted C 2 -24 alkynyl, an optionally substituted C3-6
cycloalkyl, an optionally substituted C3.6 cycloalkenyl, an optionally substituted aryl, an
optionally substituted heteroaryl and an optionally substituted aryl(Ci- alkyl).
        23.      The use or method of Claim 22, wherein both R6 A and R7 A are an optionally
substituted C-  24 alkyl.
        24.      The use or method of Claim 17, wherein at least one of R6 Aand R7 A are selected
                                                    R19A     R20A
                                                                   R21A        R2 2A  R23A O
from      the      group      consisting      of              0           ,Z
                                                                                    \    4A
                                                                                         4
                                                                                                 R
                                                                                                  24A
                         0
                                R28A
and     R2OA      R27 A                ; and the other of R6 ^ and R7A is selected from the group
consisting of absent, hydrogen, an optionally substituted CI- 24 alkyl, an optionally substituted C2
24 alkenyl, an optionally substituted C 2 .24 alkynyl, an optionally substituted C3 .6 cycloalkyl, an
optionally substituted C-y- cycloalkenyl, an optionally substituted aryl, an optionally substituted
heteroaryl and an optionally substituted aryl(CI-s alkyl).
        25.      The use or method of Claim 17, wherein both RG^ and R7A are independently
                                                      R19A      R2 0A
                                                                      R 2 1A    R2 2A  R23A O
selected    from     the   group     consisting  of              0           ,   X      Z4 A     R24 A
                         0
                                R 2 8A
and     R26 A     R27A
        26.      The use or method of any one of Claims 24-25, wherein both R26 A and R2         A are
an optionally substituted C2 -8organylcarbonyl.
        27.      The use or method of Claim 26, wherein the optionally substituted Ct-s
organylcarbonyl is -C(=0)CH 3.
        28.      The use or method of any one of Claims 24-25, wherein both R26 A and R^7 A are
an optionally substituted C2 .3alkoxycarbonyL.
                                                  -272-

         29.      The use or method of Claim 28, wherein the optionally substituted C1 .s
alkoxycarbonyl is -C(=O)OCH 2CH 3 .
         30.      The use or method of Claim 28, wherein the optionally substituted Cs
alkoxycarbonyl is -C(=O)OCH 3.
         31.      The use or method of any one of Claims 24-30, wherein R28A is an optionally
substituted C a-alkyl
         32.      The      use    or     method     of    any   one    of  Claims      24-25, wherein
                      0
                               R2 8A
                    0
     R26 A     R27A                 is selected from the group consisting of:
                         OCH 3                      CH3                      CH3
             o           OCH3                                                CHM
 H3                          3 N=O           OCH 3       H3 C           O    CH
                o0                                              0
                                                   0O
                                                                0
                o                               NEEC          0   CH3                      0
                        CH3                     H                                             CH3
                                                                0                  0          OH3
N                HCH 2CH3                             OO                                      C
              0
                          OCH 2CH 3                                              OCH 2CH,
          O               OCH 2CH 3                                  0           OCH 2CH3
H3 0;\                                                                     0
         HC         Oa                                                                             nd
                           0
                                 OCH 2 CH3
                  o              OCH 2 CH 3
H3C:
         0
         33.      The use or method of Claim 17, wherein R6A and R7A are both an optionally
substituted C-   24 alkyl.
         34.      The use or method of Claim 17, wherein R 6A and R7 A are both an optionally
substituted C2 -24 alkenyl.
                                                     -273-

          35.       The use or method of Claim 17, wherein R6A and R 7A are both *-(CR'5ARC"A)1 ,
O-C-   24   alkyl.
          36.       The use or method of Claim 17, wherein R6A and R7 A are both *-(CR 7 ARISA)q
C-C 2 -2 4  alkenyl.
          37.       The use or method of Claim 17, wherein RA and R7A are both an optionally
substituted aryl.
           38.      The use or method of Claim 17, wherein R6A and R7A arc both an optionally
substituted aryl(Cpc alkyl).
           39.      The use or method       of Claim    17,  wherein RA and R7A         are both
 R19A        R20A
                   RC21A
          40.       The use or method of Claim          17,  wherein R6A and R7A are both
 R22 A        R2 3A  O
                Z4AK       R2 4A
          41.       The use or method       of Claim    17,  wherein   RC^   and   R7A  are both
                          0
          42        S          RC2
           42.      The     use or method   of Claim    17,  wherein   R6A and     R7A are both
                        0
               0O
                   R29A
           43.      The use or method of Claim          17, wherein    RA    and   R7 A are both
                         0
                                 R2SA
    R26A        R27A
                                                -274-

        44.     The use or method of Claim 17, wherein       R 6 A and   R7 A can be taken together to
                                                                                            *
form a moiety selected from the group consisting of an optionally substituted                     and an
                              *
optionally substituted                     , wherein the oxygens connected to R^ and RIA, the
phosphorus and the moiety form a six-membered to ten-membered ring system.
        45.    The use or method of Claim 44, wherein R6^ and R7^ can be taken together to
                                                                     *          R32 A
form a moiety selected from the group consisting of
              CH 3                        CO2CH3      *                          O
                                                  and                  0                , wherein RA is
an optionally substituted aryl, an optionally substituted heteroaryl or an optionally substituted
heterocyclyl.
        46.    The use or method of any one of Claims 17-45, wherein ZI^ is 0.
        47.    The use or method of any one of Claims 17-45, wherein Z             is S.
                                                                                2A
                                                                            --
                                                                   RSAO
        48.    The use or method of Claim 16, wherein RIA is                   RSA
        49.    The use or method of Claim 48, wherein RSA is selected from the group
consisting of absent, hydrogen, an optionally substituted CI-24 alkyl, an optionally substituted C2 .
24 alkenyl, an optionally substituted C2 -24 alkynyl, an optionally substituted C3, cycloalkyl and
an optionally substituted C3.6 cycloalkenyl; and R9 A is independently selected from the group
consisting of an optionally substituted CI-24 alkyl, an optionally substituted C2-24 alkenyl, an
optionally substituted C 2 -24 alkynyl, an optionally substituted C,   6 cycloalkyl and an optionally
substituted C.6 cycloalkenyl.
        50.    The use or method of Claim 49, wherein RRA is hydrogen, and R                       is an
optionally substituted Cn-, alkyl.
                                                -275-

         51.       The use or method of Claim 48, wherein RSA is hydrogen, and R9A is NROARIA,
wherein R30 and R3 1 arc independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen, an
optionally substituted C- 24 alkyl, an optionally substituted C2 2 4 alkenyl, an optionally
substituted C2 24a alkynyl, an optionally substituted C3 -6 cycloalkyl and an optionally substituted
C3 -6 cycloalkenyl.
         52.       The use or method of Claim 48, wherein RSA is absent or hydrogen; and R' is an
optionally substituted N-linked amino acid or an optionally substituted N-linked amino acid
ester derivative.
         53.       The use or method of Claim 48, wherein RSA is an optionally substituted aryl; and
R?^ is an optionally substituted N-linked amino acid or an optionally substituted N-linked amino
acid ester derivative.
         54.       The use or method of Claim 52 or 53, wherein R9A is selected from the group
consisting of alanine, asparagine, aspartate, cysteine, glutamate, glutamine, glycine, proline,
series, tyrosine, arginine, histidine, isoleucine, leucine, lysine, methionine, phenylalanine,
threonine, tryptophan, valine and ester derivatives thereof.
         55.       The use or method of Claim 54, wherein R9Ais selected from the group consisting
of alanine isopropyl ester, alanine cyclohexyl ester, alanine neopentyl ester, valine isopropyl
ester and leucine isopropyl ester.
         56.       The use or method of Claim 52 or 53, wherein R9A has the structure
   3
 R3 A    R 34A      35A
                          wherein R^3A is selected from the group consisting of hydrogen, an
optionally substituted C-alkyl, an optionally substituted C3.6 cycloalkyl, an optionally
substituted aryl, an optionally substituted aryl(Ci. 6 alkyl) and an optionally substituted
haloalkyl;    R34 A  is selected from the group consisting of hydrogen, an optionally substituted CI-c,
alkyl, an optionally substituted C1 o haloalkyl, an optionally substituted C3 .6 cycloalkyl, an
optionally substituted C6 aryl, an optionally substituted CIo aryl and an optionally substituted
aryl(Cia alkyl); and R35^ is hydrogen or an optionally substituted Ci-alkyl; or R3A and R)A
 are taken together to form an optionally substituted C3. cycloalkyl.
         57.       The use or method of Claim 56, wherein R34A is an optionally substituted CI
 alkyl.
         58.       The use or method of Claim 57, wherein the optionally substituted C-alkyl is
 methyl.
         59.       The use or method of any one of Claims 56-58, wherein R3 5A is hydrogen.
                                                  -276-

         60.      The use or method of any one of Claims 56-59, wherein R33A is an optionally
 substituted CJ-6 alkyl, an optionally substituted C3.6 cycloalkyl or an optionally substituted
 benzyl.
         61.      The use or method of any one of Claims 48-60, wherein Z2^ is O.
         62.      The use or method of any one of Claims 48-60, wherein Z2A is S.
                                                                          Z3A
                                                                      R10
         63.      The use or method of Claim 16, wherein RIA is           RlA
         64.      The use or method of Claim 63, wherein R'A and R'"A are both an optionally
 substituted N-linked amino acid or an optionally substituted N-linked amino acid ester
 derivative.
         65.      The use or method of Claim 64, wherein RmA and RIIA are independently
selected from selected from the group consisting of alanine, asparagine, aspartate, cysteine,
glutamate, glutamine, glycine, proline, shrine, tyrosine, arginine, histidine, isoleucine, leucine,
 lysine, nethionine, phenylalanine, threoninc, tryptophan, valine and ester derivatives thereof.
         66.      The use or method of Claim 65, wherein R IA and RIIA are independently
selected from the group consisting of alanine isopropyl ester, alanine cyclohexyl ester, alanine
neopentyl ester, valine isopropyl ester and leucine isopropyl ester.
         67.     The use or method of Claim 64, wherein R' CA and R1 A are independently have
                R36A   R37A     38A
the structure                       wherein R36 Ais selected from the group consisting of hydrogen,
an optionally substituted C 6 -alkyl, an optionally substituted C3 - cycloalkyl, an optionally
substituted aryl, an optionally substituted aryl(C14 alkyl) and an optionally substituted
haloalkyl;   R37A is selected from the group consisting of hydrogen, an optionally substituted C1 6
alkyl, an optionally substituted C1- haloalkyl, an optionally substituted C3-6 cycloalkyl, an
optionally substituted C6 aryl, an optionally substituted Cmo aryl and an optionally substituted
aryl(C 1 6 alkyl); and R38A is hydrogen or an optionally substituted C1 4-alkyl; or     R3lA and R'A
are taken together to form an optionally substituted C- 6 cycloalky].
         68.     The use or method of Claim 67, wherein R4A is an optionally substituted Cw(
alkyl.
         69.     The use or method of Claim 68, wherein the optionally substituted C 6 -alkyl is
methyl.
         70.     The use or method of any one of Claims 67-69, wherein      R43 A is hydrogen.
                                                -277-

         71.    The use or method of any one of Claims 67-70, wherein R4 IA is an optionally
substituted C1.6 alkyl, an optionally substituted C3.6 cycloalkyl or an optionally substituted
benzyl.
         72.    The use or method of any one of Claims 63-71, wherein       ZA   is O.
         73.    The use or method of any one of Claims 63-71, wherein Z3A is S.
                                                                              0            O
                                                                      R12Ao-_ 11       -   D1O
                                                                               I            I
                                                                                           OR 4A
                                                                              OR 13^
         74.     The use or method of Claim 16, wherein RIA is                                     m
         75.     The use or method of Claim 74, wherein m is 0, and RIA and R                   A  are
independently absent or hydrogen.
         76.     The use or method of Claim 74, wherein m is 1, and RI2 A, RI3 A and R 4^ are
independently absent or hydrogen.
         77.     The use or method of Claim 16, wherein R'^ is H.
         78.     The use or method of Claim 16, wherein R IAis an optionally substituted acyl.
         79.     The use or method of Claim 78, wherein the optionally substituted acyl is
C(=O)R 39 , wherein R39A is selected from the group consisting of an optionally substituted C 1 2
alkyl, an optionally substituted C2 -12 alkenyl, an optionally substituted C2 .12 alkynyl, an
optionally substituted C,-4 cycloalkyl, an optionally substituted Cs.s cycloalkenyl, an optionally
substituted C,. 10 aryl, an optionally substituted heteroaryl, an optionally substituted heterocyclyl,
an optionally substituted aryl(C-c, alkyl), an optionally substituted heteroaiyl(Cy,- alkyl) and an
optionally substituted hcterocyclyl(C-6 alkyl).
         80.     The use or method of Claim 79, wherein R39A is substituted or unsubstituted C 1      2
alkyl.
         81.     The use or method of Claim 16, wherein RIA is an optionally substituted O-linked
amino acid.
                                                                             40A     41A
                                                                           R        R
         82.     The use or method of Claim 16, wherein RIA is          O          NH2 , wherein R4^
 is selected from the group consisting of hydrogen, an optionally substituted C1.c alkyl, an
 optionally substituted Ci-c haloalkyl, an optionally substituted C3 , cycloalkyl, an optionally
 substituted C6 aryl, an optionally substituted CI() aryl and an optionally substituted aryl(C 4 ,
 alkyl); and R4  A is hydrogen or an optionally substituted Ci. 4 -alkyl; or R^0' and R4  A are  taken
 together to form an optionally substituted C3-6 cycloalkyl.
                                                  -278-

        83.     The use or method of Claim 82, wherein R4A^ is an optionally substituted CI
alkyl.
        84.     The use or method of Claim 83, wherein the optionally substituted Cialkyl is
methyL.
        85.     The use or method of any one of Claims 82-84, wherein RAI A is hydrogen.
        86.     The use or method of any one of Claims 16-85, wherein BiA is selected from the
group consisting of:
                   RB2                                                o                   NHRE2
                       NNy                       NHN                     NH                   N
          N        N        RA2       N      N       RC       N       N                   N       O
                                                                      H
                 0                          ORG2
        RF2
                     NH             N
                 N        0         N       N      RH2
                 I           and I
               wherein:
                RA2 is selected from the group consisting of hydrogen, halogen and NHR 2 ,
       wherein R 2 is selected from the group consisting of hydrogen, -C(=O)RK2 and
       C(=O)OR'L;
                R12 is halogen or NHRW2, wherein Riv2 is selected from the group consisting of
       hydrogen, an optionally substituted CI.6 alkyl, an optionally substituted C2 -6 alkenyl, an
       optionally substituted C3.s cycloalkyl, -C(=O)R"f and -C(=O)ORN2
               RC2 is hydrogen or NHRo2 , wherein R0 2 is selected from the group consisting of
       hydrogen, -C(=O)R       2
                                 and -C(=O)ORQ 2 ;
               RD2 is selected from the group consisting of hydrogen, halogen, an optionally
       substituted C1 .6 alkyl, an optionally substituted C2 6 alkenyl and an optionally substituted
       C2.6 alkynyl;
               RL2 is selected from the group consisting of hydrogen, hydroxy, an optionally
       substituted Cp 6 alkyl, an optionally substituted C3-s cycloalkyl, -C(=O)RR2 and
       C(=O)ORs2;
               R'2 is selected from the group consisting of hydrogen, halogen, an optionally
       substituted Ci. 6 alkyl, an optionally substituted C2,6 alkenyl and an optionally substituted
       C2-6 alkynyl;
                                                -279-

        Y2 and Y3 are independently N or CR 2, wherein R 2 is selected from the group
consisting of hydrogen, halogen, an optionally substituted C1.6-alkyl, an optionally
substituted C2-6-alkenyl and an optionally substituted C2--alkynyl;
        RG2 is an optionally substituted C,. 6 alkyl;
        RH2 is hydrogen or NHRn, wherein Rn is independently selected from the group
consisting of hydrogen, -C(=O)R 1 2 and -C(=O)ORv2; and
        RK2, RL2 , RM2 , RN2 , RN, RQ2 RU, RS2' RU2 and RV2 are independently selected
from the group consisting of Ct.6 alkyl, C2 -6 alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, C3 .6 cycloalkyl, C3.6
cycloalkenyl, C6 - 0 aryl, heteroaryl, heteroalicyclyl, aryl(C, 6 alkyl), heteroaryl(Ci-o
alkyl) and hetcroalicyclyl(Cps alkyl).
                                                                   0
                                                           N             N
                                                               N    N        NH2
87.     The use or method of Claim 86, wherein B^ is
                                                                    0
                                                           N             NH
                                                          <N:       N)
 88.     The use or method of Claim 86, wherein B'^    is                   .
                                                            0
                                                                 NH
                                                             N        0
 89.     The use or method of Claim 86, wherein B ^ is
                                                             NH2
                                                                 N
                                                             N        O
 90.     The use or method of Claim 86, wherein B 'Ais                  .
                                                              NH2
                                                                  N
                                                          N   N
                                                                       O
 91.     The use or method of Claim 86, wherein B'^ is
                                         -280-

                                                                           ORG2
                                                                    NNN
                                                                   N       N       RH2
          92.    The use or method of Claim 86, wherein B     is   I
          93.    The use or method of any one of Claims 16-92, wherein the dashed line (--) is
 a single bond, R2 A is CH 2, and R3A is 0.
          94.    The use or method of any one of Claims 16-92, wherein the dashed line (--)       is
 absent, R2A is selected from the group consisting of an optionally substituted CI-6 alkyl, an
 optionally substituted C2 -6 alkenyl, an optionally substituted C2 -6 alkynyl, an optionally
 substituted -0--C- 6  alkyl, an optionally substituted -0-C36 alkenyl, an optionally substituted
 0-C3.6 alkynyl and cyano, and R3 ^ is selected fiom the group consisting of 01-, -OC(=0)R'^
 and an optionally substituted 0-linked amino acid.
         95.     The use or method of Claim 94, wherein R2A is an optionally substituted C,.6
 alkyl.
         96.     The use or method of Claim 95, wherein R2A is unsubstituted Co alkyl.
         97.     The use or method of Claim 94, wherein R2A is an optionally substituted C2
alkenyl.
         98.    The use or method of Claim 97, wherein R 2A is unsubstituted C2.( alkenyl.
         99.    The use or method of Claim 94, wherein R2A is an optionally substituted C2
alkynyl.
         100.   The use or method of Claim 99, wherein R2 ^ is unsubstituted C2-6 alkynyl.
         101.   The use or method of Claim 94, wherein R2 A is an optionally substituted C3 4
cycloalkyl.
         102.   The use or method of Claim 94, wherein R2 ^ is an optionally substituted -0-CI-
                                                                                                  6
alkyl.
         103.   The use or method of Claim 102, wherein R2A is unsubstituted -O-C,- alkyl.
         104.   The use or method of Claim 94, wherein R2 A is an optionally substituted -0-C-
                                                                                                  6
alkenyl.
         105.   The use or method of Claim 104, wherein R2A is unsubstituted -0-C.- alkenyl.
         106.   The use or method of Claim 94, wherein R2A is an optionally substituted -0-C.-
alkynyl.
         107.   The use or method of Claim 106, wherein R2 ^ is unsubstituted -0-C 3 ( alkynyl.
         108.   The use or method of Claim 94, wherein R2A is cyano.
         109.   The use or method of any one of Claims 16-108, wherein R3A is OH.
                                                -281-

         110.   The use or method of any one of Claims 16-108, wherein W is -OC(=O)R"A.
         111.   The use or method of Claim 110, wherein R A is an optionally substituted C1 8
alkyl.
         112.   The use or method of any one of Claims 16-108, wherein R3A is O-linked amino
acid.
         113.    The use or method of Claim 112, wherein the O-linked amino acid is selected
from the group consisting of alanine, asparagine, aspartate, cysteine, glutamate, glutamine,
glycine, proline, serine, tyrosine, arginine, histidine, isoleucine, leucine, lysine, methionine,
phenylalanine, threonine, tryptophan and valine. Additional examples of suitable amino acids
include, but are not limited to, ornithine, hypusine, 2-aminoisobutyric acid, dchydroalaninc,
gamma-aminobutyric acid, citrulline, beta-alanine, alpha-ethyl-glycine, alpha-propyl-glycine
and norleucine.
          114.   The use or method of any one of Claims                    16-108,    wherein R3^ is
           42A    43A
        OR       R4S
      0         NH2 , wherein R]A is selected from the group consisting of hydrogen, an
optionally substituted C1 o alkyl, an optionally substituted C1.4 haloalkyl, an optionally
substituted C3- cycloalkyl, an optionally substituted C, aryl, an optionally substituted Co0 aryl
 and an optionally substituted aryl(C, 6 alkyl); and R43A is hydrogen or an optionally substituted
 C1 4-alkyl; or R42 A and R 43 A are taken together to form an optionally substituted C3 .6cycloalkyl.
          115. The use or method of Claim 114, wherein R42 A is an optionally substituted C1 o
 alkyl.
          116.   The use or method of Claim 115, wherein the optionally substituted C1.6-alkyl is
 methyl.
          117.   The use or method of any one of Claims 114-116, wherein R43 ^ is hydrogen.
          118.   The use or method of any one of Claims 16- 117, wherein RSA is hydrogen.
          119.   The use or method of any one of Claims 16-117, wherein R5 Ais halogen.
          120.    The use or method of Claim 119, wherein R5A is fluoro.
          121.    The use or method of any one of Claims 16-120, wherein R          is fluoro.
          122.    The use of any one of Claim I or 3-15 or the method of any one of Claims 2-15,
 wherein the compound is a compound of Formula (II).
          123.    The use or method of Claim 122, wherein Rmn is 0- or OH.
                                                   -282-

                                                                        R5 B"
                                                                                  6 B"
                                                                                    8R7
          124.    The use or method of Claim 122, wherein R"' is                 0
                                                                          8Bl      9B   0
          125.    The use or method of Claim 122, wherein R"13 is /O               Z2B' 1   ROB0
                                                                                           0
          126.    The use or method of Claim 122, wherein R1 is                        S         R11B
          127.    The use or method of Claim 122, wherein R'        is an optionally substituted N
 linked amino acid or an optionally substituted N-linked amino acid ester derivative.
          128.   The use or method of Claim 127, wherein R'r is selected from the group
consisting of alanine, asparagine, aspartate, cysteine, glutamate, glutamine, glycine, proline,
serine, tyrosine, arginine, histidine, isoleucine, leucine, lysine, methionine, phenylalaninc,
threonine, tryptophan, valine and ester derivatives thereof.
          129.   The use or method of Claim 128, wherein R'            is selected from the group
consisting of alanine isopropyl ester, alanine cyclohexyl ester, alanine neopentyl ester, valine
isopropyl ester and leucine isopropyl ester.
          130.   The use or method         of Claim     127,   wherein     R"'   has the structure
           138    14B
 R128    R
      O        HN-
                     0 wherein R 213 is selected from the group consisting of hydrogen, an
optionally substituted Ci-alkyl, an optionally substituted Ct 6 cycloalkyl, an optionally
substituted aryl, an optionally substituted aryl(C3 6 alkyl) and an optionally substituted
haloalkyl; R' 3" is selected from the group consisting of hydrogen, an optionally substituted C1 6
alkyl, an optionally substituted Co haloalkyl, an optionally substituted C,. cycloalkyl, an
optionally substituted C6 aryl, an optionally substituted CIO aryl and an optionally substituted
aryl(C 1 6 alkyl); and R14 1 is hydrogen or an optionally substituted C1 1 -alkyl; or R 31 B and R14 13
are taken together to form an optionally substituted C. 6 cycloalkyl.
         131.    The use or method of Claim 130, wherein R 3 is an optionally substituted C-
alkyl.
         132.    The use or method of Claim 131, wherein the optionally substituted C 6-alkyl is
methyl.
         133.    The use or method of any one of Claims 130-132, wherein R 14 is hydrogen.
                                               -283-

        134.     The use or method of any one of Claims 130-133, wherein R12 1 is an optionally
substituted CI- 6 alkyl, an optionally substituted C3 .6 cycloalkyl or an optionally substituted
benzyl.
        135.     The use or method of any one of Claims 122-134, wherein      R2 3 is an optionally
substituted C1.6 alkyl.
        136.     The use or method of Claim 135, wherein R23 is unsubstituted Cv6 alkyl.
        137.     The use or method of any one of Claims 122-134, wherein R23 is an optionally
substituted C2 -6 alkenyl.
        138.     The use or method of Claim 137, wherein R28 is unsubstituted C2.6 alkenyl.
         139.    The use or method of any one of Claims 122-134, wherein R213 is an optionally
substituted C2 -6 alkynyl.
         140.    The use or method of Claim 139, wherein R21" is unsubstituted C2-6 alkynyl.
         141.    The use or method of any one of Claims 122-134, wherein R2B is an optionally
substituted -0-CI-6 alkyl.
         142.    The use or method of Claim 141, wherein R23 is unsubstituted -0-C,( alkyl.
         143.    The use or method of any one of Claims 122-134, wherein R213 is an optionally
substituted -0-C.-6 alkenyl.
         144.    The use or method of Claim 143, wherein R213 is unsubstituted -0-C   3 -6alkenyl.
         145.    The use or method of any one of Claims 122-134, wherein      R2 n is an optionally
substituted -0-C3    -6 alkynyl.
         146.    The use or method of Claim 145, wherein R2 B is unsubstituted -0-C 3 -6 alkynyl.
         147.    The use or method of any one of Claims 122-134, wherein R213 is an optionally
substituted Cj.6 cycloalkyl.
         148.    The use or method of any one of Claims 122-134, wherein R2 is cyano.
         149.    The use or method of any one of Claims 122-148, wherein R411 is hydrogen.
         150.    The use or method of any one of Claims 122-148, wherein R4 r, is halogen.
         151.    The use or method of Claim 150, wherein R48 is fluoro.
         152.    The use or method of any one of Claims 122-151, wherein R3B is fluoro.
         153.    The use or method of any one of Claims 122-152, wherein ZI is 0.
         154.    The use or method of any one of Claims 122-152, wherein Z313 is S.
         155.    The use or method of any one of Claims 122-154, wherein B'11 is selected from
 the group consisting of:
                                               -284-

              RBB2                                                     0                  NHREB2
    /2B                                       NN                     N       H    ROB 2
                                                                                            N       0N
                                                                I
    N         N         RAB2      N      N       RcB2                  N       O          N       O
                                                                       H
           0                             RGB2
                   NH                     N
           N           0       N       N        RHB2
                         and aub
         wherein:
         RAB2 is selected from the group consisting of hydrogen, halogen and NHR"3 2,
wherein R'1 2 is selected from the group consisting of hydrogen, -C(=O)RKB2 and
C(=0)ORn-12;
             13 2
         R         is halogen or NHj1RwIv2, wherein R""' 2 is selected from the group consisting
of hydrogen, an optionally substituted C1.6 alkyl, an optionally substituted C2 .6 alkenyl,
an optionally substituted C3 -scycloalkyl, -C(=0)Rml3 ? and C(=0)ORN2;
         Rcn2 is hydrogen or NHR-,           wherein R     132
                                                               is selected from the group consisting
of hydrogen, -C(=O)R"12 and -C(=O)ORQ'               2;
             3
         R     32  is selected from the group consisting of hydrogen, halogen, an optionally
substituted C- 6 alkyl, an optionally substituted C2.6 alkenyl and an optionally substituted
C2 -6 alkynyl;
         REr2 is selected from the group consisting of hydrogen, hydroxy, an optionally
substituted C1 6 alkyl, an optionally substituted C3- cycloalkyl, -C(=0)R1n12 and
C(=0)ORss12.
            13 2
         R        is selected from the group consisting of hydrogen, halogen, an optionally
substituted CIoalkyl, an optionally substituted C2 -6alkenyl and an optionally substituted
C2 .6alkynyl;
         y 2n and Y3a are independently N or CR 8 2 , wherein R112 is selected from the
group consisting of hydrogen, halogen, an optionally substituted C 6-alkyl, an optionally
substituted C 2.- alkenyl and an optionally substituted C2.6 -alkynyl;
            13 2
         R        is an optionally substituted C.  6   alkyl;
         R11132    is hydrogen or NHRT1"2 , wherein R'112 is independently selected from the
group consisting of hydrogen, -C(=O)Rus 2 and -C(=0)ORv                  2
                                                                          ; and
                                             -285-

              RKB 2 , R'B 2, RMB2 , RN 2 , Rr 8 2 , RQB 2 R2, Rsn 2 ' RUs 2 and RvB2 are independently
      selected from the group consisting of C1.6 alkyl, C2 -6 alkenyl, C2.6 alkynyl, C3. 6
      cycloalkyl, C3 -6 cycloalkenyl, C6 -,o aryl, heteroaryl, lieteroalicyclyl, aryl(Cns alkyl),
      heteroaryl(Ci. 6 alkyl) and heteroalicyclyl(Cp 6 alkyl).
                                                                                 0
                                                                         N            NH
                                                                         NI      N          NH2
       156.   The use or method of Claim 155, wherein B'" is
                                                                                 0
                                                                         N            NH
                                                                         N       N
       157.   The use or method of Claim 155, wherein Bl is             -                 .
                                                                           0
                                                                               NH
                                                                           N       0
       158.   The use or method of Claim 155, wherein BIn isI
                                                                           NH2
                                                                            N N
                                                                           N       0
       159.    The use or method of Claim 155, wherein BIB is               I
                                                                            NH2
                                                                       N      N     O
        160.   The use or method of Claim 155, wherein B 1B is
                                                                                     RGB2
                                                                                       N
                                                                          N
                                                                          NN                R14s2
        161.   The use or method of Claim 155, wherein B'13 is                                    .
        162.   The use of any one of Claim 1 or 3-15 or the method of any one of Claims 2-15,
wherein the compound is a compound of Formula (Ill).
                                                     -286-

          163.    The use or method of Claim 162, wherein Ric is 0 or OH.
          164.   The use or method of Claim 162, wherein Ric is an optionally substituted CI. 6
  alkoxy.
                                                                     R9c    R10C
          165.   The use or method of Claim 162, wherein RIG is              0
                                                                      R12 c  R13 C O
          166.   The use or method of Claim 162, wherein Ric is       OX       Z1c     R14C
                                                                                     0
          167.   The use or method of Claim 162, wherein RG is
          168.   The use or method of Claim 162, wherein RIc is an optionally substituted N
 linked amino acid.
          169.   The use or method of Claim 162, wherein RIc is an optionally substituted N
 linked amino acid ester derivative.
          170.   The use or method of any one of Claims 162-169, wherein R2Cis O- or OH.
          171.   The use or method of any one of Claims 162-169, wherein R2 C is an optionally
substituted C1 .6 alkoxy.
          172.   The use or method of any one of Claims             162-169, wherein R2      i
       ReC       10c
                     R11 C
            0
         173.    The use or method of any one of Claims             162-169, wherein R2C is
       R12C     R13C 0
    S ,Ox         Zlc      R 14C
         174.    The use or method of any one of Claims             162-169, wherein   R2   is
                         0
                     S      Rs
         175.   The use or method of any one of Claims 162-169, wherein R2G is an optionally
substituted N-linked amino acid.
                                              -287-

         176.    The use or method of any one of Claims 162-169, wherein R2C is an optionally
substituted N-linked amino acid ester derivative.
         177.    The use       or   method   of any    one of Claim       176,  wherein     RC     is
           o         O
R16cO          P-OP
                --
           I         I      T
           OR17C     OR1 0
                           -n     and R2C is 0- or OH; wherein R16 c, RI7C   and RIsc is absent or
hydrogen; and n is 0 or 1.
         178.    The use or method of any one of Claims 162-177, wherein R3 c is an optionally
substituted C1.6 alkyl.
         179.    The use or method of Claim 178, wherein R3c is unsubstituted C1 .6 alkyl.
         180.    The use or method of any one of Claims 162-177, wherein R3C is an optionally
substituted C2 -6 alkenyl.
         181.    The use or method of Claim 180, wherein R3c is unsubstituted C2. 6 alkenyl.
         182.    The use or method of any one of Claims 162-177, wherein R3C is an optionally
substituted C2.6 alkynyl.
         183.    The use or method of Claim 182, wherein R3 c is unsubstituted C2 -6 alkynyl.
          184.   The use or method of any one of Claims 162-177, wherein R3C is an optionally
substituted -0-CI-6 alkyl.
          185.    The use or method of Claim 184, wherein R3C is unsubstituted -O-C- 6 alkyl.
          186.    The use or method of any one of Claims 162-177, wherein R3C is an optionally
substituted -0-C 3 .6 alkenyl.
          187.    The use or method of Claim 186, wherein R3 c is unsubstituted -0-C 3 -6 allenyl.
          188.    The use or method of any one of Claims 162-177, wherein RE' is an optionally
substituted -0-C 3 .6 alkynyl.
          189.    The use or method of Claim 188, wherein RiC is unsubstituted -0-C 3.6 alkynyl.
          190.    The use or method of any one of Claims 162-177, wherein RSC is an optionally
 substituted C3 .6 cycloalkyt.
          191.    The use or method of any one of Claims 162-177, wherein R3C is cyano.
          192.    The use or method of any one of Claims 162-191, wherein R4C is OH.
          193.    The use or method of any one of Claims 162-191, wherein Rc is -OC(=0)Rc.
          194.    The use or method of Claim 193, wherein RT is an optionally substituted C1.8
 alkyl.
          195.    The use or method of any one of Claims 162-191, wherein R      is 0-linked amino
 acid.
                                                 -288-

          196.   The use or method of Claim 195, wherein the 0-linked amino acid is selected
 from the group consisting of alanine, asparagine, aspartate, cysteine, glutamate, glutamine,
 glycine, proline, shrine, tyrosine, arginine, histidine, isoleucine, leucine, lysine, methionine,
 phenylalanine, threonine, tryptophan and valine. Additional examples of suitable amino acids
 include, but are not limited to, ornithine, hypusine, 2-aminoisobutyric acid, dehydroalanine,
 gamma-aminobutyric acid, citrulline, beta-alanine, alpha-ethyl-glycine, alpha-propyl-glycine
 and norleucine.
          197.   The    use or method of any one of Claims                 162-191,    wherein   RC
         OR22C    23C
 is    0        NH2   , wherein R2 2C is selected from the group consisting of hydrogen, an
optionally substituted C1 6 alkyl, an optionally substituted C1 6 haloalkyl, an optionally
substituted C3 -6 cycloalkyl, an optionally substituted C, aryl, an optionally substituted C]o aryl
and an optionally substituted aryl(C1 6 alkyl); and R23 c is hydrogen or an optionally substituted
C 4 -alkyl; or R22Cand R23c are taken together to form an optionally substituted C3A cycloalkyl.
          198.  The use or method of Claim 197, wherein R22( is an optionally substituted Cue
alkyl.
          199.  The use or method of Claim 198, wherein the optionally substituted C 6 -alkyl is
methyl.
         200.   The use or method of any one of Claims 197-199, wherein R2SC is hydrogen.
         201.   The use or method of any one of Claims 162-200, wherein R6c is halogen.
         202.   The use or method of any one of Claims 162-200, wherein R6 ( is hydrogen.
         203.   The use or method of any one of Claims 162-202, wherein Rit is fluoro.
         204.   The use or method of any one of Claims 162-203, wherein ------      is a single bond
                                                               7C
                                              R2C/              Rac  BIG
                                                RR0     R
                                                   Rae R3CII,.       -111iIIH
                                                          H            Rac
such that Formula (Ill) has the structure                 R4 c      R6 c   , wherein each R7C and
each Rc is independently hydrogen or halogen.
         205.   The use or method of Claim 204, wherein the R7C and the RRc groups are all
hydrogen.
         206.  The use or method of Claim 204, wherein one R'A is halogen, one RC is
hydrogen and both R' groups are all hydrogen.
                                               -289-

       207.    The use or method of Claim 204, wherein one R7X is halogen, one R7C is
hydrogen, one Rsc is halogen and one RSC is hydrogen.
       208.    The use or method of any one of Claims 162-203, wherein ----- is a double
                                                  RI//            70
                                                   R
                                                     20            ROG   8 1c
                                                      RR7C  R
bond such that Formula (III) has the structure                R4C        Rsc , wherein each R7 c is
absent and each R5 c is independently hydrogen or halogen.
       209.    The use or method of Claim 208, wherein both R8c groups are hydrogen.
       210.     The use or method of Claim 208, wherein one R8C is halogen and the other RSC is
hydrogen.
        211.    The use or method of Claim 208, wherein both RC groups are halogen.
        212.    The use or method of any one of Claims 162-211, wherein B'c is selected from
the group consisting of:
                  Rc    2                                              0                NHREC2
            N     N          RAG2            N         RCC2            N      0         N       0
                                                                       H
                 0                            RGc 2
             2
         RFC
                      NH                       N
                  N         0        N      N         RHC2
                              and
                wherein:
                RAc2 is selected from the group consisting of hydrogen, halogen and NHRc2,
        wherein   RJC 2   is selected from the group consisting of hydrogen, -C(=O)RxC2 and
        C(=0)ORLC2.
                Ruc 2 is halogen or NHRwcZ, wherein R VC2 is selected from the group consisting
        of hydrogen, an optionally substituted C16 alkyl, an optionally substituted C2-6 alkenyl,
        an optionally substituted Cs cycloalkyl, -C(=0)RC 2 and -C(=0)OR-c2.
                RCC2 is hydrogen or NHR 02 , wherein R0 0 2 is selected from the group consisting
         of hydrogen, -C(=O)RK and -C(=0)ORQ 2 ;
                                                  -290-

           RDC 2 is selected from the group consisting of hydrogen, halogen, an optionally
 substituted C1 6 alkyl, an optionally substituted C2-6 alkenyl and an optionally substituted
 C2 .6 alkynyl;
           REc2 is selected from the group consisting of hydrogen, hydroxy, an optionally
 substituted C1 6 alkyl, an optionally substituted C3. cycloalkyl, -C(=O)Rac 2 and
 C(=0)ORsc2.
           RFc 2 is selected from the group consisting of hydrogen, halogen, an optionally
 substituted C1 6 alkyl, an optionally substituted C2.( alkenyl and an optionally substituted
 C2 .6 alkynyl;
           y 2C  and Y3E are independently N or CRIC 2, wherein R'C             2
                                                                                  is selected from the
 group consisting of hydrogen, halogen, an optionally substituted C1 6 -alkyl, an optionally
 substituted C2-6 -alkenyl and an optionally substituted C2.6-alkynyl;
          RGC2 is an optionally substituted C1 6 alkyl;
          RIC2 is hydrogen or NHRc2, wherein R*'                  is independently selected from the
group consisting of hydrogen, -C(=O)RuTC             2
                                                       and -C(=O)ORvc 2; and
          R'tt 2 , Rtc2 , RMc 2 , RNC 2 , RPC2,  RQc 2 RRC2 , Rsc 2 ' RuC2 and RVC 2 are independently
selected from the group consisting of CIA alkyl, C2 .6 alkenyl, C2.( alkynyl, C3o
cycloalkyl, C3 -6 cycloalkenyl, C6-10 aryl, heteroaryl, heteroalicyclyl, aryl(CIA alkyl),
heteroary(C 1 6 alkyl) and heteroalicyclyl(C. 6 alkyl).
                                                                               0
                                                                        N           NH
                                                                        N       NNH2
213.      The use or method of Claim 212, wherein Bis
                                                                               0
                                                                        N           NH
                                                                        N      N
214.      The use or method of Claim 212, wherein B               is
                                                                         0
                                                                             NH
                                                                         N      0
215.      The use or method of Claim 212, wherein Bt is
                                                -291-

                                                                      NH2
                                                                          N
                                                                      N     O
        216.  The use or method of Claim 212, wherein BC is
                                                                       NH2
                                                                          N
                                                                    NN       O
        217,  The use or method of Claim 212, wherein B' is
                                                                              R GC2
                                                                     N      N        RHC 2
        218.   The use or method of Claim 212, wherein BC is
        219.   The use or method of Claim 16, wherein the compound of Formula (I) is selected
from the group consisting of:
    RIAO            B
                    81A             RIAO                  BI1A               RA                  IA
      R       O                     R1   .A     -R. 0                                      0O
         HO        F                                                                Hd        F
 R1AO              BIA               RIAC                    IA             RIAO               8 1A
             o                                       0                                     0
     H3HC          F
        HO         F                        HO      F          ,d                   HO        F
 R1AC                1A   R      RAO        BIA     RIAO                BIA RIAO               BIA
             o0                        0                          0                         0
        RHO        F                                                                        O
 RIAO               BIA           RlAO                  8IA                 RIAO               BlA
                                                              0                             0
              O_      F                                                             NO&
         HO          F,              H3 C H                                         H         F
                                             -292-

                                       RlAO0                 BlA          RIAG-              BA
      RlAo                   E1A
                                                                a0
                                               HF                                 HO&
              H1                       --                          and
                                                                     1                           ,   or a
 pharmaceutically acceptable salt of the foregoing
        220.      The use or method of Claim 16, wherein the compound of Formula (I) is selected
 from the group consisting of:
                                                                                RlAO                  IA
  RIAO                 BA    RlAO                B      RAO               BIA    C
                               O           00                                                      IF
   CI                           F--                       F-O                                       F
        Hd             F             H          F              HO
                                                                                RBAO                 BA
                                        RAO                    BIA
                                                         00
                                                  NH 2
             0::r
                              O0'F
      RRAO                  BA
                      0
                                                O                     FF
                Cl-\C                      RRAA    B              BIA           RiAA                  A
                                                                                                    8
                                                                     I          0
                                            0        0
                                                                 F
                                          H3B                                 H3C
 RlAo                 BIA       RIAO                BIA
                                             0
               o
 Br-e              .           HC7's,
       HO            F    and       F HO           F    , or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt of the
foregoing.
                                                 -293-

          221.    The use or method of Claim 16, wherein the compound of Formula (I) is selected
from the group consisting of:
                        BIA              RIAO                BIA         RlAO-               8 IA
  RiAD
                  o
                                                       0
    RIH3CR0A                                                             H             O
           Hd           F      ,                H            F                  HO          IF          and
 R1AO-                 BiA
                0
   S-           O
         H             F     , or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt of the foregoing.
          222.     The use or method of Claim 16, wherein the compound of Formula (1)
    RIAO                  BlA
                   0
      N~C
 is N       H            F       , or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.
          223.     The use or method of Claim 16, wherein the compound of Formula (I)
    RAO                    BIA
                    0
          H2C
 is            0,                  or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.
           224.    The use or method of Claim 16, wherein the compound of Formula (1) is selected
 from the group consisting of:
                   NH2                          NH2                       NH2                      NH2
                       N                             N                        N                        N
  HO0                              HON                  O   HON            N     O  HON                   O
      HO                      O                             HO                       HI$1~
       H           F                   H       F                  HF                     HO       F
                    o                                         0                                    NH2
                       NH                                         NH               ~N
  HO-               N      O                  HO               N3C                  HO             N
                       O"                                00
                         "IH                     3  CW                             HO-~
        HO         F                               HO           F                        HO       F
                                                         -294-

                                                    O                        o                    NH2
                            N                                     N:l
HO                N            NH2    HO              N               NH          HO             N     O
     H&      FHO                                             F                         HO       F
                                       o                    NH2                                  NH2
                            N                                   N                                    N
HO            N         N      NH2          HO              NO                   HO              NO
                                                   O                                         0
                                                HO                         F        / HO        F
                                   N                    NH2                                      NH2
                                                                        - N                        N.
                          [1:
 HO                                      H0             NH                                                W
          0                                        0oO
      Nd iH                                             F                               HO       F
                       O               NH2                                 NH
                      N                                            O                      dH           O
         /HO~                        HHOHOC
  HO C          N 0                  HO                     HO                       N         NNH      2
                   --                H3 00'         N                   H3 00 "koj
       =   H O               F               d  F
                                                -           NH2                                  NH2
              N'           NN
HO              N      NA      NH2                          NH.H                                NAY
           N1C   O                            HO-                                              IF>
                                                -295-

                                                           NH2
                                                               N
                    NH 2                   HO              NI NA
   HO                                        N  O                                      NH2
                                 I                                                       NN
  cI-#
                                                                       HO              N~
          NH 2
                NH2                                    NH2                             NH2
                                       N                                                  N
                                        HO                    0         HO               NO
HO
                     0                                                              _0
 H  2  0\
       HH                                                                     H-4.%    F
                NH2                                   NH2                              NH2
                   NNN                                                     N                     N
HO                       O              HO            N      0
           O      N
                                     H3C-y                              HONH2NH         N
                           OF             HOHO
                  NH               2                    NH2                       HON
Br                                       C                             C
    HFH                                                                    HO          F
  HO-O                                       F              HO          HO              N    HKO
             Or                         c      0                                  0l
                  NH                               NH                                0
                           N-                  NN                            N           N
  HO              N'          0L     HO           0N      0      HO-         N           N  NH2
 CI-'           t
                  FHO                                   F            H      F
                                                 -296-

                        NH2                                 NH       O                           NH2
                         N                                                                       N
                -        O                          NH2                                        N
         H F JHOHOiJ    O
                               ONHN
                                                                                  F       0
                                                                                     F      ONH
 HO                    N        NH2                                                N      N        ONH2
                                                                    N NH2    ON
    HHCN                        NHN
      H                                      HO                                   F
                                                                                            NH2
                                                                                               'NN
 ClH             NI   0                                     0
                                                        N
                         N 'HN                                     NHHO-                    N       0
HO-                N
                           NH
                           N      H,  HO
                                                  KI N
                                                               NH
                                                            Nl ' NH2        0      0
                                                                                       0I
                                                                                          IF
H30d                                                  F_
    HO      !F                           HO       !F                      H30      OH3
                  NH2
                                                                                            NH2
               H3C                                 NH2                   HO                  'NN
   HO            N       0I
                                                                             HO
                                                NN                                     0
                0         1?         HO
                                                                  clfH3C            HO     F
                            If           HO       F                          H
                       NH2
                           N                              0                                 0
       HO              N'      o                              NH                                NH
                                            HON                  0           HO             N      0
        HfId                                                                 HOU
                                                 HO     F
                                             le                                  HOr       F
                                               -297-

                NH 2                            o
                I    N                       I      NH
             1
                                                        O
                  N '   O       HON
 FHO     F                      F
     HO        F          and        Hd         F         ,  or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt of the
foregoing.
        225.    The use or method of Claim 16, wherein the compound of Formula (1) is selected
from the group consisting of:
                          0                                           0
                             NH                   0                        NH
                          N       O                                    N      0
 HO-P-O                                     HO-P-O
      OH                                            NOH
              HO         F            and                   HO        F         ,   or a pharmaceutically
 acceptable salt of the foregoing.
        226.     The use or method of Claim 16, wherein the compound of Formula (1) is selected
 from the group consisting of:
                                       NH2                                                       NH2
                                       IN                                                          N
  HO-P-0-P-0-P-O                       N     0                 HO-P-0-P-O-P-O                    N      0
      HO     HO      Ho                                             HO      HO       HO
                            HO         F                                                 H       F
                                        NH2                                                   O
                                                                                                  NN
      O      0       0                                  0         0      0
  HO-P-0-P-O-P-O                                    HO-P-O-P-O-P-O                        N    N      NH2
      HO     HO      HO            O                    HO        HO     HO       /
                            H          F                                          H      F
                                              O                                                   NH2
                              II~~~I          I                     I       I        I             II
  HO-P-O-P--O-P-O-4                     N::    N      NH2      HO-P-O--P-O-P7-O
       HO     HO      HO                                            HO      HO       HO
                               O       F                                                 HO      F
                                                     -298-

                                                                    0                                 NH 2
       0      00                                                  0 00         0
 HO-P-O-P-0-P-O                          N     C            HO-P-0-P-O-P-O                            N      0
       HO      HO     Ho                                          HO      HO     HO            O
                                           HL                                         F , HO.F
                              HO       IF                                                 HCf        Vi
                                                                        O                             NH2
      o        o      0                     NN                          0    0     0                       -N
 HO-       O-P-O-P-O                     N                                                            N      O
                                    O                  NH2   HO-P-O-P-0-P-O                    O
      HO       HO     HO                                           HO     HO     HO
                          H3 00                                                        3C
                               Hd       F                                                 HO         F
                                               O                                                      0
      O       0      0                  N          N    NI          0                                   NH
                                                                            0     0I
      11       11    11                 N:     N'A     NH NH2 HO-P-O-P--P-OO
                                                              HOP0PC                                           P
HOP-O-P-0-P-ON
       I       I      III
      OH      OH     OHe                                            HO      HO    HO
                         N -C        -,Sc
                              H        F                                                   HO         F
                                        NH2                                                           NH2
                                            NN
      O      0      0HO0                                                  0      0HO
     HHOOF                                       ,                                        HOIF
      I I                                                    HO-P--P-O-P-O
HO-P-O-P-O--P-O      I                                             I       I     10
         Ho HO      HO                                             HO     HO     HOF
                              HO       F                                                  HOr       !F
                                                                 NH2                                  NH2
                                                                                                      NN' N
                                  0                                                                   N'i
HO-P-0-P--P-                                                                                   -P-O-P-O
     HO      HO     Ho 1OH                                            -O-H-            O
              CO                    (N
                                     F
                                                                            noNK
                                                                                          H          F
                           HOPO---P0N::                  N2    H-P-O-P-O-P-No
                 I"                                           112 HI I               I
     HO      HlO    HlO       &                                   OHl     OHl    OH
                                                               -299-2
                                                    -299-

                                    NH2
                                                                                                       NH2
    0       00                                                 0
HO-P--P-O-P-O                   O                         HO-P--P--                       O-P
    OH
             F
             OH
                   I
                 -IOH       .I
                                                               OH        OH         OH
                 H3C      HO        F                                                         HO-     F
                                                                                                       NH2
                                     NH2
                                         0    0                                    0
     0I      II    0I                                                                                  N'A
                                     NOP-HO---O--O---O                                             ONO
HO-P-0-P --        PO                                          OH       OH         OH
    OH       OH    OH                                                                         HO      F
                          HO        F
                                    NH2                                                                NH2
    0        0                       N0                        0         0          0             F,
                                          N                                   0-       -                 N      0
           H--  N                            O            HO-    -O-       -O-        -O               NO
    OH       OH    OH                                          OH        OH         OH
                               HOO
     OH      OH    OH  HC           N          NH
     O       0     0                                        F                                 HO
HO-P-O-P-O-P-O                      NP                                  N--NH2
     OH      OH    OH                                        OH       O        O F
                                             NH2                                                           NH 2
                                     N
                                                                                                                NM
              O           HO       (FP      j               0        0         0                   <N
      1I     11    1I                  :: II N                       II
                                                                     1          1:1                          ;
HO-P-0-P--P-O
     OH      OH    OH3C--
                                 o
                                 I
                                                         HO-P-O-P-C-P-O
                                                            OH       OH
                                                                       I I
                                                                               OH
                                                                                  1        1    - 4
                           HO                               F
                                            NH2     -3
     0       C     0                         N                       0           0       0N~
HO-P--P--P-C                            N       N-                   O---
          I OHI     I                                           I           I        I
     OH            OH                                           O sc   H OH          OH
                          HOJ                                                                 HO       F
                                                   -300-

                                       NH2                                                      NH2
                                           N                                                        N
      11       11       11             N' 2 C                    11       11     11"J
 HO-P--P-O-P--O                                             HO-P-O-P-O-P-O
     HO        HO        O                                       HO       HO     HO
                                                                             0         HO'
                              HO       FF
                                                                                          NH2
                                        NH2
                                                                                             N
                                            N
     0         C       0              1i                 11      11
 HO-P--O---O-P-OII     IIIN         Ok      "O       HO-P-OC-O-OCO-C
                                                         HO      HO       H
                                         HO    HO        HO                      H       F
           HC HO        H                          H'                                   %
                               HO      F                                         HOand
                                        NH2
                                            N
HO-P-0-P---P-O                      O
     HO        HO      HO
                              Hd       F          or   a pharmaceutically      acceptable salt   of   the
foregoing.
          227.      The use or method of Claim 16, wherein the compound of Formula (1) is selected
from the group consisting of:
                                   NH2                                                          O
                               -P                 -ON                           oI              NA
    H3CH
        H3C
              C    NH
                          HO       F                              H3C
                                                                        H3C     NH
                                                                                      Hd       F
                                   NH2                                                          O
                                 H3CNH
             C -P-                        ONN
                  NH                                               H3CHH
        C
       3H                 Hd
                           0f                                         f
H3C       OH                                                    H3C       ON          H
                                                   -301-

                             0                                                  0
                                                                                    NH
                             N    O               0             0
            o                                                            HO'
                            F   OH
     0                                                  0
                                                                                 NH 2
                             NH2                          -N
                                   O                                           O
                                     Wo-p
                                        -0
     0
                         NH2
                      H   3    0~~N               NH'2&\
  0(P0        ~
                            NH0
                                                    N0              7t
H CN     NHH
                                                                       ,            2
                -:0      OHO                                      0                   O
         O- -03
                                           H2-                    O
       O            HOO HO FH
                                                        30     N
                                                                           HG2
                                   00               00
    0     -   -   -                               0
                              N       NH                   N P-                   NH
                         0
                                                             0 I'
                     H--                  NH2           3      N
                      00
   0                                                0,,
                                               -302-

             NH2                                        NH2
ON
              N0
                                                            N
       OO
                   NH2
                       N
                                                        NH2
                                                  O
                                              N         NN
                                                  Ox
                              N
                       HOO       NH03                 F
                 Cr-c                           I         NH
                    NH                               0I
   0      0               N     NH0N
   NH-2N                          N  2   0                    H
            0
                            N          03/0N,

               0                                                                NH2
                                                               I                    NN
           0~4  o0
                                                             1  JKY                 -I
                                                             1              0
                                                 -Aa
                                                               0,
                                  NHH,
                           NHC
H3C
     0
               I%' N                      0
                                                                 CI
                                                                              0 F
                             NH 2
                                  N             0K
         c   I4~           'N-              )L(                                   NHI
                                                          cl          - ---           NH 2
                              HO            FC
                                                                                NH2
                                       0               ~N
                      <N            NH                                          Nx         N0
                                     N NH2
                     or                              0             <H
       (       Hd     --IF
    0
                                         -304-

                                      NH2                                                NH
                 -                         N                    0         1              N   N
           o Od     "1 F       ~NJ           O           F
                          o                                        0
                   oN          o
                          NH
                          NH22
                                                          NH
         oN
             0 0
    Z=        (j            Ff
      is   R1B                 and ,an             or a pharmaeutically
                                                               ,-        acceptablesatheof
                                                                     iiarmaceuticalb'
                                                                         acceptablCeatteef
      229.     The use use or method of Claim 122, wherein tethe compound of Formula ()     (11) ii
                                                  -0
selce rB                             oe arupharmceutcall    acetalfal.heef
                                               -305-

                                  NH2                                            NH2
                                     NN                                             N
                                  NN
                O=P-O             F                      O=P-O                  F
                    I                                        I
        0                                   and     0                                    ,     or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt of the foregoing.
         230.     The use or method of Claim 162, wherein the compound of Formula (Ill) is
selected from the group consisting of:
                          NH2                                                               NH2
                            NNN                                                                 N
 H3CO-P                                                        H3CO-P
          OCH 3                                                          OCH 3
           C                                                              C
                 HO       F                                                     HO         F
                          NH2                                                               NH2
                              NH2                                                            N2
 H3CO-P             F                                       H3C2O-                          N
         OCH 3        0                                         H         CH 3
                 H        F                                                     H          IF
                              NH2
                       Fl      NNN                                                          NH2N
 H 3CH 2CO-                   N     0HC                             0-PNXK
     H3CH2CO            0H
                                                                 3 CHM2 00           0)C
                             CI-,                                          ci-.$:
                    H        F                                                  HO         F
                                              -306-

  HC        0NH                                      H3C      o                           NH2
                                         2
  HNC       OH3C                                              ON
  H3C       0    -N                                    H3C    O
                          CN                                              C               N      0
                                                                               HO        F
                            HO
                OH3                            and               cH 3                              , or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt of the foregoing.
        231.     The use or method of Claim 162, wherein the compound of Formula (Ill) is
selected from the group consisting of:
                                     NH2                                                       NH2
              0      0N                                       0                                 'N0N
 HO-P-0-P--O-P                       NAHO-P-O-P--                            P                   NO
     HOHO                                                              HO   H             0
                          H         F                                               HO        F
                                     NH2                                                NH2
                                      ON                                                    N
HO-    -O-     -O--                   N                   0    0       0    F
                  0 00    F           NXO           HO-P-C-P-C
     HO      HO     HO          O                         HO    HO    HO          O
                          HO        F         and                            H         F         ,or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt of the foregoing.
        232.     Use of an effective amount of a compound, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt
thereof, for amelioring or treating a viral infection caused by a virus selected from a henipavirus,
a morbillivirus, a respirovirus, a rubulavirus and a metapneumovirus, wherein the compound is
selected from:
                                                 -307-

                    NH2                              NH2
 HNO           0                   HON          N                      ON                     NH2
     NHO ~                NK1                                    0     HO'-               )r
     Hd     IF                          HG     IF                        HO        OH
                                   NH2                                                      NH2
     O      O
            0                   HN                          0     0    0N
 HO-P-O-P-O-P-O             O N-<                       HO--O-P-O--               O     N
     OH OH     OHOHN
                   OH Nj'OH     F                           OH    OH   OH0N
                                F
                        Hd     F                                             Hd      'F         and
                                   NH2
     O      0       O              N
 HO-P-O4--O-4-O             O   N
     OH OH OH N"'               OH
                        Hd
        233.     A method for ameliorating or treating a viral infection caused by a virus
comprising administering to or contacting a cell in a subject with an effective amount of a
compound, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt of thereof, wherein the virus is selected from a
henipavirus, a morbillivirus, a respirovirus, a rubulavirus and a metapneumovirus, and wherein
the compound is selected from:
                    NH2                              NH2
                                                                                      N       NH2
              HON                  HONHO
     HG      F                          HO      F                         HO       OH
                                   NH2                                                      NH2
     O      0       0              N                        0     0    0                    N
 HO-P-O-P-O-O-O             a   N-%                     HO-P-O-P-OC-PO           O      N-N
     OH OH   I    I I           F" 0                        O     O H                      0HjV
                    OH N.       FO
                        Hd    'F                                             Hd     'F          and
                                   NH2
     O      0       0          C j
 HO-P--P-O-P-O O                N
         II                        a
     OH OH OH N3 .OH                O
                        Hd
        234.     The use of Claim 232 or the method of Claim 233, wherein the virus is a
henipavi rus.
        235.     The use or method of Claim 234, wherein the henipavirus is a nipahvirus.
                                               -308-

         236.   The use of Claim 232 or the method of Claim 233, wherein the virus is a
morbillivi rus.
         237.   The use or method of Claim 236, wherein the morbillivirus is the measles virus.
         238.   The use of Claim 232 or the method of Claim 233, wherein the virus is a
respirovirus.
         239.   The use or method of Claim 238, wherein the respirovirus is human parainfluenza
virus 1.
         240.   The use or method of Claim 238, wherein the respirovirus is human parainfluenza
virus 3.
         241.   The use of Claim 232 or the method of Claim 233, wherein the virus is a
rubulavirus.
         242.   The use or method of Claim 241, wherein the rubulavirus is the mumps virus.
         243.   The use or method of Claim 241, wherein the rubulavirus is human parainfluenza
virus 2.
         244.   The use or method of Claim 241, wherein the rubulavirus is human parainflucnza
virus 4.
         245.   The use of Claim 232 or the method of Claim 233, wherein the virus is a
metapneumovirus.
         246.   The use or method of Claim 245, wherein the metaphenumovirus is human
metapneumovirus.
                                             -309-

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
