                                     ABSTRACT
     Embodiments of the present invention provide a side menu displaying method
and apparatus and a terminal, which relate to the terminal field. The method includes:
receiving a sliding operation of sliding starting from a side of a screen; detecting
whether the sliding operation meets a predefined condition, where the predefined
condition includes that a sliding speed of the sliding operation is greater than a preset
threshold, and an end position of the sliding operation is not within a preset false
touch area; and displaying a side menu corresponding to the side of the screen if a
detection result is that the sliding operation meets the predefined condition. The
present invention resolves the problem, existing in the prior art, that a misoperation
occurs because a notification bar is triggered to display unknown to a user, and
achieves an effect that a side menu is triggered and displayed only when a sliding
operation is a quick sliding operation and an end position of the sliding operation is
not within a false touch area, thereby preventing a misoperation that occurs because
the side menu is triggered and displayed unknown to a user.

                                   1/6
                                                              102
   Receive a sliding operation of sliding starting from a
                       side of a screen
                                                              104
        Detect whether    hesiing operation mnets a
   predefined condition, where the predefined condition
   includes that a sliding speed of the sliding operation
       is greater than a preset threshold, and an end
   position of the sliding operation is not within a preset
                       false tot ch area
                                                              106
   Display a side menu corresponding to the side of the
        screen if a detection result is that the sliding
          operation meets the predefined condition
                                 FIG. 1
                                                          201
               Preset a false touch area
                                                          202
Receive a sliding operation of sliding starting from a
                    side of a screen
    Detect whether an end position of the sliding           3
       operation is within a direct display area
                                                          204
    Detect whether the sliding operation meets a
 predefined condition if a detection result is that the
  end position is not within the direct display area
                                                          205
Display a side menu corresponding to the side of the
    screen if a detection result is that the sliding
      operation meets the predefined condition
                               FIG. 2A

       SIDE MENU DISPLAYING METHOD AND APPARATUS
                                   AND TERMINAL
                                    TECHNICAL FIELD
   [0001]      The present invention relates to the terminal field, and in particular, to a
 5 side menu displaying method and apparatus, and a terminal.
                                      BACKGROUND
   [0002]      Touchscreens are usually adopted on screens of terminals such as a mobile
   phone, a tablet computer, and an ebook reader. To prevent a user from performing a
   misoperation on a touchscreen, a screen locking function is usually set on a terminal
10 in a standby process, and an operation can be properly performed on the touchscreen
   only after the terminal is unlocked.
   [0003]      In a screen locking state, to make it convenient for the user to view a new
   message or perform a shortcut setting, the terminal usually provides a notification bar
   that is triggered and displayed by a downward sliding operation. A method for
15 displaying the notification bar is: A terminal receives a sliding operation of sliding
   from the top of a screen downwards, which is triggered by a user; the terminal detects
   whether a sliding speed of the sliding operation exceeds a preset threshold; and if a
   detection result is that the sliding speed exceeds the preset threshold, that is, the
   sliding operation is a quick downward sliding operation, the terminal moves the
20 notification bar from the top of the screen to the screen for displaying. Then, the user
   may view a new message or perform a shortcut setting on the notification bar, for
   example, quickly enabling/disabling Bluetooth, quickly enabling/disabling a wireless
   network, and adjusting brightness of the screen.
   [0004]      In a process of implementing the present invention, the inventor finds that
25 the foregoing technology at least has the following problems: When a user places a
   terminal in a pocket, the terminal is likely to cause friction with a finger or skin of the
   user, and the friction is recognized by the terminal as a quick downward sliding
   operation. This causes triggering and displaying of the notification bar unknown to

   the user, and thereby causing a misoperation to occur.
                                          SUMMARY
   [0005]      To resolve the problem, existing in the prior art, that a misoperation occurs
   because a notification bar is triggered and displayed unknown to a user, embodiments
 5 of the present invention provides a side menu displaying method and apparatus, and a
   terminal. Technical solutions are as follows:
   [0006]      A first aspect provides a side menu displaying method, where the method
   includes:
               receiving a sliding operation of sliding starting from a side of a screen;
10             detecting whether the sliding operation meets a predefined condition,
   where the predefined condition includes that a sliding speed of the sliding operation is
   greater than a preset threshold, and an end position of the sliding operation is not
   within a preset false touch area; and
               displaying a side menu corresponding to the side of the screen if a
15 detection result is that the sliding operation meets the predefined condition.
   [0007]      In a first possible implementation manner of the first aspect, before the
   detecting whether the sliding operation meets a predefined condition, the method
   further includes:
               detecting whether the end position of the sliding operation is within a
20 direct display area, where the direct display area and the false touch area do not
   mutually overlap; and
               performing the step of detecting whether the sliding operation meets a
   predefined condition if a detection result is that the end position is not within the
   direct display area.
25 [0008]      With reference to the first aspect or the first possible implementation
   manner of the first aspect, in a second possible implementation manner of the first
   aspect, the detecting whether the sliding operation meets a predefined condition
   includes:
               when the false touch area includes an area enclosed by the side of the
30 screen, two sides adjacent to the side of the screen, and a first virtual side parallel with
   the side of the screen, detecting whether a vertical distance between the end position
   of the sliding operation and the side of the screen is greater than a false touch
                                                 2

   threshold, where the false touch threshold is a distance between the side of the screen
   and the first virtual side; and
               detecting whether the sliding speed of the sliding operation is greater than
   the preset threshold if a detection result is that the vertical distance is greater than the
 5 false touch threshold.
   [0009]      With reference to the first possible implementation manner of the first
   aspect, in a third possible implementation manner of the first aspect, the detecting
   whether the end position of the sliding operation is within a direct display area
   includes:
10             when the direct display area includes an area enclosed by an opposite side
   of the side of the screen, two sides adjacent to the side of the screen, and a second
   virtual side parallel with the side of the screen, detecting whether a vertical distance
   between the end position of the sliding operation and the side of the screen is greater
   than a direct display threshold, where the direct display threshold is a distance
15 between the side of the screen and the second virtual side, and the direct display
   threshold is greater than a false touch threshold.
   [0010]      With reference to the first aspect, in a fourth possible implementation
   manner of the first aspect, after the displaying a side menu corresponding to the side
   of the screen, the method further includes:
20             recording, in a successful triggering sample library, the sliding operation
   that successfully triggers displaying of the side menu this time, where a sliding
   operation that successfully triggers displaying of the side menu each time and an end
   position of each sliding operation are recorded in the successful triggering sample
   library; and
25             updating a size and/or a location of the false touch area at a preset time
   interval according to distribution density of the end positions of the sliding operations
   on the screen, where the end positions are recorded in the successful triggering sample
   library.
   [0011]      With reference to the fourth possible implementation manner of the first
30 aspect, in a fifth possible implementation manner of the first aspect, the updating a
   size and/or a location of the false touch area at a preset time interval according to
   distribution density of the end positions of the sliding operations on the screen, where
   the end positions are recorded in the successful triggering sample library, includes:
               dividing a predefined area on the screen into at least two subareas, where
                                                 3

   the predefined area includes an area enclosed by the side of the screen, two sides
   adjacent to the side of the screen, and a third virtual side parallel with the side of the
   screen;
               collecting statistics on distribution density of the end positions of the
 5 sliding operations in each subarea, where the end positions are recorded in the
   successful triggering sample library; and
               determining a subarea in which the distribution density is lower than preset
   density as the false touch area.
   [0012]      A second aspect provides a side menu displaying apparatus, where the
10 apparatus includes:
               an operation receiving module, configured to receive a sliding operation of
   sliding starting from a side of a screen;
               an operation detecting module, configured to detect whether the sliding
   operation meets a predefined condition, where the predefined condition includes that a
15 sliding speed of the sliding operation is greater than a preset threshold, and an end
   position of the sliding operation is not within a preset false touch area; and
               a menu displaying module, configured              to display a side menu
   corresponding to the side of the screen if a detection result is that the sliding operation
   meets the predefined condition.
20 [0013]      In a first possible implementation manner of the second aspect, the
   apparatus further includes:
               a direct detecting module, configured to detect whether the end position of
   the sliding operation is within a direct display area, where the direct display area and
   the false touch area do not mutually overlap; and
25             the operation detecting module, configured to perform the step of detecting
   whether the sliding operation meets a predefined condition if a detection result is that
   the end position is not within the direct display area.
   [0014]      With reference to the second aspect or the first possible implementation
   manner of the second aspect, in a third possible implementation manner of the second
30 aspect, the operation detecting module includes a distance detecting unit and a speed
   detecting unit, where:
               the distance detecting unit is configured to: when the false touch area
   includes an area enclosed by the side of the screen, two sides adjacent to the side of
   the screen, and a first virtual side parallel with the side of the screen, detect whether a
                                                 4

   vertical distance between the end position of the sliding operation and the side of the
   screen is greater than a false touch threshold, where the false touch threshold is a
   distance between the side of the screen and the first virtual side; and
               the speed detecting unit is configured to detect whether the sliding speed
 5 of the sliding operation is greater than the preset threshold if a detection result is that
   the vertical distance is greater than the false touch threshold.
   [0015]      With reference to the first possible implementation manner of the second
   aspect, in a third possible implementation manner of the second aspect:
               the direct detecting module is configured to: when the direct display area
10 includes an area enclosed by an opposite side of the side of the screen, two sides
   adjacent to the side of the screen, and a second virtual side parallel with the side of the
   screen, detect whether a vertical distance between the end position of the sliding
   operation and the side of the screen is greater than a direct display threshold, where
   the direct display threshold is a distance between the side of the screen and the second
15 virtual side, and the direct display threshold is greater than a false touch threshold.
   [0016]      With reference to the second aspect, in a fourth possible implementation
   manner of the second aspect, the apparatus further includes:
               an operation recording module, configured to record, in a successful
   triggering sample library, the sliding operation that successfully triggers displaying of
20 the side menu this time, where a sliding operation that successfully triggers displaying
   of the side menu each time and an end position of each sliding operation are recorded
   in the successful triggering sample library; and
               an area updating module, configured to update a size and/or a location of
   the false touch area at a preset time interval according to distribution density of the
25 end positions of the sliding operations on the screen, where the end positions are
   recorded in the successful triggering sample library.
   [0017]      With reference to the fourth possible implementation manner of the second
   aspect, in a fifth possible implementation manner of the second aspect, the area
   updating module includes an area dividing unit, a density statistics collecting unit, and
30 an area determining unit, where:
               the area dividing unit is configured to divide a predefined area on the
   screen into at least two subareas, where the predefined area includes an area enclosed
   by the side of the screen, two sides adjacent to the side of the screen, and a third
   virtual side parallel with the side of the screen;
                                                 5

               the density statistics collecting unit is configured to collect statistics on
   distribution density of the end positions of the sliding operations in each subarea,
   where the end positions are recorded in the successful triggering sample library; and
               the area determining unit is configured to determine a subarea in which the
 5 distribution density is lower than preset density as the false touch area.
   [0018]      A third aspect provides a terminal, where the terminal includes the side
   menu displaying apparatus, for example, according to any one of the second aspect
   and the possible implementation manners of the second aspect.
   [0019]      A fourth aspect provides a terminal, where the terminal includes:
10             a memory, and one or more programs, where the one or more programs are
   stored in the memory and executed, after configuration, by one or more processors,
   where:
               the one or more programs include an instruction used for performing the
   following operations:
15             receiving a sliding operation of sliding starting from a side of a screen;
               detecting whether the sliding operation meets a predefined condition,
   where the predefined condition includes that a sliding speed of the sliding operation is
   greater than a preset threshold, and an end position of the sliding operation is not
   within a preset false touch area; and
20             displaying a side menu corresponding to the side of the screen if a
   detection result is that the sliding operation meets the predefined condition.
   [0020]      In a first possible implementation manner of the fourth aspect, the memory
   further includes an instruction used for performing the following operations:
               detecting whether the end position of the sliding operation is within a
25 direct display area, where the direct display area and the false touch area do not
   mutually overlap; and
               performing the step of detecting whether the sliding operation meets a
   predefined condition if a detection result is that the end position is not within the
   direct display area.
30 [0021]      With reference to the fourth aspect or the first possible implementation
   manner of the fourth aspect, in a second possible implementation manner of the fourth
   aspect, the memory further includes an instruction used for performing the following
   operations:
               when the false touch area includes an area enclosed by the side of the
                                                 6

   screen, two sides adjacent to the side of the screen, and a first virtual side parallel with
   the side of the screen, detecting whether a vertical distance between the end position
   of the sliding operation and the side of the screen is greater than a false touch
   threshold, where the false touch threshold is a distance between the side of the screen
 5 and the first virtual side; and
               detecting whether the sliding speed of the sliding operation is greater than
   the preset threshold if a detection result is that the vertical distance is greater than the
   false touch threshold.
   [0022]      With reference to the first possible implementation manner of the fourth
10 aspect, in a third possible implementation manner of the fourth aspect, the memory
   further includes an instruction used for performing the following operations:
               when the direct display area includes an area enclosed by an opposite side
   of the side of the screen, two sides adjacent to the side of the screen, and a second
   virtual side parallel with the side of the screen, detecting whether a vertical distance
15 between the end position of the sliding operation and the side of the screen is greater
   than a direct display threshold, where the direct display threshold is a distance
   between the side of the screen and the second virtual side, and the direct display
   threshold is greater than a false touch threshold.
   [0023]      With reference to the fourth aspect, in a fourth possible implementation
20 manner of the fourth aspect, the memory further includes an instruction used for
   performing the following operations:
               recording, in a successful triggering sample library, the sliding operation
   that successfully triggers displaying of the side menu this time, where a sliding
   operation that successfully triggers displaying of the side menu each time and an end
25 position of each sliding operation are recorded in the successful triggering sample
   library; and
               updating a size and/or a location of the false touch area at a preset time
   interval according to distribution density of the end positions of the sliding operations
   on the screen, where the end positions are recorded in the successful triggering sample
30 library.
   [0024]      With reference to the fourth possible implementation manner of the fourth
   aspect, in a fifth possible implementation manner of the fourth aspect, the memory
   further includes an instruction used for performing the following operations:
               dividing a predefined area on the screen into at least two subareas, where
                                                 7

   the predefined area includes an area enclosed by the side of the screen, two sides
   adjacent to the side of the screen, and a third virtual side parallel with the side of the
   screen;
                collecting statistics on distribution density of the end positions of the
 5 sliding operations in each subarea, where the end positions are recorded in the
   successful triggering sample library; and
                determining a subarea in which the distribution density is lower than preset
   density as the false touch area.
   [0024a]       A fifth aspect of the present invention provides a side menu displaying
10 method, applied to a terminal, wherein the terminal comprising a screen, wherein the
   method comprises:
         receiving a sliding operation of sliding starting from a side of the screen;
         moving the side menu corresponding to the side of the screen when receiving the
   sliding operation;
15       displaying the side menu when the sliding operation meets a predefined
   condition;
         withdrawing the side menu when the sliding operation does not meet the
   predefined condition.
   [0024b]       A sixth aspect of the present invention provides a terminal, wherein the
20 terminal comprises:
         a memory, and one or more programs, wherein the one or more programs are
   stored in the memory and executed, after configuration, by one or more processors,
   wherein:
         the one or more programs comprise an instruction used for performing the
25 following operations:
         receiving a sliding operation of sliding starting from a side of a screen;
         moving the side menu corresponding to the side of the screen when receiving the
   sliding operation;
         displaying the side menu when the sliding operation meets a predefined
30 condition;
         withdrawing the side menu when the sliding operation does not meet the
   predefined condition.
   [0025]       Beneficial effects of the technical solutions provided in the embodiments
   of the present invention are as follows:
                                                 8

   [0026]      A sliding operation of sliding starting from a side of a screen is received,
   whether the sliding operation meets a predefined condition is detected, and a side
   menu corresponding to the side of the screen is displayed when a detection result is
   that the sliding operation meets the predefined condition. The predefined condition
 5 includes that a sliding speed of the sliding operation is greater than a preset threshold,
   and an end position of the sliding operation is not within a preset false touch area.
   This solves the problem, existing in the prior art, that a misoperation occurs because a
   notification bar is triggered and displayed unknown to a user, and achieves an effect
   that a side menu is triggered and displayed only when a sliding operation is a quick
10 sliding operation and an end position of the sliding operation is not within a false
   touch area, thereby preventing a misoperation that occurs because the side menu is
   triggered and displayed unknown to a user.
                          BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF DRAWINGS
   [0027]      To describe the technical solutions in the embodiments of the present
15 invention more clearly, the following briefly introduces the accompanying drawings
   required for describing the embodiments. Apparently, the accompanying drawings in
   the following description show merely some embodiments of the present invention,
   and a person of ordinary skill in the art may still derive other drawings from these
   accompanying drawings without creative efforts.
20 [0028]      FIG. 1 is a method flowchart of a side menu displaying method according
   to an embodiment of the present invention;
   [0029]      FIG. 2A is a method flowchart of a side menu displaying method
   according to another embodiment of the present invention;
   [0030]      FIG. 2B is a schematic diagram of division of a false touch area involved
25 in the side menu displaying method according to the another embodiment of the
   present invention;
   [0031]      FIG. 3A is a method flowchart of a side menu displaying method
   according to still another embodiment of the present invention;
   [0032]      FIG. 3B is a schematic diagram of division of a false touch area involved
30 in the side menu displaying method according to the still another embodiment of the
   present invention;
   [0033]      FIG. 4 is a structural block diagram of a side menu displaying apparatus
                                                9

   according to an embodiment of the present invention;
   [0034]      FIG. 5 is a structural block diagram of a side menu displaying apparatus
   according to another embodiment of the present invention; and
   [0035]      FIG. 6 is a schematic structural diagram of a terminal involved in the
 5 embodiments of the present invention.
                           DESCRIPTION OF EMBODIMENTS
   [0036]      To make the objectives, technical solutions, and advantages of the present
   invention clearer, the following further describes embodiments of the present
   invention in detail with reference to the accompanying drawings.
10 [0037]      In the embodiments of the present invention, a terminal may be a mobile
   phone, a tablet computer, an ebook reader, an MP3 player (Moving Picture Experts
   Group Audio Layer III, Moving Picture Experts Group audio layer-3), an MP4
   (Moving Picture Experts Group Audio Layer IV, Moving Picture Experts Group
   audio layer-4) player, and the like.
15 [0038]      Referring to FIG. 1, FIG. 1 shows a method flowchart of a side menu
   displaying method according to an embodiment of the present invention. The side
   menu displaying method is applied to a terminal. The side menu displaying method
   includes the following steps:
   [0039]      Step 102: Receive a sliding operation of sliding starting from a side of a
20 screen.
   [0040]      The terminal receives the sliding operation of sliding starting from the side
   of the screen. The side of the screen refers to an edge of the screen of the terminal.
   Using a rectangle screen as an example, the side of the screen may be any one of four
   sides of the rectangle screen.
25 [0041]      Step 104: Detect whether the sliding operation meets a predefined
   condition, where the predefined condition includes that a sliding speed of the sliding
   operation is greater than a preset threshold, and an end position of the sliding
   operation is not within a preset false touch area.
   [0042]      The terminal detects whether the sliding operation meets the predefined
30 condition. The terminal detects whether the sliding speed of the sliding operation is
   greater than the preset threshold, that is, detects whether the sliding operation is a
   quick sliding operation. In addition, the false touch area refers to an area in which a
                                               10

   side menu is likely to be triggered and displayed unknown to a user. The false touch
   area may be a preset area with a fixed scope and may also be an area with a scope that
   is dynamically adjusted by recording a user operation. The side menu may include a
   notification bar or menu bar that is displayed by pulling down, and may further
 5 include a notification bar or menu bar that is displayed by pulling left or right, and a
   notification bar or menu bar that is displayed by pulling up.
   [0043]      Step 106: Display a side menu corresponding to the side of the screen if a
   detection result is that the sliding operation meets the predefined condition.
   [0044]      If the detection result is that the sliding operation meets the predefined
10 condition, the terminal displays the side menu corresponding to the side of the screen.
   When a detection result is that the sliding speed of the sliding operation is greater than
   the preset threshold, and the end position of the sliding operation is not within the
   preset false touch area, the terminal displays the side menu corresponding to the side
   of the screen
15 [0045]      In conclusion, in the side menu displaying method provided in the
   embodiment, a sliding operation of sliding starting from a side of a screen is received,
   whether the sliding operation meets a predefined condition is detected, and a side
   menu corresponding to the side of the screen is displayed when a detection result is
   that the sliding operation meets the predefined condition. The predefined condition
20 includes that a sliding speed of the sliding operation is greater than a preset threshold,
   and an end position of the sliding operation is not within a preset false touch area.
   This resolves the problem, existing in the prior art, that a misoperation occurs because
   a notification bar is triggered and displayed unknown to a user, and achieves an effect
   that a side menu is triggered and displayed only when a sliding operation is a quick
25 sliding operation and an end position of the sliding operation is not within a false
   touch area, thereby preventing a misoperation that occurs because the side menu is
   triggered and displayed unknown to a user.
   [0046]      As introduced in the embodiment shown in FIG. 1, the false touch area
   may be a preset area with a fixed scope and may also be an area with a scope that is
30 dynamically adjusted by recording a user operation. The following introduces and
   describes the foregoing two cases in detail in embodiments shown in FIG. 2A and
   FIG. 3A. First, in the embodiment shown in FIG. 2A, a false touch area is a preset
   area with a fixed scope.
   [0047]      Referring to FIG. 2A, FIG. 2A shows a method flowchart of a side menu
                                                 11

   displaying method according to another embodiment of the present invention. The
   side menu displaying method is applied to a terminal. The side menu displaying
   method includes the following steps:
   [0048]      Step 201: Preset a false touch area.
 5 [0049]      The false touch area is preset on the terminal. In this embodiment, the false
   touch area is a preset area with a fixed scope. With reference to FIG. 2B, the false
   touch area includes an area enclosed by a side 21 of the screen, two sides adjacent to
   the side 21 of the screen, and a first virtual side 22 parallel with the side 21 of the
   screen.
10 [0050]      The side 21 of the screen refers to an edge of the screen of the terminal.
   Using a rectangle screen as an example, the side 21 of the screen may be any one of
   four sides of the rectangle screen. In this embodiment, a top side of the rectangle
   screen shown in FIG. 2B is used as an example of the side 21 of the screen.
   [0051]      Step 202: Receive a sliding operation of sliding starting from a side of a
15 screen.
   [0052]      The terminal receives the sliding operation of sliding starting from the side
   21 of the screen.
   [0053]      Step 203: Detect whether an end position of the sliding operation is within
   a direct display area.
20 [0054]      The terminal detects whether an end position S of the sliding operation is
   within the direct display area. With reference to FIG. 2B, the direct display area and
   the false touch area do not mutually overlap. The direct display area includes an area
   enclosed by an opposite side 23 of the side 21 of the screen, two sides adjacent to the
   side 21 of the screen, and a second virtual side 24 parallel with the side 21 of the
25 screen.
   [0055]      Specifically, the terminal detects whether a vertical distance a between the
   end position S of the sliding operation and the side 21 of the screen is greater than a
   direct display threshold L 1, where the direct display threshold Li is a distance between
   the side 21 of the screen and the second virtual side 24. The terminal may set up a
30 coordinate system on the screen in advance. The terminal first acquires coordinates of
   the end position S of the sliding operation, then obtains the vertical distance a
   between the end position S and the side 21 of the screen according to the coordinates
   of the end position S, and finally, compares the vertical distance a with the direct
   display threshold L1 .
                                               12

   [0056]      A value of the direct display threshold Li is related to a length of a side
   adjacent to the side 21 of the screen. Generally, the direct display threshold Li is set to
   half of the length of the side adjacent to the side 21 of the screen. As shown in FIG.
   2B, in this embodiment, it is assumed that the direct display threshold Li is half of a
 5 length H of the screen.
   [0057]      If a detection result is that the end position S is within the direct display
   area, the terminal directly displays a side menu corresponding to the side 21 of the
   screen. The side menu may include a notification bar or menu bar that is displayed by
   pulling down, and may further include a notification bar or menu bar that is displayed
10 by pulling left or right, and a notification bar or menu bar that is displayed by pulling
   up. In this embodiment, it is assumed that the side menu is a notification bar that is
   displayed by pulling down. With reference to FIG. 2B, an area below the line of the
   second virtual side 24, that is, the direct display area, is considered as an area in
   which a user intents to perform an operation. When the sliding operation starts from
15 the side 21 of the screen downwards and stops below the line of the second virtual
   side 24, the terminal considers that the sliding operation is an intentional user
   operation. In this case, regardless of a sliding speed of the sliding operation, the
   terminal displays the side menu.
   [0058]      If a detection result is that the end position S is not within the direct
20 display area, step 204 is performed.
   [0059]      Step 204: Detect whether the sliding operation meets a predefined
   condition if a detection result is that the end position is not within the direct display
   area.
   [0060]      If the detection result is that the end position is not within the direct
25 display area, the terminal detects whether the sliding operation meets the predefined
   condition. The predefined condition includes that the sliding speed of the sliding
   operation is greater than a preset threshold, and the end position of the sliding
   operation is not within the preset false touch area.
   [0061]      Specifically, the step includes the following two substeps:
30 [0062]      First, detect whether a vertical distance between the end position of the
   sliding operation and the side of the screen is greater than a false touch threshold.
   [0063]      The terminal detects whether the vertical distance a between the end
   position S of the sliding operation and the side 21 of the screen is greater than a false
   touch threshold L 2 , where the false touch threshold L2 is a distance between the side
                                                13

   21 of the screen and the second virtual side 22. A value of the false touch threshold L2
   is also related to a length of a side adjacent to the side 21 of the screen, and the false
   touch threshold L2 is less than the direct display threshold L 1. Generally, the false
   touch threshold L2 is set to approximately one third of the length of the side adjacent
 5 to the side 21 of the screen. As shown in FIG. 2B, in this embodiment, it is assumed
   that the false touch threshold L2 is one third of the length H of the screen.
   [0064]       When the sliding operation starts from the side 21 of the screen
   downwards and stops before the sliding reaches below the line of the second virtual
   side 24, the terminal considers that the sliding operation may be an unintentional user
10 operation. In this case, the terminal detects whether the vertical distance a between the
   end position S of the sliding operation and the side 21 of the screen is greater than the
   false touch threshold L 2 , that is, detects whether the end position S of the sliding
   operation is within the false touch area.
   [0065]       Second, if a detection result is that the vertical distance is greater than the
15 false touch threshold, detect whether the sliding speed of the sliding operation is
   greater than the preset threshold.
   [0066]       When the detection result is that the vertical distance is greater than the
   false touch threshold L 2 , the predefined condition that the end position S of the sliding
   operation is not within the preset false touch area is met. In this case, the terminal
20 continues to detect whether the sliding speed of the sliding operation is greater than
   the preset threshold.
   [0067]       The sliding speed may be expressed in the number of pixels that are slid
   per unit time. A higher sliding speed indicates that more pixels are slid per unit time;
   on the contrary, a lower sliding speed     indicates that less pixels are slid per unit time.
25 [0068]       In the foregoing first and second substeps, when a detection result is that
   the vertical distance a between the end position S of the sliding operation and the side
   21 of the screen is less than the false touch threshold L2 , or when the detection result
   is that the vertical distance a between the end position S of the sliding operation and
   the side 21 of the screen is greater than the false touch threshold L 2 but the sliding
30 speed is less than the preset threshold, the sliding operation does not meet the
   predefined condition, and in this case, the terminal does not display the side menu.
   Anyway, when the detection result is that the vertical distance a between the end
   position S of the sliding operation and the side 21 of the screen is greater than the
   false touch threshold L2 and the sliding speed is greater than the preset threshold, the
                                                 14

   sliding operation meets the predefined condition, and the terminal performs step 205.
   [0069]      Step 205: Display a side menu corresponding to the side of the screen if a
   detection result is that the sliding operation meets the predefined condition.
   [0070]      If the detection result is that the sliding operation meets the predefined
 5 condition, the terminal displays the side menu corresponding to the side 21 of the
   screen. Specifically, the terminal displays the side menu in the following two possible
   implementation manners:
   [0071]      In a first possible implementation manner, the terminal displays the side
   menu only after determining that the sliding operation meets a condition for
10 displaying the side menu.
   [0072]      In a second possible implementation manner, when receiving the sliding
   operation of sliding starting from the side of the screen, the terminal moves the side
   menu along with a trigger object such as a finger of the user, and completely displays
   the side menu after determining that the sliding operation meets a condition for
15 displaying the side menu, or otherwise withdraws the menu.
   [0073]      In conclusion, this embodiment provides two manners for triggering and
   displaying the side menu: first, the vertical distance a between the end position S of
   the sliding operation and the side 21 of the screen is greater than the direct display
   threshold LI; second, the vertical distance a between the end position S of the sliding
20 operation and the side 21 of the screen is less than the direct display threshold Li, but
   is greater than the false touch threshold L2 , that is, the end position S of the sliding
   operation is not within the preset false touch area and the sliding speed of the sliding
   operation is greater than the preset threshold.
   [0074]      It should be noted that, before step 203, the following step may further be
25 included: The terminal detects whether a vertical distance between a start position of
   the sliding operation and the side of the screen is greater than a trigger threshold,
   where the trigger threshold is less than the false touch threshold; if a detection result
   is that the vertical distance between the start position of the sliding operation and the
   side of the screen is less than the trigger threshold, step 203 is performed; otherwise,
30 no operation is performed. The trigger threshold is generally set to approximately one
   twentieth of a length of a side adjacent to the side of the screen. Setting the trigger
   threshold is to determine whether the start position of the sliding operation is within a
   trigger area between the side of the screen and the line of the trigger threshold. It is
   considered that the sliding operation is a sliding operation that is used to trigger and
                                                 15

   display the side menu only when the start position of the sliding operation is within
   the trigger area.
   [0075]       It should further be noted that the problem raised in the prior art seems
   more notable after a floating touch technology is applied to a terminal. Therefore, in a
 5 screen locking state, the terminal can disable a floating touch function. A user can
   trigger displaying of a side menu only by using a sliding operation with direct contact
   with a screen. Further, the terminal may further collect a distance between the screen
   and an obstacle in front of the screen by using a distance sensor or collect a light
   intensity value of the front of a screen by using a light intensity collector to analyze
10 and determine whether the terminal is in a user operation state. When the distance
   between the screen and the obstacle in front of the screen is less than a predefined
   distance value or when the light intensity value of the front of the screen is less than a
   predefined light intensity value, it is considered that the terminal is not in the user
   operation state, and in this case, none of sliding operations received triggers
15 displaying of a side menu.
   [0076]       In conclusion, in the side menu displaying method provided in the
   embodiment, a sliding operation of sliding starting from a side of a screen is received,
   whether the sliding operation meets a predefined condition is detected, and a side
   menu corresponding to the side of the screen is displayed when a detection result is
20 that the sliding operation meets the predefined condition. The predefined condition
   includes that a sliding speed of the sliding operation is greater than a preset threshold,
   and an end position of the sliding operation is not within a preset false touch area.
   This resolves the problem, existing in the prior art, that a misoperation occurs because
   a notification bar is triggered and displayed unknown to a user, and achieves an effect
25 that a side menu is triggered and displayed only when a sliding operation is a quick
   sliding operation and an end position of the sliding operation is not within a false
   touch area, thereby preventing a misoperation that occurs because the side menu is
   triggered and displayed unknown to a user.
   [0077]       In addition, the embodiment provides a specific manner of determining a
30 false touch area, that is, presetting an area with a fixed scope as a false touch area. In
   this embodiment, presetting a false touch area produces a good effect on shielding
   some unintentional sliding operations of a user.
   [0078]       In the following embodiment shown in FIG. 3A, a false touch area is an
   area that is dynamically adjusted by recording a user operation.
                                                16

   [0079]       Referring to FIG. 3A, FIG. 3A shows a method flowchart of a side menu
   displaying method according to still another embodiment of the present invention.
   The side menu displaying method is applied to a terminal. The side menu displaying
   method includes the following steps:
 5 [0080]       Step 301: Receive a sliding operation of sliding starting from a side of a
   screen.
   [0081]       The terminal receives the sliding operation of sliding starting from the side
   of the screen.
   [0082]       Step 302: Detect whether the sliding operation meets a predefined
10 condition.
   [0083]       The terminal detects whether the sliding operation meets the predefined
   condition, where the predefined condition includes that a sliding speed of the sliding
   operation is greater than a preset threshold, and an end position of the sliding
   operation is not within a preset false touch area. With reference to the embodiment
15 shown in FIG. 2B, in this embodiment, it is assumed that an initially set false touch
   area is an area of one third of a forepart of the screen, that is, an area above the line of
   the first virtual side 22 in the embodiment shown in FIG. 2B. As shown in FIG. 3B,
   an area indicated by transverse lines in the left figure is an initially set false touch
   area.
20 [0084]       Step 303: Display a side menu corresponding to the side of the screen if a
   detection result is that the sliding operation meets the predefined condition.
   [0085]       If the detection result is that the sliding operation meets the predefined
   condition, the terminal displays the side menu corresponding to the side of the screen.
   [0086]       Step 304: Record, in a successful triggering sample library, the sliding
25 operation that successfully triggers displaying of the side menu this time.
   [0087]       The terminal records, in the successful triggering sample library, the
   sliding operation that successfully triggers displaying of the side menu this time,
   where a sliding operation that successfully triggers displaying of the side menu each
   time and an end position of each sliding operation are recorded in the successful
30 triggering sample library.
   [0088]       Step 305: Update a size and/or a location of a false touch area at a preset
   time interval according to distribution density of the end positions of the sliding
   operations on the screen, where the end positions are recorded in the successful
   triggering sample library.
                                                 17

   [0089]       The terminal updates the size and/or the location of the false touch area at
   the preset time interval according to distribution density of the end positions of the
   sliding operations on the screen, where the end positions are recorded in the
   successful triggering sample library. Because users have their own use habits, sliding
 5 operations, including tracks of the sliding operations, sliding distances, and end
   positions of the sliding operations, that the users perform on a terminal are the same
   or similar in most cases. The terminal may adjust the size and/or the location of the
   false touch area at the preset time interval according to the user habits, so that the
   false touch area is more precise, and probability of a misoperation is further reduced.
10 [0090]       Specifically, the step includes the following substeps:
   [0091]       First, divide a predefined area on the screen into at least two subareas.
   [0092]       The terminal divides the predefined area on the screen into at least two
   subareas. With reference to FIG. 3B, the predefined area includes an area enclosed by
   a side 31 of the screen, two sides adjacent to the side 31 of the screen, and a third
15 virtual side 32 parallel with the side of the screen. The terminal divides the predefined
   area on the screen into 6*5=30 subareas.
   [0093]       Second, collect statistics on distribution density of the end positions of the
   sliding operations in each subarea, where the end positions are recorded in the
   successful triggering sample library.
20 [0094]       The terminal collects statistics on distribution density of the end positions
   of the sliding operations in each subarea, where the end positions are recorded in the
   successful triggering sample library. The terminal collects statistics on distribution
   density of end positions in each subarea after recording an end position of a sliding
   operation that successfully triggers displaying of the side menu each time. In this
25 embodiment, it is assumed that distribution density of end positions of sliding
   operations that successfully trigger displaying of the side menu several times is shown
   in the right figure of FIG. 3B.
   [0095]       Third, determine a subarea in which distribution density is lower than
   preset density as a false touch area.
30 [0096]       The terminal determines the subarea in which the distribution density is
   lower than the preset density as the false touch area. Because a subarea with higher
   distribution density is an area in which end positions of habitual sliding operations of
   a user are located, a subarea in which distribution density is higher than the preset
   density is determined as a non-false touch area. Accordingly, a subarea in which
                                                 18

   distribution density is lower than the preset density is determined as a false touch area.
   As shown in FIG. 3B, an area indicated by oblique lines in the right figure is an
   updated false touch area.
   [0097]       After step 304 and step 305, the terminal adjusts the false touch area at the
 5 preset time interval according to the user habit, so that the false touch area is more
   precise, and probability of a misoperation is further reduced. In an actual application,
   initially set false touch areas of a same batch of terminals before factory delivery are
   generally the same; however, after the terminals are used by different users for a
   period of time, updated false touch areas are different due to different user habits of
10 the different users. The terminals have a function of adjusting, after learning a user
   habit, a size and/or a location of a false touch area.
   [0098]       In addition, in this embodiment, recording the end position of the sliding
   operation that successfully triggers displaying of the side menu each time is only used
   as an example for description. The terminal may also determine the size and/or the
15 location of the false touch area by recording a track of the sliding operation that
   successfully triggers displaying of the side menu each time. Displaying of the side
   menu is triggered only when the track of the sliding operation is not within the false
   touch area.
   [0099]       In conclusion, in the side menu displaying method provided in the
20 embodiment, a sliding operation of sliding starting from a side of a screen is received,
   whether the sliding operation meets a predefined condition is detected, and a side
   menu corresponding to the side of the screen is displayed when a detection result is
   that the sliding operation meets the predefined condition. The predefined condition
   includes that a sliding speed of the sliding operation is greater than a preset threshold,
25 and an end position of the sliding operation is not within a preset false touch area.
   This resolves the problem, existing in the prior art, that a misoperation occurs because
   a notification bar is triggered and displayed unknown to a user, and achieves an effect
   that a side menu is triggered and displayed only when a sliding operation is a quick
   sliding operation and an end position of the sliding operation is not within a false
30 touch area, thereby preventing a misoperation that occurs because the side menu is
   triggered and displayed unknown to a user.
   [0100]       In addition, the embodiment provides another specific manner of
   determining a false touch area, that is, updating the size and/or the location of the
   false touch area by recording the sliding operation that successfully triggers
                                                 19

   displaying of the side menu each time, so that the false touch area becomes more
   precise.
   [0101]      The following is an apparatus embodiment of the present invention, and
   may be used to execute the method embodiment of the present invention. For details
 5 not disclosed in the apparatus embodiment of the present invention, refer to the
   method embodiment of the present invention.
   [0102]      Referring to FIG. 4, FIG. 4 shows a structural block diagram of a side
   menu displaying apparatus according to an embodiment of the present invention. The
   side menu displaying apparatus may be implemented as a part or the whole of a
10 terminal by using software, hardware, or a combination of the software and the
   hardware. The side menu displaying apparatus includes: an operation receiving
   module 410, an operation detecting module 420, and a menu displaying module 430.
   [0103]      The operation receiving module 410 is configured to receive a sliding
   operation of sliding starting from a side of a screen.
15 [0104]      The operation detecting module 420 is configured to detect whether the
   sliding operation meets a predefined condition, where the predefined condition
   includes that a sliding speed of the sliding operation is greater than a preset threshold,
   and an end position of the sliding operation is not within a preset false touch area.
   [0105]      The menu displaying module 430 is configured to display a side menu
20 corresponding to the side of the screen if a detection result is that the sliding operation
   meets the predefined condition.
   [0106]      In conclusion, with the side menu displaying apparatus according to the
   embodiment, a sliding operation of sliding starting from a side of a screen is received,
   whether the sliding operation meets a predefined condition is detected, and a side
25 menu corresponding to the side of the screen is displayed when a detection result is
   that the sliding operation meets the predefined condition. The predefined condition
   includes that a sliding speed of the sliding operation is greater than a preset threshold,
   and an end position of the sliding operation is not within a preset false touch area.
   This resolves the problem, existing in the prior art, that a misoperation occurs because
30 a notification bar is triggered and displayed unknown to a user, and achieves an effect
   that a side menu is triggered and displayed only when a sliding operation is a quick
   flicking operation and an end position of the sliding operation is not within a false
   touch area, thereby preventing a misoperation that occurs because the side menu is
   triggered and displayed unknown to a user.
                                               20

   [0107]      Referring to FIG. 5, FIG. 5 shows a structural block diagram of a side
   menu displaying apparatus according to another embodiment of the present invention.
   The side menu displaying apparatus may be implemented as a part or the whole of a
   terminal by using software, hardware, or a combination of the software and the
 5 hardware. The side menu displaying apparatus includes: an operation receiving
   module 410, a direct detecting module 412, an operation detecting module 420, a
   menu displaying module 430, an operation recording module 432, and an area
   updating module 434.
   [0108]      The operation receiving module 410 is configured to receive a sliding
10 operation of sliding starting from a side of a screen.
   [0109]      The direct detecting module 412 is configured to detect whether an end
   position of the sliding operation is within a direct display area, where the direct
   display area and a false touch area do not mutually overlap.
   [0110]      Specifically, the direct detecting module 412 is configured to: when the
15 direct display area includes an area enclosed by an opposite side of the side of the
   screen, two sides adjacent to the side of the screen, and a second virtual side parallel
   with the side of the screen, detect whether a vertical distance between the end position
   of the sliding operation and the side of the screen is greater than a direct display
   threshold, where the direct display threshold is a distance between the side of the
20 screen and the second virtual side, and the direct display threshold is greater than a
   false touch threshold.
   [0111]      The operation detecting module 420 is configured to detect whether the
   sliding operation meets a predefined condition, where the predefined condition
   includes that a sliding speed of the sliding operation is greater than a preset threshold,
25 and an end position of the sliding operation is not within a preset false touch area.
   [0112]      Specifically, the operation detecting module 420 is configured to perform
   the step of detecting whether the sliding operation meets a predefined condition if a
   detection result is that the end position is not within the direct display area.
   [0113]      Specifically, the operation detecting module 420 includes: a distance
30 detecting unit 420a and a speed detecting unit 420b.
   [0114]      The distance detecting unit 420a is configured to: when the false touch
   area includes an area enclosed by the side of the screen, two sides adjacent to the side
   of the screen, and a first virtual side parallel with the side of the screen, detect
   whether a vertical distance between the end position of the sliding operation and the
                                                 21

   side of the screen is greater than the false touch threshold, where the false touch
   threshold is a distance between the side of the screen and the first virtual side.
   [0115]       The speed detecting unit 420b is configured to detect whether the sliding
   speed of the sliding operation is greater than the preset threshold if a detection result
 5 is that the vertical distance is greater than the false touch threshold.
   [0116]       The menu displaying module 430 is configured to display a side menu
   corresponding to the side of the screen if a detection result is that the sliding operation
   meets the predefined condition.
   [0117]       The operation recording module 432 is configured to record, in a
10 successful triggering sample library, the sliding operation that successfully triggers
   displaying of the side menu this time, where a sliding operation that successfully
   triggers displaying of the side menu each time and an end position of each sliding
   operation are recorded in the successful triggering sample library.
   [0118]       The area updating module 434 is configured to update a size and/or a
15 location of the false touch area at a preset time interval according to distribution
   density of the end positions of the sliding operations on the screen, where the end
   positions are recorded in the successful triggering sample library.
   [0119]       Specifically, the area updating module 434 includes an area dividing unit
   434a, a density statistics collecting unit 434b, and an area determining unit 434c.
20 [0120]       The area dividing unit 434a is configured to divide a predefined area on
   the screen into at least two subareas, where the predefined area includes an area
   enclosed by the side of the screen, two sides adjacent to the side of the screen, and a
   third virtual side parallel with the side of the screen.
   [0121]       The density statistics collecting unit 434b is configured to collect statistics
25 on distribution density of the end positions of the sliding operations in each subarea,
   where the end positions are recorded in the successful triggering sample library.
   [0122]       The area determining unit 434c is configured to determine a subarea in
   which the distribution density is lower than preset density as the false touch area.
   [0123]       In conclusion, with the side menu displaying apparatus according to the
30 embodiment, a sliding operation of sliding starting from a side of a screen is received,
   whether the sliding operation meets a predefined condition is detected, and a side
   menu corresponding to the side of the screen is displayed when a detection result is
   that the sliding operation meets the predefined condition. The predefined condition
   includes that a sliding speed of the sliding operation is greater than a preset threshold,
                                                 22

   and an end position of the sliding operation is not within a preset false touch area.
   This resolves the problem, existing in the prior art, that a misoperation occurs because
   a notification bar is triggered and displayed unknown to a user, and achieves an effect
   that a side menu is triggered and displayed only when a sliding operation is a quick
 5 sliding operation and an end position of the sliding operation is not within a false
   touch area, thereby preventing a misoperation that occurs because the side menu is
   triggered and displayed unknown to a user.
   [0124]      In addition, the embodiment provides two specific manners of determining
   a false touch area. First is presetting an area with a fixed scope as the false touch area.
10 The false touch area produces a good effect on shielding a terminal from some
   unintentional sliding operations of a user. Second is updating a size and/or a location
   of the false touch area by recording a sliding operation that successfully triggers
   displaying of a side menu each time, so that the false touch area becomes more
   precise.
15 [0125]      It should be noted that division of the foregoing function modules is taken
   as an example for illustration when the side menu displaying apparatus and the
   terminal that are provided in the embodiments are used for displaying a side menu. In
   an actual application, the foregoing functions may be allocated to different modules
   and implemented according to a requirement. That is, inner structures of the side
20 menu displaying apparatus and the terminal are divided into different function
   modules to complete all or some of the functions described above. In addition, the
   side menu displaying apparatus and the terminal that are provided in the embodiments
   are based on a same idea as the side menu displaying method embodiment. For a
   specific implementation process, refer to the method embodiment, which is not
25 described herein again.
   [0126]      Referring to FIG. 6, FIG. 6 shows a schematic structural diagram of a
   terminal involved in embodiments of the present invention. The terminal may be used
   to implement the side menu            displaying method provided        in the   foregoing
   embodiments.
30 [0127]      The terminal 600 may include parts such as a communications unit 610, a
   memory 620 that includes one or more computer-readable storage media, an inputting
   unit 630, a displaying unit 640, a sensor 650, an audio circuit 660, a wireless
   communications unit 670, a processor 680 that includes one or more processing cores,
   and a power supply 690. A person killed in the art may understand that a structure of
                                                23

   the terminal shown in FIG. 6 does not constitute a limitation on the terminal, parts
   more or less than those shown in FIG. 6 may be included, some parts may be
   combined, or the parts may be arranged in a different way.
   [0128]      The communications unit 610 may be configured to receive and send
 5 information, or during a call, receive and send a signal. The communications unit 610
   may be a network communications device such as an RF (Radio Frequency, radio
   frequency) circuit, a router, or a modem. Particularly, when the communications unit
   610 is an RF circuit, after downlink information of a base station is received, the
   downlink information is processed by one or more processors 680; in addition, related
10 uplink data is sent to the base station. Generally, as a communications unit, the RF
   circuit includes but is not limited to an antenna, at least one amplifier, a tuner, one or
   more oscillators, a subscriber identity module (SIM) card, a transceiver, a coupler, an
   LNA (Low Noise Amplifier, low noise amplifier), a duplexer, and the like. In addition,
   the communications unit 610 may communicate with a network and another device by
15 using wireless      communications.    The wireless    communications     may use any
   communications standard or protocol, including but not limited to GSM (Global
   System of Mobile communication, Global System for Mobile Communications),
   GPRS (General Packet Radio Service, general packet radio service), CDMA (Code
   Division Multiple Access, Code Division Multiple Access), WCDMA (Wideband
20 Code Division Multiple Access, Wideband Code Division Multiple Access), LTE
   (Long Term Evolution, Long Term Evolution), email, SMS (Short Messaging Service,
   short messaging service), and the like. The memory 620 may be configured to store a
   software program and a module, and the processor 680 executes, by running the
   software program and the module that are stored in the memory 620, various function
25 applications and data processing. The memory 620 may mainly include a program
   storage area and a data storage area. The program storage area may store an operating
   system, an application program (such as a sound playing function or an image playing
   function) that is required by at least one function, and the like. The data storage area
   may store data (such as audio data or a phonebook) that is created according to use of
30 the terminal 600, and the like. In addition, the memory 620 may include a high-speed
   random access memory, and may further include a non-volatile memory, for example,
   at least one disk storage device, a flash memory device, or another volatile solid-state
   storage device. Correspondingly, the memory 620 may further includes a storage
   controller, so as to provide the processor 680 and the inputting unit 630 with access to
                                               24

   the memory 620.
   [0129]      The inputting unit 630 may be configured to receive input digital or
   character information, and produce signal input of a keyboard, a mouse, a joystick, or
   an optical or trackball signal, which are related to a user setting and function control.
 5 Preferably, the inputting unit 630 may include a touch-sensitive surface 631 and
   another input device 632. The touch-sensitive surface 631, also referred to as a
   touchscreen or a touchpad, may collect a touch operation (such as an operation that a
   user performs on the touch-sensitive surface 631 or near the touch-sensitive surface
   631 by using any suitable object or accessory such as a finger or a stylus) of a user on
10 or near the touch-sensitive surface, and drives a corresponding connection apparatus
   according to a preset formula. Optionally, the touch-sensitive surface 631 may include
   two parts: a touch detecting apparatus and a touch controller. The touch detecting
   apparatus detects a touch location of a user, detects a signal brought by a touch
   operation, and sends the signal to the touch controller. The touch controller receives
15 touch information from the touch detecting apparatus, converts the touch information
   into touch coordinates, and sends the touch coordinates to the processor 680, and can
   receive and execute a command sent from the processor 680. In addition, the
   touch-sensitive surface 631 may be implemented in multiple types, such as a
   resistance type, a capacitor type, a infrared ray, and a surface acoustic wave. In
20 addition to the touch-sensitive surface 631, the inputting unit 630 may further include
   another input device 632. Preferably, the another input device 632 may include but is
   not limited to one or more of a physical keyboard, a function key (such as a volume
   control key or a power key), a trackball, a mouse, a joystick, and the like.
   [0130]      The displaying unit 640 may be configured to display information input by
25 a user, or information provided to a user, and various graphical user interfaces of the
   terminal 600, where the graphical user interfaces may be formed by a graphical image,
   a text, an icon, a video, and any combination thereof. The displaying unit 640 may
   include a display panel 641, and optionally, the display panel 641 may be configured
   in the form of an LCD (Liquid Crystal Display, liquid crystal display), an OLED
30 (Organic Light-Emitting Diode, organic light-emitting diode), and the like. Further,
   the touch-sensitive surface 631 may cover the display panel 641. When the
   touch-sensitive surface 631 detects a touch operation on or near the touch-sensitive
   surface 631, the touch-sensitive surface 631 sends a signal to the processor 680 to
   determine a type of a touch event, and then the processor 680 provides corresponding
                                               25

   visual output on the display panel 641 according to the type of the touch event.
   Although the touch-sensitive surface 631 and the display panel 641 are used as two
   independent parts for implementing input and output functions in FIG. 6, in some
   embodiments, the touch-sensitive surface 631 may be integrated with the display
 5 panel 641 to implement the input and output functions.
   [0131]      The terminal 600 may further include at least one type of sensor 650, such
   as an optical sensor, a motion sensor, and other sensors. The optical sensor may
   include an ambient light sensor and a proximity sensor. The ambient light sensor may
   adjust brightness of the display panel 641 according to light and shade of ambient
10 light rays, and the proximity sensor may turn off the display panel 641 and/or
   backlight when the terminal 600 is placed near an ear. As a type of motion sensor, a
   gravity acceleration sensor can detect magnitude of accelerations in various directions
   (generally, three axes), and can detect magnitude and a direction of the gravity when
   staying still, which may be applied to an application for recognizing a phone posture
15 (such as landscape and portrait view switching, related games, and magnetometer
   posture calibration), a function related to vibration recognition (such as a pedometer,
   and a knock), and the like. For the terminal 600, a gyroscope, a barometer, a
   hygrometer, a thermometer, an infrared sensor, and other sensors may be further
   configured, which are not described in detail herein.
20 [0132]      The audio circuit 660, a loudspeaker 661, and a microphone 662 can
   provide an audio interface between a user and the terminal 600. The audio circuit 660
   may transmit, to the loudspeaker 661, an electrical signal converted from received
   audio data, and the loudspeaker 661 converts the electrical signal into a sound signal
   for output. In another aspect, the microphone 662 converts a collected sound signal
25 into an electrical signal, the audio circuit 660 converts the electrical signal into audio
   data upon receipt of the electrical signal and outputs the audio data to the processor
   680 for processing, and then the audio data is sent to, for example, another terminal,
   by using the RF circuit 610, or the audio data is outputted to the memory 620 for
   further processing. The audio circuit 660 may further include an earplug jack, so as to
30 provide an external earphone for communication with the terminal 600.
   [0133]      To implement wireless communications, the wireless communications unit
   670 may be configured on the terminal. The wireless communications unit 670 may
   be a WI-FI module. WI-FI belongs to a short-range wireless transmission technology.
   The terminal 600 may help, by using the wireless communications unit 670, a user
                                                26

   receive and send an email, browse a web page, access stream media, and the like. The
   wireless communications unit 670 provides a user with wireless broadband Internet
   access. Although FIG. 6 shows the wireless communications unit 670, it can be
   understood that the wireless communications unit 670 is not a must-have component
 5 of the terminal 600, and may be totally omitted according to a requirement within a
   scope of retaining the essence of the present invention.
   [0134]      The processor 680 is a control center of the terminal 600, is connected to
   each part of an entire mobile phone by using various interfaces and lines, and
   executes various functions of the terminal 600 and processes data by running or
10 executing a software program and/or a module stored in the memory 620 and by
   invoking data stored in the memory 620, so as to perform overall monitoring on the
   mobile phone. Optionally, the processor 680 may include one or more processing
   cores. Preferably, the processor 680 may integrate an application processor and a
   modem processor. The application processor mainly processes an operating system, a
15 user interface, an application program, and the like, and the modem processor mainly
   processes wireless communications. It can be understood that the processor 680 may
   also not integrate the modem processor.
   [0135]      The terminal 600 further includes the power supply 690 (such as a battery)
   that supplies power to the parts. Preferably, the power supply may be logically
20 connected to the processor 680 by using a power management system, so as to
   implement, by using the power management system, a management function such as
   management of charging, discharging, and power consumption. The power supply
   690 may further include one or more direct current or alternating current power
   supplies, a rechargeable system, a power failure detection circuit, a power converter
25 or an inverter, a power status indicator, and any other components.
   [0136]      Although not shown in FIG. 6, the terminal 600 may further include a
   camera, a Bluetooth module, and the like, which are not described in detail herein. In
   this embodiment, the terminal further includes a memory, and one or more programs,
   where the one or more programs are stored in the memory and executed, after
30 configuration, by one or more processors. The one or more programs include an
   instruction used for executing the side menu displaying method provided in the
   embodiment shown in FIG. 1, FIG. 2A, or FIG. 3A in the present invention.
   [0137]      With descriptions of the foregoing embodiments, a person skilled in the art
   may clearly understand that the present invention may be implemented by hardware,
                                               27

   firmware or a combination thereof. When the present invention is implemented by
   software, the foregoing functions may be stored in a computer-readable medium or
   transmitted as one or more instructions or code in the computer-readable medium. The
   computer-readable       medium    includes    a   computer    storage    medium      and  a
 5 communications medium, where the communications medium includes any medium
   that enables a computer program to be transmitted from one place to another. The
   storage medium may be any available medium accessible to a computer. The
   following     provides   an   example    but    does  not   impose     a   limitation:  The
   computer-readable medium may include a RAM, a ROM, an EEPROM, a CD-ROM,
10 or another optical disc storage or a disk storage medium, or another magnetic storage
   device, or any other medium that can carry or store expected program code in a form
   of an instruction or a data structure and can be accessed by a computer. In addition,
   any connection may be appropriately defined as a computer-readable medium. For
   example, if software is transmitted from a website, a server or another remote source
15 by using a coaxial cable, an optical fiber/cable, a twisted pair, a digital subscriber line
   (DSL) or wireless technologies such as infrared ray, radio and microwave, the coaxial
   cable, optical fiber/cable, twisted pair, DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared
   ray, radio and microwave are included in fixation of a medium to which they belong.
   For example, a disk (Disk) and disc (disc) used by the present invention includes a
20 compact disc CD, a laser disc, an optical disc, a digital versatile disc (DVD), a floppy
   disk and a Blu-ray disc, where the disk generally copies data by a magnetic means,
   and the disc copies data optically by a laser means. The foregoing combination should
   also be included in the protection scope of the computer-readable medium.
   [0138]       It should be understood that the singular form "one" ("a", "an", "the") used
25 in this specification is intended to further include a plural form unless the context
   clearly supports an otherwise case. It should further be understood that the "and/or"
   used in this specification refers to any one or all possible combinations of one or more
   related listed items.
   [0139]       Sequence numbers in the embodiments of the present invention are merely
30 for illustrative purposes, and are intended to indicate priorities of the embodiments.
   [0140]       A person of ordinary skill in the art may understand that all or some of the
   steps of the embodiments may be implemented by hardware or a program instructing
   related hardware. The program may be stored in a computer-readable storage medium.
   The storage medium may include: a read-only memory, a magnetic disk, or an optical
                                                28

  disc.
  [0141]      The foregoing descriptions are merely exemplary embodiments of the
  present invention, but are not intended to limit the present invention. Any
  modification, equivalent replacement, and improvement made without departing from
5 the spirit and principle of the present invention shall fall within the protection scope
  of the present invention.
                                             29

                                             CLAIMS
   What is claimed is:
   1. A side menu displaying method, applied to a terminal, wherein the terminal
   comprising a screen, wherein the method comprises:
 5       receiving a sliding operation of sliding starting from a side of the screen;
         moving the side menu corresponding to the side of the screen when receiving the
   sliding operation;
         displaying the side menu when the sliding operation meets a predefined
   condition;
10       withdrawing the side menu when the sliding operation does not meet the
   predefined condition.
         2. The method according to claim 1, wherein the predefined condition comprises:
   a vertical distance between the end position of the sliding operation and the side of the
   screen is greater than a first threshold.
15       3. The method according to claim 1, wherein the predefined condition comprises:
         a vertical distance between the end position of the sliding operation and the side
   of the screen is less than a first threshold, and the vertical distance between the end
   position of the sliding operation and the side of the screen is greater than a second
   threshold, and sliding speed of the sliding operation is greater than a preset threshold,
20 wherein the first threshold is greater than the second threshold.
         4. The method according to any one of claims 1 to 3, wherein when receiving the
   sliding operation of sliding starting from the side of a screen, the terminal is in
   locking state.
         5 The method according to any one of claims 1 to 3, wherein when receiving the
25 sliding operation of sliding starting from the side of a screen, the terminal is in
   unlocking state.
         6. A terminal, wherein the terminal comprises:
         a memory, and one or more programs, wherein the one or more programs are
   stored in the memory and executed, after configuration, by one or more processors,
30 wherein:
         the one or more programs comprise an instruction used for performing the
   following operations:
                                                30

         receiving a sliding operation of sliding starting from a side of a screen;
         moving the side menu corresponding to the side of the screen when receiving the
   sliding operation;
         displaying the side menu when the sliding operation meets a predefined
 5 condition;
         withdrawing the side menu when the sliding operation does not meet the
   predefined condition.
         7. The terminal according to claim 6, wherein the predefined condition
   comprises: a vertical distance between the end position of the sliding operation and
10 the side of the screen is greater than a first threshold.
         8. The terminal according to claim 6, wherein the predefined condition
   comprises: a vertical distance between the end position of the sliding operation and
   the side of the screen is less than a first threshold, and the vertical distance between
   the end position of the sliding operation and the side of the screen is greater than a
15 second threshold, and sliding speed of the sliding operation is greater than a preset
   threshold, wherein the first threshold is greater than the second threshold.
         9. The terminal according to any one of claims 6 to 8, wherein when receiving
   the sliding operation of sliding starting from the side of a screen, the terminal is in
   locking state.
20       10. The terminal according to any one of claims 6 to 8, wherein when receiving
   the sliding operation of sliding starting from the side of a screen, the terminal is in
   unlocking state.
         11. A computer readable medium storing computer executable instructions which
   cause one or more processors to execute a method according to any one of claims 1 to
25 5.
                                                 31

<removed-date>
                                               1/6
                                                                            102
                 Receive a sliding operation of sliding starting from a
                                   side of a screen
                                                                            104
                     Detect whether the sliding operation meets a
                 predefined condition, where the predefined condition
                 includes that a sliding speed of the sliding operation
<removed-apn>
                    is greater than a preset threshold, and an end
                 position of the sliding operation is not within a preset
                                     false touch area
                                                                            106
                 Display a side menu corresponding to the side of the
                     screen if a detection result is that the sliding
                       operation meets the predefined condition
                                             FIG. 1
                                                                        201
                            Preset a false touch area
                                                                        202
              Receive a sliding operation of sliding starting from a
                                side of a screen
                                                                        203
                  Detect whether an end position of the sliding
                    operation is within a direct display area
                                                                        204
                  Detect whether the sliding operation meets a
               predefined condition if a detection result is that the
                end position is not within the direct display area
                                                                        205
              Display a side menu corresponding to the side of the
                  screen if a detection result is that the sliding
                    operation meets the predefined condition
                                            FIG. 2A

                                                     <removed-apn>               <removed-date>
                                           21
            7:37 pm
                                                     L2=H/3
                                                A
    a
         Vibrate WLAN     GPS      Data Brightness                     L1=H/2
                                  switch
                                                      First virtual side 22
        Notification
                               S          15:30
            Dear subscriber, your mobile data                                   Second
H           traffic in the package this month is                              virtual side
                                                                                   24
                                                                                             2/6
                                      23
                                    FIG. 2B

<removed-date>
                                           3/6
                                                                        301
              Receive a sliding operation of sliding starting from a
                                side of a screen
                                                                        302
                 Detect whether the sliding operation meets a
                            predefined condition
<removed-apn>
                                                                        303
              Display a side menu corresponding to the side of the
                  screen if a detection result is that the sliding
                    operation meets the predefined condition
                                                                        304
               Record, in a successful trigger sample library, the
              sliding operation that successfully triggers display of
                             the side menu this time
                                                                        305
              Update a size and/or a location of a false touch area
              at a preset interval according to distribution density
              of end positions of sliding operations on the screen,
                  where the end positions are recorded in the
                      successful triggering sample library
                                        FIG. 3A

                      4/6
<removed-date>
                                       31
<removed-apn>
                     Update
                                        32
                    FIG. 3B
                                 410
                  Operation
              receiving module
                                 420
                  Operation
              detecting module
                                 430
              Menu displaying
                 module
                     FIG. 4

                           5/6
<removed-date>
                                    410
                  Operation
              receiving module
                                    412
              Direct detecting
                  module
                                   420a
<removed-apn>
                 Distance
               detecting unit
                                   420b
              Speed detecting      Operation
                   unit             detecting
                                   module 420
                                   430
              Menu displaying
                 module
                                    432
                  Operation
              recording module
                                   434a
               Area dividing
                   unit
                                   434b
              Density statistics
               collecting unit
                                   434c
              Area determining
                    unit
                                   Area updating
                                    module 434
                         FIG. 5

                                                                         <removed-apn>                  <removed-date>
                                                 600
            610        Communications                            Wireless                      670
                           unit                              communications unit
      690
                                                                                           660
                       680                                                                                  661
            Power
            supply                                                             Audio circuit
620
                                                 Processor
                                                                                                           662
              Memory                                                                                 650
                                                                                 Sensor
                                                                                                                  6/6
                             Inputting unit            631
      630              Touch-sensitive surface
                                                             Displaying unit                   640
                        Another input device
                                                             Display panel
                             632                                 641
                                                  FIG. 6

