                                        ABSTRACT
         A fire protection device for a structural cable is proposed including taut metal
reinforcements and having a first stretch, a second stretch and a connection zone of a collar
located between the first and second stretches. The fire protection device comprises a
protective mattress surrounding the structural cable in the first and second stretches and
interrupted in the connection zone, and a thermally insulating ring more rigid than the
protective mattress, arranged between the reinforcements and the collar in the connection
zone and cooperating with the protective mattress in order to provide the reinforcements with
a continuous thermal protection along the first stretch, of the connection zone and of the
second stretch.

                         1/2
  FIG. 1
                                    16
                              P
                    20           22    14
           37                   38
     36a--
36--
     36b         --
              32              30
                       FIG. 3

                                                   -1
             Fire Protection Device for a Structural Cable
   [0001]    This invention relates to the fire protection of cables having a structural role in
   construction works, in particular works that have stayed or suspended portions or
 5 rigidified with cables.
                                           BACKGROUND
   [0002]    One of the major risks for a cable structure in the operating phase is fire, in
   particular of a vehicle, in particular in the vicinity of a cable securing zone, for example on
   a causeway.
10 [0003]    A structural cable of such a work comprises taut metal reinforcements in order to
   transmit the forces required between its ends. The reinforcements are for example metal
   strands possibly contained in individuals sheathes made of plastic material. The harness of
   metal reinforcements is often surrounded by a collective sheath made of plastic material
   which provides the cable with aerodynamic properties, an aesthetic aspect and/or an anti
15 vandalism function.
   [00041    WO 2007/093703 A2 describes a fire protection system comprising a mattress
   comprised of a flexible insulating material that directly surrounds the reinforcement
   harness of the cable and which is contains in the collective sheath.
   [00051    This system has for limitation not making it possible to effectively protect the
20 cable in certain singular points where it interacts with other members of the structure. For
   example, if a deviator or a damper is applied against the cable, the presence of the flexible
   material of the mattress prevents good communication of the forces and good operation of
   this member.
   [0006]    Singular points of this type are often present in the vicinity of the anchorings of
25 the cables. This is the case for example for installing dampers of stay cables. Examples are
   described in EP 0 343 054 Al and WO 2015/059413 Al.
   [0007]    These singular points are weak points of the fire protection.
   [0008]    In case of fire, the priority is to protect the reinforcement harness of the cable,
   even if peripheral equipment has to be replaced such as a damper or a deviator.

                                                  -2
    [0009]    A difficulty is that the fire protection of singular points where peripheral
    equipment is connected must not decrease the correct operation thereof during the normal
    operation of the structure. For example, a damper or deviator collar must offer a
    sufficiently rigid point of support between the cable itself and the damping or deviator
 5 device. This constraint can contradict the implementation of good fire protection solutions,
   in particular those implementing a flexible mattress surrounding the reinforcements of the
   cable. This mattress passing through a collar would constitute a flexible interface, that
   decreases, for example, the performance of a cross damper anchored on this collar.
   Typically, the value of the transverse rigidity, in any direction orthogonal to the
10 longitudinal axis of the cable, of the collar is never less than 106 N/m (100 kgf/mm) and
    advantageously greater than 108 N/m (10 tf/mm).
    [0010]    A purpose of this invention is to propose another method of protection capable of
    overcoming at least partially the difficulties hereinabove.
    [0010AI   Reference to any prior art in the specification is not an acknowledgment or
15  suggestion that this prior art forms part of the common general knowledge in any
   jurisdiction or that this prior art could reasonably be expected to be combined with other
   pieces of prior art by a skilled person in the art.
                                             SUMMARY
    [0011]    A device for the fire protection of a structural cable of a construction work is
20 proposed, the structural cable comprising taut metal reinforcements and having a first
    stretch, a second stretch and a connection zone of a collar located between the first and
    second stretches. The fire protection device includes:
           - a protective mattress surrounding the structural cable at least in the first and
              second stretches and interrupted in the connection zone; and
25         -  a thermally insulating ring more rigid than the protective mattress, arranged
              between the reinforcements and the collar in the connection zone and cooperating
              with the protective mattress in order to provide the reinforcements with
              continuous thermal protection along the first stretch, the connection zone and the
              second stretch.
30  [0012]    The devices procure auxiliary protection at the singularities that form the

                                                   -3
   connection zones of collars while still protecting the reinforcement harness by a protective
   mattress on either side of such connection zones.
   [0013]   The continuity of the protection prevents the thermal bridges that would be able
   to transmit the heat released by a fire in the vicinity of the cable to the metal
 5 reinforcements.
   [0014]   The fire protection can be limited to a zone adjacent to an anchoring of the cable,
   or extend over the entire length of the cable, according to the risk of fire to be taken into
   consideration for the work.
   [0015]   In an embodiment, the insulating ring comprises several elements assembled
10 around reinforcements, in mutual contact along surfaces lined with a firebreak seal.
   [0016]   A deviator tube made of plastic material can be placed between the insulating
   ring and the reinforcements in the connection zone.
   [0017]   A fibre-reinforced concrete can be used, among other materials, to carry out the
   insulating ring. The fibre-reinforced concrete can include metal fibres and polypropylene
15 fibres
   [0018]   The protective mattress can be comprised of several segments arranged end-to
   end in at least one of the first and second stretches of the structural cable, with an overlay
   mattress being placed around two adjacent segments in order to ensure the continuity of
   the thermal protection.
20 [0019]   In order to ensure the continuity of the thermal protection on either side of the
   connection zone, the protective mattress can be placed longitudinally in contact with the
   insulating ring on the side of the first stretch and on the side of the second stretch.
   [0020]   It can also be provided that the protective mattress has a portion that has a
   longitudinal overlay with the thermally insulating ring, reinforcements and the thermally
25 insulating ring.
   [0021]   Another possibility, which can also supplement the preceding ones, is to have an
   intumescent material at the interface between the protective mattress and the insulating
   ring on the side of the first stretch and on the side of the second stretch.
   [0022]   An embodiment of the fire protection device further comprises, in at least one of

                                                 -4
   the first and second stretches, a tube wherein the reinforcements of the structural cable are
   housed, with the protective mattress being arranged around this tube.
   [0023]    In a typical embodiment, the insulating ring has a rigidity at least 100 times
   greater than that of the protective mattress.
 5 [0024]    Another aspect of the invention relates to a construction work comprising at least
   one structural cable and a collar connected to the structural cable in a connection zone.
   The structural cable comprises taut metal reinforcements and a first stretch and a second
   stretch on either side of the connection zone of the collar. The construction work further
   comprises a fire protection device including:
10        - a protective mattress surrounding the structural cable at least in the first and
             second stretches; and
          - a thermally insulating ring more rigid than the protective mattress, arranged
             between the reinforcements and the collar in the connection zone and cooperating
             with the protective mattress in order to provide the reinforcements with a
15           continuous thermal protection along the first stretch, the connection zone and the
             second stretch.
   [0025]    According to an embodiment of the work, the structural cable further comprises
   an outer sheath surrounding the reinforcements and the protective mattress in at least one
   of the first and second stretches.
20 [0026]    The collar can have for function to provide a connection of at least one damper
   element to the structural cable in order to dampen the vibrations of the structural cable.
   [0027]    The construction work can in particular consist in a cable-stayed bridge, an
   extradosed bridge, a suspension bridge or a cable-stayed tower.
   [0027A]   As used herein, except where the context requires otherwise, the term 'comprise'
25 and variations of the term, such as 'comprising', 'comprises' and 'comprised', are not
   intended to exclude other additives, components, integers or steps.
                         BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
   [00281    Other particularities and advantages of this invention shall appear in the
   description hereinafter of a non-limiting example of an embodiment, in reference to the

                                                 -5
   annexed drawings, wherein:
          - figure 1 is a diagrammatical profile view of a cable-stayed bridge;
          - figure 2 is an axial cross-section view of a stay cable in the vicinity of a
            connection collar of a damping device; and
 5        - figure 3 is a transverse section of the stay cable on the collar.
                              DESCRIPTION OF EMBODIMENTS
   [0029]   The invention is described hereinafter in its non-limiting application to cable
   stayed bridges. It is understood that it can also be applied in extradosed bridges,
   suspension bridges or cable-stayed towers. The structural cables that are to be protected
10 from fire can also be outer pre-stressed cables of works made of concrete.
   [00301   In the example of figure 1 the structural cables considered 16 are the stay cables
   of a bridge that extend between a pylon 20 of the bridge and its deck 14 in order to
   suspend the deck 14.
   [00311   One or several stay cables 16 are provided with a damping device 22 comprising
15 an arm that extends transversally to the stay cable 16 between an attaching point P located
   in the vicinity of the low anchoring thereof (for example at a few % points of the total
   length of the stay cable) and the deck 14.
   [00321   To connect the arm of a damping device 22 to its stay cable 16 at point P, use is
   made of a collar 30 such as the one shown in figures 2 and 3.
20 [00331   A similar collar can be used to connect the structural cable to a fixed deviator
   (without damper) through which it bears, for example, on a stayed structure or a stay
   pylon. Another example of application is for a hanging collar located in the vicinity of the
   deck of a suspension bridge. When a hanging collar is at a height less than about 10 m,
   even up to 18-20 m, it can be affected by a vehicle fire, in such a way that the
25 measurements described hereinafter can advantageously be adopted.
   [0034]   The structural cable that forms the stay cable 16 comprises a harness of metal
   reinforcements 32, which are stretched between two anchoring devices (not shown)
   arranged at its ends, one on the deck 14 and the other on the pylon 20. The reinforcements
   32 are for example strands, in particular strands that are individually sheathed and greased

                                                    -6
   or waxed.
   [00351     In the main portion of the stay cable 16, the reinforcements 32 are protected from
   fire by a flexible protective mattress 34, which can, for example, be formed in a similar
   way, in particular with the same materials as the one described in WO 2007/093703 A2.
 5 The mattress 34 can extend over the entire length of the stay cable, or only over a portion
   of the latter if the fire protection is not required over the entire length.
   [00361     Figure 2 shows the connection zone 40 of the collar 30, which is located between
   a first stretch 41 and a second stretch 42 of the stay cable 16. Each stretch 41, 42 extends
   from the connection zone 40 either to an anchoring of the stay cable, or to another singular
10 point, or to a point of the main portion starting from which the protective mattress is no
   longer required.
   [00371     The protective mattress 34 surrounds the stay cable 16 in the first and second
   stretches 41, 42, and it is interrupted in the connection zone 40. Indeed, the flexibility of
   the mattress 34 is not necessarily suitable for the function of the equipment connected to
15 the stay cable 16 via the collar 30. A more rigid interaction is typically required at this
   level.
   [00381     For this, a ring 36, is more rigid than the protective mattress 34 (K time more
   rigid with K      100 for example, even K > 10,000), is arranged between the reinforcements
   32 and the collar 30 in the connection zone 40. The rigidity of the insulating ring 36 can
20 be greater than 106 N/m, or even 108 N/m.
   [00391     The ring 36 is also used to prevent the thermal bridges between the metal
   reinforcements of the stay cable 16 and the collar 30. It is thermally insulating and
   cooperates with the protective mattress 34 in order to provide the reinforcements with
   continuous thermal protection all along the first stretch 41, of the connection zone 40 and
25 of the second stretch 42.
   [0040]     The insulating ring 36 can be made from a fibre-reinforced concrete, in particular
   a fibre-reinforced concrete with ultra-high performance (UHPC). The fibres that make up
   the composition        of the fibre-reinforced      concrete  can    include metal fibres  and
   polypropylene fibres. The metal fibres improve the mechanical strength of the ring 36,
30 while the polypropylene fibres improve the resistance thereof in the event of an increase in

                                                  -7
   the temperature, by limiting weakening caused by spalling.
   [0041]    The insulating ring 36 is manufactured in several moulded elements 36a, 36b
   which are then assembled around the reinforcement harness 32. In the example shown in
   figure 3, the ring 36 is comprised of two moulded half-shells 36a, 36b assembled around
 5 reinforcements 32. A firebreak seal 37 is placed on the surfaces of mutual contact of the
   two moulded half-shells 36a, 36b.
   [00421    It is desirable to prevent contact of the concrete on the metal reinforcements 32 of
   the stay cable. For this, a deviator tube 38 is inserted between the ring 36 and the
   reinforcement harness 32. The tube 38 is made of plastic material, for example a high
10 density polyethylene (HDPE). It has a toric geometry on its inner face in order to
   accommodate small deviations that the reinforcement harness 32 is subjected to at the
   collar 30. If the reinforcement harness 32 has a polygonal transverse section (hexagonal in
   the case of figure 3), the deviator tube 38 can be formed by arranging several plates made
   of plastic material against the faces of the harness before setting the elements 36a, 36b of
15 the ring 36 into place.
   [00431    The left portion of figure 2 shows that as an option, a tube 44 can be provided
   that contains the reinforcement harness 32 and which is surrounded by the protective
   mattress 34. This tube 44, for example made of HDPE, adds an air gap between the
   reinforcements 32 and the mattress 34 and, in this way, further increase the thermal
20 protection of the reinforcements in the event of fire. Such a tube can be present in one of
   the stretches 41, 42, or in both.
   [0044]    In order to cover a sufficient length along the stay cable 16, it is generally
   necessary to install end-to-end several segments 34a, 34b of the protective mattress 34 in
   at least one of the stretches 41, 42 (figure 2). In order to ensure the continuity of the fire
25 protection in the main portion of the stay cable, an overlay mattress 35 is placed around
   two adjacent segments 34a, 34b in such a way as to entirely cover the existing seal
   between them.
   [0045]    The mattress 34 is held on the cable 16 using an adhesive or strapping strips, or a
   combination of these two types of means.
30 [0046]    Figure 2 further shows that the protective mattress 34 is placed longitudinally in

                                                 -8
   contact with the insulating ring 36 on the side of the first stretch 41 and on the side of the
   second stretch 42. A few additional measurements can be taken in order to perfect the
   continuity of the protection between the connection zone 40 and one or the other of the
   stretches 41, 42.
 5 [00471    In particular, a longitudinal overlay can be arranged between the thermally
   insulating ring 36 and a portion of the protective mattress 34 (figure 2). This portion as an
   overlay 48 of the protective mattress 34 is inserted between the reinforcements 32 and the
   ring 36, in contact with the reinforcement harness 32.
   [00481    When a tube 44 is present between the reinforcements 32 and the protective
10 mattress 34, allowances of the fire protection mattress 45, 46 can be added in the vicinity
   of the ring 36 in order to offset the thickness of the air gap and of the tube 44.
   [00491    In addition, it is often suitable to coat an intumescent material at the interface
   between the protective mattress 34 and the insulating ring 36. In case of excessive heating,
   this material swells in order to prevent the conducting of the heat in the direction of the
15 reinforcements 32.
   [00501    The flexible fire protection mattress arranged on either side of the collar 30 and
   of the insulating ring 36 will generally not be directly exposed to the open air. It will be
   covered by a tubular sheath (not shown) comprised either of a steel tube, for a plastic
   sheath (HDPE). This sheath gives the stay cable an aerodynamic and aesthetic profile and
20 mechanically protects the mattress.
   [00511    The embodiments described hereinabove are a simple illustration of this
   invention. Various modifications can be made without leaving the scope of the invention
   that emerges from the annexed claims.

                                                  -9
                                               CLAIMS
    1.       Fire protection device for a structural cable of a construction work, with the
   structural cable comprising taut metal reinforcements and having a first stretch, a second
   stretch and a connection zone of a collar located between the first and second stretches,
 5 with the fire protection device including:
             a protective mattress surrounding the structural cable at least in the first and
   second stretches and interrupted in the connection zone; and
             a thermally insulating ring more rigid than the protective mattress, arranged
   between the reinforcements and the collar in the connection zone and cooperating with the
10 protective mattress in order to provide the reinforcements with a continuous thermal
   protection along the first stretch, of the connection zone and of the second stretch.
   2.        Fire protection device according to claim 1, wherein the insulating ring comprises
   several elements assembled around reinforcements, in mutual contact along surfaces lined
   with a firebreak seal.
15 3.        Fire protection device as claimed in any preceding claim, wherein a deviator tube
   made of plastic material is placed between, the insulating ring and the reinforcements in
   the connection zone.
   4.        Fire protection device as claimed in any preceding claim, wherein the insulating
   ring is made from a fibre-reinforced concrete.
20 5.        Fire protection device according to claim 4, wherein the fibre-reinforced concrete
   includes metal fibres and polypropylene fibres.
   6.        Fire protection device as claimed in any preceding claim, wherein the protective
   mattress is comprised of several segments arranged end-to-end in at least one of the first
   and second stretches of the structural cable, with an overlay mattress being placed around
25 two adjacent segments in order to pride the continuity of the thermal protection.

                                                  - 10
   7.        Fire protection device as claimed in any preceding claim, wherein the protective
   mattress is placed longitudinally in contact with the insulating ring on the side of the first
   stretch and on the side of the second stretch.
   8.        Fire protection device as claimed in any preceding claim, wherein the protective
 5 mattress has a portion that has a longitudinal overlay with the thermally insulating ring,
   between the reinforcements and the thermally insulating ring.
   9.        Fire protection device as claimed in any preceding claim, wherein an intumescent
   material is arranged at the interface between the protective mattress and the insulating ring
   on the side of the first stretch and on the side of the second stretch.
10  10.      Fire protection device as claimed in any preceding claim, further comprising, in
   at least one of the first and second stretches, a tube wherein are housed the reinforcements
   of the structural cable, with the protective mattress being arranged around said tube.
    11.      Fire protection device as claimed in any preceding claim, wherein the insulating
   ring has a rigidity at least 100 times greater than that of the protective mattress.
15  12.      Construction work comprising at least one structural cable and a collar connected
   to the structural cable in a connection zone, the structural cable comprising taut metal
   reinforcements and having a first stretch and a second stretch on either side of the
   connection zone of the collar, with the construction work further comprising a fire
   protection device including:
20           a protective mattress surrounding the structural cable at least in the first and
   second stretches; and
             a thermally insulating ring more rigid than the protective mattress, arranged
   between the reinforcements and the collar in the connection zone and cooperating with the
   protective mattress in order to provide the reinforcements with a continuous thermal
25 protection along the first stretch, from the connection zone and of the second stretch.

                                               - 11
  13.      Construction work according to claim 12, wherein the structural cable further
  comprises an outer sheath surrounding the reinforcements and the protective mattress in at
  least one of the first and second stretches.
  14.      Construction work according to any of claims 12 and 13, wherein the collar
5 provides a connection of at least one damper element to the structural cable in order to
  dampen vibrations of the structural cable.
  15.      Construction work according to any of claims 12 to 14, comprised of a cable
  stayed bridge, an extradosed bridge, a suspension bridge or a cable-stayed tower.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
