                                              ABSTRACT
Method of forming a polymer film on a polymer surface, comprising the steps of hydroxylating the
polymer surface in a hydroxylation solution, halogenating the polymer surface and performing
surface initiated atom-transfer radical-polymerization on the polymer surface, wherein the surface
initiated atom-transfer radical-polymerization forms a polymer film on the polymer surface.

WO 2014/189610                               PCT/US2014/031605
                           1/7
                                         110
                 Hydroxylate The Polymer
                         Surface
                             IF          120
                 Halogenate the Polymer
                         Surface
                                         130
                 Perform Surface Initiated
               ATRP on the Polymer Surface
                       FIG. I

WO 2014/189610                                                          PCT/US2014/031605
                                            1
            METHODS OF FORMING A POLYMER LAYER ON A POLYMER
                                       SURFACE
 CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATION(S)
 [0001]        This application claims priority to U.S.       Provisional Application No.
 61/826,141, filed May 22, 2013, the entirety of which is hereby incorporated by
 reference.
 BACKGROUND
 [0002]        Membranes are widely used in a variety of applications to separate and
 purify liquid and gas streams. The most widely used material for the separation layer of
 membranes are polymers. Many polymeric materials have desirable membrane
 properties. However, many of these polymer materials can only be used by forming the
 polymer material on a support material. Exemplary support materials include polymers,
 plastics, metals, ceramics, and organic material. The support material may be porous
 or non-porous. The support material is generally required because the separation layer
 is thin and delicate.
 [0003]        Various methods have been used to form thin separation layers on support
 material.    Traditional approaches involve solution-deposition, plasma polymerization,
 interfacial polymerization, and doctor blade approaches on flat sheets. These
techniques may have various drawbacks, such as limited choice of applicable
 materials, high expense, and lack of coating durability.
 [0004]        Another method that has been used to form thin polymer separation layers
 on the surface of support materials is surface initiated radical polymerization. However,
various issues arise with such techniques. For example, a free radical polymerization

WO 2014/189610                                                       PCT/US2014/031605
                                            2
process initiated from a surface is generally not controllable. As a result, the polymer
layer formed by this method may be too thick to function and/or may lack uniform
thickness.
[0005]       Controlled radical polymerizations initiated from a surface have meet with
greater success. The slow and controlled nature of these reactions allows for uniform
coatings to be formed.       Unfortunately, previously available techniques of controlled
radical polymerization involve the use of harsh conditions and/or environments that
were not economically viable to scale.
[0006]       Atom-transfer radical-polymerization, such as disclosed in U.S. Patent Nos.
5,763,548 and 5,789,487, allows for controlled radical polymerization reactions to be
performed using inexpensive reagents in mild conditions. Varieties of ATRP may be
performed at room temperature and pressure with aqueous solvents.
[0007]       The   process of carrying      out surface initiated atom-transfer radical
polymerization generally requires one or more preparation steps in which the surface
on which a layer of material is formed is functionalized.     Functionalization steps can
include hydroxylating the surface and halogenating the surface.       Various drawbacks
associated with these functionalization steps have contributed to surface initiated atom
transfer radical-polymerization not being usable on a commercial scale.
[0008]       In the traditional hydroxylation step, gases such as ozone have been used
to add -OH groups to the surface of a material. The use of ozone complicates the
overall process because it can rapidly degrade the mechanical properties of the
polymers upon exposure.
[0009]       In the traditional halogenation step, acyl halides such as bromoisobutyrl
bromide has been used. The use of such acyl halides poses difficulties due to the air

WO 2014/189610                                                         PCT/US2014/031605
                                             3
and water sensitivity of these reagents (i.e., they environment must be kept air and
water free). As a result, scale up of the halogenation process is difficult or impossible.
[0010]       The problems identified above with functionalization have also posed
problems with respect to scale up.        To date, no methods of surface-initiated atom
transfer radical polymerization has been developed which can be used to add polymer
coatings to surfaces at high volumes and with relatively low costs.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0011]       Non-limiting and non-exhaustive embodiments of the methods and systems
disclosed herein are described with reference to the following figures, wherein like
reference numeral refer to like parts throughout the various views unless otherwise
specified.
[0012]       Figure 1 is a flow chart illustrating a method of forming a polymer layer on a
polymer surface according to various embodiments described herein;
[0013]       Figure 2A is a schematic view of a hydroxylation process carried out on a
polymer surface according to various embodiments described herein;
[0014]       Figure 2B is a schematic view of a halogenation process carried out on a
surface according to various embodiments described herein;
[0015]       Figure 2C is a schematic view of an ATRP process carried out on a
polymer surface according to various embodiments described herein;
[0016]       Figure 3 is a cross sectional view of a module suitable for use various
embodiments of methods described herein;

WO 2014/189610                                                        PCT/US2014/031605
                                           4
[0017]       Figure 4 is a schematic view of a module suitable for use in various
embodiments of methods described herein;
[0018]       Figure 5 is a schematic view of a module suitable for use in various
embodiments of methods described herein; and
[0019]       Figure 6 is a schematic view of a reel to reel system suitable for use with
various embodiments of the methods described herein.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION
Overview
[0020]       The instant disclosure is directed to various methods of forming thin non
porous polymer layers on porous or non-porous polymer surfaces, wherein the polymer
layers are formed using surface initiated atom-transfer radical polymerization. In some
embodiments, the methods are related to performing these methods on bundles of
hollow polymer fibers in an effort to produce materials well suited for various separation
applications. The method can include the use of various solutions formulated to carry
out functionalization steps and/or atom-transfer radical polymerization steps. In some
embodiments,     the functionalization    steps  can   include    the  hydroxylation  and
halogenation of the polymer surface.         These functionalization steps prepare the
polymer surface for atom-transfer radical polymerization.           The various methods
described herein can also be performed in uniquely designed modules. The modules
allow the polymer surface to be mounted within a closed vessel.           Once mounted,
various solutions can be passed into and out of the module in order to carry out the
methods described herein.      In some embodiments, the modules are configured in a
shell-and-tube type configuration, which allows for selective exposure of the polymer

WO 2014/189610                                                       PCT/US2014/031605
                                            5
surfaces to the solutions passed through the module (e.g., only an exterior or interior
surface is exposed to the solution).
[0021]        References throughout this specification to "one example," "an example,"
"one embodiment" or "an embodiment" mean that a particular feature, structure,
process or characteristic described in connection with the example is included in at
least one example of the present technology. Thus, the occurrences of the phrases "in
one example," "in an example," "one embodiment" or "an embodiment" in various
places throughout this specification are not necessarily all referring to the same
example.       Furthermore,    the particular features, structures,   routines, steps or
characteristics may be combined in any suitable manner in one or more examples of
the technology. The headings provided herein are for convenience only and are not
intended to limit or interpret the scope or meaning of the claimed technology.
[0022]        Certain embodiments of the technology described below may take the form
of computer-executable instructions, including routines executed by a programmable
computer or controller.      Those skilled in the relevant art will appreciate that the
technology can be practiced on computer or controller systems other than those shown
and described below. The technology can be embodied in a special-purpose computer,
controller, or data processor that is specifically programmed, configured or constructed
to perform one or more of the computer-executable instructions described below.
Accordingly, the terms "computer" and "controller" as generally used herein refer to any
data processor and can include internet appliances, hand-held devices, multi-processor
systems, programmable consumer electronics, network computers, mini-computers,
and the like. The technology can also be practiced in distributed environments where
tasks or modules are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a
communications network. Aspects of the technology described below may be stored or

WO 2014/189610                                                        PCT/US2014/031605
                                            6
distributed on computer-readable media, including magnetic or optically readable or
removable computer discs as well as media distributed electronically over networks. In
particular embodiments, data structures and transmissions of data particular to aspects
of the technology are also encompassed within the scope of the present technology.
The present technology encompasses both methods of programming computer
readable media to perform particular steps, as well as executing the steps.
[0023]       In some embodiments, a method of forming a polymer film on a polymer
surface in which a hydroxylation solution is used is disclosed. The method can include
a step of hydroxylating a polymer surface in a hydroxylation solution. The hydroxylation
solution can include, for example, potassium persulfate, ammonium persulfate, or
lithium hydroxide. The method can also include a step of halogenating the polymer
surface.   The method can also include a step of performing surface initiated atom
transfer radical-polymerization on the polymer surface.       Performing surface initiated
atom-transfer radical polymerization forms a polymer film on the polymer surface.
[0024]       In some embodiments, a method of forming a polymer film on a polymer
surface in which a halogenation solution is used is disclosed. The method can include
a step of providing a polymer surface having hydroxyl groups bonded to the polymer
surface. The method can further include a step of halogenating the polymer surface in
a halogenation solution.     In some embodiments, the halogenation solution includes
hydrobromic acid, hydrochloric acid, phosphorous tribromide, phosphorous trichloride,
hydroiodic acid, thionyl chloride, thionyl bromide, or combinations thereof. The method
can also    include a step of performing        surface  initiated atom-transfer radical
polymerization on the polymer surface.        The surface initiated atom-transfer radical
polymerization step can result in the formation of a polymer film on the polymer surface.

 WO 2014/189610                                                     PCT/US2014/031605
                                           7
[0025]       In some embodiments, a method of forming a polymer layer on a bundle of
hollow polymer fibers is disclosed.     The method can include a step of providing a
bundle of hollow polymer fibers. The method can further include a step of performing
surface initiated atom-transfer radical-polymerization on the bundle of hollow polymer
fibers. The surface initiated atom-transfer radical-polymerization step can result in the
formation of a polymer film on the polymer surface.
Polymer Layer Formation Method
[0026]       With reference to Figure 1, a method of forming a polymer layer on polymer
surface generally includes a step 110 of hydroxylating the polymer surface, a step 120
of halogenating the surface, and a step 130 of performing surface initiated atom
transfer radical-polymerization on the polymer surface to thereby form a polymer layer
on the polymer surface.
[0027]       In step 110, a polymer surface is provided and subjected to a hydroxylation
process in order to add a plurality of hydroxyl groups to the polymer surface. Addition
of the hydroxyl groups is generally aimed at providing a mechanism for bonding a
halogen atom to the polymer surface.
[0028]       The polymer surface upon which the polymer layer is formed can generally
be a surface of any hydrocarbon-containing polymer material. In some embodiments,
the polymer surface is selected from a range of materials known to be suitable for
separation processes, such as in the sweetening of natural gas. Exemplary polymer
materials suitable for use in step 110 include, but are not limited to, polymethyl
pentene, polypropylene, cellulose acetate, polyimide, polyvinylidene fluoride (PVDF),
and derivatives thereof. The polymer surface provided in step 110 can be a selectively
permeable material or a material that is not selectively permeable.

 WO 2014/189610                                                      PCT/US2014/031605
                                           8
[0029]        In alternate embodiments, the surface upon which the polymer layer is
formed can be a non-polymer material. For example, the surface can be the surface of
a ceramic, metal, organic, or plastic material.     These materials may be selectively
permeable or may not be selectively permeable.
[0030]        The polymer surface can be part of a variety of different forms. In some
embodiments, the polymer surface is a surface of a polymer fiber. When polymer fibers
are used, the methods described herein can be carried out on isolated polymer fibers or
bundles of polymer fibers (including bundles of fibers that are potted together). When
bundles of polymer fibers are used, the polymer fibers are generally aligned in parallel
and arranged (or cut) to have coplanar terminal ends. The polymer fibers used in the
methods described herein can also be hollow.         When hollow fibers are used, the
surface upon which the ATRP step is performed can be an interior and/or an exterior
surface. In other embodiments, the polymer surface is the surface of a flat sheet, such
as a spiral wound sheet.
[0031]        The dimensions of the material providing the surface upon with ATRP is
carried out are generally not limited.   When polymer fibers are used, the length and
diameter of the individual fibers are generally not limited.  Similarly, when bundles of
fibers are used, there is generally no limit to the number of fibers in a bundle, the
overall length of the bundle or the overall diameter of the bundle. When spiral wound
sheets are used, the length, width, and thickness of the sheets are generally not limited.
[0032]        The material providing the surface upon which the ATRP step is performed
is can be a porous or non-porous material.      In some embodiments, the material has
selectivities relative to certain compounds. The specific porosity and selectivities of the
material is generally not limited. In some embodiments, the porosity of the material is

WO 2014/189610                                                        PCT/US2014/031605
                                            9
generally within the range of from less than 1 % to 90%. The size of the individual pores
in the material can be in the range of 300nm or smaller. The porosity of the material is
generally consistent throughout the material.
[0033]        In some embodiments, the polymer surface can be subjected to a cleaning
step prior to performing step 110.     The cleaning step is generally aimed at removing
residual oil or other debris from the surface of the material. Any cleaning steps capable
of removing unwanted material from the surface of the material can be used. In some
embodiments, the polymer surface is immersed in or rinsed with a solution capable of
removing unwanted material from the surface of the polymer material.             In some
embodiments, the solution includes acetone, methanol, organic solvents, or any
combinations thereof. When the polymer surface is immersed in the cleaning solution,
the cleaning process can include sequential baths in order to improve the amount of
material removed. When the polymer surface is rinsed with the cleaning solution, the
rinsing can be continuous and for any period of time to remove the unwanted material.
The cleaning step can also be carried out in a variety of apparatus, including in an
soxhlet extraction apparatus. The cleaning steps described above can be performed
on any form of the polymer surface, including on isolated polymer fibers, on bundled
polymer fibers, and on potted bundles of polymer fibers.
[0034]        In step 110, the polymer surface is hydroxylated in order to add one or
more hydroxyl groups to the surface of the material.        Hydroxylation as used herein
refers to the addition of one or more -OH groups to the polymer surface via covalent
bonding between the polymer membrane material and the hydroxyl group. Figure 2A
illustrates the hydroxylation step, with a plurality of -OH groups 210 bonded to the
surface of the material 200. The hydroxyl group 210 can bond to the polymer surface
200 via any suitable atom of the material.      In some embodiments, the hydroxylation

 WO 2014/189610                                                   PCT/US2014/031605
                                          10
step removes a hydrogen atom from the polymer surface to provide a bonding cite
between the polymer surface and the oxygen atom of the hydroxyl group. As discussed
further below, the hydroxyl groups bonded to the polymer surface provide a mechanism
for subsequently bonding a halogen atom to the polymer surface.
[0035]       Any suitable method of hydroxylating the polymer surface material can be
used.    In some embodiments, the polymer surface is subjected to a hydroxylation
solution which results in the addition of the -OH groups to the polymer surface. The
hydroxylation solution can include any of a variety of suitable solutions.    In some
embodiments, the hydroxylation solution is a solution that includes potassium
persulfate, ammonium persulfate, or lithium hydroxide, or combinations thereof.     In
some embodiments, the solution is an aqueous solution and therefor includes water.
[0036]       In one embodiment wherein potassium persulfate or ammonium persulfate
is used to perform hydroxylation, the hydroxylation step 110 is carried out by first
preparing a bath of deoxygenated water which is continuously heated at 800C or higher.
The potassium persulfate and/or the ammonium persulfate is then added to the water
without introducing oxygen. The potassium persulfate and/or the ammonium persulfate
can also be added prior to heating the deoxygenated water (i.e., the potassium
persulfate and/or ammonium persulfate is added to the deoxygenated water, followed
by heating of the bath to 800C or higher). The polymer surface can then be immersed
in a bath of the solution or, when the polymer surface is mounted in a module, the
solution can be flowed through the module. Generally speaking, the polymer surface is
then exposed to the solution for a period of time (e.g., 10 minutes or more), during
which hydroxylation of the surface of the material occurs. After the desired period of
time has passed, the polymer surface is removed from the solution and rinsed.

WO 2014/189610                                                         PCT/US2014/031605
                                          11
[0037]       In embodiments where lithium hydroxide is used, the polymer surface is
generally a fluorinated polymer material.     A specific fluorinated polymer that can be
hydroxylated using lithium hydroxide is PVDF.
[0038]       Other suitable hydroxylation solutions includes, ceric ammonium nitrate,
ozone gas, piranha solutions (e.g., Caro's acid, peroxymonoslufuric acid, etc.), Fenton
type reagents (e.g., hydrogen peroxide, iron sulfate, etc.), and chromate solutions.
These hydroxylation materials can be used to carry out the hydroxylation step 110 in a
similar or identical fashion to the method described above.          In one embodiment,
hydroxylation is carried out using potassium persulfate with iron sulfate in a Fenton-type
reaction.
[0039]       Other suitable hydroxylation methods can be used.               For example,
hydroxylation can be carried out without the use of a solution.       In one example, the
polymer surface can be oxidized using plasma etching, exposure to arc, or by exposure
to flame.
[0040]       In some embodiments, the polymer surface can be obtained from a third
party with the surface having already been hydroxylated. Similarly, the material used in
the methods described herein can naturally have hydroxyl groups available on the
surface of the material, in which case the hydroxylation step 110 need not be carried
out.
[0041]       Once the hydroxylation step 110 has taken place, a halogenation step 120
can be performed. The halogenation step 120 is generally aimed at bonding a halogen
atom to the polymer surface. This can be accomplished either by bonding the halogen
atom with the oxygen atom of the hydroxyl group or by replacing the hydroxyl group
with the halogen atom (i.e., providing direct bonding between the halogen atom and the

WO 2014/189610                                                        PCT/US2014/031605
                                            12
polymer surface).    Halogenation as used herein refers to the addition of one or more
halogen atoms to the polymer surface via covalent bonding between the hydroxyl group
and the halogen atom or between the halogen atom and a carbon atom of the polymer
surface (i.e., by completing removing the hydroxyl group).       Figure 2B illustrates the
halogenation step, with a plurality of halogen atoms (HA) 220 bonded to the polymer
surface 200 via the hydroxyl group 210 or a plurality of halogen atoms 220 bonding
directly to the polymer surface 200 by replacing the hydroxyl group.               In some
embodiments, the halogenation step generally involves the attachment of a molecule
having a radically transferable group (i.e., a halogen) to the hydroxyl group. Bonding
the radically transferable group (e.g., the halogen atom) to the polymer surface sets the
stage for the subsequent performance of ATRP on the polymer surface as discussed in
greater detail below.
[0042]        Any suitable method of halogenating the polymer surface material can be
used.    In some embodiments, the polymer surface is subjected to a halogenation
solution which results in the addition of the halogen atoms to the polymer surface. The
halogenation solution can include any of a variety of suitable solutions.          In some
embodiments, the halogenation solution includes hydrobromic acid, hydrochloric acid,
phosphorous tribromide, phosphorous trichloride, hydroiodic acid, thionyl chloride,
thionyl bromide, or combinations thereof.       In some embodiments, the halogenation
solution can further include water.
[0043]        In some embodiments, the halogenation step 120 is carried out by first
preparing a solution including hydrobromic acid, hydrochloric acid, phosphorous
tribromide, phosphorous trichloride, hydroiodic acid, thionyl chloride, or thionyl bromide.
The solution can optionally include water. The polymer surface can then be immersed
in the solution or, when the polymer surface is mounted in a module, the solution can

 WO 2014/189610                                                    PCT/US2014/031605
                                          13
be flowed through the module.        Generally speaking, the polymer surface is then
exposed to the solution for a period of time during which halogenation of the surface of
the polymer material occurs. After the desired period of time has passed, the polymer
surface is removed from the solution and rinsed.
[0044]       Other suitable halogenation solutions include acyl halides containing a
radical transferable group (e.g.,     bromoisobutyrl  bromide).   These halogenation
materials can be used to carry out the halogenation step 120 in a similar or identical
fashion to the method described in the preceding paragraph.
[0045]       Halogenation can also be performed using other suitable methods for
adding halogen atoms to a polymer surface. In some embodiments, the halogenation
step can take place without the use of halogenation solutions.
[0046]       After the halogenation step is performed, a step 130 of performing surface
initiated atom-transfer radical-polymerization (ATRP) to form a polymer layer on the
polymer surface is carried out.     ATRP is a known technique for conducting living
polymerization in which one monomer is added at a time to a growing polymer. In the
method described herein, the growing polymer is a polymer layer being formed on the
surface of the polymer material. Because of the slow, controlled growth, ATRP is well
suited for applications where tight control of monomer addition is desired.       In the
method described herein, the slow, controlled growth allows for tight control of layer
thickness.
[0047]       The ATRP step 130 generally involves exposing the polymer surface to an
ATRP solution including various components necessary for conducting surface initiated
ATRP. One component of the ATRP solution is a transition metal element complexed
with an organic ligand. The transition metal element contained in an organic ligand

 WO 2014/189610                                                     PCT/US2014/031605
                                           14
initiates the ATRP by process by removing the halogen added in the halogenation step
 120 to thereby produce a chain extending from the surface of the polymer material and
which includes a radical at the terminal end.       This radical is then attacked by a
monomer molecule provided in the ATRP solution to thereby grow the chain by one
unit. The growing chain bonded to the polymer surface is the basis for a layer formed
on the polymer surface that continues to grow so long as a radical continues to exist on
the growing chain.     The radical continues to attack additional monomer units in the
ATRP solution to thereby grow the polymer layer.        Figure 2C illustrates the ATRP
process, wherein the halogen atom 220 (and optionally the remains of the hydroxyl
group) has been removed and monomer units (M) 230 are added to the chain to begin
formation of a polymer layer on the polymer surface 200.
[0048]        Accordingly, step 130 generally involves exposing the polymer surface to
an ATRP solution and allowing ATRP to take place such that a polymer layer is formed
on the polymer surface. Exposing the polymer surface to an ATRP solution can entail
immersing the polymer surface in an ATRP solution, or in the case of the polymer
surface being mounted in a module, flowing the ATRP solution through the module or
filling the module with the ATRP solution.
[0049]        Generally speaking, the ATRP solution includes five main components: a
solvent, a radically polymerizable monomer, a transition metal compound, a ligand, and
a redox conjugate of the transition metal compound. The specific reagents chosen, the
reagent concentrations, and the solvent can all be manipulated to allow for precise
control of the polymerization and, consequently, the thickness of the polymer layer
formed on the polymer surface. Time in the ATRP solution can also be used to control
layer thickness.

WO 2014/189610                                                          PCT/US2014/031605
                                           15
[0050]       The solvent component of the ATRP solution can include any of a variety of
solvents suitable for use in ATRP processes.         In some embodiments, the solvent is
toluene, 1,4-dioxane, xylene, anisole, dimethyl formamide, dimethyl sulfoxide, water,
tetrahydrofuran, methanol, acetonitrile, chloroform, and combinations thereof. In some
embodiments, the solvent used is deoxygenated. In some embodiments, the solvent
must include at least water.
[0051]       The radically polymerizable monomer component of the ATRP solution can
include a variety of monomer types suitable for use in ATRP processes.              In some
embodiments, the radically polymerixable          monomer is styrenes, methacrylates,
methacrylamides, and acryonitriles, derivatives thereof, and combinations thereof.
Specific examples include, but are not limited to, polyethylene glycol methacrylate and
styrene species attached to chains of fluorocarbons.
[0052]       The transition metal compound component of the ATRP solution can
include, but is not limited to copper, ruthenium, iron, osmium, molybdenum, titanium,
chromium, manganese, cobalt, rhodium, nickel, palladium, germanium, tin, bismuth and
tellurium..
[0053]       The ligand component of the ATRP solution is generally related to the
transition metal compound, as the two components generally form a transition metal
compound bonded to the ligand so that during the ATRP process, the transition metal
compound can work to remove the halogen atom and join it to the transition metal
compound-ligand complex. In some embodiments, the ligand is 2-2' bipyridine, tris(2
aminoethyl)amine,        4,4'-Di-5-nonyl-2,2'-bipyridine,    4,4',4"-tris(5-nonyl)-2,2':6',2"
terpyridine,          1,1,4,7,10,10-Hexamethyltriethylenetetramine,               N,N-bis(2
pyridylmethyl)octadecylamine, N,N,N',N'-tetra[(2-pyridal)methyl]ethylenediamine, tris[(2-

 WO 2014/189610                                                      PCT/US2014/031605
                                            16
pyridyl)methyl]ami ne,        tris(2-bis(3-(2-ethylhexoxy)-3-oxopropyl)aminoethyl)amine,
Tris(2-bis(3-dodecoxy-3-oxopropyl)aminoethyl)amine,                         N,N,N',N",N"
pentamethyldiethylenetriamine, or diethylenetriamine.
[0054]       The redox conjugate of the transition metal compound is also generally
selected based on the transition metal compound provided in the ATRP solution. The
redox conjugate is provided so that at least some of the initially formed radicals in the
ATRP process can be deactivated. In other words, the redox conjugate is provided so
that halogen atoms can be transferred back to the polymer and terminate a portion of
the active radicals that would otherwise be the cites for further monomer addition.
[0055]        Once the ATRP solution is prepared, the polymer surface is exposed to the
solution in order to form a polymer layer on the exposed surface via surface initiated
ATRP. As noted above, the polymer surface can be immersed in a bath of the ATRP
solution or the polymer surface can be mounted in module through which the ATRP
solution is flowed or which is filled with the ATRP solution.     Generally speaking any
area upon which polymer layer is to be formed should be exposed to the ATRP
solution. The amount of time the polymer surface is exposed to the ATRP solution can
impact the thickness of the layer formed, and can also be adjusted based on the ratio of
the components in the solution.
[0056]        In some embodiments, ATRP reagents need to be regenerated in order to
maintain the ATRP process. The regeneration of ATRP reagents can be carried out
using any suitable method. In some embodiments, ATRP reagents are regenerated by
simply adding more of the desired reagent to the ATRP solution being used in step 130.
In other embodiments, electrodes can be incorporated into the method to regenerate
some of the reagents. Other methods entail the use of ARGET ATRP or AGET ATRP.

WO 2014/189610                                                         PCT/US2014/031605
                                           17
In these reaction configurations, the transition metal is regenerated from the higher
oxidation state (where it inhibits the propagation of free radicals) to the lower oxidation
state (where it acts as an activator for radical polymerization).     This regeneration is
accomplished through the addition of reducing agents to the solution. Alternatively, this
regeneration may be accomplished through the addition of agents producing free
radicals.
[0057]        Termination of the ATRP step 130 can generally be carried out by
removing the polymer surface from the ATRP solution.            In some embodiments, a
cleaning step is carried out after the polymer surface is removed from the ATRP
solution in order to remove any residual reagents from the surface of the material.
Cleaning of the polymer surface having a polymer layer formed thereon can be
performed by, for example, rinsing the material with pure water, acetone, methanol, or
any suitable solvent (organic or otherwise) that is compatible with the material and
capable of dissolving the desired residue.
[0058]        The polymer layer formed on the polymer surface is generally a non-porous
polymer layer. As used herein, non-porous generally refers to a negligible porosity,
such as in the range of less than 1 nm. In some embodiments, the non-porous polymer
layer still provides a desired selectivity so that certain components may pass through
the non-porous layer. In some embodiments, the selectivity favors a similar selectivity
to the material upon which the non-porous polymer layer is formed so that the
composite structure can be used beneficially for separation processing. For example,
the underlying material and the non-porous polymer layer may both have selectivities
that favor the passage of C0 2 /CH 4 through the material so that the composite structure
can be used in natural gas sweetening.

WO 2014/189610                                                       PCT/US2014/031605
                                            18
[0059]       As noted above, the thickness of the non-porous polymer layer can be
tightly controlled by varying a variety of factors. In some embodiments, the thickness of
the non-porous polymer layer is in the range of from 75 to 200 nm.         Extremely thin
layers can also be produced, such as less than 75 nm or less than 5 nm. The non
porous polymer layer formed on the polymer surface is also generally formed in a
continuous and uniform fashion as a result of the ATRP process.
[0060]        In some embodiments, the formation of the non-porous polymer layer on
the porous polymer material results in decreasing the size of the pores of the polymer
material, and specifically the pores proximate the surface of the polymer material on
which the polymer layer is formed. The pore size is reduced by virtue of the polymer
branches of the polymer layer extending over the pores in the polymer material.         In
other words, the gap between pore walls in the polymer material is decreased because
of polymer chains that form on the surface of the polymer material and extend over the
gap between pore walls.
[0061]        In some embodiments, the atom-transfer radical-polymerization solution
can include monomer units that are capable of crosslinking with similar monomer units
present in adjacent polymer chains. These monomer units, when incorporated into the
individual polymer chains growing from the polymer membrane surface during ATRP,
can link together with similar monomer units to thereby create links between adjacent
polymer chains.     This crosslinking activity can increase the strength of the polymer
layer formed on the polymer surface.             The crosslinking can also change the
permeability of the layer and make the layer better suited for specific applications. The
crosslinking monomer units included in the ATRP solution can generally include any
monomer units capable of crosslinking. Exemplary crosslinking monomer units include
poly(ethylene glycol) methacrylate amine.

WO 2014/189610                                                    PCT/US2014/031605
                                          19
[0062]      In some embodiments, monomers with multiple groups capable of radical
polymerization may be used to achieve the effects of cross linking.          Exemplary
monomer units with multiple radically polymerizabale functional groups include
poly(ethylene glycol) dimethacylate, ethoxylated trimethylolpropane triacrylate, 2,2
bis(prop-2-enoyloxymethyl)butyl     prop-2-enoate,  and   ethoxylated    bisphenol   A
dimethacrylate, dipentaerythritol pentaacrylate.
[0063]      In some embodiments, various steps can be taken prior to exposing the
polymer surface to any of the solutions described herein to remove, for example,
bubbles from the polymer surface and thereby ensure complete surface exposure. In
some embodiments, the step includes sonicating the ATRP solution after immersing the
polymer surface in the solution.
Membrane Modules
[0064]      As noted above, various steps of the method described above can be
performed by immersing the polymer surface in sequential baths. Various steps of the
method can also be performed by using a closed module into which the polymer
surface is mounted. In some embodiments, a combination of both baths and modules
is used. For example, step 110 can be performed by immersing the material in a bath,
while steps 120 and 130 are performed in a module. In another example, steps 110
and 120 can be performed by immersing the material in sequential baths, while
performing step 130 with the material mounted in a module. In general, the mounting of
the polymer surface in a module entails the use of bundles of hollow polymer fibers,
though the modules discussed below can also be adapted for treating other forms of
polymer material.

 WO 2014/189610                                                       PCT/US2014/031605
                                          20
[0065]       With reference to Figures 3-5, various modules suitable for use with the
methods described herein are shown. The modules generally take the form of shell
and tube-type vessels, wherein a first liquid can flow through a shell side of the reactor
without flowing in the tube side of the reactor and a second liquid can flow through a
tube side of the reactor without flowing in the shell side of the reactor.           These
configurations can allow for selective formation of the polymer layer on the polymer
surface, e.g., on only the exterior surfaces or only on the interior surfaces (in the case
of hollow polymer fibers being mounted in the module).
[0066]         With reference now to Figure 3, the module 300 can include a first end
310, a second end 320, and a central region 330 located between the first end 310 and
the second end 320. A bundle of hollow polymer fibers 340 can be mounted in the
central region 330. The bundle of hollow polymer fibers 340 can also be potted with
potting material 350 at each end. The potting material 350 ensures that liquid entering
at either the first end 310 or second end 320 can only flow through the interior of the
hollow polymer fibers 340 and not between adjacent hollow polymer fibers 340 (i.e., the
potting prevents the fluid from contacting the exterior surface of the hollow polymer
fibers). The potting of the bundle of polymer fibers 340 can be accomplished by sealing
the end of the bundle of the hollow polymer fibers 340 with a castable polymer material
350 such that the castable polymer 350 blocks both the interior of the hollow polymer
fibers 340 and the space between adjacent hollow polymer fibers 340. The castable
polymer 350 generally travels further up into the bundle 340 between adjacent fibers
than within the hollows of the fibers such that a slice can be made cross-sectionally
through the bundle 340 at a point where the ends of the fibers are not blocked by
castable polymer 350 but castable polymer 350 is still present between adjacent fibers.

 WO 2014/189610                                                          PCT/US2014/031605
                                            21
[0067]        The module 300 further includes a tube side inlet port 311, a tube side
outlet port 321, a shell side inlet port 312, and a shell side outlet port 322. The tube
side inlet port 311 and the tube side outlet port 321 are in fluid communication with only
the interiors of the hollow fibers in the potted bundle 340 mounted in the module such
that fluid entering the module 300 via the tube side inlet port 311 can only travel
through the interior of the hollow polymer fibers. The castable polymer material 350
generally blocks the fluid entering from the tube side inlet 311 from travelling between
adjacent hollow polymer fibers. The shell side inlet 312 and the shell side outlet 322
are in fluid communication with only the exterior of the hollow fibers in the potted bundle
330 mounted in the module 300 such that fluid entering the module 300 via the shell
side inlet port 312 can only travel around the exterior of the hollow polymer fibers. In
order to achieve this shell side fluid isolation, the shell side inlet port 312 and shell side
outlet port 322 are generally located at the distal ends of the central region 330 and
inside of the casting material 360 as shown in Figure 3.
[0068]        When a polymer layer is to be formed on the exterior of the hollow polymer
fibers, the various solutions can be flowed through the shell side of the module 300. As
noted above, any steps 110, 120 and 130 can be performed this way. For example, if
hydroxylation is to be carried out on the exterior surfaces of the hollow polymer fibers,
the hydroxylation solution is flowed through the shell side of the module 300.
Halogenation solution and ATRP solution can also be flowed in this manner.
[0069]        When a polymer layer is to be formed on the interior of the hollow polymer
fibers, the various solutions can be flowed through the tube side of the module 300. As
with the exterior coating, one or more of steps 110, 120, and 130 can be performed in
this manner by flowing various solutions through the tubes side of the module 300.

WO 2014/189610                                                         PCT/US2014/031605
                                           22
[0070]       In some embodiments, additional steps can be taken in order to protect the
potting material 350.     The various solutions used can be corrosive to the potting
material and generally degrade the potting material over time. Accordingly, in some
embodiments a protective layer is added to the inner and/or outer axial surfaces of the
potting material. In this manner, fluid flowing through the, e.g., tube side of the module
300 will not directly contact the potting material adjacent the ends of the hollow. The
protective layer can include, for example, fluorocarbon polymers, silicone polymers, and
polyurethanes.
[0071]       In some embodiments, modules similar or identical to those described
above are used as part of a circuit that recirculates the solution to continue carrying out
the hydroxylation, halogenation, or ATRP reaction.        With reference to Figure 4, the
circuit can include shell side tubing 410 that fluidly connects the shell side outlet port
422 of the vessel 400 to the shell side inlet port 412. Located between the inlet port
412 and the outlet port 422 may be a pump 460 to help circulate the material through
the tubing 410. The tubing can also include a reservoir 470 that includes electrodes
471 used to regenerate various reagents, including the transition metal ions necessary
to carry out the ATRP step. The electrodes can also be used to regenerate reagents
used in the hydroxylation step and/or the halogenation step. The reservoir 470 may be
used to add, exchange, or replace reagents during the ATRP reaction.
[0072]       Figure 5 is similar to Figure 4, but includes tube side tubing 510. The tube
side tubing 510 fluidly connects the tube side outlet port 521 of the vessel 500 to the
tube side inlet port 511. Located between the inlet port 511 and the outlet port 521 may
be a pump 560 to help circulate the material through the tubing 510. The tubing 510
can also include a reservoir 570 that includes electrodes 571 used to regenerate
various reagents, including the transition metal ions necessary to carry out the ATRP

WO 2014/189610                                                       PCT/US2014/031605
                                         23
step    The electrodes 571 can also be used to regenerate reagents used in the
hydroxylation step and/or the halogenation step.
[0073]       In some embodiments, a reel to reel system can be used to carry out the
methods described herein in place of (or in conjunction with) the modules as described
above. Figure 6 provides an illustration of a reel to reel system 600 which provides a
mechanism for passing the polymer surface through the various solutions. As shown,
the system 600 generally includes a bath vessel 610 which may be filled with any of the
solutions described above (e.g., hydroxylation solution, halogenation solution, ATRP
solution). The system 600 further includes reels 620, 621. The first reel 621 includes
wound material which is drawn off the wheel 621, passed through the bath vessel 610
containing the solution, and collected on the second reel 622. The system may include
any number of additional pulleys 623, 624, to guide the material through the bath vessel
610. The system 600 may also include a barrier layer 630 on top of the bath vessel
610 in order to create a closed vessel that prevents oxygen from contacting the solution
in the bath vessel 610.
[0074]       The configuration shown in Figure 6 can be part of two or more sequential
systems, with each system containing a different solution. In such an embodiment, the
polymer material can begin on reel 621 and, instead of being collected on a reel 622,
can be passed on to a second system containing a different solution. The collection
reel 622 can be positioned at the end of the last system. The system shown in Figure 6
can also be used in conjunction with a module. For example, a first reel to reel system
can be used to carry out the hydroxylation step, followed by a second reel to reel
system used to carry out the halogenation step.        After the halogenation step, the
material can be mounted in a module used for carrying out the ATRP step.

 WO 2014/189610                                                       PCT/US2014/031605
                                           24
[0075]       The reel to reel system shown in Figure 6 can be used with a variety
different forms of material.   For example, the material can be a continuous piece of
hollow polymer fiber thread that is subsequently cut into discrete lengths. The reel to
reel system is also adapted to process sheets of polymer material.
Applications
[0076]       Natural Gas - Streams containing mixtures of various gas components may
be separated into two streams, each containing a higher percentage of one of more of
the components in comparison to the inlet stream using membrane units fabricated in
accordance with the methods described herein.         Membrane modules manufactured
using the methods described herein may be used in this capacity to remove carbon
dioxide, hydrogen sulfide, and/or other components from natural gas streams. This is
accomplished due to the higher permeability of the membrane to one gas component in
comparison to another component.          Use of the methods described herein to form
membranes with thin polymer layers allows for previously unavailable polymeric
materials to be used in the formation of membranes for gas separation.
[0077]       Additionally, modules fabricated using the methods described herein may
be linked in series to more efficiently separate a particular gas stream. These modules
may be emplaced in series to increase the capacity of a membrane system.              The
modules may also be emplaced in arrangements in parallel and cascade to separate a
multicomponent gas stream.
[0078]       Water Purification - Modules incorporating membranes fabricated using the
methods described herein may be used to remove contaminants and desired species
from water. The polymer coating formed using the methods described herein can be

WO 2014/189610                                                        PCT/US2014/031605
                                          25
designed to be permeable to water and impermeable or relatively less permeable to the
contaminants in the water.
[0079]      Blood oxygenation - Non-porous or relatively non-porous hollow fiber
membranes formed using the methods described herein can be applicable for blood
oxygenation. The non-porous nature or relatively non-porous nature of the hollow fiber
may prevent blood plasma leakage while allowing sufficient blood gas exchange.
[0080]      Lithium Ion battery separators -        Porous separators are used in the
manufacture of lithium ion batteries.      These separators prevent certain ions and
molecular species from crossing while allowing others to move uninhibited. The use of
the methods described herein to from these separators can allow for the control of the
pore size. This technique can be used to form desired surface coatings to enhance the
performance of these devices. The ability to form such a coating after the porous
separator is emplaced into the battery cell can improve manufacturability and prevent
defects.
[0081]      Protein Purification -    Porous membranes have been used to purify
biological molecules, particularly proteins.    The ability to emplace a wide range of
coatings on the surface of membranes using methods described herein may increase
the use of this technique. Methods described herein may also be potentially used to
the control the pore size of these membranes, allowing for efficient size exclusion
separation.
[0082]      Membrane Bioreactor - The ability to deposit tailored coatings on the
surface of membranes may be beneficial in the establishment of desired biological
conditions. Pore size control using methods described herein may be beneficial in
preventing certain biological species or solid particles from crossing the membrane.

 WO 2014/189610                                                      PCT/US2014/031605
                                           26
[0083]        Membrane Distillation - The ability to apply a very thin coating of desired
polymer using methods described herein may be beneficial for the production of
membrane distillation devices, as the surface tension of the liquid and walls of the
membrane pores is critical to the function of these devices.
[0084]        Dialysis - Blood contact with membranes during dialysis and oxygenation
procedures is unavoidable. The ability to deposit a tailored coating on the surface of
these membranes that prevents or inhibits coagulation and blood activation may
significantly increase the performance of these devices. Such coating deposition may
be carried out using methods as described herein.
Working Examples
[0085]        Example 1
[0086]        A composite hollow fiber membrane module was prepared by grouping 800
polypropylene hollow fiber membranes with outer diameter of 300 micrometers into a
bundle. This bundle was then placed into a flask with two necks. The flask was then
filled with one liter of deionized water. This water was then bubbled for a period of 20
minutes with argon to remove oxygen dissolved in the water. This flask was attached
to a condenser and a rubber stopper was attached to the open neck. Through this
rubber stopper, argon was continually bubbled. The flask was then heated to 1000C
under reflux. At this point, 100 milligrams of potassium persulfate was added to the
water and the solution was permitted to react for 10 minutes. After this point, the fiber
bundle was removed, cleaned with deionized water, and then dried. The fiber bundle
was then immersed into concentrated hydrobromic acid for 24 hours. Afterward, the
bundle was washed with deionized water and dried.

 WO 2014/189610                                                      PCT/US2014/031605
                                           27
[0087]        A solution containing 140 ml of deionized water and 60 ml of poly(ethylene
glycol) methacrylate with approximately 520 repeating units of ethylene glycol was
bubbled with argon to remove oxygen. 600 mg of copper (1)chloride, 160 mg of copper
(II) chloride and 1.12 grams of 2-2' bipyridine were then added to the solution. This
ATRP solution was then sonicated for a period of 10 minutes.              The bundle of
polypropylene hollow fibers were then immersed into this solution and allowed to react
for 24 hours.
[0088]        The bundle was then removed from the solution and washed thoroughly
with water and dried. It was then sealed into a stainless steel membrane module using
castable polyurethane.     After hardening, the polyurethane resin was severed with a
sharp razor to reveal the open bores of the hollow fibers.
[0089]        Example 2
[0090]        A composite hollow fiber membrane module was prepared by grouping 800
polypropylene hollow fiber membranes with outer diameter of 300 micrometers into a
bundle.     This bundle was then potted into a stainless steel hollow module using a
castable polyurethane resin.
[0091]        200 ml of oxygen free, boiling deionized water were then mixed with 20 mg
of potassium persulfate and quickly poured into the hollow fiber membrane module so
that the liquid contacted the outer surface of the membrane.          This reaction was
permitted for a period of 10 minutes. Afterward, the persulfate solution was removed
and the module was rinsed with a large amount of deionized water and dried.
[0092]        200 ml of concentrated hydrobromic acid was poured into the membrane
module in such a manner as to contact all exterior surfaces of the hollow fiber

 WO 2014/189610                                                       PCT/US2014/031605
                                           28
membrane. This solution was allowed to react for 24 hours. Afterward, it was removed
and the module, rinsed with deionized water, and dried.
[0093]        A solution containing 140 ml of deionized water and 60 ml of poly(ethylene
glycol) methacrylate with approximately 520 repeating units of ethylene glycol was
bubbled with argon to remove oxygen. 600 mg of copper (1)chloride, 160 mg of copper
(II) chloride and 1.12 grams of 2-2' bipyridine were then added to the solution. This
ATRP solution was then sonicated for a period of 10 minutes. The solution was then
placed in the membrane module and permitted to react for 24 hours. Afterward, the
solution was removed, the module rinsed with water, and dried.
[0094]        Example 3
[0095]        A composite hollow fiber membrane module was prepared by grouping 800
polypropylene hollow fiber membranes with outer diameter of 300 micrometers into a
bundle. This bundle was then placed into a flask with two necks. The flask was then
filled with one liter of deionized water. This water was then bubbled for a period of 20
minutes with argon to remove oxygen dissolved in the water. This flask was attached to
a condenser and a rubber stopper was attached to the open neck. Through this rubber
stopper, argon was continually bubbled.       The flask was then heated to 1000C under
reflux. At this point 100 milligrams of potassium persulfate was added to the water and
the solution was permitted to react for 10 minutes. After this point, the fiber bundle was
removed, cleaned with deionized water, and then dried.
[0096]        The fiber bundle was then placed into a dry, two necked flask equipped
with an air stop and a rubber stopper.         The fibers were immersed in 230 ml of
tetrahydrofuran and 6 ml of triethyl amine. Argon was then supplied through a needle,
bubbling the solution. This solution was then cooled to 00C

 WO 2014/189610                                                      PCT/US2014/031605
                                            29
[0097]        In a separate flask, 5 ml of bromoisobutyryl bromide and 20 ml of
tetrahydrofuran were combined and sealed. The contents of this second flask were
then transferred to the first flask anaerobically over the course of one hour.        The
solution containing the fiber was then permitted to rise to room temperature and react
for 12 hours. Afterward, the fiber bundle was removed, washed with water, and dried.
[0098]        The bundle was then removed from the solution and washed thoroughly
with water and dried. It was then sealed into a stainless steel membrane module using
castable polyurethane.      After hardening, the polyurethane resin was severed with a
sharp razor to reveal the open bores of the hollow fibers
[0099]         A solution containing 140 ml of deionized water and 60 ml of poly(ethylene
glycol) methacrylate with approximately 520 repeating units of ethylene glycol was
bubbled with argon to remove oxygen. 600 mg of copper (1)chloride, 160 mg of copper
(II) chloride and 1.12 grams of 2-2' bipyridine were then added to the solution. This
ATRP solution was then sonicated for a period of 10 minutes. This solution was then
added to the membrane module in such a fashion as to contact the outer surface of the
fibers.  This reaction was permitted for 24 hours. Afterward, the module was rinsed
with water and dried.
[00100]       Example 4
[00101]        A composite hollow fiber membrane module was prepared by grouping
800 polymethyl pentene         hollow fiber membranes with outer diameter of 200
micrometers into a bundle. This bundle was then placed into a flask with two necks.
The flask was then filled with one liter of deionized water. This water was then bubbled
for a period of 20 minutes with argon to remove dissolved in the water. This flask was
attached to a condenser and a rubber stopper was attached to the open neck. Through

 WO 2014/189610                                                      PCT/US2014/031605
                                          30
this rubber stopper, argon was continually bubbled.        The flask was then heated to
 100 C under reflux. At this point, 100 milligrams of potassium persulfate was added to
the water and the solution was permitted to react for 10 minutes. After this point, the
fiber bundle was removed, cleaned with deionized water, and then dried.        The fiber
bundle was then immersed into concentrated hydrobromic acid for 24 hours. Afterward,
the bundle was washed with deionized water and dried.
[00102]       A solution containing 140 ml of deionized water and 60 ml of poly(ethylene
glycol) methacrylate with approximately 520 repeating units of ethylene glycol was
bubbled with argon to remove oxygen. 600 mg of copper (1)chloride, 160 mg of copper
(II) chloride and 1.12 grams of 2-2' bipyridine were then added to the solution. This
ATRP solution was then sonicated for a period of 10 minutes.             The bundle of
polymethyl pentene hollow fibers were then immersed into this solution and allowed to
react for 24 hours.
[00103]       The bundle was then removed from the solution and washed thoroughly
with water and dried. It was then sealed into a stainless steel membrane module using
castable polyurethane.     After hardening, the polyurethane resin was severed with a
sharp razor to reveal the open bores of the hollow fibers.
[00104]       Example 5
[00105]        A hollow fiber membrane module was constructed.         A bundle of 500
polyvinylidene difluoride hollow fiber membranes were immersed into a 500 ml solution
of water containing 20 g of lithium hydroxide. This reaction was permitted to occur for
24 hours. Afterward ,the fibers were removed, rinsed with deionized water, and dried.

 WO 2014/189610                                                       PCT/US2014/031605
                                          31
[00106]       The bundle of fibers was then immersed into concentrated hydrobromic
acid for a period of 24 hours. Afterward they were washed with deionized water and
dried.
[00107]       This fiber bundle was then potted into a stainless steel membrane module.
A solution containing 140 ml of deionized water and 60 ml of poly(ethylene glycol)
dimethacrylate with approximately 800 repeating units of ethylene glycol was bubbled
with argon to remove oxygen.       600 mg of copper (1) chloride, 160 mg of copper (II)
chloride and 1.12 grams of 2-2' bipyridine were then added to the solution. This ATRP
solution was then sonicated for a period of 10 minutes. This solution was then placed
into contact with the membrane module and permitted to react for 24 hours. Afterward,
the module was rinsed with water and dried. The hardened resin was then severed
with a sharp razor to expose the tubes of the membrane.
[00108]       Example 6
[00109]        A method similar to Example 2 was used to form bore coatings on the
interior surfaces of polypropylene hollow fiber membrane previously potted in a
membrane module. The persulfate solution was pump through the bore of the hollow
fiber membrane continuously for ten minutes. Afterward, water was flushed through the
bore and the module was dried. Concentrated hydrobromic acid was then circulated
through the bores of the fibers for 24 hours. Water was then flushed through the bores
of the fibers. The ATRP solution was then circulated through the bores of the fibers for
24 hours. Afterward the tube side of the membranes were flushed with water and the
module was dried.
[00110]

WO 2014/189610                                                         PCT/US2014/031605
                                            32
[00111]       From the foregoing, it will be appreciated that specific embodiments of the
invention have been described herein for purposes of illustration, but that various
modifications may be made without deviating from the scope of the invention.
Accordingly, the invention is not limited except as by the appended claims.
[00112]       Certain aspects of the technology described in the context of particular
embodiments may be combined or eliminated in other embodiments.              Further while
advantages associated with certain embodiments of the technology have been
described in the context of those embodiments, other embodiments may also exhibit
such advantages, and not all embodiments need necessarily exhibit such advantages
to fall within the scope of the present disclosure. Accordingly, the present disclosure
and associated technology can encompass other embodiments not expressly shown or
described herein.

 WO 2014/189610                                                       PCT/US2014/031605
                                          33
                                         CLAIMS
 I/We claim:
        1.   A method of forming a polymer film on a polymer surface, the method
comprising the steps of:
        (a) hydroxylating the polymer surface in a hydroxylation solution;
        (b) halogenating the polymer surface;
        (c) performing surface initiated atom-transfer radical-polymerization on the
polymer surface, wherein the surface initiated atom-transfer radical polymerization
forms a polymer film on the polymer surface.
        2.   The method of claim 1, wherein the hydroxylation solution comprises
potassium persulfate, ammonium persulfate, lithium hydroxide, or combinations thereof;
        wherein the polymer surface is a fluorinated polymer when the hydroxylation
solution comprises lithium hydroxide,
        3. The method of claim 2, wherein the hydroxylation solution further comprises
water.
        4. The method of claim 1, wherein the polymer surface comprises a bundle of
polymer fibers.

WO 2014/189610                                                      PCT/US2014/031605
                                          34
       5. The method of claim 4, further comprising the step of mounting the bundle of
polymer fibers in a module prior to performing step (a).
       6.  The method of claim 5, wherein the bundle of polymer fibers comprises a
bundle of hollow polymer fibers and the bundle of hollow polymer fibers is mounted in
the module such that only the exterior surface of the hollow polymer fibers is exposed
to the hydroxylation solution.
       7.  The method of claim 5, wherein the bundle of polymer fibers comprises a
bundle of hollow polymer fibers and the bundle of hollow polymer fibers is mounted in
the module such that only the interior surface of the hollow polymer fibers is exposed to
the hydroxylation solution.
       8. The method of claim 4, wherein:
       step (a) is performed by immersing the bundle of polymer fibers in a bath of the
hydroxylation solution;
       9. The method of claim 4, wherein steps (a) is performed prior to mounting the
bundle of polymer fibers in a module and steps (b) and (c) are performed after
mounting the bundle of polymer fibers in a module.
       10.  The method of claim 4, wherein steps (a) and (b) are performed prior to
mounting the bundle of polymer fibers in a module and step (c) is performed after
mounting the bundle of polymer fibers in a module.

 WO 2014/189610                                                       PCT/US2014/031605
                                         35
       11.  The method of claim 1, wherein the polymer surface comprises a flat sheet
membrane.
       12.   A method of forming a polymer film on a polymer surface, the method
comprising the steps of:
       (a) providing a polymer surface having hydroxyl groups bonded to the polymer
surface;
       (b) halogenating    the   polymer   surface   in   a  halogenation    solution,  the
halogenation solution comprising hydrobromic acid, hydrochloric acid, phosphorous
tribromide, phosphorous trichloride, hydroiodic acid, thionyl chloride, thionyl bromide, or
combinations thereof;
       (c) performing surface initiated atom-transfer radical-polymerization on the
polymer surface, wherein the surface initiated atom-transfer radical polymerization
forms a polymer film on the polymer surface.
       13.    The method of claim 12, wherein the halogenation solution further
comprises water.
       14. The method of claim 12, wherein the polymer surface comprises a bundle of
polymer fibers.
       15.   The method of claim 12, wherein the bundle of hollow polymer fibers is
mounted in a module such that only the exterior surface of the hollow polymer fibers is
exposed to the halogenation solution.

 WO 2014/189610                                                      PCT/US2014/031605
                                          36
       16.   The method of claim 12, wherein the bundle of hollow polymer fibers is
mounted in a module such that only the interior surface of the hollow polymer fibers is
exposed to the halogenation solution.
       17. The method of claim 12, wherein the polymer surface comprises a flat sheet
membrane.
       18. A method of forming a polymer layer on a bundle of hollow polymer fibers,
the method comprising:
       providing a bundle of hollow polymer fibers; and
       performing surface initiated atom-transfer radical-polymerization on the bundle of
hollow polymer fibers, wherein the surface initiated atom-transfer radical polymerization
forms a polymer film on the hollow polymer fibers.
       19.   The method of claim 18, wherein the step of performing surface initiated
atom-transfer radical-polymerization on the bundle of hollow polymer fibers is carried
out while the bundle of hollow polymer fibers is mounted in a module.
       20. The method of claim 18, wherein the method further comprises mounting the
bundle of hollow polymer fibers in a module after performing surface-initiated atom
transfer radical polymerization.
       21. The method of claim 18, wherein the method further comprises the step of
hydroxylating the bundle of polymer fibers prior to performing surface initiated atom
transfer radical-polymerization.

WO 2014/189610                                                        PCT/US2014/031605
                                         37
       22.   The method of claim 21, wherein hydroxylating is carried out using a
hydroxylation solution.
       23.   The method of claim 22, wherein the hydroxylation solution comprises
potassium persulfate, ammonium persulfate, lithium hydroxide, or combinations thereof.
       24. The method of claim 18, wherein the method further comprises the step of
halogenating the bundle of polymer fibers with a halogenation solution prior to
performing    the  surface   initiated atom-transfer     radical-polymerization,   wherein
halogention solution comprises hydrobromic acid, hydrochloric acid, phosphorous
tribromide, phosphorous trichloride, hydroiodic acid, thionyl chloride, thionyl bromide, or
combinations thereof.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
