               PHOSPHATE ESTER DISPERSION PROMOTING AGENT AND
                           DISPERSION COMPRISING THE SAME
  The present disclosure relates to an aqueous latex and a process for the preparation
5 thereof. In particular, the present disclosure relates to an aqueous latex useful as a spacing
  extender for inorganic pigment particles. The present disclosure also relates to a dispersion
  of inorganic pigment particles comprising the aqueous latex and to an aqueous coating
  composition comprising the aqueous latex and inorganic pigment particles.

                                                                                           Patent
                                                                       Docket No. 06-2329-0201
              AQUEOUS LATEX AND DISPERSION OF INORGANIC PIGMENT
 5                           PARTICLES COMPRISING THE SAME
                     CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATION(S)
         [001] This application claims priority from Chinese Patent Application No.
   201310518250.X, filed 28 October 2013, the disclosure of which is incorporated herein by
10 reference in its entirety.
                                        TECHNICAL FIELD
   1002]       The present disclosure relates to an aqueous latex and a process for the
   preparation thereof. In particular, the present disclosure relates to an aqueous latex useful
15 as a spacing extender for inorganic pigment particles. The present disclosure also relates to
   a dispersion of inorganic pigment particles comprising the aqueous latex and to an
   aqueous coating composition comprising the aqueous latex and inorganic pigment
   particles.
20                                        BACKGROUND
   [0031       Inorganic pigment particles (in particular titanium dioxide particles) have been
   widely used in various applications including coating, ink, paint, stain, and so on. For
   example, titanium dioxide particles are added as the pigment to coating compositions,
   serving to provide the coatings formed therefrom with opacity to enhance hiding power
25 thereof.
   [004]       Titanium dioxide particles that are used as pigment typically have a relatively
   small particle size, e.g.. in order of micrometers or even nanometers. Using such small
   particles often presents a problem that the particles are prone to aggregate during their
   mixing and dispersing. Aggregation of particles degrades the scattering performance
30 thereof and hence the opacity of the coating. To reduce the aggregation of inorganic
   pigment particles, US Patent No. 5,385,960 discloses a process for spacing inorganic
   pigment particles (e.g., titanium dioxide particles) by using polymeric latex particles. It is
   described in the process that a dispersion of titanium dioxide in an aqueous medium is
                                                   I

   mixed with a dispersion of polymeric particles, whereby the polymeric particles are
   adsorbed onto the titanium dioxide particles to serve to space the titanium dioxide particles
   from each other. However, the thus-formed composite and as well coating compositions
   comprising such composite have a problem that the viscosity thereof is increasing over
 5 time. To solve this problem, the solution has been proposed that an effective amount of
   small-molecule dihydrogen phosphate salt is incorporated therein to suppress the constant
   increase of the viscosity. However, such additional incorporation of a small molecule
   substance presents many problems, such as environmental problem, bleeding out of small
   molecules, and so on.
10 [005]         Additionally, titanium dioxide particles used as pigment, especially titanium
   dioxide particles having the optimum particle size and particle size distribution for light
   scattering are usually one of the most expensive ingredients in the formulation of coating
   compositions. Therefore, there is a constant need for minimizing the amount of titanium
   dioxide particles used in coating compositions while the resultant coatings can still obtain
15 the desirable opacity. To this end, the dispersibility of titanium dioxide particles in
   coatings needs to be improved to reduce aggregation of the titanium dioxide particles.
   [0061         Therefore, the coating industry still has a need for an improved aqueous latex
   useful for spacing inorganic pigment particles (especially titanium dioxide particles).
20                                            SUMMARY
   10071         In one aspect, the present disclosure provides an aqueous dispersion of
   polymeric particles prepared through emulsion polymerization using monomers
   comprising:
         i) 0.1 to 20% by weight of at least one ethylenically unsaturated monomer containing
25 an anchor functionality and a moiety containing poly(oxyethylene);
         ii) 0 to 20% by weight of at least one ethylenically unsaturated monomer with a
   carboxylic acid functionality; and
         iii) 60 to 99.9% by weight of at least one ethylenically unsaturated monomer other
   than monomers i) and ii),
30       wherein the weight% is relative to the total weight of the monomers i), ii) and iii);
   and
         wherein the polymeric particles have a glass transition temperature of at least 50 C.
                                                    2

   [0081        In embodiments of the present disclosure, the ethylenically unsaturated
   monomer i) has a structure represented by formula (I):
                                                R
                                       (CH2 =C-Bg-O-A          X
 5       in which,
         R represents H or methyl; Bg represents a divalent bridged group of -CO- or -CHR'
   wherein R' represents H or methyl; A represents -(CH2CH20)r-, in which r represents a
   value in the range of I to 54 or -(CH 2CH 20)p(CyH 2 yO)q-, in which the structural units are
   connected with each other in arbitrary order, the subscripts p and q represent the statistic
10 sum of the corresponding structural units in the range of I to 54 with the ratio of p to q
   being in the range of 1: 1 to 10: 1 and y represents an integer in the range of 3 to 8; X
   represents an anchor functionality; and n is I or 2. Preferably, A presents -(CH2CH2O)r-,
   in which r represents a value in the range of 1 to 54. Preferably, the anchor functionality is
   selected from the group consisting of phosphoric acid functionality, phosphate salt
15 functionality, ammonium salt functionality, amine functionality and hydroxyl
   functionality.
   [0091        In another aspect, the present disclosure provides a process for the preparation
   of an aqueous dispersion of polymeric particles comprising carrying out an emulsion
   polymerization of the above-described monomers in the presence of an emulsifier and a
20 radical initiator to produce the aqueous dispersion of polymeric particles, wherein the
   polymeric particles have a glass transition temperature of at least 50*C.
   [0101        In still another aspect, the present disclosure provides a dispersion of inorganic
   pigment particles comprising inorganic pigment particles, an aqueous dispersion of
   polymeric particles according to the present disclosure, and a dispersion medium.
25 [0111        In yet still another aspect, the present disclosure provides an aqueous coating
   composition comprising water, a film-forming amount of a film-forming resin, inorganic
   pigment particles, a spacing extender for the inorganic pigment particles; and conventional
   additives, wherein the spacing extender is any aqueous dispersion of polymeric particles
   according to the present disclosure. Preferably, the coating composition has a substantially
30 stable viscosity after storage at 50 C for at least one month.
   [012]        When the aqueous dispersion according to the present disclosure is mixed with
   the inorganic pigment particles, the polymeric particles contained in the aqueous
                                                     3

   dispersion are anchored to the inorganic pigment particles via the anchoring functional
   groups to serve to spatially separate and stabilize the inorganic pigment particles.
   Therefore, the aqueous dispersion according to present disclosure can prevent the
   inorganic pigment particles, in particular titanium dioxide particles, from aggregation, and
 5 render better dispersibility of the pigment particles in a dispersion medium. As a result, as
   compared with a coating formed from a comparable coating composition that does not
   contain the aqueous dispersion of polymeric particles according to the present disclosure, a
   coating formed from an aqueous coating composition according to the present disclosure
   exhibits higher opacity and/or lower b value at the same amount of inorganic pigment
10 particles, or exhibits substantially the same or even higher opacity and/or the same or even
   lower b value at a lower amount of inorganic pigment particles. Additionally, the
   inorganic pigment particles spaced with the aqueous dispersion of polymeric particles
   according to the present disclosure exhibit an improved stability, especially an improved
   stability of viscosity.
15 [013]       The details of one or more embodiments of the invention will be set forth in the
   description below. The other features, objectives, and advantages of the invention will
   become apparent.
                            BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF DRAWINGS
20 [0141       Fig. I shows the photograph of polymeric particles of the aqueous dispersion
   according to the present disclosure taken by Scanning Electron Microscope.
   [015]       Fig. 2 shows the photograph of a dispersion of TiO 2 particles spaced with the
   aqueous dispersion according to the present disclosure taken by Scanning Electron
   Microscope. Fig. 2(a) and Fig. 2(b) show the photographs at the different magnifications,
25 respectively.
   [016]       Fig. 3 shows the photographs of coatings according to the examples and the
   comparative experiments of the present disclosure taken by a BYK color
   spectrophotometer, with the left side of each photograph taken from the comparative
   experiment and right side of each photograph from the example. In Fig. 3a) to 3d), the
30 commercially available titanium dioxide powder products R-706 from DuPont; R-298
   from Pangang Group Steel Co.,Ltd, China; SR-237 from Shandong Dongjia Group
   Co.,Ltd, China; and R-838 from BlueStar Group (CHINA) Co., Ltd, China are used as the
   inorganic pigment particles, respectively.
                                                  4

                                    DETAILED DESCRIPTION
   [0171       As used herein, the term "an aqueous latex" refers to a stable dispersion of
   polymeric particles in an aqueous liquid medium with the aid of, if necessary, an
 5 emulsifier or a dispersion stabilizer such as surfactant. Unless expressly indicated
   otherwise, the terms "aqueous latex" and "aqueous dispersion", when used herein in the
   context of polymer, can be interchangeably used.
   [0181       As used herein, the term "an anchor functionality" refers to any functional
   group that is capable of strongly interacting with the surface of inorganic pigment
10 particles, preferably forming an ionic bond, a covalent bond, or a hydrogen bond with a
   group or an atom on the surface of inorganic pigment particles. Via such a functional
   group, the polymeric particles are bound to the surface of inorganic pigment particles.
   [0191       As used with respect to an aqueous coating composition, the phrase
   "substantially stable viscosity" refers to the viscosity of the aqueous coating composition
15 increases by less than 5%, preferably less than 2%, and more preferably less than 1% after
   storage for at least one month at 50 oC.
   [0201       As used with respect to a coating, the term "opacity" refers to the ratio of the
   intensity of visible light that impinges on the coating to the intensity of said visible light
   that transmits through the coating, which is the measurement of the ability of a coating to
20 absorb visible light.
   10211       As used with respect to a coating, "b-value" denotes the blue-yellow color
   component in CIE Lab color space of the coating. Typically, the lower the b-value, the
   bluer the coating, while the higher the b-value, the more yellow the coating. When
   evaluated by naked eyes, a coating with a lower b-value will be regarded as to be whiter in
25 color.
   [022]       Throughout the present disclosure, where a composition or a chemical moiety
   is described as having, including, or comprising specific components or fractions, it is
   contemplated that the composition or chemical moiety as disclosed herein may further
   comprise other components or fractions, whether or not specifically mentioned in this
30 disclosure, but it is also contemplated that the composition or chemical moiety may
   consist essentially of, or consist of, the recited components. Also where a process is
   described as having, including, or comprising specific process steps, it is contemplated
   that the process as disclosed herein may further comprise other process steps, whether or
                                                    5

   not specifically mentioned in this disclosure, but it is also contemplated that the process
   may consist essentially of, or consist of the recited steps.
   [0231        The terms "preferred" and "preferably" refer to embodiments of the invention
   that may afford certain benefits, under certain circumstances. However, other
 5 embodiments may also be preferred, under the same or other circumstances. Furthermore,
   the recitation of one or more preferred embodiments does not imply that other
   embodiments are not useful, and is not intended to exclude other embodiments from the
   scope of the invention.
   [0241        As used herein, "a", "an", "the", "at least one", and "one or more" are used
10 interchangeably. Thus, for example, a coating composition that comprises "an" additional
   additive can be interpreted to mean that the coating composition includes "one or more"
   additional additives.
   [0251        For the sake of brevity, only certain ranges are explicitly disclosed herein.
   However, ranges from any lower limit may be combined with any upper limit to recite a
15 range not explicitly recited, ranges from any lower limit may be combined with any other
   lower limit to recite a range not explicitly recited, and in the same way, ranges from any
   upper limit may be combined with any other upper limit to recite a range not explicitly
   recited. Additionally, within a range includes every point or individual value between its
   end points even though not explicitly recited. Thus, every point or individual value may
20 serve as its own lower or upper limit combined with any other point or individual value or
   any other lower or upper limit, to recite a range not explicitly recited.
   [026]        The above summary of the present invention is not intended to describe each
   disclosed embodiment or every implementation of the present invention. The description
   that follows more particularly exemplifies illustrative embodiments. In several places
25 throughout the application, guidance is provided through lists of examples, which
   examples can be used in various combinations. In each instance, the recited list serves
   only as a representative group and should not be interpreted as an exclusive list.
   Aqueous Latex
30 [027]        According to one aspect of the present disclosure, an aqueous latex or an
   aqueous dispersion of polymeric particles is prepared through emulsion polymerization
   using monomers comprising: i) 0.1 to 20% by weight of at least one ethylenically
   unsaturated monomer containing an anchor functionality and a moiety containing
                                                   6

   poly(oxyethylene); ii) 0 to 20% by weight of at least one ethylenically unsaturated
   monomer with a carboxylic acid functionality; and iii) 60 to 99.9% by weight of at least
   one ethylenically unsaturated monomer other than monomers i) and ii), wherein the
   weight% is relative to the total weight of the monomers i), ii) and iii); and wherein the
 5 polymeric particles have a glass transition temperature (Tg) of at least 50 oC.
   [0281       As used herein, "Tg" denotes a glass transition temperature, at which
   temperature a polymer transits from a glassy state to a rubbery state, or vice versa. Tg can
   be experimentally determined by using, for example, the differential scanning calorimetry
   (DSC), or calculated by using the Fox equation. Unless indicated otherwise, the values and
10 ranges given for Tg in the present disclosure are those calculated by using the Fox
   equation.
   [0291       According to the Fox equation, Tg (in K) of a copolymer having n
   copolymerized monomers can be given by the respective weight fractions Wi of the
   monomers and Tg (in K) of the respective homopolymers of each type of the monomers:
                          I     W       -W2+W             + Wn
                                                    -............
                         Tg     Tg1     Tg2                   Tgn
15
   Tg thus given in K can easily be converted into Tg expressed in oC.
   [0301       Without wishing to be bound by theory, the inventors think that for some
   embodiments of the present disclosure, Tg of the polymeric particles is one of the factors
   that may contribute to the stability and duration of the polymeric particles as a spacing
20 extender for spatially separating inorganic pigment particles. In a preferred embodiment
   the polymeric particles have a Tg of at least about 55 oC, preferably at least about 60 oC,
   more preferably at least about 80 0C, and even more preferably at least about 90 0C. On the
   other hand, the polymeric particles have a Tg of at most about 110 0C, preferably at most
   about 105 0C, more preferably at most about 102 0C, and even more preferably at most
25 about 100 0 C. The polymeric particles having a relatively high Tg is advantageous to
   spatially separate inorganic pigment particles. The polymeric particles having a relatively
   high Tg are hard (i.e., in a glassy state) when used at a room temperature or even higher,
   so that they can spatially separate inorganic pigment particles very well.
   [0311       In an embodiment of the present disclosure, the aqueous latex has a relatively
30 high minimum film formation temperature (MFFT). In a preferred embodiment, the
   aqueous latex has a MFFT of at least about 60 0 C, and more preferably at least about 80
   0C. The minimum film formation temperature (MFFT) can be determined, for example,
                                                  7

   according to ASTM D-2354-91. Also, a relatively high MFFT is advantageous to spatially
   separate inorganic pigment particles. The aqueous latex having a relatively high MFFT
   will not form a film at room temperature or even higher temperature, so that the effect of
   spatially separating inorganic pigment particles is not negatively affected.
 5 [0321       In an embodiment of the present disclosure, the polymeric particles of the
   aqueous latex have a number-average particle size in a range of from about 30 to 150 nm,
   preferably from about 50 to 100 nrn, more preferably from about 50 to 80 un, most
   preferably from about 50 to 70 rn. The number-average particle size is measured by using
   Scanning Electron Microscope.
10
   i) Ethylenically unsaturated monomer containing an anchor functionality and a moiety
   containing poly(oxyethylene)
   [0331       The monomers that are used to prepare the aqueous latex according to the
   present disclosure comprise an ethylenically unsaturated monomer containing an anchor
15 functionality and a moiety containing poly(oxyethylene) (hereafter referred to as "the
   ethylenically unsaturated monomer i)"). The ethylenically unsaturated monomer i) serves
   to introduce an anchor functionality in polymeric particles obtained from polymerization
   of the monomers. With such a functional group, the polymeric particles can be bound to
   the surface of inorganic pigment particles such as titanium dioxide particles, for example,
20 via an ionic bond, a covalent bond, or a hydrogen bond.
   10341       As inorganic pigment particles, in particular titanium dioxide particles, may
   have different surface natures, one can select and introduce in polymeric particles different
   anchoring functional groups according to the surface natures of the inorganic pigment
   particles.
25 [035]       In the case where inorganic pigment particles bear ionic sites on the surface,
   such ionic sites can form ion pairs with the anchoring functional groups containing
   counter-ions. For example, when the inorganic pigment particles bear cation on the
   surface, the anchoring functional groups bearing anion can be anchored to the surface of
   the particles by the formation of ion pairs. Some inorganic pigment particles bear both
30 cation and anion on the surface. In this case., either of the anchoring functional groups
   bearing anion and the anchoring functional groups bearing cation can be anchored to the
   surface of the particles.
                                                   8

   [0361       In the case where inorganic pigment particles have reactive functional groups
   on the surface, such as carboxyl, hydroxyl, amino groups or the like, such reactive
   functional groups can form, for example, covalent chemical bonds with anchor functional
   groups having the complementary reactivity to the reactive functional groups on the
 5 surface. For example, when inorganic pigment particles have hydroxyl groups on the
   surface, carboxyl groups can function as the anchor functional groups to be anchored to
   the surface.
   [0371       In the case where inorganic pigment particles have no ionic sites or reactive
   functional groups on the surface, the inorganic pigment particles may contain on the
10 surface the oxygen atoms and hence donor or receptor groups for a hydrogen bond such as
   ester, ketone, ether, hydroxyl groups or the like. In this case, the donor or receptor groups
   can form a hydrogen bond with the complementary anchoring groups. Although an
   individual hydrogen bond is weaker than other bonding, however, a plurality of donor and
   acceptor groups from the anchor functionality of the polymeric particles and the surface of
15 the pigment particles can render a relatively strong interaction between the polymeric
   particles and the inorganic pigment particles.
   [0381       Without wishing to be bound by any theory, the inventors believe that the
   anchor functionality introduced in the polymeric particles can anchor the polymeric
   particles to inorganic pigment particles, so that the polymeric particles function to spatially
20 separate and stabilize the inorganic pigment particles.
   10391       Under the above-indicated framework, as the anchor functionality, any
   functional group that has a strong interaction with the surface of inorganic pigment
   particles, preferably forms an ionic bond, a covalent bond, or a hydrogen bond with groups
   or atoms on the surface of inorganic pigment particles can be selected. In a preferred
25 embodiment of the present disclosure, the anchor functionality is selected from the group
   consisting of phosphoric acid, phosphate, ammonium salts, amine, and hydroxyl groups.
   [0401       In an embodiment of the present disclosure, because of bearing the anchor
   functionality, the polymeric particles of the aqueous latex can be firmly bound to the
   surface of inorganic pigment particles, thereby enwrapping and spatially separating the
30 inorganic pigment particles. The inorganic pigment particles separated by the polymeric
   particles can be stably dispersed in the dispersion with reduced aggregation or
   agglomeration. As a result, coatings formed from coating compositions comprising the
                                                  9

   inorganic pigment particles separated by the polymeric particles exhibit better properties,
   including optical properties such as the opacity and the b value.
   [0411        The ethylenically unsaturated monomer i) further contains a moiety containing
   poly(oxyethylene). The presence of a moiety containing poly(oxyethylene) provides an
 5 aqueous latex of polymeric particles formed therefrom and also compositions comprising
   the polymeric particles and inorganic pigment particles with the prolonged stability. The
   prolonged stability is measured as the substantially stable viscosity of the compositions
   comprising the polymeric particles and inorganic pigment particles after storage at 50 IC
   for at least one month or even three months.
10 [042]        Without wishing to be bound by any theory, the moiety containing
   poly(oxyethylene) is hydrophilic. Such a hydrophilic moiety which is present on the
   surface of polymeric particles can function as a non-ionic surface active component, so
   that the aqueous latex containing the moiety and the compositions comprising the aqueous
   latex and inorganic pigment particles can have the prolonged stability, in particular the
15 stability of viscosity at an elevated temperature. Preferably, the moiety containing
   poly(oxyethylene) is derived from hydrophilic poly(alkylene glycol) ether or copolymer
   thereof, such as poly(ethylene glycol) ether and hydrophilic poly(ethylene glycol)-co-(C3
   Cs glycol) ether, e.g., poly(ethylene glycol)-co-(propylene glycol) ether, poly(ethylene
   glycol)-co-(butylene glycol) ether, poly(ethylene glycol)-co-(pentylene glycol) ether,
20 poly(ethylene glycol)-co-(hexylene glycol) ether, and poly(ethylene glycol)-co-(octylene
   glycol) ether. Most preferably, the moiety containing poly(oxyethylene) is derived from
   poly(ethylene glycol) ether.
   1043]        In an embodiment, the ethylenically unsaturated monomer i) has the structure
   represented by formula (I):
                                            R
25                                  (CH 2=C-Bg-O-A        X
         in which,
         R represents H or methyl;
         Bg represents a divalent bridged group of -CO- or -CUR'- wherein R' represents H
   or methyl;
30       A represents -(CH2CH2O)r-, in which r represents a value in the range of 1 to 54 or
   -(CH2CH20)p(CyH2yO)q-, in which the structural units are connected with each other in
                                                  10

   arbitrary order, the subscripts p and q represent the statistic sum of the corresponding
   structural units in the range of 1 to 54 with the ratio of p to q being in the range of 1: 1 to
   10: 1 and y represents an integer in the range of 3 to 8; X represents an anchor
   functionality, and
 5         n is I or 2.
   [0441         In a preferred embodiment, the ethylenically unsaturated monomer i) has a
   structure represented by formula (I-1)
                                       R              0
                               (CH 2 =C-Bg-O-A        P    OHM           3- (Ii)
          in which,
10        R, Bg, A and n are defined as above; M represents alkali metal ion; and x is at each
   occurrence 0 or 1.
   [0451         In another preferred embodiment, the ethylenically unsaturated monomer i) has
   a structure represented by formula (1-2)
                                     R
                             (CH  2 =C-Bg-O-A-      CO(CHR")mNH 2 (1-2)
15        in which,
          R, Bg, and A are defined as above; n is 1; R" represents H or CI-18 alkyl, C6- 18 aryl,
   C7 -18 aralkyl or alkaryl; and m is 1, 2, or 3.
   [046]         For the preparation of the aqueous latex of the present disclosure, one or more
   ethylenically unsaturated monomers i) as described above can be used alone or in
20 combination. The ethylenically unsaturated monomer i) as described above can be
   prepared from any suitable reactant(s) by using any suitable process for the preparation.
   Preferably, the ethylenically unsaturated monomer i) is prepared by reacting an
   ethylenically unsaturated functional polyether with an anchor functionality introducing
   reagent. The anchor functionality introducing reagent serves to introduce an anchoring
25 functional group or precursor thereof in the ethylenically unsaturated monomer i). In the
   case where an anchor functionality introducing reagent introduces a precursor of an
   anchoring functional group, the preparation of the ethylenically unsaturated monomer i)
   further comprises treating the reaction product of the anchor functionality introducing
   reagent and an ethylenically unsaturated functional polyether with a further reagent
30 suitable for converting the precursor into the desired anchoring functional group. For
                                                   11

   example, in the case where an anchor functionality introducing reagent introduce an acidic
   precursor of an anchoring functional group, a suitable base,. preferably an inorganic base
   (e.g., an alkali metal hydroxide such as sodium hydroxide, potassium hydroxide, and
   lithium hydroxide), is selected to neutralize the precursor to result in the desired anchoring
 5 functional group.
   [0471        In an embodiment of the present disclosure, the ethylenically unsaturated
   functional polyether may be an allyl-functional polyether or a (meth)acryl-functional
   polyether. These ethylenically unsaturated functional polyethers may be a commercially
   available product, or may be prepared by a suitable method well known in the art. For
10 example, an acryl-functional polyether can be prepared by reacting an acrylic acid with a
   suitable polyether such as PEO 2000 under suitable conditions.
   [0481        In order to prepare the ethylenically unsaturated monomer i) containing an
   anchor functionality, a phosphating agent, an aminating agent, or any other agent suitable
   for introducing an anchor functionality. Such an agent may be commercially available, or
15 may be synthesized by using a suitable process known in the art. In an embodiment,
   phosphorus oxychloride, phosphorus pentoxide, polyphosphoric acid, pyrophosphoric acid
   or acetyl phosphate can be used as an example of a phosphating agent. Additional
   examples can be found in German Patent Application No. DE-A 2,726,854. Phosphorus
   pentoxide, polyphosphoric acid and pyrophosphoric acid are the preferred phosphating
20 agent, and amongst them., phosphorus pentoxide is the most preferred. In some
   embodiments, ethyl glycinate hydrochloride is used as an example of the aminating agent.
   [049]        The conditions for the synthesis of the above-indicated ethylenically
   unsaturated monomer i) can readily be determined by a person skilled in the art.
   Preferably, the ethylenically unsaturated monomer i) can be synthesized by reacting an
25 ethylenically unsaturated functional polyether with a suitable reagent such as phosphorus
   pentoxide or ethyl glycinate hydrochloride in the presence of an effective amount of a
   polymerization inhibitor and optionally a catalyst, followed by neutralization with an
   inorganic base such as sodium hydroxide.
   [050]        In order to provide the surface of polymeric particles with anchoring functional
30 groups at a desirable amount, the amount of the ethylenically unsaturated monomer i) used
   is, relative to the total weight of all the monomers used in the preparation of the aqueous
   latex, in the range of from 0.1 to 20 % by weight, preferably from 0.1 to 15 % by weight,
                                                   12

   more preferably from 0.2 to 10 % by weight. even more preferably from 0.5 to 10 % by
   weight, and in particular from I to 5 % by weight.
   ii) Ethylenically unsaturated monomer with a carboxylic acid functionality
 5 [0511       To prepare the aqueous latex useful to space inorganic pigment particles, in
   particular titanium dioxide particles, according to the present disclosure, optionally an
   ethylenically unsaturated monomer with a carboxylic acid functionality ("an ethylenically
   unsaturated monomer ii)") may be used. Presence of such an ethylenically unsaturated
   monomer ii) can additionally improve the stability of the aqueous latex. The examples of
10 the ethylenically unsaturated monomer ii) comprise acrylic acid, methacrylic acid, beta
   acryloxy propionic acid, ethacrylic acid, alpha-chloroacrylic acid, crotonic acid, alpha
   phenylacrylic acid, cinnamic acid, chlorocinnamic acid, itaconic acid, maleic acid, and the
   combination thereof. Preferably, acrylic acid is used as the example of the ethylenically
   unsaturated monomer ii).
15 [052]       In order to provide the stable aqueous latex, the amount of the ethylenically
   unsaturated monomer ii) used is, relative to the total weight of all the monomers used in
   the preparation of the aqueous latex, in the range of from 0 to 20 % by weight, preferably
   from 0.2 to 10 % by weight, more preferably from 0.2 to 5 % by weight, still more
   preferably from 0.2 to 3 % by weight, and in particular from 0.2 to I % by weight. A
20 relatively low amount of the ethylenically unsaturated monomer ii) used is advantageous
   to obtain a stable aqueous latex. Therefore, the amount of the ethylenically unsaturated
   monomer ii) used is, relative to the total weight of all the monomers used in the
   preparation of the aqueous latex, optimally in the range of from 0.5 to I % by weight.
25 iii) Ethylenically unsaturated monomer other than monomers i) and ii)
   [053]       The monomers used to prepare the aqueous latex according to the present
   disclosure further comprises at least one ethylenically unsaturated monomer other than
   monomers i) and ii) (hereafter referred to as "the ethylenically unsaturated monomer iii)").
   The ethylenically unsaturated monomer iii) suitably used in the present disclosure may
30 comprise any ethylenically unsaturated compound that is radically polymerisable, except
   the ethylenically unsaturated monomers i) and ii). Suitable examples of the ethylenically
   unsaturated monomer iii) comprise styrenes such as styrene, alpha-methylstyrene,
   vinyltoluene, vinylnaphthalene., alkenyl halides such as vinyl chloride, vinylidene chloride,
                                                  13

   vinyl fluoride, tetrafluoroethylene,. hexafluoropropylene, allyl ethers such as allyl benzyl
   ether, vinyl acetate, vinyl versarates such as those vinyl versarates commercially available
   under trade name VeoVaTM ( e.g., VeoVa TM 10), acrylonitriles suc as acrylonitrile,
   methacrylonitrile, C1-20 alkyl esters of (meth)acrylic acid, alkoxyalkyl (meth)acrylate, and
 5 the combination thereof
   [0541       To obtain the polymeric particles with the desirable Tg, incorporation of the
   ethylenically unsaturated monomer iii) is of importance. Preferably, styrenes, alkyl
   (meth)acrylates, or combination thereof are selected as the ethylenically unsaturated
   monomer iii) to meet the requirements of application as indicated above. More preferably,
10 styrenes, C 1 -2o alkyl esters of (meth)aciylic acid, or combination thereof are used. Suitable
   examples of C1-2o alkyl esters of (meth)acrylic acid include, but not limited to, methyl
   (meth)acrylate, ethyl (meth)acrylate, propyl (meth)acrylate, isopropyl (meth)acrylate,
   butyl (meth)acrylate, isobutyl (meth)acrylate, pentyl (meth)acrylate, isoamyl
   (meth)acrylate, hexyl (meth)acrylate, 2-ethylhexyl (meth)acrylate, cyclohexyl
15 (meth)aciylate, decyl (meth)acrylate, isodecyl (meth)acrylate, lauryl (meth)acrylate,
   isobornyl (meth)acrylate, octyl (meth)acrylate, nonyl (meth)acrylate, and a mixture
   thereof. In an embodiment of the present disclosure, the ethylenically unsaturated
   monomer iii) comprises styrene, butyl acrylate, or a mixture thereof.
   [0551       The amount of the ethylenically unsaturated monomer iii) used may be
20 adjusted according to the practical demands (such as Tg, mechanical strength, and so on).
   In view of the practical operability and cost of production, typically the weight percentage
   of the ethylenically unsaturated monomer iii) in the total monomers used for the
   preparation of the aqueous latex is relatively high. In particular, the amount of the
   ethylenically unsaturated monomer iii) used is, relative to the total weight of all the
25 monomers used in the preparation of the aqueous latex, in the range of from 60 to 99.9 %
   by weight, preferably from 70 to 99 % by weight, more preferably from 80 to 98 % by
   weight, even more preferably from 90 to 98 % by weight, and in particular from 93 to
   98 % by weight.
30 Preparation of Aqueous Latex
   [0561       In another aspect of the present disclosure, there is provided a process for the
   preparation of an aqueous dispersion of polymeric particles comprising carrying out an
   emulsion polymerization of monomers in the presence of an emulsifier and a radical
                                                    14

   initiator, the monomers comprising: i) 0.1 to 20% by weight of at least one ethylenically
   unsaturated monomer containing an anchor functionality and a moiety containing
   poly(oxyethylene); ii) 0 to 20% by weight of at least one ethylenically unsaturated
   monomer with a carboxylic acid functionality; and iii) 60 to 99.9% by weight of at least
 5 one ethylenically unsaturated monomer other than monomers i) and ii), with the weight%
   being relative to the total weight of the monomers i), ii) and iii), wherein the polymeric
   particles have a glass transition temperature (Tg) of at least 50'C. In an embodiment of the
   present disclosure, the polymeric particles have a number-average particle size in the
   range of from 30 to 150 nm, preferably from 50 to 100 nm, and more preferably from 50
10 to 80 nm. The number-average particle size may be measured by using Scanning Electron
   Microscope.
   [0571        The emulsion polymerization technology for the preparation of an aqueous
   latex from an ethylenically unsaturated monomer is well known in the art; here can be
   used any conventional emulsion polymerization process, such as a one-stage process, a
15 multi-stage process, and a continuous process. It is well known that an aqueous latex can
   be prepared by using seed polymerization or by adjusting the amount of emulsifier initially
   added, to control the number of polymeric particles formed in the aqueous latex and/or the
   particle size of polymeric particles. The processes for the preparation of an aqueous latex
   have been generally discussed in Emulsion Polymerization, Wiley, N.Y., 1975 by D. C
20 Blackley. In particular, for the preparation of an aqueous acrylic latex, one may refer to,
   for example, "Emulsion Polymerization ofAcrvlic Polymers, Bulletin" released by Rohm
   and Haas Company.
   [0581        In an embodiment of the present disclosure, the aqueous latex is prepared by
   dispersing the polymerizable monomers in water with the aid of a suitable emulsifier
25 under stirring to form an emulsion, and adding dropwise the thus-formed emulsion in a
   polymerization reactor containing an initiator to proceed with polymerization.
   [0591        Any suitable radical initiator may be used to initiate the polymerization
   reaction. Suitable examples of the initiator include those that generate free radical species
   by thermal decomposition at a temperature of polymerization. The initiators may include
30 water soluble initiators and water insoluble initiators. The specific examples of the radical
   initiators include persulfates, such as ammonium persulfate or alkali metal (including
   potassium, sodium or lithium) persulfates; peroxides, such as cumene hydroperoxide, t
   butyl hydroperoxide, di-t-butyl peroxide, dioctyl peroxide, tert-butyl peroxypivalate, t
                                                  15

   butyl perisonoanoate, t-butyl peroctoate, tert-butyl peroxyneodecanoate, bis(2-ethylhexyl)
   peroxydicarbonate, di-isotrydecyl peroxydicarbonate; azo compounds, such as 2,2'-azo
   bis(isobutyronitrile), 2.2'-azo-bis(valeronitrile); and the conventional redox systems.
   Preferably, a water soluble persulfate is used as the initiator. In particular, ammonium
 5 persulfate is used as the initiator.
   [0601        The polymerizable monomers' dispersing may be promoted by any suitable
   emulsifier. Suitable examples of the emulsifier include an anionic surfactant, a non-ionic
   surfactant, or a combination thereof. These surfactants are well known in the art. For
   example, some surfactants suitable for emulsion polymerization are disclosed in
10 McCutcheon 'sDetergents and Enulsijiers, by Glen Rock, N. J., MC Publishing Co..
   Other types of stabilizer such as a protective colloid may also be used. Preferably, a
   combination of an anionic surfactant and a non-ionic surfactant is used. The anionic
   surfactant includes aliphatic carboxylate salts, aliphatic sulfonate salts, aliphatic sulfate
   salts, and aliphatic phosphate salts. Preferably, the salts of alkali metal such as Na, K, and
15 Li, or alkali earth metal such as Ca and Ba may be used. In a specific example of the
   present disclosure, an aliphatic sulfonate salt, preferably alkali metal dodecyl sulfonate, in
   particular sodium dodecyl sulfonate (SDS) is used. The non-ionic surfactant includes alkyl
   phenol polyethylene oxide ether and aliphatic alcohol polyethylene oxide ether.
   Preferably, alkyl phenol polyethylene oxide ether is used. In a specific embodiment, octyl
20 phenol polyethylene oxide ether (OP- 10) is used.
   10611        For the preparation of an aqueous latex according to the present disclosure, the
   amounts of emulsifier and initiator and as well the reaction conditions such as the reaction
   temperature, the speed of stirring, and so on can be empirically determined by a person
   skilled in the art.
25
   Dispersion of Inorg~anic Pigment Particles
   [0621        In still another aspect of the present disclosure, there is provided a dispersion
   of inorganic pigment particles comprising an aqueous latex as described herein, and as
   well use of the aqueous latex for spacing inorganic pigment particles. In the context of the
30 present disclosure, the phrase "a dispersion of inorganic pigment particles" refers to a
   composition of matter obtained by dispersing inorganic pigment particles in a dispersion
   medium.
                                                    16

   [0631        In an embodiment of the present disclosure, the dispersion of inorganic
   pigment particles comprises an aqueous latex as described above, inorganic pigment
   particles, a dispersion medium, and optionally additional additives, wherein the aqueous
   latex serves as a spacing extender for the inorganic pigment particles.
 5 [0641        In the dispersion of inorganic pigment particles, the amount of the aqueous
   latex serving as a spacing extender may vary depending on the total weight of the
   inorganic pigment particles used. Preferably, the amount of the aqueous latex is, relative to
   the total weight of the inorganic pigment particles, in the range of from 10 to 50 % by
   weight.
10 [065]        As used herein, the phrase "inorganic pigment particles" refer to any pigment
   material which is substantially insoluble in a dispersion medium at the temperature
   concerned, and which it is desired to stabilize in a finely divided form in the dispersion
   medium. The inorganic pigment particles may be in shape of sphere, fiber, flake, or other
   regular or irregular shapes of micrometric or even nanometric size.
15 [0661        In an embodiment of the present disclosure, suitable examples of the inorganic
   pigment particles include metal oxides, such as titanium dioxide, iron oxides, zinc oxide,
   zirconia, or aluminia; metal composite oxides containing two or more metal elements
   including manganese, nickel, titanium, chromium, antimony, magnesium, cobalt, iron, or
   aluminum; oxymetallic compounds, such as bismuth vanadate, cobalt aluminate, cobalat
20 zincate, or zinc chromate; metallic pigments, such as aluminum flake, copper, and copper
   zinc alloys; and pearlescent pigments, such as lead carbonate and bismuth oxychloride. It
   is preferable that the inorganic pigment particles are titanium dioxide particles, preferably
   titanium dioxide particles in the form of slurry or powder.
   [0671        As used herein, the term "dispersion medium" refers to a medium in which the
25 inorganic pigment particles are dispersed, preferably an aqueous medium, including, but
   not limited to water, an organic solvent miscible with water, or a mixture thereof.
   Examples of the organic solvent miscible with water include lower alcohols, such as
   methanol. ethanol, propanol, and butanol; ketones, such as acetone, methyl ethyl ketone,
   and methyl propyl ketone; amides, such as dimethyl formamide and dimethyl acetamide;
30 furans, such as tetrahydrofuran, or a combination thereof.
   [0681        In an embodiment where titanium dioxide particles are used as the inorganic
   pigment particles, the titanium dioxide particles are dispersed in a first aqueous dispersion
   medium to provide a slurry. This step may be carried out by a provider of titanium
                                                  17

   dioxide. Next, the slurry of the inorganic pigment particles is mixed with the aqueous latex
   as described herein and a second aqueous dispersion medium to form a desired dispersion
   of the inorganic pigment particles. The first and second aqueous dispersion media may be
   the same or different. Preferably. the first and second aqueous dispersion media are the
 5 same or have the similar polarity. In an alternative embodiment where titanium dioxide
   particles are used as the inorganic pigment particles, the titanium dioxide particles in the
   fonn of dry powder are directly mixed with the aqueous latex as described herein and an
   aqueous dispersion medium to form a desired dispersion of titanium dioxide particles.
   [0691       The dispersion of inorganic pigment particles may further comprise one or
10 more additional additives. Suitable examples of the additional additives include a surface
   active agent, an antifoaming agent, a rheology modifying agent, a thermal stabilizer, a
   flow/leveling agent, a matting agent, an anti-sedimentation agent, a biocide, and a
   combination thereof.
   1070]       In a dispersion of inorganic pigment particles according to the present
15 disclosure, the amount of inorganic pigment particles, the type and amount of a dispersion
   medium, and the types and amounts of additional additives can be empirically determined
   by a person skilled the art as desired.
   [0711       The dispersion of inorganic pigment particles as disclosed herein can be used
   directly as such or can be used to formulate coating compositions.
20 [0721       The dispersion of inorganic pigment particles thus formulated in the presence
   of the aqueous latex as disclosed herein exhibits an improved stability, especially an
   improved stability of viscosity. In particular, the viscosity of the dispersion of inorganic
   pigment particles increases by less than 5%, preferably less than 2%, and more preferably
   less than 1%after storage at 50 C for at least one month or even three months.
25
   Aqueous Coating Composition
   [0731       In yet still another aspect of the present disclosure, there is provided an
   aqueous coating composition comprising water, a film-forming amount of a film-forming
   resin, inorganic pigment particles, a spacing extender for the inorganic pigment particles;
30 and conventional additives, wherein the spacing extender is an aqueous latex according to
   the present disclosure.
   [0741       As used herein, the term "a film-forming resin" refers to any aqueous latex
   commonly used to carry out the film-formation in the field of coating. The film-forming
                                                   18

   resins commonly used include aqueous latexes of organic silicones, styrene-acrylates,
   acrylates, organic silicones modified acrylates, vinyl acetate, vinyl acetate-acrylates, vinyl
   acetate-ethylene, ethylene-vinyl acetate, vinyl acetate-acrylates-ester of versatic acid (e.g.,
   vinyl ester of versatic acid, VeoVaTM 10), or fluorocarbon polymer, or any combination
 5 thereof.
   [0751        An aqueous latex useful as the film-forming resin of the aqueous coating
   composition may be prepared by any suitable process for the preparation of an aqueous
   latex that is well-known to a person skilled in the art, as described above. Alternatively, as
   a specific example of the film-forming resin, any suitable product commercially available,
10 such as the aqueous latex of styrene-acrylates available from BATF Industry Co., Ltd.
   under the trade name of RS 998A, RS 968 or RS 936W, may be used.
   [0761        As can be readily appreciated by a person skilled in the art, the aqueous coating
   composition comprises the film-forming resin in a film-forming amount. Preferably, the
   amount of the film-forming resin comprised by the aqueous coating composition is in the
15 range of from about 5 to 50 % by weight relative to the total weight of the aqueous coating
   composition. Preferably, the amount of the film-forming resin comprised by the aqueous
   coating composition is at least about 10%, more preferably at least about 15%, and even
   more preferably about 20 % by weight relative to the total weight of the aqueous coating
   composition. Preferably, the amount of the film-forming resin comprised by the aqueous
20 coating composition is up to about 45%, more preferably up to about 40%, and even more
   preferably about 30 % by weight relative to the total amount of the aqueous coating
   composition.
   1077]        Additional water may be added in formulating the aqueous coating
   composition to adjust the viscosity of the aqueous coating composition. The amount of
25 water added may vary depending on the desirable viscosity and processability of the
   aqueous coating composition. Preferably, the amount of water added is, relative to the
   total weight of the aqueous coating composition, in the range of from about 10 to 50 % by
   weight, preferably from 15 to 40 % by weight.
   [078]        For the aqueous coating composition according to the present disclosure, all the
30 description and examples of the inorganic pigment particles and the spacing extender as
   described above can apply.
   [0791        In the aqueous coating composition according to the present disclosure, the
   amount of inorganic pigment particles is in the range of from about 5 to 30 %, preferably
                                                  19

   from 10 to 20%, and more preferably from 10 to 17 % by weight relative to the total
   weight of the aqueous coating composition.
   [0801        In the aqueous coating composition according to the present disclosure, the
   amount of the spacing extender for inorganic pigment particles is in the range of from
 5 about 1 to 10 %, and preferably from 2 to 10% by weight relative to the total weight of the
   aqueous coating composition. In order to meet the requirement for spacing inorganic
   pigment particles, the amount of the spacing extender desirably varies depending on the
   total weight of the inorganic pigment particles. Preferably, the amount of the spacing
   extender is in the range of from 10 to 50 % by weight relative to the total weight of
10 inorganic pigment particles.
   [081]        The coating formed from the aqueous coating composition according to the
   present disclosure that comprises the aqueous latex as disclosed herein acting as a spacing
   extender for inorganic pigment particles exhibits higher opacity and/or lower b value at the
   same amount of inorganic pigment particles, or exhibits substantially the same or even
15 higher opacity and/or the same or even lower b value at a lower amount of inorganic
   pigment particles, as compared with a coating formed from a comparable coating
   composition that does not, however, contain the aqueous latex according to the present
   disclosure.
   1082]        Surprisingly it has been found that with the aqueous latex as disclosed herein
20 added as an spacing extender for inorganic pigment particles in an aqueous coating
   composition comprising such inorganic pigment particles (especially titanium dioxide
   particles), the coating forced from such an aqueous coating composition may still obtain a
   comparable opacity and b value even at an amount of inorganic pigment particles reduced
   by 5 to 20 % by weight.
25 [083]        Additionally, the aqueous coating composition comprising the aqueous latex as
   disclosed herein exhibits the improved stability of viscosity. In particular, the viscosity of
   the aqueous coating composition according to the present disclosure increases by less than
   5%, preferably less than 2%, and more preferably less than 1%. after storage at 50 C for
   at least one month or even three months.
30 [084]        The aqueous coating composition may further comprise one or more
   conventional additives that do not adversely affect the coating composition or coating
   obtained therefrom. Suitable additives include, for example, those that can be used to
   improve the processability or manufacturability of the composition, enhance composition
                                                 20

   aesthetics, improve a particular functional property or characteristic of the coating
   composition or the cured composition resulting therefrom, such as adhesion to a substrate,
   or reduce the cost of production. Suitable examples of the additive include fillers, anti
   migration aids, anti-microbials, lubricants, coalescent agents, wetting agents, biocides,
 5 plasticizers, crosslinking agents, antifoaming agents, colorants, waxes, anti-oxidants,
   anticorrosion agents, flow control agents, thixotropic agents, dispersants, adhesion
   promoters, UV stabilizers, scavenger agents, thickeners, pH adjusters, solvents, or
   combinations thereof. Each optional ingredient can be included in a sufficient amount to
   serve its intended purpose, but preferably not in such an amount to adversely affect the
10 coating composition or cured coating obtained therefrom. In a preferred embodiment, the
   aqueous coating composition according to the present disclosure may comprise a
   thickener, a dispersant, a defoamer, a wetting agent, a pH adjuster, filler, a coalescent
   agent, a bactericide, a fungicide, or any combination thereof. According to the present
   disclosure, the total amount of the conventional additives is in the range of from about 0.1
15 to 74 % by weight relative to the total weight of the aqueous coating composition.
   [0851        In an embodiment of the present disclosure, the aqueous coating composition
   comprises, relative to the total weight of the aqueous coating composition,
            15 to 40% by weight of water,
            5 to 30% by weight of the film-forming resin,
20          5 to 30% by weight of the inorganic pigment particles,
            1 to 10% by weight of the spacing extender for inorganic pigment particles, and
           0.1 to 74% by weight of the conventional additives.
   [0861        In a specific embodiment of the present disclosure, the aqueous coating
   composition comprises, relative to the total weight of the aqueous coating composition,
25          15 to 40% by weight of water,
            5 to 30% by weight of the film-forming resin,
            5 to 30% by weight of the inorganic pigment particles,
            1 to 10% by weight of the spacing extender for inorganic pigment particles,
            10 to 60 % by weigh of the filler,
30         0.03 to 0.5 % by weight of the thickener,
           0.05 to 0.5 % by weight of the dispersant,
           0.05 to 0.5 % by weight of the defoamer,
                                                 21

           0.05 to 0.5 % by weight of the wetting agent,
           0.05 to 0.5 % by weight of the pH adjuster,
            I to 10 % by weight of the coalescent agent,
           0.05 to 0.2 % by weight of the bactericide, and
 5         0.05 to 0.2 % by weight of the fungicide.
                                            EXAMPLES
   [0871        The present disclosure is more particularly described in the following examples
   that are intended as illustrations only, since numerous modifications and variations within
10 the scope of the present disclosure will be apparent to those skilled in the art. Unless
   otherwise noted., all parts, percentages, and ratios reported in the following examples are
   on a weight basis, and all reagents used in the examples are commercially available, and
   used directly as they were originally received.
15 Measurement Method
   [0881        Glass transition temperature (Tg) was measured by using the differential
   scanning calorimetry (DSC). The measurement procedure was outlined as follows: drying
   aqueous latex to be analyzed to form a film; taking and weighing a sample of 5 to 10 mg
   from the dried film; and heating the sample in a differential scanning calorimeter from -20
20 'C to 200 'C at a rate of 10 'C/min under a nitrogen gas atmosphere of 40 mL/min.
   [0891        Minimum film formation temperature MFFT was measured according to
   ASTM D-2354-91.
   [0901        Opacity and b value were measured by using a color spectrophotometer from
   BYK-Gardner GmbH, Germany.
25 [091]        Number-average particle size was measured by using Hitachi SU9000 High
   Resolution Scanning Electron Microscope. The measurement procedure was outlined as
   follows: coating aqueous latex to be analyzed onto a PET film: air drying at room
   temperature; treating the sample with metal sputtering; and then determining the particle
   size of at least ten polymeric particles by the Scanning Electron Microscope and
30 calculating the number-average particle size.
   [0921        Viscosity of aqueous coating compositions was measured by using Stormer
   Viscometer at a rotor speed of 200 r/min.
                                                  22

   Example 1 Preparation of Ethylenically Unsaturated Monomer i)
   Ethylenically Unsaturated Monomer i)- 1
   [0931       Under the protection of N 2 , allyl polyethylene oxide ether and phosphorus
   pentoxide at a molar ratio of 1:1.2 along with 500 ppm polymerization inhibitor were
 5 loaded into a four-necked flask equipped with a thermometer, an overhead stirrer, a gas
   inlet and a condenser, and then homogenized. The reaction mixture was allowed to react at
   65 "C for 5 hours. Then some water was added as appropriate, and the reaction was
   allowed to proceed at 65 IC for a further 1 hour. Finally the reaction mixture was
   neutralized with sodium hydroxide at 25 'C so as to obtain the ethylenically unsaturated
10 monomer i)-1.
   Ethylenically Unsaturated Monomer i)-2
   [0941       The ethylenically unsaturated monomer i)-2 was prepared according to the
   similar procedure for the preparation of the ethylenically unsaturated monomer i)-1,
15 expect that polyethylene glycol acrylate monoester was used in place of allyl polyethylene
   oxide.
   Ethylenically Unsaturated Monomer i)-3
   [0951       Under the protection of N 2 , allyl polyethylene oxide ether and ethyl glycinate
20 hydrochloride at a molar ratio of 1 : 1 along with a catalytic amount ofp-toluene sulfonic
   acid, 500 ppm polymerization inhibitor, and some ethanol as appropriated were loaded
   into a four-necked flask equipped with a thermometer, an overhead stirrer, a gas inlet and
   a condenser, and then homogenized. The reaction mixture was allowed to reflux for 2
   hours. Then the reaction mixture was neutralized with sodium hydroxide at 25 'C so as to
25 obtain the ethylenically unsaturated monomer i)-3.
   Ethylenically Unsaturated Monomer i)-4
   [0961       The ethylenically unsaturated monomer i)-4 was prepared according to the
   similar procedure for the preparation of the ethylenically unsaturated monomer i)-3,
30 expect that polyethylene glycol acrylate monoester was used in place of allyl polyethylene
   oxide.
   Example 2 Preparation of Aqueous Latex
                                                   23

   [0971       2g of any one of the ethylenically unsaturated monomers as prepared in
   Example 1, 500g of styrene, 45g of butyl acrylate, and 5g of acrylic acid were mixed to be
   homogeneous to provide a monomer mixture. 6g of sodium dodecyl sulfonate SDS and 3g
   of octyl phenol polyethylene oxide ether (OP-10) were dissolved in 250g of water, to
 5 which the monomer mixture was then added under stirring to provide a pre-emulsion. To a
   reaction flask, 350g of deioned water, ig of SDS, 0.5g of OP-10, and 0.2g of ammonium
   persulfate were added, homogenized under stirring, and then heated to 80 'C. At this
   predetermined temperature, the pre-emulsion was added dropwise to the contents of the
   reaction flask in 2 hours. After the addition of the pre-emulsion was completed, the
10 reaction mixture continued to stay at 80 'C for 1.5 hours. Finally, the latex obtained as the
   reaction product in the flask was cooled down, and adjusted to a pH between 7.0 and 8.5.
   After measurement, the polymeric particles of the aqueous latex prepared from the
   monomer mixture comprising the ethylenically unsaturated monomer i)- 1 or 2 have a Tg
   of 74.7 0 C, and a number-average particle size of about 60 nm, as illustrated in Fig 1.
15 Furthermore, it was determined that the aqueous latexes thus prepared could not form a
   film at 60 0C.
   Example 3 Aqueous Coating Composition
20 [0981       The aqueous latexes as prepared in Example 2 above were respectively mixed
   with water, TiO 2, a film-forming resin, and conventional additives (including cellulose, a
   defoamer, a dispersant, a wetting agent, a pH adjuster, filler, a coalescent agent,
   bactericide, and fungicide) to formulate the coating compositions. The formulation of the
   coating composition was shown in Table 1.
25
                           Table 1 Formulation of Coating Composition
       Ingredients                              Amount                Source
       Water                                    15 to 40 wt%
       Cellulose                                0.03 to 0.5 wt %      commercially available
       Defoamer                                 0.05 to 0.5 wt %      commercially available
       Dispersant                               0.05 to 0.5 wt %      commercially available
       Wetting agent                            0.05 to 0.5 wt %      commercially available
                                                  24

        PH adjuster                               0.05 to 0.5 wt %    commercially available
        TiO2                                      5 to 30 wt %        commercially available
        Filler                                    10 to 60 wt %       commercially available
        Film-forming resin                        5 to 30 wt %        commercially available
       Aqueous latex prepared in Example 2        1 to 10 wt %        commercially available
        Coalescent agent                          0.05 to 0.2 wt %    commercially available
        Bactericide                               0.05 to 0.2wt %     commercially available
        Fungicide                                 0.05 to 0.2wt %     commercially available
   [0991       The aqueous coating composition thus formulated was stored under the
   conditions of a temperature of 50 oC and a relative humidity of 50 to 70%, and the
   viscosity was measured after storage for 0, 15, 30, 45, 60. 75, and 90 days, respectively.
 5 The results were shown in Table 2.
                  Table 2 Change in Viscosity of Coating Composition over Time
     Time (in day)         0          15          30         45      60         75        90
     Viscosity (in Ku)     98.1       99.4        97.7       97.8    99.3       100.4     98.6
   [0100]      It was shown in Table 2 that the viscosity of the coating composition
10 maintained substantially stable, i.e., increased by less than 1%, after storage at 50 "C for
   three months.
   [0101]      To demonstrate the spacing effects of the aqueous latex with Ethylenically
   Unsaturated Monomer i)- I as prepared in Example 2 on inorganic pigment particles, TiO 2
   particles from different sources were used: TiO 2 powder under trade name R-706 from
15 DuPont; TiO 2 powder under trade name R-298 from Pangang Group Steel Co., Ltd, China;
   TiO 2 powder under trade name SR-237 from Shandong Dongjia Group Co., Ltd, China;
   and TiO 2 powder under trade name R-838 from BlueStar Group (CHINA) Co., Ltd, China.
   [0102]      Fig. 2 showed the photograph of the dispersion of TiO 2 particles (R-706 from
   DuPont) spaced with the aqueous latex as prepared in Example 2. It can be seen in the
20 SEM photograph of Fig. 2 that the aqueous latex served as the spacing extender to space
   the TiO 2 particles, thus preventing the TiO 2 particles from aggregation and rendering
   better dispersibility of the TiO 2 particles in a dispersion medium.
                                                    25

   [0103]      In the experiments and comparative experiments indicated in Table 3 below,
   the formulations of the compositions were substantially the same, except that the aqueous
   latex with Ethylenically Unsaturated Monomer i)- 1 as prepared in Example 2 was used for
   the experiments, while a comparable amount of the film-forming resin commercially
 5 available was used in place of the aqueous latex for the examples, and that the amount of
   TiO 2 used in the experiments was 16.19% by weight, in comparison with 19.07% of TiO 2
   used in the comparative experiments. The thus-formulated coating compositions were
   dried to form a coating, and the opacity and b value of the coatings were compared,
   respectively. The results were shown in Table 3 and Fig. 3.
10
                       Table 3 Comparison of Optical Properties of Coatings
         No.                TiO2      Amount of TiO 2       Opacity              b-value
         Experiment 1      R-706      16.19%                97.59%               1.62
         Com. Ex A         R-706      19.07%                96.72%               1.68
         Experiment 2      R-298      16.19%                97.87%               2.33
         Com. Ex B         R-298      19.07%                97.74%               2.43
         Experiment 3       SR-237    16.19%                97.82%               2.50
         Com. Ex C          SR-237    19.07%                97.85%               2.69
         Experiment 4      R-838      16.19%                97.94%               1.88
         Com. Ex D         R-838      19.07%                98.00%               1.89
15 [0104]      Fig. 3 showed the photographs of the coatings according to the experiments
   and the comparative experiments taken by a BYK spectrometer, with the left side of each
   photograph taken from the comparative experiment and right side of each photograph
   from the experiments. Observed by naked eyes, the photographs shown in Fig. 3a) to 3d)
   of the respective coatings of the experiments (TiO 2 content: 16.19%) and the respective
20 comparative experiments (TiO 2 content: 19.07%) showed no perceivable differences.
   [0105]      The results given in Table 3 demonstrated that with the aqueous latex as
   prepared herein used as the spacing extender, the coatings of the experiments obtained the
   substantially unchanged opacity and even lower b value as compared with the comparative
                                                26

  experiments, while the TiO 2 content of the experiments is less than that of the comparative
  experiments by 15%.
  [0106]      Therefore, it was clearly indicated that use of the aqueous latex as prepared
  herein as the spacing extender allowed the content of TiO 2 used to be decreased, while the
5 resultant coating was still able to obtain the desirable optical properties, including the
  opacity and b value.
                                                 27

                                                   CLAIMS
          1. A dispersion comprising:
          inorganic pigment particles;
 5        10 to 50% by weight, based on the total weight of the inorganic pigment particles, of a
    spacing extender for the inorganic pigment particles, said extender comprising an aqueous
    dispersion of polymeric particles prepared through emulsion polymerization using monomers
    comprising:
          i) 0.1 to 20% by weight of at least one ethylenically unsaturated monomer containing an
 0  anchor functionality and a moiety containing poly(oxyethylene);
          ii) 0 to 20% by weight of at least one ethylenically unsaturated monomer with a carboxylic
    acid functionality; and
          iii) 60 to 99.9% by weight of at least one ethylenically unsaturated monomer other than
    monomers i) and ii),
 5        wherein the weight% is relative to the total weight of the monomers i), ii) and iii); and
          wherein the polymeric particles have a glass transition temperature of at least 50'C; and
          a dispersion medium.
          2. The aqueous dispersion of polymeric particles as claimed in claim 1, wherein the
 '0 polymeric particles have a number average particle size in the range of from 30 to 150 nm.
          3. The aqueous dispersion of polymeric particles of claim 1, wherein the ethylenically
    unsaturated monomer i) has a structure represented by formula (I):
                                                  R
                                         (CH2 =C-Bg-O-A           X
          in which,
25  R represents H or methyl; Bg represents a divalent bridged group of -CO- or -CHR'- wherein R'
    represents H or methyl; A represents -(CH2CH20)r-, in which r represents a value in the range of
    1 to 54 or -(CH2CH20)p(CyH2yO)q-, in which the structural units are connected with each other in
    arbitrary order, the subscripts p and q represent the statistic sum of the corresponding structural
    units in the range of I to 54 with the ratio of p to q being in the range of 1: 1 to 10: 1 and y
30  represents an integer in the range of 3 to 8; X represents an anchor functionality; and n is 1 or 2.
                                                       28

          4. The aqueous dispersion of polymeric particles as claimed in claim 3, wherein the anchor
    functionality is selected from the group consisting of phosphoric acid functionality, phosphate
    salt functionality, ammonium salt functionality, amine functionality and hydroxyl functionality.
          5. The aqueous dispersion of polymeric particles as claimed in claim 4, wherein the
 5  ethylenically unsaturated monomer i) has a structure represented by formula (I-1):
                                          R              0
                                 (CH2 =C-Bg-O-A         -P{OHxM1 _x
          in which,
          R, Bg, A and n are defined as above; M represents alkali metal ion; and x is at each
    occurrence 0 or 1.
 0        6. The aqueous dispersion of polymeric particles of claim 1, wherein the ethylenically
    unsaturated monomer i) is present in an amount of 0.2 to 10 % by weight relative to the total
    weight of monomers i), ii) and iii).
          7. The aqueous dispersion of polymeric particles of claim 1, wherein the ethylenically
    unsaturated monomer ii) is selected from the group consisting of acrylic acid, methacrylic acid,
 5  beta-acryloxy propionic acid, ethacrylic acid, alpha-chloroacrylic acid, crotonic acid, alpha
    phenylacrylic acid, cinnamic acid, chlorocinnamic acid, itaconic acid, maleic acid and the
    combination thereof.
          8. The aqueous dispersion of polymeric particles as claimed in claim 7, wherein the
    ethylenically unsaturated monomer ii) comprises acrylic acid, methacrylic acid or the
 '0 combination thereof.
          9. The aqueous dispersion of polymeric particles of claim 7, wherein the ethylenically
    unsaturated monomer ii) is present in an amount of 0.2 to 10% by weight relative to the total
    weight of monomers i), ii) and iii).
          10. The aqueous dispersion of polymeric particles of claim 1, wherein the ethylenically
25  unsaturated monomer iii) is selected from the group consisting of styrene, alpha-methylstyrene,
    vinyltoluene, vinylnaphthalene, vinyl acetate, vinyl versarate, acrylonitrile, methacrylonitrile, C1
    20 alkyl esters of (meth)acrylic acid, alkoxyalkyl (meth)acrylate and the combination thereof.
          11. The aqueous dispersion of polymeric particles as claimed in claim 10, wherein the
    ethylenically unsaturated monomer iii) comprises relative to the total weight of monomers i), ii)
                                                     29

    and iii), 50 to 99.9% by weight of styrene, 0 to 40% by weight of butyl acrylate and 0 to 49.9%
    by weight of methyl methacrylate.
          12. A process for the preparation of a dispersion as claimed in claim 1 and comprising
    carrying out an emulsion polymerization of monomers in the presence of an emulsifier and a
 5  radical initiator, the monomers comprising:
          i) 0.1 to 20% by weight of at least one ethylenically unsaturated monomer containing an
    anchor functionality and a moiety containing poly(oxyethylene);
          ii) 0 to 20% by weight of at least one ethylenically unsaturated monomer with a carboxylic
    acid functionality; and
 0        iii) 60 to 99.9% by weight of at least one ethylenically unsaturated monomer other than
    monomers i) and ii),
          wherein the weight% is relative to the total weight of the monomers i), ii) and iii); and
          wherein the polymeric particles have a glass transition temperature of at least 50 C.
          13. The process as claimed in claim 12, wherein the polymeric particles have a number
 5  average particle size in the range of from from 30 to 150 nm.
          14. The process of claim 12, wherein the ethylenically unsaturated monomer i) has a
    structure represented by formula (I):
                                                  R
                                         (CH2 =C-Bg-O-A X
          in which,
 10       R represents H or methyl; Bg represents a divalent bridged group of -CO- or -CHR'
    wherein R' represents H or methyl; A represents -(CH2CH20)r-, in which r represents a value in
    the range of 1 to 54 or -(CH2CH20)p(CyH2yO)q-, in which the structural units are connected with
    each other in arbitrary order, the subscripts p and q represent the statistic sum of the
    corresponding structural units in the range of 1 to 54 with the ratio of p to q being in the range of
25  1: 1 to 10: 1 and y represents an integer in the range of 3 to 8; X represents an anchor
    functionality, and n is 1 or 2.
          15. The process as claimed in claim 14, wherein the anchor functionality is selected from
    the group consisting of phosphoric acid functionality, phosphate salt functionality, ammonium
    salt functionality, amine functionality and hydroxyl functionality.
                                                      30

       16. The process as claimed in claim 15, wherein the ethylenically unsaturated monomer i)
  has a structure represented by formula (I-1):
                                      R              0
                              (CH2 =C-Bg-O-A          P    OHM   1  -  3  (Ii)
       in which,
5      R, Bg, A and n are defined as above; M represents alkali metal ion; and x is at each
  occurrence 0 or 1.
       17. The process of claim 12, wherein the ethylenically unsaturated monomer i) is present in
  an amount of 0.2 to 10 % by weight relative to the total weight of monomers i), ii) and iii).
       18. The dispersion of inorganic pigment particles as claimed in claim 1, wherein the
0 inorganic pigment particles comprise titanium dioxide particles in the form of slurry or powder.
       19. The dispersion of inorganic pigment particles as claimed in claim 1, wherein the
  dispersion medium is water, an organic solvent miscible with water or the combination thereof.
                                                 31

<removed-date>
                                         <U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706> <U+271D>
<removed-apn>
              <U+261E>     <U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706> <U+271E> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2721>               <U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706> <U+271E> <U+271F><U+261B><U+2721>
                  <U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706> <U+270C><U+271F><U+2720><U+2721>      <U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706> <U+270C><U+271F><U+261B><U+2721>        <U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706> <U+270C><U+271F><U+270D><U+2721>   <U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706> <U+270C><U+271F><U+270E><U+2721>
                                             <U+2701>

