                                              ABSTRACT
 A melt-cast based explosive booster; the booster yielding an equivalent or improved in-hole initiating
performance compared with similar mass commercial boosters; the improved initiating performance
dependent on the generation of a planar, or quasi-planar, detonation front at the output face of the
booster, wherein the quasi-planar detonation front at the output face of the melt-cast based explosive
booster is dependent on selected geometry of the booster, or a selected geometry of a shaped
transfer element, or a combination of booster geometry and shaped transfer element geometry, and
wherein the selected geometry of the booster includes a separation distance between the explosive
end of the detonator of the booster and the output face of the cast volume.

                               2/6
                                      {---Top surloace
                                             x
            Transfer Element-      -
                                           Side surfo.ce
                                     t -,o
        Detonating Cord/
Through Booster aperture
            2ottoin £urface
                                      FIe Bgstng cap2
                                      aperture
                              Fig. 2

                                                      1
IMPROVED DETONATION PRESSURE AND APPARATUS
TECHNICAL FIELD
 [0001]       The present invention relates to explosive technology and, more particularly although
not exclusively, to explosive boosters.
BACKGROUND
[0002]        TNT (trinitrotoluene) is used in a vast majority of commercially available boosters,
having the unique properties of melting at 80'C, but not becoming thermally unstable until over
200'C. It thus offers a wide margin for error, and hence safety. Owing to TNT's wax-like melting
properties it is used as an energetic binder in compound mixes that add-in higher energy, higher
melting point explosives, than TNT, to enhance the performance of the finished article.
[0003]        PETN (Pentaerythritol tetranitrate) is one of the more common additives to TNT for
booster fill. TNT/PETN blends are commonly referred to as pentolite. Compared to TNT, pentolite
has the advantage of improved sensitivity to initiation, velocity of detonation and detonation
pressure.
[0004]        The disadvantage of pentolite is that its increased sensitivity also makes it much more
sensitive to accidental initiation. It also does not have the thermal stability of pure TNT. Essentially,
if pentolite is in the molten state then it is decomposing. If held in the molten state for many hours
there is a risk of progression to fume off (decomposition releasing oxides of nitrogen) which could
then progress to a spontaneous detonation. With increased temperature, which lowers the viscosity
of the molten brew and aids processing, the safe time exposure envelope decreases.
[0005]        RDX (Cyclotrimethylenetrinitramine / Cyclonite / Hexahydro-l,3,5-trinitro-1,3,5
triazine) offers higher thermal stability than PETN, but the finished RDX/TNT (hexolite) blends are
not as sensitive. The lower sensitivity increases process safety, but the finished booster is not
innately detonator sensitive. To improve the reliability of detonation transfer from a detonator (i.e.
blasting cap) there are various existing mixture and article adaptions that may be introduced (eg.
US8127682 incorporated herein by reference, and US4945808). Figure 3 of US8127682 shows a
common booster manufacturing method based on a melt-pour casting operation. It is very common
that such an inserted transfer element (a bottle containing powdered explosives or a pressing) is
used in booster manufacture. To do without such an insert requires a blend of pentolite that uses a
high percentage of PETN (typically > 50%). In the interests of the most economical cost of
manufacture (which includes process safety) it is typically preferable to use an inserted transfer
element over a high PETN percentage.

                                                     2
 [0006]      A disadvantage in using RDX and PETN is that both are expensive in comparison to
 TNT.
 [0007]      A further disadvantage is that for transport in compliance with the UN DG regulations,
 RDX & PETN have to be wetted (PETN not less than 20% water, RDX not less than 15%.).
 Transport is prohibited if not desensitised by water. Hence an addition to the booster manufacturing
process is either a drying (which then means the handling of a static and impact sensitive material
has to be managed) or a wet process has to be developed. A disadvantage with a wet process is that
 a TNT contaminated water results, which is a toxic waste disposal/treatment issue. A solvable issue,
but an additional process and expense.
 [0008]      It is an object of the present invention to address or at least ameliorate some of the
above disadvantages.
Notes
 [0009]      The term "comprising" (and grammatical variations thereof) is used in this specification
in the inclusive sense of "having" or "including", and not in the exclusive sense of "consisting only
of'.
[00010]      The above discussion of the prior art in the Background of the invention, is not an
admission that any information discussed therein is citable prior art or part of the common general
knowledge of persons skilled in the art in any country.
SUMMARY OF INVENTION
[00011]      Accordingly, in one broad form of the invention, there is provided a melt-cast based
explosive booster; structured so as to generate, in use, a planar, or quasi-planar, detonation front at
the output face of the booster.
[00012]      Preferably, the quasi-planar detonation front at the output face of the melt-cast based
explosive booster is dependent on selected geometry of the booster.
[00013]      Preferably, the quasi-planar detonation front at the output face of the melt-cast based
explosive booster is dependent on a selected geometry of a shaped transfer element of the booster.
[00014]      Preferably, the quasi-planar detonation front at the output face of the melt-cast based
explosive booster is dependent on a combination of booster geometry and shaped transfer element
geometry.
[00015]      Accordingly, in yet a further broad form of the invention, there is provided a melt-cast
based explosive booster; the booster yielding an equivalent or improved in-hole initiating

                                                    3
performance compared with similar mass commercial boosters; the improved initiating performance
dependent on the generation of a planar, or quasi-planar, detonation front at the output face of the
booster.
 [00016]     Preferably, the quasi-planar detonation front at the output face of the melt-cast based
explosive booster is dependent on selected geometry of the booster, or a selected geometry of a
shaped transfer element, or a combination of booster geometry and shaped transfer element
geometry.
 [00017]     Preferably, the selected geometry of the booster includes a separation distance between
the explosive end of the detonator of the booster and the output face of the cast volume.
[00018]     Preferably, the selected geometry of the shaped transfer element includes an explosive
lens that partially or completely surmounts the explosive end of the detonator of the booster.
[00019]     Preferably, the combination of booster geometry and shaped transfer element includes a
minimisation of the separation distance between an explosive end cap of the detonator of the
booster and the output face of the cast volume to achieve the quasi-planar detonation front at the
output face of the booster.
[00020]     Preferably, the selected geometry includes a ratio of the separation distance to an
effective diameter of the booster equal to or greater than 3:5.
[00021]     Preferably, a bulk of the melt-cast explosive is pure TNT; the booster yielding at least
an equivalent in-hole initiating performance to similar mass boosters containing PETN or RDX; the
effective diameter based ratio of the separation distance between the end cap of the detonator and
the surface of the cast volume being equal to or greater than 3:5.
[00022]     Preferably, the transfer element includes an explosive lens that partially or completely
surmounts the explosive end of the detonator of the booster.
[00023]     Preferably, the selected geometry of the transfer element includes an axially symmetric
near-parabolic depression that functions as an explosive lens.
[00024]     Preferably, the melt-cast based explosive bulk mixture is more energetic than pure TNT;
the booster yielding an improved in-hole initiating performance to similar mass commercial
boosters; the booster geometry including an effective diameter based ratio of a separation distance
between the explosive end of the detonator and a surface of a cast volume being equal to or greater
than 3:5.
[00025]     Preferably, the melt-cast based explosive bulk mixture is more energetic than pure TNT;
the booster yielding an improved in-hole initiating performance to similar mass commercial
boosters; the transfer element including an explosive lens that partially or completely surmounts the
explosive end of the detonator of the booster.

                                                     4
[00026]      Preferably, the pure TNT booster has a volume defined by an axi-symmetric bottle of
length L and equivalent diameter D (twice the square root of the result of the division of the cross
sectional area by L)
[00027]      Preferably, an other than pure TNT booster has a volume defined by an axi-symmetric
bottle of length L and equivalent diameter D (twice the square root of the result of the division of
the cross-sectional area by H.)
[00028]      Preferably, the explosive volume is cast into the axi-symmetric bottle; the casting
including an encapsulating cavity for the detonator and a tunnel for detonator wiring.
[00029]      Preferably, the casting encapsulates a transfer element located at the blind end of the
encapsulating cavity for the detonator.
[00030]      In another broad form of the invention, there is provided a method of attaining an
equivalent booster yield from a pure TNT explosive booster; the method including the step of melt
casting TNT into an axi-symmetric bottle; the casting including a detonator encapsulating cavity in
which a ratio of a separation distance between the explosive end of a detonator fitted to the
detonator encapsulating cavity and an upper surface of the booster is equal to or greater than 3:5.
[00031]      Preferably, an explosive transfer element is located within the explosive booster
partially or completely surmounting the detonator located in the detonator encapsulating cavity.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF DRAWINGS
[00032]      Embodiments of the present invention will now be described with reference to the
accompanying drawings wherein:
[00033]      Figure 1 is a cross section of an explosive charge and booster for use in a blasthole
according to prior art,
[00034]      Figure 2 is a cross section of melt-cast explosive material for an explosive booster
according to the invention illustrating a preferred geometric relationship,
[00035]      Figure 3 are diagrammatic representations of hemi-spherically expanding detonating
wave fronts at regular progressive time intervals At, as these arrive at an external boundary of a
booster assembly for a selection of geometries,
[00036]      Figure 4 is a diagrammatic representation of an expanding detonating wave front
initiated by an explosive lens at regular progressive time intervals At, as these arrive at an external
boundary of a booster assembly,
[00037]      Figure 5 are cross sections of the damage that that may be witnessed by a steel plate
placed beneath a functioning booster,
[00038]      Figures 6 to 8 are graphs showing progress of detonating wave fronts.

                                                    5
DESCRIPTION OF EMBODIMENTS
[00039]      In contrast to RDX or PETN, TNT can be safely transported and kept in its raw dry
crystal form. It can be fed into a melt process dry and quickly, and safely, melts at low temperature.
The present invention provides for a melt-cast TNT based explosive booster yielding an improved
in-hole initiating performance when compared with known similar mass commercial boosters.
[00040]      As illustrated in Figure 3, the shape of a detonation front 100 as it arrives at the output
face or external boundaries 112 of a booster 114 (shown in Figure 2) varies with simple selected
geometry. Shown in Figure 3 are cross sections of a simple cylindrical geometry with a common
radius. The bulk of the boosters 114, that would encapsulate a detonator are not shown in Figure 3
for clarity. The role of the detonator is geometrically summarised as a central detonation initiation
point at a start time of zero.
[00041]      Referring now to Figures 1 and 2, it is the upper face 115 of the booster 114 which
predominantly interfaces with the bulk of the explosive material 24 which fills a blast hole 26 for
example.
[00042]      Typically, the detonator encapsulating cavity 116, is created by tunnels made in the
booster body 118 during casting of the explosive material 120. Alternately a housing, of plastic or
similar, could be manufactured for the purposes of positioning the detonator and protecting it from
adverse impact during a blast-hole loading process.
[00043]      While TNT clearly has a lower detonator pressure than the predominant commercially
available boosters, it can be shown that this disadvantage can be overcome by adjustments to the
booster geometry. By increasing the distance between the top of the detonator (that is, the upper end
of the cavity 116) and the upper surface or face 115 of the booster, while neither the velocity of
detonation nor the detonation pressure changes, the shape of the detonation front at the output face
115 of the booster does change. The hemi-spherically expanding detonation front progressively
approaches a planar detonation front with increasing radius. It is this quasi-planar detonation front
that is responsible for the enhanced booster performance. Owing to the insensitivity of TNT, an
explosive shaped transfer element 122 is provided, located at the blind end of the encapsulating
cavity 116 for the detonator, to ensure reliable progression of the detonation from the output of the
detonator to the TNT. Preferably, the transfer element 122 partially or completely surmounts the
explosive end of the booster detonator. Preferably, the geometry of the shaped transfer element 122
includes an explosive lens 123 which includes an axially symmetric near-parabolic depression.
[00044]      Experiments have shown that with a booster geometry in which the distance from
detonator tip at the upper end of the cavity 116 to booster face 115 (or surface of the explosive

                                                    6
volume), to the diameter of the booster is in the ratio of equal to or greater than 1:2 provides
optimal booster performance in absence of the shaped transfer element including an explosive lens.
 [00045]     Referring again to Figure 2, for a booster 50mm in diameter, there should be a
minimum of 25mm of explosive material above the tip of the detonator. Experiments to date
suggest that 3:5 is a "sweet spot" with consideration of the additional amount of explosive required
to achieve a significantly improved booster output (compared to shallower aspect ratios like 1:5).
That is, the selected geometry includes a ratio of the separation distance to an effective diameter of
the booster equal to or greater than 3:5. Increasing the ratio further will see additional output
improvement but with diminishing returns. Increasing the ratio beyond 1:1 will see negligible
improvement over the 4:5 performance. Owing to the vagaries of geology dominated in-ground
bulk explosives behaviour the experimental validation has been biased towards the reproducible
damage that the booster face 115 does to a steel plate 117 of known thickness and specification.
Figure 5 illustrates the improved booster output that results from the selected geometry against a
steel plate.
[00046]      The generation of the quasi-planar detonation front at the output face of the booster may
be enhanced by the selected geometry of the shaped transfer element. An axially symmetric near
parabolic depression acts as an explosive lens if the detonation velocity of the transfer element
exceeds the detonation velocity of the melt cast fill of the booster. The precise geometry of the near
parabolic depression is defined by the relative detonation velocities of the two explosive
components. Figure 4 illustrates the effect of the addition of an explosive lens 123 to the
development of the detonation front. As per Figure 3 the role of the detonator is geometrically
simplified as a central detonation initiation point at a start time of zero.
[00047]      The combination of booster geometry and shaped transfer element geometry acting as
an explosive lens enables a minimisation of the separation distance between an explosive end cap of
the detonator of the booster and the output face of the cast volume to achieve the quasi-planar
detonation front at the output face of the booster.
[00048]      The axially symmetric near-parabolic depression acts as a shock wave focussing lens
123 if the depression is preserved as an air space rather than being filled with the melt cast material.
This arrangement promotes the reliable initiation of the melt cast fill when the transfer element
chemistry is of marginal detonation velocity and pressure. However, the enhancement of the
generation of quasi-planar detonation front is lost if the air-space shock wave focussing lens shaped
transfer element geometry is employed. That is, the combination of booster geometry and shaped
transfer element geometry acting as a shock wave lens does not enable a minimisation of the
separation distance between an explosive end cap of the detonator of the booster and the output face
of the cast volume to achieve the quasi-planar detonation front at the output face of the booster. The

                                                     7
development of the quasi-planar detonation front at the output face of the booster becomes totally
reliant on the booster's external geometry. This approach still has merit for booster manufacture
where there are performance limiting options for the construction and ingredients of the transfer
element.
[00049]      By this means a low cost, high process safety, explosive booster fill (such as TNT) may
be made into a booster that generates sufficient output to provide reliable detonation transfer to the
bulk explosives used to fill the blast hole, typically ANFO (Ammonium Nitrate - Fuel Oil),
ammonium nitrate based emulsions & watergels, or ANFO/emulsion blends.
[00050]      As of yet unconfirmed, but a performance improvement of explosive in the blast-hole
should be achieved with a geometry optimised booster. This translates into more efficient and
effective rock breakage, particularly at the booster placement end of the hole (commonly referred to
as the "toe") where rock confinement is greatest.
[00051]      The graph of Figure 6 shows expected the characteristic of in-hole detonation
behaviour with a typical pentolite/hexolite booster using an aspect ratio of 1:5 to 2:5.
[00052]      Figure 7 shows the expected characteristic performance for a TNT booster using the
same range of aspect ratios, that is 1:5 to 2:5.
[00053]      Figure 8 shows the expected characteristic performance for a TNT/pentolite/hexolite
booster using aspect ratios between 3:5 and 1:1.
[00054]      The booster of the invention may be a pure TNT booster or an other than pure TNT
booster. In either case the volume of the booster is defined by an axi-symmetric bottle of length L
and equivalent diameter D (twice the square root of the division of the cross-sectional area by z).

                                                    8
 CLAIMS
 1.     A melt-cast based explosive booster; the booster yielding an equivalent or improved in-hole
 initiating performance compared with similar mass commercial boosters; the improved initiating
performance dependent on the generation of a planar, or quasi-planar, detonation front at the output
face of the booster.
2.      The explosive booster of claim 1 wherein the quasi-planar detonation front at the output face
of the melt-cast based explosive booster is dependent on selected geometry of the booster, or a
 selected geometry of a shaped transfer element, or a combination of booster geometry and shaped
transfer element geometry.
3.      The explosive booster of claim 2 wherein the selected geometry of the booster includes a
separation distance between the explosive end of the detonator of the booster and the output face of
the cast volume.
4.      The explosive booster of claim 2 or 3 wherein the selected geometry of the shaped transfer
includes an explosive lens that partially or completely surmounts the explosive end of the detonator
of the booster.
5.      The explosive booster of any one of claims 2 to 4 wherein the combination of booster
geometry and shaped transfer element includes a minimisation of the separation distance between
an explosive end cap of the detonator of the booster and the output face of the cast volume to
achieve the quasi-planar detonation front at the output face of the booster.
6.       The explosive booster of any one of claims 2 to 5 wherein the selected geometry includes a
ratio of the separation distance to an effective diameter of the booster equal to or greater than 3:5.
7.      The explosive booster of any one of claims 2 to 6 wherein the selected geometry includes an
axially symmetric near-parabolic depression that functions as an explosive lens.
8.      The explosive booster of any one of claims 1 to 8 wherein a bulk of the melt-cast explosive is
pure TNT; the booster yielding at least an equivalent in-hole initiating performance to similar mass
boosters containing PETN or RDX; the effective diameter based ratio of the separation distance
between the end cap of the detonator and the surface of the cast volume being equal to or greater
than 3:5.
9.      The explosive booster of claim 8 wherein the transfer element of includes an explosive lens
that partially or completely surmounts the explosive end of the detonator of the booster.
10.     The explosive booster of any one of claims 1 to 9 wherein a melt-cast based explosive bulk
mixture is more energetic than pure TNT; the booster yielding an improved in-hole initiating
performance to similar mass commercial boosters; the booster geometry including an effective
diameter based ratio of a separation distance between the explosive end of the detonator and a
surface of a cast volume being equal to or greater than 3:5.

                                                     9
 11.   The explosive booster of claim 3 to 10 wherein the melt-cast based explosive bulk mixture is
more energetic than pure TNT; the booster yielding an improved in-hole initiating performance to
 similar mass commercial boosters; the transfer element including an explosive lens that partially or
completely surmounts the explosive end of the detonator of the booster.
 12.   The explosive booster of claim 11 wherein the pure TNT booster has a volume defined by an
axi-symmetric bottle of length L and equivalent diameter D (twice the square root of the result of
the division of the cross-sectional area by H.)
 13.   The explosive booster of claim 11 wherein an other than pure TNT booster has a volume
defined by an axi-symmetric bottle of length L and equivalent diameter D (twice the square root of
the result of the division of the cross-sectional area by H.)
14.    The explosive booster of claim 12 or 13 wherein the explosive volume is cast into the axi
symmetric bottle; the casting including an encapsulating cavity for the detonator and a tunnel for
detonator wiring.
15.    The explosive booster of claim 14 wherein the casting encapsulates a transfer element located
at the blind end of the encapsulating cavity for the detonator.
16.    A method of attaining an equivalent booster yield from a pure TNT explosive booster; the
method including the step of melt-casting TNT into an axi-symmetric bottle; the casting including a
detonator encapsulating cavity in which a ratio of a separation distance between the explosive end
of a detonator fitted to the detonator encapsulating cavity and an upper surface of the booster is
equal to or greater than 3:5.
17.    The method of claim 16 wherein an explosive transfer element is located within the explosive
booster partially or completely surmounting the detonator located in the detonator encapsulating
cavity.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
