ABSTRACT
The present invention provides assay systems and methods for detection of copy number variation
at one or more loci and polymorphism detection at one or more loci in a mixed sample from an
individual.

        ASSAY SYSTEMS FOR DETERMINATION OF SOURCE
                      CONTRIBUTION IN A SAMPLE
   CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
[0001]       This application is a divisional of Australian Patent Application No.
   2015201176, which in turn is a divisional of Australian Patent Application No.
   2011285477,     which in turn claims       priority to U.S.     Ser. No.   13/013,732,
   filed January 25, 2011, which claims priority to U.S. Ser. No. 61/371,605, filed
   August 6, 2010, each of which applications are herein incorporated by reference.
   FIELD OF THE INVENTION
[0002]      This invention relates to assay systems for identifying copy number
   variation in mixed samples in a single assay.
   BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
[0003]       In the following discussion certain articles and methods will be described
   for background and introductory purposes. Nothing contained herein is to be
   construed as an "admission" of prior art. Applicant expressly reserves the right to
   demonstrate, where appropriate, that the articles and methods referenced herein do
   not constitute prior art under the applicable statutory provisions. Recent advances in
   diagnostics have focused on less invasive mechanisms for determining disease risk,
   presence and prognosis. Diagnostic processes for determining genetic anomalies
   have become standard techniques for identifying specific diseases and disorders, as
   well as providing valuable information on disease source and treatment options.
[0004]       The identification of cell free nucleic acids in biological samples such as
   blood and plasma allow less invasive techniques such as blood extraction to
                                        1

   be used in making clinical decisions.       For example, cell free DNA from
   malignant solid tumors has been found in the peripheral blood of cancer
   patients; individuals who have undergone transplantation have cell free DNA
   from the transplanted organ present in their bloodstream; and cell-free fetal
   DNA and RNA have been found in the blood and plasma of pregnant women.
   In addition, detection of nucleic acids from infectious organisms, such as
   detection of viral load or genetic identification of specific strains of a viral or
   bacterial pathogen, provides important diagnostic and prognostic indicators.
    Cell free nucleic acids from a source separate from the patient's own normal
   cells can thus provide important medical information, e.g., about treatment
   options, diagnosis, prognosis and the like.
[0005]      The   sensitivity  of such   testing   is often dependent      upon    the
   identification of the amount of nucleic acid from the different sources, and in
   particular identification of a low level of nucleic acid from one source in the
   background of a higher level of nucleic acids from a second source. Detecting
   the contribution of the minor nucleic acid species to cell free nucleic acids
   present in the biological sample can provide accurate statistical interpretation
   of the resulting data.
[0006]      There is thus a need for processes for calculating copy number
   variation (CNV) in one or more genomic regions in a biological sample using
   information on contribution of nucleic acids in the sample.           The present
   invention addresses this need.
                          SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
[0007]    This Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a
    simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description.
                                       2

     This Summary is not intended to identify key or essential features of the
     claimed subject matter, nor is it intended to be used to limit the scope of the
     claimed subject matter. Other features, details, utilities, and advantages of the
     claimed subject matter will be apparent from the following written Detailed
     Description including those aspects illustrated in the accompanying drawings
     and defined in the appended claims.
[0008]        The methods of the invention comprise a single assay system with the
    ability to determine contribution of a major source and/or a minor source
    within a sample from an individual and determining copy number information
    for one or more genomic regions within a single source to determine a value
    difference for the genomic region compared to the contribution of the source of
    the loci in the mixed sample.     The present invention utilizes a single assay
    system that utilizes both non-polymorphic       and polymorphic detection to
    determine source contribution and copy number variations (CNVs) from a
    single source within the mixed sample. Determination of contribution of the
    major and/or minor source within the sample can provide information on the
    presence of sufficient genetic material from both sources to allow adequate
    identification of genomic regions for determination of CNV in the mixed
    samples.
 [0009]     In one aspect, the assay system utilizes amplification and detection of
     selected loci in a mixed sample from an individual to calculate source
     contribution and to identify the copy number of one or more genomic regions.
     In one specific aspect, the invention provides single assay systems with the
     ability to determine the contribution of nucleic acids from a major and/or
     minor source in the mixed sample and the presence or absence of CNVs at one
                                         3

     or more genomic regions from a single source in a mixed sample. The assay
     system can specifically detect copy number of genomic regions present in two
     or more sources within the mixed sample. For determination of contribution,
     the selected loci from one source are distinguished from the selected loci of at
     least one other source in the mixed sample. For determination of copy number
     variation of a genomic region, the selected loci can but do not need to be
     distinguished as to source contribution, as copy number variation can be
     detected by comparison of the levels of two or more genomic regions within a
     mixed sample. Preferably, the cell free nucleic acids analyzed in the assay
     system are cell free DNA (cfDNA).
 [00010]      Thus in a first implementation, the invention provides a single assay
     system for 1) determining the contribution of a major source and/or a minor
     source in a mixed sample using frequency data derived from two or more
     informative loci; 2) determining the frequency of one or more genomic
     regions in the major and minor source; and 3) identifying the presence or
     absence of a CNV for one or more genomic regions in the major and/or minor
     source. Preferably, the CNV identification is based on the comparison of the
     copy number of two or more genomic regions from the major and/or minor
     source in the mixed sample.
 [00011] Preferably, the nucleic acids analyzed using the systems of the invention
     are cell free nucleic acids. More preferably, the nucleic acids analyzed in the
     assay system comprise cell free DNA (cfDNA).
[00012]     In another specific aspect, the invention provides an assay system for
    calculation of source contribution and detection of the presence or absence of
    CNVs in one or more genomic regions within a mixed sample, the assay
                                         4

   comprising     the steps     of introducing     a first   set of fixed    sequence
   oligonucleotides to a mixed sample under conditions that allow the fixed
   oligonucleotides to specifically hybridize to complementary regions on one or
   more loci in or associated with a genomic region; introducing a second set of
   fixed sequence oligonucleotides to the mixed sample under conditions that
   allow the fixed oligonucleotides to specifically hybridize to complementary
   regions    on     two  or   more    informative   loci;   ligating the hybridized
   oligonucleotides to create contiguous ligation products complementary to the
   selected    loci;   amplifying   the contiguous     ligation products   to create
   amplification products; and detecting the amplification products. The detection
   of the amplification products is used to calculate source contribution and the
   copy number of one or more genomic regions in the mixed sample.
[00013] The       sets   of   fixed   oligonucleotides     comprise   two   or   more
    oligonucleotides that hybridize to contiguous regions of the genomic regions
    or the informative loci. In some preferred aspects, sets of loci are interrogated
    for CNV, and are indicative of an amplification of a larger genomic region,
    e.g., all or part of a chromosome.           Preferably, the assay systems can
    distinguish the copy number of these loci between a major source and a minor
    source within a mixed sample. Levels of selected loci can be determined for a
    genomic region of interest and compared to the quantities of loci of one or
    more other genomic regions of interest and/or one or more reference genomic
    regions to detect potential CNVs based on loci frequencies in the mixed
    sample.
[00014] Detection of chromosomal abnormality in a sample can be based on
    detection of CNV for multiple selected loci located on or associated with a
                                           5

   single chromosome from a minor and/or major source. Thus, in another
   specific aspect, the       invention provides   a single assay     system for 1)
   determining the contribution of a major source and/or a minor source in a
   mixed sample using frequency data derived from two or more informative
   loci; 2) determining the frequency of one or more genomic regions in the
   major and minor source; and 3) identifying the presence or absence of a
   chromosomal abnormality in the major and/or minor source in the mixed
   sample.
[00015] Thus, the invention provides an assay system for calculation of source
   contribution and detection of the presence or absence of a chromosomal
   abnormality in a mixed sample using a single assay, the assay comprising the
   steps of: introducing a first set of fixed sequence oligonucleotides to a mixed
   sample under conditions that allow the fixed sequence oligonucleotides to
   specifically hybridize to complementary regions on two or more loci
   corresponding to a first chromosome; introducing a second set of fixed
   sequence oligonucleotides to the mixed sample under conditions that allow the
   fixed oligonucleotides to specifically hybridize to complementary regions on
   two or more loci corresponding to a second chromosome; introducing a third
   set of fixed sequence oligonucleotides to the mixed sample under conditions
   that   allow    the    fixed   oligonucleotides  to   specifically   hybridize  to
   complementary       regions on two or more informative loci;          ligating the
   hybridized     oligonucleotides     to   create  contiguous    ligation   products
   complementary       to the nucleic acids; amplifying the contiguous ligation
   products to create amplification products; and detecting the amplification
   products. The detection of amplification products can be used for calculation
                                          6

   of source contribution as well as identification of chromosomal abnormalities
   in the mixed sample.
[00016] In a more specific aspect the assay systems of the invention are used to
   identify percent fetal contribution and chromosomal abnormalities in a
   maternal sample.     The invention provides an assay system comprising the
   steps of: introducing a first set of fixed sequence oligonucleotides to a
   maternal sample under conditions that allow the fixed oligonucleotides to
   specifically hybridize to complementary regions on two or more loci
   corresponding to a first chromosome; introducing a second set of fixed
   sequence oligonucleotides to the maternal sample under conditions that allow
   the fixed oligonucleotides to specifically hybridize to complementary regions
   on two or more loci corresponding to a second chromosome; introducing a
   third set of fixed sequence oligonucleotides to the maternal sample under
   conditions that allow the fixed oligonucleotides to specifically hybridize to
   complementary regions on two or more informative loci; ligating the
   hybridized     oligonucleotides    to   create   contiguous ligation  products
   complementary to the nucleic acids; amplifying the contiguous ligation
   products to create amplification products; and detecting the amplification
   products. The detection of amplification products can be used for calculation
   of fetal contribution as well as identification of chromosomal abnormalities in
   the fetal nucleic acids in the maternal sample.
[00017] In certain aspects of the invention, the fixed oligonucleotides are
   hybridized immediately adjacent in the contiguous region, so that they are
   ligated directly during the ligation step of the assay.       In other aspects,
   however, there may be a gap of one or more nucleotides between the ends of
                                         7

   the fixed oligonucleotides following hybridization in the contiguous region.
   The fixed oligonucleotides are joined by a combination of, e.g., primer
   extension using a polymerase and ligation.
[00018] Each set of fixed sequence nucleic acids is designed to hybridize to at
   least two separate regions in a selected locus.    In preferred aspects, two or
   more separate oligos are used in a set to hybridize to these regions to provide
   adjacent nucleic acids complementary to the selected loci. In some aspects,
   however, a set can comprise a single probe with two or more distinct non
   adjacent regions that are complementary to the selected loci (e.g., padlock
   probes), as described in more detail herein. The sets of fixed sequence oligos
   can be provided in the assay sequentially or simultaneously in the assay.
[00019] In certain preferred aspects, bridging oligos are used to increase
   specificity of the oligo sets and / or fill a gap between fixed sequence
   oligonucleotides.    Accordingly, another specific aspect of the invention
   provides an assay system for calculation of source contribution and detection
   of the presence or absence of CNVs in one or more genomic regions within a
   mixed sample, the assay comprising the steps of introducing a first set of fixed
   sequence oligonucleotides to a mixed sample under conditions that allow the
   fixed oligonucleotides to specifically hybridize to complementary regions on
   one or more loci in or associated with a genomic region; introducing a second
   set of fixed sequence oligonucleotides to the mixed sample under conditions
   that   allow   the  fixed   oligonucleotides   to   specifically  hybridize   to
   complementary regions on at least one informative loci; introducing one or
   more bridging oligonucleotides under conditions that allow the bridging
   oligonucleotides to specifically hybridize to complementary regions in the
                                       8

   loci, wherein one or more bridging oligonucleotides are complementary to a
   region of the loci between and immediately adjacent to the regions
   complementary to the fixed sequence oligonucleotides of each set; ligating the
   hybridized    oligonucleotides      to   create    contiguous  ligation   products
   complementary     to the nucleic acids; amplifying the contiguous ligation
   products to create amplification products; and detecting the amplification
   products. Detection of the amplification products is used to calculate source
   contribution and the copy number of one or more genomic regions in the
   mixed sample.
[00020] Another specific aspect of the invention provides an assay system using
   bridging   oligonucleotides     to calculate    source contribution   and identify
   chromosomal abnormalities in a mixed sample. This assay comprises the steps
   of: introducing a first set of fixed sequence oligonucleotides to a mixed sample
   under conditions that allow the fixed oligonucleotides to specifically hybridize
   to complementary regions on two or more loci corresponding to a first
   chromosome; introducing a second set of fixed sequence oligonucleotides to
   the mixed sample under conditions that allow the fixed oligonucleotides to
   specifically hybridize to complementary regions on two or more loci
   corresponding to a second chromosome; introducing a third set of fixed
   sequence oligonucleotides to the mixed sample under conditions that allow the
   fixed oligonucleotides to specifically hybridize to complementary regions on
   two    or  more    informative     loci;  introducing    one  or   more   bridging
   oligonucleotides under conditions that allow the bridging oligonucleotides to
   specifically hybridize to complementary regions in the loci, wherein one or
   more bridging oligonucleotides are complementary to a region of the loci
                                          9

   between and immediately adjacent to the regions complementary to the fixed
    sequence oligonucleotides of each set; introducing one or more bridging
   oligonucleotides under conditions that allow the bridging oligonucleotides to
    specifically hybridize to complementary regions in the loci, wherein one or
   more bridging oligonucleotides are complementary to a region of the loci
   between and immediately adjacent to the regions complementary to the fixed
    sequence oligonucleotides of each set; ligating the hybridized oligonucleotides
   to create contiguous ligation products complementary to the nucleic acids;
    amplifying the contiguous ligation products to create amplification products;
    and detecting the amplification products.      The detection of amplification
   products can be used for calculation of source contribution (such as fetal
   contribution in a maternal sample), as well as identification of chromosomal
    abnormalities in the mixed sample.
[00021] In certain aspects of the invention, the fixed oligonucleotides are
   hybridized immediately adjacent to the bridging oligos, so that they are all
   ligated directly during the ligation step of the assay.        In other aspects,
   however, there may be a gap of one or more nucleotides between the end of
   one or both of the fixed oligonucleotides and the bridging oligo following
   hybridization of the bridging oligo.       The fixed oligonucleotides and the
   bridging oligo are joined by a combination of, e.g., primer extension using a
   polymerase and ligation.
[00022] It is an important feature that the multiplexed assays of the invention
    allow the analysis of 5 or more, preferably 10 or more, preferably 16 or more,
   preferably 20 or more, preferably 30 or more, preferably 32 or more,
   preferably 40 or more, preferably 48 or more, preferably 50 or more,
                                       10

   preferably 60 or more, preferably 70 or more, preferably 80 or more,
   preferably 90 or more, and more preferably            96 or more selected loci
    simultaneously.   These selected loci may be different loci from a single
    sample, or they may be loci from two or more mixed samples. In the latter
   case, at least one of the two fixed sequence oligonucleotides used for analysis
   of a selected locus will comprise a sample identifier (e.g., a "sample index")
   that will allow     the locus   to be associated with a particular sample.
   Alternatively, a sample index may be added during amplification of the
   ligation product by using a primer comprising the sample index.
[00023] In preferred aspects, the interrogation of these loci utilizes universal
    amplification techniques that allow amplification of multiple loci in a single
    amplification reaction. The selected nucleic acids for contribution calculation
    and detection of CNV and/or chromosomal abnormalities in the assay system
   of the invention can be amplified using universal amplification methods
   following the initial selective amplification from the mixed sample. The use
   of universal amplification allows multiple nucleic acids regions from a single
   or multiple samples to be amplified using a single or limited number of
    amplification primers, and is especially useful in amplifying multiple selected
   regions in a single reaction. In a preferred aspect, the universal primer regions
    are used in sequence determination of the amplification products. In another
   preferred aspect, the same universal primer regions are used in the fixed
    sequence oligonucleotides used for detection of genomic regions and the fixed
    sequence oligonucleotides used for detection of polymorphisms.
[00024] Thus, in a specific aspect of the invention, sequences complementary to
   primers for use in universal amplification are introduced to the selected loci
                                       11

   during or following selective amplification.     Preferably such sequences are
   introduced to the ends of such selected nucleic acids, although they may be
   introduced in any location that allows identification of the amplification
   product from the universal amplification procedure.
[00025] In certain preferred aspects, one or both of the primers used comprise a
    sample index or other identifier.     In a specific aspect, a sample index is
   included in one or more of the universal primers.         The sample index is
   incorporated into the amplification products, and amplification products from
   different samples may then be combined.         The sample index is detected
   concurrently with the detection of the CNV or chromosomal abnormality and
   the detection of polymorphism such that the CNV and polymorphism may be
   properly assigned to the sample of origin.
[00026] In certain aspects, the assay system multiplexes loci interrogation using
   one or more common bridging oligonucleotides that are complementary to
   regions in two or more interrogated loci, i.e. a single bridging oligo can be
   used for two or more fixed oligonucleotide sets. This allows the number of
   bridging oligonucleotides used in the multiplexed assay system to be less than
   the number of loci interrogated in the assay. In certain specific aspects, the
    assay system uses a pool of bridging oligonucleotides that are each designed to
   be compatible with two or more loci interrogated using the assays system of
   the invention.
[00027] Frequencies of selected loci can be determined for a genomic region of
   interest and compared to the frequencies of loci of one or more other genomic
   regions of interest and/or one or more reference genomic regions to detect
   potential CNVs based on loci frequencies in the mixed sample.
                                       12

[00028] In some instances, the chromosomal abnormality detected using is
   associated with gene amplification or loci expansion on a chromosome of
   interest. In other instances, the chromosomal abnormality is associated with a
   translocation resulting in the presence of an extra portion of a chromosome in
   the genome.      In yet other instances, the chromosomal abnormality is a
   deletion.
[00029] In certain preferred aspects, the chromosomal abnormality is associated
   with aneuploidy of a chromosome of interest. For example, the most common
   chromosomal abnormalities in the fetus are trisomy 21, 18, 13, X and/or Y or
   monosomy X. In specific preferred aspects, the assay systems of the invention
   are used to detect such common chromosomal aneuploidies in the fetal DNA
   of a maternal sample.
[00030] In the assay systems of the invention, the amplification products are
   optionally isolated prior to detection.     When isolated, they are preferably
   isolated as individual molecules to assist in subsequent detection. Following
   isolation, the amplification products can be further amplified to create
   identical copies of all or a portion of the individual amplification products
   prior to detection. Alternatively, the isolated amplification products can be
   further amplified to create identical copies of molecules complementary to all
   or a portion of the individual amplification products prior to detection.
[00031] Various methods of detection of CNVs can be employed in conjunction
   with the detection of the polymorphisms in the assay systems of the invention.
   In one general aspect, the assay system employs a method for determination of
   a CNV in one or more loci in a mixed sample, comprising the steps of
   amplifying one or more selected nucleic acids from a first genomic region of
                                       13

     interest in a mixed sample; amplifying one or more selected nucleic acids from
      a second locus of interest in the mixed sample, determining the relative
     frequency of the selected loci, comparing the relative frequency of the selected
     loci, and identifying the presence or absence of a CNV based on the compared
     relative frequencies of the selected nucleic acids from the first and second loci.
     Preferably, the assay method amplifies two or more selected loci from
     different genomic regions, although the loci may be located in the same
     general genomic region for confirmation of CNVs arising from chromosomal
      abnormalities rather than CNVs from a single locus.
[00032]      More preferably, the unhybridized fixed sequence oligonucleotides are
    removed prior to introduction of the bridging oligonucleotides.           In some
    aspects, the bridging oligonucleotides are introduced simultaneously with the
    ligation mixture. In other aspects, the hybridization products of the fixed
    sequence oligonucleotides and the locus are isolated prior to introduction of the
    bridging oligonucleotides.
 [00033] In certain specific aspects, the assay system uses a pool of bridging
     oligonucleotides that are each designed to be compatible with two or more loci
     interrogated using the assay system of the invention.      In these aspects, the
     bridging oligonucleotides used in the multiplexed assay are preferably
     designed to have a Tm in a range of ±5'C, more preferably in a range of ±2C.
 [00034] In certain aspects, the bridging oligonucleotides of are between 2-45
     nucleotides in length.   In a specific aspect, the bridging oligonucleotides are
     between 3-9 nucleotides in length.         In yet another specific aspect, the
     oligonucleotides are between 10-30 nucleotides in length.
                                         14

[00035] The loci interrogated for CNV can in some instances be indicative of a
   amplification of a larger genomic region, e.g., all or part of a chromosome.
   Preferably, the assay systems can distinguish the copy number of these loci
   between a major source and a minor source within a mixed sample.
[00036] In another aspect, the present invention utilizes techniques that allow the
   identification of both CNVs and infectious agents in a mixed sample. This
   may be especially helpful to monitor patients in which the clinical outcome
   may be compromised by the presence of an infectious agent. For example, a
   patient    that  has   undergone     a  transplant   will   likely   be    taking
   immunosuppressant medication, and so more prone to infection in general.
   Similarly, pregnant women have changes in their immune system and thus
   may be more susceptible to infection with pathogens that may have an adverse
   effect on the mother and/or fetus. Also, certain types of cancer are associated
   with infectious agents (e.g., liver cancer associated with hepatitis B and C
   infections, cervical cancer associated with human papilloma virus infection),
   and identification of the infectious agents may be informative in predicting
   clinical outcome or determining the preferred course of medical treatment for
   the patient.
[00037] Thus, in certain aspects, the invention provides an assay system for
   calculation of source contribution, detection of the presence or absence of
   CNV of a genomic region, and the presence or absence of an infectious agent
   in a mixed sample using a single assay, the assay comprising the steps of: of
   introducing a first set of fixed sequence oligonucleotides to a mixed sample
   under conditions that allow the fixed oligonucleotides to specifically hybridize
   to complementary regions on one or more loci in or associated with a genomic
                                      15

   region; introducing a second set of fixed sequence oligonucleotides to the
   mixed sample under conditions that allow the fixed oligonucleotides to
   specifically hybridize to complementary regions on at least one informative
   loci; introducing a third set of fixed sequence oligonucleotides to the mixed
   sample under conditions that allow the fixed sequence oligonucleotides to
   specifically hybridize to complementary regions on loci indicative of an
   infectious   agent;  ligating the hybridized oligonucleotides     to create a
   contiguous ligation product complementary to the loci; amplifying the
   contiguous ligation product to create amplification products; and detecting the
   amplification products. The detection of the amplification products correlates
   to copy number of the genomic region and the presence or absence of an
   infectious agent in the mixed sample.
[00038] In another general aspect, the assay system employs a method for
   determining the presence or absence of a chromosomal abnormality associated
   with CNV in a genomic region, comprising the steps of amplifying one or
   more selected loci from a first chromosome of interest in a mixed sample;
   amplifying one or more selected loci from a second chromosome of interest in
   the mixed sample, determining the relative frequency of the selected regions
   from the first and second chromosomes of interest, comparing the relative
   frequency of the selected regions from the first and second chromosomes of
   interest, and identifying the presence or absence of an abnormality based on
   the compared relative frequencies of the selected regions. Preferably, two or
   more nucleic acids regions are selected from each chromosome, and more
   preferably five or more loci are selected from each chromosome.
                                       16

[00039] In yet another general aspect, the assay system employs a method for
   determination of the presence or absence of an aneuploidy in a mixed sample
   from an individual, comprising the steps of amplifying two or more selected
   loci in the cfDNA corresponding to a first chromosome of interest in a mixed
   sample; amplifying two or more selected loci in the cfDNA corresponding to a
   second chromosome of interest in the mixed sample, determining the relative
   frequency of the selected regions from the first and second chromosomes of
   interest, comparing the relative frequency of the selected regions from the first
   and second chromosomes of interest, and identifying the presence or absence
   of an aneuploidy based on the compared relative frequencies of the selected
   regions. In a specific aspect, the loci of the first and second chromosomes are
   amplified in a single reaction, and preferably in a single reaction contained
   within a single vessel.
[00040] Preferably, the assay system detects the presence or absence of loci in
   samples that can be easily obtained from a subject, such as blood, plasma,
   serum and the like. In one general aspect, the assay system utilizes detection
   of selected regions in cfDNA in a mixed sample. In one more specific aspect,
   the assay system utilizes detection of selected regions in cfDNA of a mixed
   sample from an individual to identify the presence or absence of CNVs in a
   genomic region and the presence or absence of a polymorphism in one or
   more loci. Copy number within a genomic region can be determined based on
   detection of quantities of selected loci and comparison to the quantities of
   selected loci from another genomic region and/or to the quantities of selected
   loci from a reference genomic region. In a particular aspect, the ratio of the
   frequencies of the nucleic acid are compared to a reference mean ratio that has
                                       17

   been determined for a statistically significant population of genetically
    "normal" subjects, i.e. subjects that do not have a CNV associated with the
   particular loci interrogated in the assay system.
[00041] In a preferred aspect of the invention, the amplification products
   corresponding     to the selected nucleic     acids  are isolated as individual
   molecules for analysis of the selected loci. These individual amplification
   products are isolated from one another, and preferably physically isolated
    (e.g., on a substrate or in individual vessels).  The individual molecules may
   be further amplified following isolation to make multiple, identical copies of
   the amplification product, a portion thereof, or a nucleic acid complementary
   to the amplification product or a portion thereof.
[00042] In a preferred aspect, the individual amplification products are analyzed
   through sequence determination. In other aspects, the individual amplification
   products are analyzed using hybridization techniques.
[00043] It is a feature of the present invention that copy number of the selected
   loci can be detected using non-polymorphic detection methods, i.e., detection
   methods that are not dependent upon the presence or absence of a particular
   polymorphism to identify the selected nucleic acid region.        In a preferred
    aspect, the assay detection systems utilize non-polymorphic detection methods
   to "count" the relative numbers of selected loci present in a mixed sample.
   These numbers can be utilized to determine if, statistically, a mixed sample is
   likely to have a CNV in a genomic region in a major and/or minor source
   within the mixed sample.         Similarly, these numbers can be utilized to
   determine, if statistically, nucleic acids from the major source and/or minor
    source has one or more polymorphisms.         Such information can be used to
                                        18

   identify a particular pathology or genetic disorder, to confirm a diagnosis or
   recurrence of a disease or disorder, to determine the prognosis of a disease or
   disorder, to assist in determining potential treatment options, etc.
[00044] In some aspects, the methods for determination of aneuploidy used by
   the assay system measure the copy number variation of multiple selected loci
   from two or more chromosomes in a sample.            The levels of the different
    selected loci corresponding to specific chromosomes can be individually
   quantified   and compared      to determine the presence or absence of a
   chromosomal aneuploidy in one or more cell source in a mixed sample. The
   individually quantified regions may undergo a normalization calculation or the
   data may be subjected to outlier exclusion prior to comparison to determine
   the presence or absence of an aneuploidy in a mixed sample.
[00045] In other aspects, the relative frequencies of the selected loci are used to
   determine a chromosome frequency of the first and second chromosomes of
   interest, and the presence or absence of an aneuploidy is based on the
   compared chromosome frequencies of the first and second chromosomes of
   interest.
[00046] In yet other aspects, the relative frequencies of the selected loci are used
   to determine a chromosome frequency of a chromosome of interest and a
   reference chromosome, and the presence or absence of an aneuploidy is based
   on the compared chromosome frequencies of the chromosome of interest and
   the reference chromosome.
[00047] As the assay system of the invention is preferably configured as a highly
   multiplexed system, multiple loci from a single or multiple chromosomes
   within an individual sample and/or multiple samples can be analyzed
                                       19

   simultaneously.     In such multiplexed systems, the samples can be analyzed
   separately, or they may be initially pooled into groups of two or more for
   analysis of larger numbers of samples. When pooled data is obtained, such
   data is preferably identified for the different samples prior to analysis of
   aneuploidy. In some aspects, however, the pooled data may be analyzed for
   potential CNVs, and individual samples from the group subsequently analyzed
   if initial results indicates that a potential aneuploidy is detected within the
   pooled group.
[00048] In certain aspects, the assay systems utilize one or more indices that
   provide information on specific samples. For example, an index can be used
   in selective or universal amplification that is indicative of a sample from
   which the nucleic acid was amplified.
[00049] In one particular aspect, the selected loci are isolated prior to detection.
   The selected loci can be isolated from the mixed sample using any means that
   selectively isolate the particular nucleic acids present in the mixed sample for
   analysis, e.g., hybridization, amplification or other form of sequence-based
   isolation of the nucleic acids from the mixed sample. Following isolation, the
   selected    nucleic acids are individually distributed in a suitable detection
   format, e.g., on a microarray or in a flow cell, for determination of the
   sequence and/or relative quantities of each selected nucleic acid in the mixed
   sample. The relative quantities of the detected nucleic acids are indicative of
   the number of copies of chromosomes that correspond to the selected nucleic
   acids present in the mixed sample.
                                       20

[00050] Following isolation and distribution of the selected nucleic acids in a
    suitable format, the selected sequences are identified, e.g., through sequence
   determination of the selected sequence.
[00051] In one specific aspect, the invention provides an assay system for
   detection of the presence or absence of a fetal aneuploidy, comprising the
    steps of providing a mixed sample comprising maternal and fetal cfDNA,
    amplifying two or more selected loci from a first and second chromosome of
   interest in the mixed sample, amplifying two or more selected loci from the
   first and second chromosome of interest in the mixed sample, determining the
   relative frequency of the selected regions from the chromosomes of interest,
   comparing the relative frequency of the selected loci from the first and second
   chromosomes of interest, and identifying the presence or absence of a fetal
    aneuploidy based on the compared relative frequencies of the selected loci.
[00052] In some specific aspects, the relative frequencies of the loci from a
   genomic region are individually calculated, and the relative frequencies of the
   individual loci are compared to determine the presence or absence of a
   chromosomal abnormality. In other specific aspects, the relative frequencies of
   the selected loci are used to determine a chromosome frequency of a first and
    second chromosome of interest and a reference chromosome, and the copy
   number variation for the chromosome or a genomic region of the chromosome
   is based on the compared chromosome frequencies of the first and second
   chromosomes of interest.
[00053] The mixed sample used for analysis can be obtained or derived from any
    sample which contains the nucleic acid of interest to be analyzed using the
    assay system of the invention. For example, a mixed sample may be from any
                                      21

   maternal fluid which comprises both maternal and fetal cell free nucleic acids,
   including but not limited to maternal plasma, maternal serum, or maternal
   blood. A mixed sample from a transplant patient would be any fluid or tissue
   which contains cell free nucleic acids from both the donor cells and the cells
   of the patient. A mixed sample from a patient with a malignancy would
   contain cell free nucleic acids from the patient's normal, healthy tissue as well
    as cell free nucleic acids from the cancerous cells.
[00054] Although preferably the assay system is used to detect cfDNA in a
   mixed sample, in certain aspects the DNA of interest to be analyzed using the
    assay system of the invention comprises DNA directly from the different cell
   types rather than from a mixed sample containing DNA from the major and
   minor cell types.        Such samples can be obtained from various sources
   depending upon the target DNA. For example, fetal cells for analysis can be
   derived from samples such as amniotic fluid, placenta (e.g., the chorionic
   villi), and the like. Samples of donor organs can be obtained in an individual
   by biopsy. Infectious organisms can be isolated directly from an individual
    and analyzed following isolation. DNA can be extracted from cancerous cells
   or tissues and used for analysis.
[00055]     It is another feature of the invention that the substantial majority of the
   nucleic acids isolated from the mixed sample and detected in the assay system
   provide information relevant to the presence, quantity and/or polymorphic
   nature of a particular locus in the mixed sample.           This ensures that the
   majority of nucleic acids analyzed in the assay system of the invention are
   informative.
                                         22

[00056] In some aspects, a set of multiple selected loci are interrogated for each
   genomic region, and the quantity of the set of selected regions present in the
   mixed sample are individually summed to determine the relative frequency of
    a genomic region in a mixed sample.       This includes determination of the
   frequency of the locus for the combined maternal and fetal DNA present in the
   mixed sample.     Preferably, the determination does not require a distinction
   between the DNA from separate sources, although in certain aspects this
   information may be obtained in addition to the information of relative
   frequencies in the sample as a whole.
[00057] In preferred aspects, selected nucleic acids corresponding to informative
   loci are detected and summed to determine the relative frequency of a genomic
   region in the mixed sample. Frequencies that are higher than expected for loci
   from a first genomic region when compared to the loci from a second locus in
    a mixed sample is indicative of a CNV of the first genomic region in the
   mixed sample.
[00058] Comparison of genomic regions can be a comparison of part or all of a
   chromosome. For example, the genomic region detected for CNV may be an
   entire chromosome in the fetus (e.g., chromosomes 18 and 21), where the
   likelihood of both being aneuploid is minimal. This can also be a comparison
   of chromosomes where one is putatively aneuploid (e.g., chromosome 21) and
   the other acts as a reference chromosome (e.g.          an autosome such as
   chromosome 2). In yet other aspects, the comparison may utilize two or more
   chromosomes that are putatively aneuploid and one or more reference
   chromosomes.
                                      23

[00059] In one aspect, the assay system of the invention analyzes multiple
   nucleic acids representing selected loci on chromosomes of interest, and the
   relative frequency of each selected locus from the sample is analyzed to
   determine a relative chromosome frequency for each particular chromosome
   of interest in the sample.        The chromosomal frequency of two or more
   chromosomes or portions thereof is then compared to statistically determine
   whether a chromosomal abnormality exists.
[00060] In another aspect, the assay system of the invention analyzes multiple
   copies of a set of selected loci on chromosomes of interest, and the relative
   frequency of each of the selected loci from the sample is analyzed and
   independently quantified to determine a frquency for each selected locus in the
   sample.    The sum of the loci in the sample is compared to statistically
   determine whether a CNV exists for one or more loci in a genomic region of
   one source in a mixed sample.
[00061] In another aspect, subsets of loci on each chromosome are analyzed to
   determine whether a chromosomal abnormality exists. The loci frequency can
   be summed for a particular chromosome, and the summations of the loci used
   to determine aneuploidy. This aspect of the invention sums the frequencies of
   the individual loci in each genomic region and then compares the sum of the
   loci on a genomic region of one chromosome against a genomic region of
   another chromosome to determine whether a chromosomal abnormality exists.
   The subsets of loci can be chosen randomly but with sufficient numbers of loci
   to yield a statistically significant result in determining whether a chromosomal
   abnormality exists.      Multiple analyses of different subsets of loci can be
   performed within a mixed sample to yield more statistical power. In another
                                         24

   aspect, particular loci can be selected that are known to have less variation
   between samples, or by limiting the data used for determination of
   chromosomal frequency, e.g., by ignoring the data from loci with very high or
   very low frequency within a sample.
[00062] In a particular aspect, the measured quantities of one or more particular
   loci are normalized to account for differences in loci quantity in the sample.
   This can be done by normalizing for known variation from sources such as the
   assay system (e.g., temperature, reagent lot differences), underlying biology of
   the sample (e.g., nucleic acid content), operator differences, or any other
   variables.
[00063] In certain specific aspects, determining the relative percentage of nucleic
   acids from the minor source in a mixed sample may be beneficial in
   performing the assay system, as it will provide important information on the
   relative statistical presence of loci that may be indicative of copy number
   variation within the minor source in that sample.          Determining the loci
   contributed to the mixed sample from the minor source can provide
   information used to calculate the statistically significant differences in
   frequencies for genomic regions of interest. Such loci could thus provide two
   forms of information in the assay - allelic information can be used for
   determining the percent minor cell contribution in a mixed sample and a
   summation of the allelic information can be used to determine the relative
   overall frequency of that locus in a mixed sample. The allelic information is
   not needed to determine the relative overall frequency of that locus.
[00064] In another specific aspect, the assay system of the invention can be
   utilized to determine potential mosaicism in a cell population, and whether
                                      25

     further confirmatory tests should be undertaken to confirm the identification of
     mosaicism in the major and/or          minor source.      In certain    instances,
     determination of the percent nucleic acids from the minor source in a mixed
     sample could assist in quantification of the estimated level of mosaicism.
     Mosaicism could be subsequently confirmed using other testing methods that
     could distinguish mosaic full or partial aneuploidy in specific cells or tissue.
 [00065] In yet another specific aspect, the assay system of the invention can be
     utilized to determine contamination in a sample, with the minor species
     representing a contaminant species.
[00066]     In another aspect, the oligonucleotides for a given selected nucleic acid
    can be connected at the non-sequence specific ends such that a circular or
    unimolecular probe may bind thereto. In this aspect, the 3' end and the 5' end
    of the circular probe binds to the selected locus and at least one universal
    amplification region is present in the non-selected specific sequence of the
    circular probe.
[00067]     It is an important feature of the assay that the amplification products
    may be analyzed directly without the need for enrichment of polymorphic
    regions from the initial mixed sample. Thus, the current invention allows
    detection of both CNV and polymorphisms from a maternal sample without an
    intervening polymorphic enrichment step prior to sequence determination of
    the selected loci.
[00068]     It is another important feature of the assay that both CNV and source
    contribution are determined using a targeted approach of selected amplification
    and detection. This allows the majority of information gathered in the assay to
    be useful for the determination of the CNV and/or source contribution, and
                                         26

       obviates the need to generate sequence reads that must be aligned with a
       reference sequence.
   [00069]    These and other aspects, features and advantages will be provided in
       more detail as described herein.
                        BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE FIGURES
[00070]       HG. 1 is a simplified flow chart of the general steps utilized in the assay
    systems of the invention.
[00071]       HG. 2 illustrates a first general schematic for a ligation-based assay
    system of the invention.
[00072]       HG. 3 illustrates a second general schematic for a ligation-based assay
    system of the invention.
[00073]       FIG. 4 is a third general schematic for a ligation-based assay system of
    the invention.
[00074]       HG. 5 illustrates the genotyping performance that was obtained using
    one assay system of the invention.
[00075]       HG. 6 is a graph illustrating results from a determination of percent fetal
    using an assay of the invention.
[00076]       HG. 7 illustrates the elements used for a detection of aneuploidy and
    polymorphism for two cohorts of maternal samples.
[00077]       HG. 8 is a summary of patient and sample information and data for a
    subset of a second cohort of pregnant subjects.
[00078]       HG. 9 illustrates the chromosome 21 aneuploidy detection achieved
    using one aspect of the invention for a first cohort.
[00079]       HG. 10 illustrates the chromosome 18 aneuploidy detection achieved
    using one aspect of the invention for a first cohort.
                                            27

[00080]        HG. 11 illustrates the chromosome 21 aneuploidy detection achieved
    using one aspect of the invention for a second cohort.
[00081]        HG. 12 illustrates the chromosome 18 aneuploidy detection achieved
    using one aspect of the invention for a second cohort.
                                         DEFINITIONS
   [00082]     The terms used herein are intended to have the plain and ordinary
       meaning as understood by those of ordinary skill in the art. The following
       definitions are intended to aid the reader in understanding the present
       invention, but are not intended to vary or otherwise limit the meaning of such
       terms unless specifically indicated.
   [00083]     The term "amplified nucleic acid" is any nucleic acid molecule whose
       amount has been increased at least two fold by any nucleic acid amplification
       or replication method performed in vitro as compared to its starting amount in a
       mixed sample.
   [00084]     The term "amplification product" as used herein refers to the product
       resulting from an amplification reaction using the contiguous ligation product
       as a template, or the product resulting from an amplification reaction using a
       molecule complementary to the contiguous ligation product as a template.
   [00085]     The term "chromosomal abnormality" refers to any genetic variation
       that affects all or part of a chromosome larger than a single locus. The genetic
       variants may include but not be limited to any CNV such as amplifications or
       deletions, translocations, inversions, and mutations. Examples of chromosomal
       abnormalities include, but are not limited to, Down Syndrome (Trisomy 21),
       Edwards Syndrome (Trisomy 18), Patau Syndrome (Trisomy 13), Klinefelter's
                                            28

   Syndrome (XXY), Triple X syndrome, XYY syndrome, Trisomy 8, Trisomy
   16, Turner Syndrome, Robertsonian translocation, DiGeorge Syndrome and
   Wolf-Hirschhorn Syndrome.
[00086]    The terms "complementary" or "complementarity" are used in reference
   to nucleic acid molecules (i.e., a sequence of nucleotides) that are related by
   base-pairing rules. Complementary nucleotides are, generally, A and T (or A
   and U), or C and G. Two single stranded RNA or DNA molecules are said to
   be substantially complementary when the nucleotides of one strand, optimally
   aligned and with appropriate nucleotide insertions or deletions, pair with at
   least about 90% to about 95% complementarity, and more preferably from
   about 98% to about 100% complementarity, and even more preferably with
   100% complementarity.        Alternatively, substantial complementarity exists
   when an RNA or DNA strand will hybridize under selective hybridization
   conditions to its complement. Selective hybridization conditions include, but
   are not limited to, stringent hybridization conditions. Stringent hybridization
   conditions will typically include salt concentrations of less than about 1 M,
   more usually less than about 500 mM and preferably less than about 200 mM.
   Hybridization temperatures are generally at least about 2'C to about 6'C lower
   than melting temperatures (Tm).
[00087]    The term "copy number variation" or "CNV" as used interchangeably
   herein are alterations of the DNA of a genome that results in a cell having an
   abnormal number of copies of one or more loci in the DNA.          CNVs that are
   clinically relevant can be limited to a single gene or include a contiguous set of
   genes. A CNV can also correspond to relatively large regions of the genome
   that have been deleted, inverted or duplicated on certain chromosomes, up to an
                                        29

    including one or more additional copies of a complete chromosome. The term
    CNV as used herein does not refer to any sequence-related information, but
    rather to quantity or "counts" of genetic regions present in a sample.
[00088]     The term "correction index" refers to an index that may contain
    additional   nucleotides    that  allow   for  identification and   correction of
    amplification, sequencing or other experimental errors including the detection
    of deletion, substitution, or insertion of one or more bases during sequencing as
    well as nucleotide changes that may occur outside of sequencing such as oligo
    synthesis, amplification, and any other aspect of the assay. These correction
    indices may be stand-alone indices that are separate sequences, or they may be
    embedded within other regions to assist in confirming accuracy of the
    experimental techniques used, e.g., a correction index may be a subset of
    sequences used for universal amplification or a subset of nucleotides of a
    sample locus.
[00089]     The term "diagnostic tool" as used herein refers to any composition or
    assay of the invention used in combination as, for example, in a system in order
    to carry out a diagnostic test or assay on a patient sample.
[00090]     The term "disease trait" refers to a monogenic or polygenic trait
    associated with a pathological condition, e.g., a disease, disorder, syndrome or
    predisposition.
 [00091]     The term "genomic region" as used herein refers to any region of one
     or more loci that are normally found in a contiguous fashion in a genome. A
     genomic region may vary in size up to and including an entire chromosome.
                                          30

[00092]    The term "hybridization" generally means the reaction by which the
   pairing of complementary strands of nucleic acid occurs.        DNA is usually
   double-stranded, and when the strands are separated they will re-hybridize
   under the appropriate conditions. Hybrids can form between DNA-DNA,
   DNA-RNA or RNA-RNA. They can form between a short strand and a long
   strand containing a region complementary to the short one. Imperfect hybrids
   can also form, but the more imperfect they are, the less stable they will be (and
   the less likely to form).
[00093]      The term "informative locus" as used herein refers to a locus that is
   homozygous for one cell source and heterozygous for a second cell source on a
   particular chromosome or portion of a chromosome interrogated for purposes
   of determining a CNV of all or part of that chromosome. Informative loci for
   use in the assay system of the invention include loci used for interrogation of a
   reference chromosome as well as loci used for interrogation of a chromosome
   that is putatively aneuploid in a cell source.       Informative loci can also
   distinguish copy number of loci in cell sources from different individuals
   within a single individual (e.g., detection of transplant donor cells in a
   transplant recipient or detection of a fetal DNA within a maternal mixed
   sample).
[00094]      The terms "locus" and "loci" as used herein refer to a locus of known
   location in a genome.
[00095]    The term "major source" refers to a source of nucleic acids in a sample
   from an individual that is representative of the predominant genomic material
   in that individual.
                                      31

[00096]    The term "maternal sample" as used herein refers to any sample taken
   from a pregnant mammal which comprises both fetal and maternal cell free
   genomic material (e.g., DNA).          Preferably, maternal samples for use in the
   invention are obtained through relatively non-invasive means, e.g., phlebotomy
   or other standard techniques for extracting peripheral samples from a subject.
[00097]    The term "melting temperature" or Tm is commonly defined as the
   temperature at which a population of double-stranded nucleic acid molecules
   becomes half dissociated into single strands. The equation for calculating the
   Tm of nucleic acids is well known in the art. As indicated by standard
   references, a simple estimate of the Tm value may be calculated by the
   equation: Tm = 81.5+16.6(logO[Na+])0.41(%[G+C])-675/n-1.0m,                   when a
   nucleic acid is in aqueous solution having cation concentrations of 0.5 M or
   less, the (G+C) content is between 30% and 70%, n is the number of bases, and
   m is the percentage of base pair mismatches (see, e.g., Sambrook J et al.,
   Molecular Cloning, A Laboratory Manual, 3rd Ed., Cold Spring Harbor
   Laboratory Press (2001)).           Other references include more sophisticated
   computations, which take structural as well as sequence characteristics into
   account for the calculation of Tm.
[00098]    "Microarray" or "array" refers to a solid phase support having a surface,
   preferably but not exclusively a planar or substantially planar surface, which
   carries an array of sites containing nucleic acids such that each site of the array
   comprises substantially identical or identical copies of oligonucleotides or
   polynucleotides and is spatially defined and not overlapping with other member
   sites of the array; that is, the sites are spatially discrete. The array or microarray
   can also comprise a non-planar interrogatable structure with a surface such as a
                                           32

   bead or a well. The oligonucleotides or polynucleotides of the array may be
   covalently bound to the solid support, or may be non-covalently bound.
   Conventional microarray       technology  is reviewed   in, e.g., Schena,   Ed.,
   Microarrays: A Practical Approach, IRL Press, Oxford (2000).             "Array
   analysis", "analysis by array" or "analysis by microarray" refers to analysis,
   such as, e.g., sequence analysis, of one or more biological molecules using a
   microarray.
[00099]    The term "minor source" refers to a source of nucleic acids within an
   individual that is present in limited amounts and which is distinguishable from
   the major source due to differences in its genomic makeup and/or expression.
   Examples of minor sources include, but are not limited to, fetal cells in a
   pregnant female, cancerous cells in a patient with a malignancy, cells from a
   donor organ in a transplant patient, nucleic acids from an infectious organism
   in an infected host, and the like.
[000100] The term "mixed sample" as used herein refers to any sample
   comprising cell free genomic material (e.g., DNA) from two or more cell types
   of interest, one being a major source and the other being a minor source within
   a single individual. Exemplary mixed samples include a maternal sample (e.g.,
   maternal blood, serum or plasma comprising both maternal and fetal DNA),
   and a peripherally-derived somatic sample (e.g., blood, serum or plasma
   comprising different cell types, e.g., hematopoietic cells, mesenchymal cells,
   and circulating cells from other organ systems).        Mixed samples include
   samples with genomic material from both a major and a minor source in an
   individual, which may be e.g., normal and atypical somatic cells, or cells that
   comprise genomes from two different individuals, e.g., a sample with both
                                        33

   maternal and fetal genomic material or a sample from a transplant patient that
   comprises cells from both the donor and recipient.
[000101] The term "monogenic trait" as used herein refers to any trait, normal or
   pathological, that is associated with a mutation or polymorphism in a single
   gene.    Such traits include traits associated with a disease, disorder, or
   predisposition caused by a dysfunction in a single gene. Traits also include
   non-pathological characteristics (e.g., presence or absence of cell surface
   molecules on a specific cell type).
[000102] The term "non-maternal" allele means an allele with a polymorphism
   and/or mutation that is found in a fetal allele (e.g., an allele with a de novo SNP
   or mutation) and/or a paternal allele, but which is not found in the maternal
   allele.
[000103] By "non-polymorphic", when used with respect to detection of selected
   loci, is meant a detection of such locus, which may contain one or more
   polymorphisms, but in which the detection is not reliant on detection of the
   specific polymorphism within the region. Thus a selected locus may contain a
   polymorphism, but detection of the region using the assay system of the
   invention is based on occurrence of the region rather than the presence or
   absence of a particular polymorphism in that region.
[000104] As    used   herein   "nucleotide"     refers    to  a base-sugar-phosphate
   combination. Nucleotides are monomeric units of a nucleic acid sequence
   (DNA and RNA). The term nucleotide includes ribonucleoside triphosphates
   ATP, UTP, CTG, GTP and deoxyribonucleoside triphosphates such as dATP,
   dCTP, dITP, dUTP, dGTP, dTTP, or derivatives thereof. Such derivatives
                                        34

   include, for example, [aS]dATP, 7-deaza-dGTP and 7-deaza-dATP,               and
   nucleotide derivatives that confer nuclease resistance on the nucleic acid
   molecule containing them. The term nucleotide as used herein also refers to
   dideoxyribonucleoside triphosphates (ddNTPs) and their derivatives. Illustrated
   examples of dideoxyribonucleoside triphosphates include, but are not limited
   to, ddATP, ddCTP, ddGTP, ddITP, and ddTTP.
[000105] According to the present invention, a "nucleotide" may be unlabeled or
   detectably labeled by well known techniques. Fluorescent labels and their
   attachment to oligonucleotides are described in many reviews, including
   Haugland, Handbook of Fluorescent Probes and Research Chemicals, 9th Ed.,
   Molecular Probes, Inc., Eugene OR (2002); Keller and Manak, DNA Probes,
   2nd Ed., Stockton Press, New York (1993); Eckstein, Ed., Oligonucleotides
   and Analogues: A Practical Approach, IRL Press, Oxford (1991); Wetmur,
   Critical Reviews in Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, 26:227-259 (1991);
   and the like. Other methodologies applicable to the invention are disclosed in
   the following sample of references: Fung et al., U.S. Pat. No. 4,757,141;
   Hobbs, Jr., et al., U.S. Pat. No. 5,151,507; Cruickshank, U.S. Pat. No.
   5,091,519; Menchen et al., U.S. Pat. No. 5,188,934; Begot et al., U.S. Pat. No.
   5,366,860; Lee et al., U.S. Pat. No. 5,847,162; Khanna et al., U.S. Pat. No.
   4,318,846; Lee et al., U.S. Pat. No. 5,800,996; Lee et al., U.S. Pat. No.
   5,066,580: Mathies et al., U.S. Pat. No. 5,688,648; and the like. Labeling can
   also be carried out with quantum dots, as disclosed in the following patents and
   patent publications: U.S. Pat. Nos. 6,322,901; 6,576,291; 6,423,551; 6,251,303;
   6,319,426; 6,426,513; 6,444,143; 5,990,479; 6,207,392; 2002/0045045; and
   2003/0017264.     Detectable labels include, for example, radioactive isotopes,
                                       35

fluorescent labels, chemiluminescent labels, bioluminescent labels and enzyme
labels. Fluorescent labels of nucleotides may include but are not limited
fluorescein,    5-carboxyfluorescein    (FAM),   2'7'-dimethoxy-4'5-dichloro-6
carboxyfluorescein (JOE), rhodamine, 6-carboxyrhodamine (R6G), N,N,N',N'
tetramethyl-6-carboxyrhodamine (TAMRA), 6-carboxy-X-rhodamine (ROX),
4-(4'dimethylaminophenylazo)      benzoic   acid (DABCYL),      Cascade    Blue,
Oregon Green, Texas Red, Cyanine and 5-(2'-aminoethyl)aminonaphthalene-1
sulfonic acid (EDANS). Specific examples of fluroescently labeled nucleotides
include      [R6G]dUTP,      [TAMRA]dUTP,         [Ri1O]dCTP,      [R6G]dCTP,
[TAMRA]dCTP, [JOE]ddATP, [R6G]ddATP, [FAM]ddCTP, [Ri1O]ddCTP,
[TAMRA]ddGTP,            [ROX]ddTTP,        [dR6G]ddATP,        [dRI10]ddCTP,
[dTAMRA]ddGTP, and [dROX]ddTTP available from Perkin Elmer, Foster
City, Calif. FluoroLink DeoxyNucleotides, FluoroLink Cy3-dCTP, FluoroLink
Cy5-dCTP, FluoroLink FluorX-dCTP, FluoroLink Cy3-dUTP, and FluoroLink
Cy5-dUTP available from Amersham, Arlington Heights, IL; Fluorescein-15
dATP, Fluorescein- 12-dUTP, Tetramethyl-rodamine-6-dUTP, IR770-9-dATP,
Fluorescein- 12-ddUTP,     Fluorescein- 12-UTP,   and   Fluorescein-15-2'-dATP
available from Boehringer Mannheim, Indianapolis, IN; and Chromosomee
Labeled Nucleotides, BODIPY-FL-14-UTP, BODIPY-FL-4-UTP, BODIPY
TMR-14-UTP,       BODIPY-TMR-14-dUTP,         BODIPY-TR-14-UTP,       BODIPY
TR-14-dUTP, Cascade Blue-7-UTP, Cascade Blue-7-dUTP, fluorescein-12
UTP, fluorescein-12-dUTP, Oregon Green 488-5-dUTP, Rhodamine Green-5
UTP,        Rhodamine        Green-5-dUTP,        tetramethylrhodamine-6-UTP,
tetramethylrhodamine-6-dUTP, Texas Red-5-UTP, Texas Red-5-dUTP, and
Texas Red-12-dUTP available from Molecular Probes, Eugene, OR.
                                     36

[000106] The terms "oligonucleotides" or "oligos" as used herein refer to linear
   oligomers    of natural or modified       nucleic    acid  monomers,   including
   deoxyribonucleotides, ribonucleotides, anomeric forms thereof, peptide nucleic
   acid monomers (PNAs), locked nucleotide acid monomers (LNA), and the like,
   or a combination thereof, capable of specifically binding to a single-stranded
   polynucleotide    by   way    of a regular    pattern   of monomer-to-monomer
   interactions, such as Watson-Crick type of base pairing, base stacking,
   Hoogsteen or reverse Hoogsteen types of base pairing, or the like.       Usually
   monomers are linked by phosphodiester bonds or analogs thereof to form
   oligonucleotides ranging in size from a few monomeric units, e.g., 8-12, to
   several tens of monomeric units, e.g., 100-200 or more. Suitable nucleic acid
   molecules may be prepared by the phosphoramidite method described by
   Beaucage and Carruthers (Tetrahedron Lett., 22:1859-1862 (1981)), or by the
   triester method according to Matteucci, et al. (J. Am. Chem. Soc., 103:3185
   (1981)), both incorporated herein by reference, or by other chemical methods
   such as using a commercial automated oligonucleotide synthesizer.
[000107] The term "polygenic trait" as used herein refers to any trait, normal or
   pathological, that is associated with a mutation or polymorphism in more than a
   single gene.    Such traits include traits associated with a disease, disorder,
   syndrome or predisposition caused by a dysfunction in two or more genes.
   Traits   also include non-pathological     characteristics  associated with   the
   interaction of two or more genes.
[000108] As used herein the term "polymerase" refers to an enzyme that links
   individual nucleotides together into a long strand, using another strand as a
   template. There are two general types of polymerase-DNA polymerases,
                                        37

   which synthesize DNA,       and RNA polymerases, which synthesize RNA.
   Within these two classes, there are numerous sub-types of polymerases,
   depending on what type of nucleic acid can function as template and what type
   of nucleic acid is formed.
[000109] As used herein "polymerase chain reaction" or "PCR" refers to a
   technique for replicating a specific piece of selected DNA in vitro, even in the
   presence of excess non-specific DNA. Primers are added to the selected DNA,
   where the primers initiate the copying of the selected DNA using nucleotides
   and, typically, Taq polymerase or the like.     By cycling the temperature, the
   selected DNA is repetitively denatured and copied.       A single copy of the
   selected DNA, even if mixed in with other, random DNA, can be amplified to
   obtain billions of replicates.  The polymerase chain reaction can be used to
   detect and measure very small amounts of DNA and to create customized
   pieces of DNA. In some instances, linear amplification methods may be used
   as an alternative to PCR.
[000110] The term "polymorphism" as used herein refers to any genetic changes
   or sequence variants in a locus, including but not limited to single nucleotide
   polymorphisms (SNPs), methylation differences, short tandem repeats (STRs),
   single gene polymorphisms, point mutations, trinucleotide repeats, indels and
   the like.
[000111] Generally, a "primer" is an oligonucleotide used to, e.g., prime DNA
   extension, ligation and/or synthesis, such as in the synthesis step of the
   polymerase chain reaction or in the primer extension techniques used in certain
   sequencing reactions. A primer may also be used in hybridization techniques
                                        38

   as a means to provide complementarity of a locus to a capture oligonucleotide
   for detection of a specific locus.
[000112] The term "research tool" as used herein refers to any composition or
   assay of the invention used for scientific enquiry, academic or commercial in
   nature,   including   the development     of pharmaceutical    and/or   biological
   therapeutics. The research tools of the invention are not intended to be
   therapeutic or to be subject to regulatory approval; rather, the research tools of
   the invention are intended to facilitate research and aid in such development
   activities, including any activities performed with the intention to produce
   information to support a regulatory submission.
[000113] The term "sample index" refers generally to a series of unique
   nucleotides (i.e., each sample index is unique to a sample in a multiplexed
   assay system for analysis of multiple samples). The sample index can thus be
   used to assist in locus identification for multiplexing of different samples in a
   single reaction vessel, such that each sample can be identified based on its
   sample index. In a preferred aspect, there is a unique sample index for each
   sample in a set of samples, and the samples are pooled during sequencing. For
   example, if twelve samples are pooled into a single sequencing reaction, there
   are at least twelve unique sample indexes such that each sample is labeled
   uniquely.
[000114] The term "selected locus" as used herein refers to a locus corresponding
   to a loci interrogated, e.g., for copy number, the presence or absence of one or
   more polymorphism, presence or absence of an infectious organism, etc. Such
   selected loci may be directly isolated and amplified from the sample for
   detection, e.g., based on hybridization and/or other sequence-based techniques,
                                         39

    or they may be amplified using the sample as a template prior to detection of
    the sequence. Nucleic acids regions for use in the assay systems of the present
    invention may be selected on the basis of DNA level variation between
    individuals, based upon specificity for a particular chromosome, based on CG
    content and/or required amplification conditions of the selected loci, or other
    characteristics that will be apparent to one skilled in the art upon reading the
    present disclosure.
[000115] The terms "sequencing", "sequence determination" and the like as used
    herein refers generally to any and all biochemical methods that may be used to
    determine the order of nucleotide bases in a nucleic acid.
 [000116] The term "source contribution" as used herein refers to the relative
     contribution of two or more sources of nucleic acids within an individual. The
     contribution from a single is generally determined as a percent of the nucleic
     aciods from a sample, although any relative measurement can be used.
[000117]     The term "specifically binds", "specific binding" and the like as used
    herein, when referring to a binding partner (e.g., a nucleic acid probe or primer,
    antibody, etc.) that results in the generation of a statistically significant positive
    signal under the designated assay conditions. Typically the interaction will
    subsequently result in a detectable signal that is at least twice the standard
    deviation of any signal generated as a result of undesired interactions
    (background).
[000118] The term "status" as used herein in relationship to a gene refers to the
    sequence status of the alleles of a particular gene, including the coding regions
    and the non-coding regions that affect the translation and/or protein expression
    from that gene. The status of a gene associated with an autosomal dominant
                                          40

   disease such as achondroplasia (e.g., the gene encoding the fibroblast growth
   factor receptor) or Huntington's disease (e.g., the Huntingtin gene), or for an
   X-linked disease in the case of a male fetus, can be classified as affected i.e.,
   one allele possesses mutation(s) that is causative of the diseases or disorder, or
   non-affected, i.e. both alleles lack such mutations(s).     The status of a gene
   associated with an autosomal recessive disease or a maternal gene associated
   with an X-linked recessive disorder, may be classified as affected, i.e., both
   alleles possess mutation(s) causative of the diseases or disorder; carrier, i.e. one
   allele possesses mutation(s) causative of the diseases or disorder; or non
   affected, i.e. both alleles lack such mutations(s). The status of a gene may also
   indicate the presence or absence of a particular allele associated with a risk of
   developing a polygenic disease, e.g., a polymorphism that is protective against
   a particular disease or disorder or a polymorphism associated with an enhanced
   risk for a particular disease or disorder.
             DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
[000119] The assay systems and methods described herein may employ, unless
   otherwise indicated, conventional techniques and descriptions of molecular
   biology (including recombinant         techniques),  cell biology, biochemistry,
   microarray and sequencing technology, which are within the skill of those who
   practice in the art.      Such conventional techniques include polymer array
   synthesis, hybridization      and ligation of oligonucleotides,    sequencing of
   oligonucleotides,    and detection of hybridization using a label. Specific
   illustrations of suitable techniques can be had by reference to the examples
   herein. However, equivalent conventional procedures can, of course, also be
   used. Such conventional techniques and descriptions can be found in standard
                                         41

   laboratory manuals such as Green, et al., Eds., Genome Analysis: A Laboratory
   Manual Series (Vols. I-IV) (1999); Weiner, et al., Eds., Genetic Variation: A
   Laboratory Manual (2007); Dieffenbach, Dveksler, Eds., PCR Primer: A
   Laboratory Manual (2003); Bowtell and Sambrook, DNA Microarrays: A
   Molecular Cloning Manual (2003); Mount, Bioinformatics: Sequence and
   Genome Analysis (2004); Sambrook and Russell, Condensed Protocols from
   Molecular Cloning: A LaboratoryManual (2006); and Sambrook and Russell,
   Molecular Cloning: A LaboratoryManual (2002) (all from Cold Spring Harbor
   Laboratory Press); Stryer, L., Biochemistry (4th Ed.) W.H. Freeman, New York
   (1995); Gait, "Oligonucleotide Synthesis: A PracticalApproach" IRL Press,
   London (1984); Nelson and Cox, Lehninger, Principles of Biochemistry,          3 rd
   Ed., W. H. Freeman Pub., New York (2000); and Berg et al., Biochemistry, 5f
   Ed., W.H. Freeman Pub., New York (2002),               all of which are herein
   incorporated by reference in their entirety for all purposes. Before the present
   compositions, research tools and methods are described, it is to be understood
   that this invention is not limited to the specific methods, compositions, targets
   and uses described, as such may, of course, vary. It is also to be understood that
   the terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular aspects
   only and is not intended to limit the scope of the present invention, which will
   be limited only by appended claims.
[000120] It should be noted that as used herein and in the appended claims, the
   singular forms "a," "an," and "the" include plural referents unless the context
   clearly dictates otherwise. Thus, for example, reference to "a locus" refers to
   one, more than one, or mixtures of such regions, and reference to "an assay"
                                        42

   includes reference to equivalent steps and methods known to those skilled in
   the art, and so forth.
[000121]     Where a range of values is provided, it is to be understood that each
   intervening value between the upper and lower limit of that range-and any
   other stated or intervening value in that stated range-is encompassed within the
   invention. Where the stated range includes upper and lower limits, ranges
   excluding either of those included limits are also included in the invention.
[000122] Unless expressly stated, the terms used herein are intended to have the
   plain and ordinary meaning as understood by those of ordinary skill in the art.
   The following definitions are intended to aid the reader in understanding the
   present invention, but are not intended to vary or otherwise limit the meaning
   of such terms unless specifically indicated. All publications mentioned herein
   are incorporated by reference for the purpose of describing and disclosing the
   formulations and methodologies that are described in the publication and which
   might be used in connection with the presently described invention.
[000123] In the following description, numerous specific details are set forth to
   provide a more thorough understanding of the present invention. However, it
   will be apparent to one of skill in the art that the present invention may be
   practiced without one or more of these specific details. In other instances,
   well-known features and procedures well known to those skilled in the art have
   not been described in order to avoid obscuring the invention.
    The Invention in General
[000124] The present invention provides single assay systems with the ability to
   detect copy number variations, polymorphisms and nucleic acids associated
                                       43

   with disease states (for example, nucleic acids from pathogens, or associated
   with cancer, diabetes, Alzheimers Disease, and the like) in a mixed sample
   from a single individual. The assay allows the identification of genetic
   variation in one or more minor sources in a mixed sample using information
   about the copy number of selected loci in the sample and information about the
   percentage contribution of nucleic acids from the major and the one or more
   minor sources in the sample. These methods are useful for any mixed sample
   containing genomic material (e.g., DNA) from a major and a minor source that
   are present in a single individual.
[000125] The use of selected loci in the assay methods of the invention provides
   direct detection of loci for determination of copy number variation in one or
   more sources within the mixed sample. A distinct advantage of the invention is
   that the selected loci corresponding to copy number variation and/or
   polymorphisms can be further analyzed using a variety of detection and
   quantification techniques, including but not limited to hybridization techniques,
   digital PCR and high throughput sequencing determination techniques. Probes
   can be designed against any number of selected loci for any chromosome.
   Although amplification prior to the identification and quantification of the
   selected loci is not mandatory, limited amplification of the mixed sample prior
   to detection may be used to expand the overall number of nucleic acids within
   the starting materials.
[000126] Figure 1 is a simplified flow chart of the general steps utilized in the
   assay systems of the invention. Figure 1 shows method 100, where in a first
   step 110, a mixed nucleic acid sample is provided for analysis.       The mixed
   sample can be prepared from virtually any sample as such techniques are
                                       44

   known to those of skill in the art (see, e.g., Tietz Textbood of Clinical
   Chemistry and Molecular Diagnostics, 4th Ed., Chapter 2, Burtis, C. Ashwood
   E. and Bruns, D, eds. (2006); Chemical Weapons Convention Chemicals
   Analysis: Sample Collection, Preparation and Analytical Methods, Mesilaakso,
   M., ed., (2005); Pawliszyn, J., Sampling and Sample Preparation for Field and
   Laboratory,   (2002); Venkatesh Iyengar, G., et al., Element Analysis of
   Biological Samples: Priniciples and Practices (1998); Drielak, S., Hot Zone
   Forensics: Chemical, Biological, and Radiological Evidence Collection (2004);
   Wells, D., High Throughput Bioanalytical Sample Preparation (Progress in
   Pharmaceutical    and  Biomedical      Analysis) (2002)),  each   of which     is
   incorporated by reference).    Depending on the type of mixed sample chosen,
   additional processing and/or purification steps may be performed to obtain
   nucleic acid fragments of a desired purity or size, using processing methods
   including but not limited to sonication, nebulization, gel purification, PCR
   purification systems, nuclease cleavage, or a combination of these methods. In
   a preferred aspect, samples comprising cell-free DNA (cfDNA) are used.
[000127] At step 120, a first set of fixed sequence oligonucleotides are introduced
   to the mixed nucleic acid sample, under conditions that allow the first set of
   fixed sequence oligonucleotides to hybridize to the mixed nucleic acid sample.
   The first set of fixed sequence oligonucleotides comprise nucleic acid
   sequences that are complementary to one or more selected loci in the mixed
   sample, which as will be described in detail herein are useful in determining
   copy number variations and/or chromosomal abnormalities. The nucleic acid
   sequences capable of determining copy number variations and/or chromosomal
   abnormalities include sequences that allow for identification of chromosomal
                                        45

   abnormalities such as amplifications or deletions, aneuploidies, translocations,
   or inversions.
[000128] At step 130, a second set of fixed sequence oligonucleotides are
   introduced to the mixed nucleic acid sample and first set of fixed sequence
   oligonucleotides under conditions that allow the second set of fixed sequence
   oligonucleotides to hybridize to the mixed nucleic acid sample. The second set
   of fixed sequence oligonucleotides comprise nucleic acid sequences that are
   complementary to one or more selected loci in the mixed sample, able to detect
   polymorphisms. Washing steps optionally may be included between steps 120
   and 130, and 130 and 140.
[000129] At step 140, the first and second sets of fixed sequence oligonucleotides
   that have hybridized to adjacent regions of the selected loci in the mixed
   sample are ligated, and at step 150, the ligated oligonucleotides are amplified.
   The ligated and amplified oligonucleotides are then detected and analyzed,
   which allows for determination of copy number variations or chromosomal
   abnormalities and identification of polymorphisms at step 160.
[000130] The sets of fixed sequence nucleic acids are designed to hybridize to at
   least two separate regions in a selected locus. In preferred aspects, two or more
   separate oligos are used to hybridize to these regions to provide adjacent
   nucleic acids complementary to the selected locus. In some aspects, however, a
   single probe can be used which comprises two or more distinct non-adjacent
   regions that are complementary to the selected loci including precircular probes
   such as so-called "padlock probes" or "molecular inversion probes (MIPs)".
[000131] The present invention provides an improved system over more random
   techniques such as massively parallel sequencing, shotgun sequencing, and the
                                        46

   use of random digital PCR which have been used by others to detect CNVs.
   These aforementioned approaches rely upon sequencing of all or a statistically
   significant population of DNA fragments in a sample, followed by mapping of
   these fragments or otherwise associating the fragments to their appropriate
   chromosomes. The identified fragments are then compared against each other
   or against some other reference (e.g.,        normal chromosomal makeup) to
   determine CNVs on particular chromosomes.           These methods are inherently
   inefficient as compared to the present invention, as the primary chromosomes
   of interest only constitute a minority of data that is generated from the detection
   of such DNA fragments in the mixed samples.
[000132]   The assays of the present invention provide targeted detection of
   selected loci, which provides information on both the content of the selected
   locus (i.e., presence of a polymorphic region) and information on the frequency
   of the selected locus in a sample (with or without detecting any putative
   polymorphisms in that region). This key feature provides the ability to detect
   both copy      number of selected      loci and the presence        or absence   of
   polymorphisms in selected loci as a single data set from performance of a
   multiplexed assay of the invention.
[000133] Techniques that are dependent upon a very broad sampling of DNA in a
   sample are providing a very broad coverage of the DNA analyzed, but in fact
   are sampling the DNA contained within a sample on a 1X or less basis (i.e.,
   subsampling). In contrast, the amplification of selected loci used in the present
   assays provides depth of coverage of particular loci of interest, and provides a
   "super-sampling" of such selected loci with an average sequence coverage of
   preferably 2X or more, more preferably sequence coverage of 1OOX of more,
                                        47

   even more preferably sequence coverage of 1000X or more of the selected loci
   (including from the one or more minor sources) present in the initial mixed
   sample.
[000134] A distinct advantage of the invention is that the amplification products
   resulting from the assays can be analyzed using a variety of detection and
   quantification techniques, including but not limited to hybridization techniques,
   digital PCR and high throughput sequencing determination techniques.
[000135] The methods of the invention provide a more efficient and economical
   use of data, and the substantial majority of sequences analyzed following
   sample amplification result in affirmative information about the sequence
   identity and frequency of selected loci in the mixed sample.        Thus, unlike
   techniques relying    on massively      parallel sequencing or random digital
   "counting" of chromosome regions and subsequent identification of relevant
   data from such counts, the assay system of the invention provides a much more
   efficient use of data collection than the random approaches taught by others in
   the art.
   Assay Methods
[000136] The assay systems of the invention utilize a general scheme as described
   above, though many different configurations and variations can be employed, a
   few of which are described below and more of which are exemplified in US
   Ser. No. 61/371605 filed August 6, 2010, incorporated by reference herein in
   its entirety.
[000137] Figure 2 illustrates a first general schematic for a ligation-based assay
   system of the invention.       The fixed sequence oligonucleotides 201, 203
                                        48

   comprise universal primer regions 209 and 211, respectively, and regions
   complementary to the selected locus 205 and 207, respectively. However, in
   addition, the assay system in Figure 2 employs a sample index region 221 on
   the first fixed sequence oligonucleotide 201. In certain aspects, all or a portion
   of the sequences of the selected loci are directly detected using the described
   techniques, e.g., by sequence determination or hybridization techniques. In the
   example of Figure 2, a sample index is associated with the first fixed sequence
   oligonucleotide 201. The detection of the indices can identify a sequence from
   a specific sample in a highly multiplexed assay system.
[000138] At step 202, the fixed sequence oligonucleotides 201, 203 are introduced
   in step 202 to the mixed sample 200 and allowed to specifically bind to the
   selected locus 215. Following hybridization, the unhybridized fixed sequence
   oligonucleotides are preferably separated from the remainder of the genetic
   sample (by, e.g., washing -- not shown). A bridging oligo is then introduced
   and allowed to hybridize in step 204 to the region of the locus 215 between the
   first 201    and second 203 fixed sequence oligonucleotides. The bound
   oligonucleotides are ligated at step 206 to create a contiguous nucleic acid
   spanning and complementary to the locus of interest. In certain aspects of the
   invention, the bridging oligonucleotides of are between 2-45 nucleotides in
   length.    In a specific aspect, the bridging oligonucleotides are between 3-9
   nucleotides in length. In yet another specific aspect, the oligonucleotides are
   between 10-30 nucleotides in length.
[000139] Following ligation, the ligation product is eluted from the gDNA
   template. Universal primers 217, 219 are introduced in step 208 to amplify the
   ligated first and second fixed sequence oligonucleotides to create 210
                                        49

   amplification products 223 that comprise the sequence of the locus of interest.
   These products 223 are isolated, detected, identified and quantified to provide
   information regarding the presence and amount of the selected loci in the
   mixed sample.      Preferably, the amplification products are detected and
   quantified through sequence determination. In specific aspects, it is desirable
   to determine the sequences of both the sample index and the amplification
   products, for example, to provide identification of the sample as well as the
   locus.   The indices such as the sample index shown here envisioned in the
   invention may be associated with the first fixed sequence oligonucleotides, the
   second fixed sequence oligonucleotides or both. Alternatively or in addition,
   indices may be associated with primers that are used to amplify the ligated first
   and second fixed sequence oligonucleotides, which also serves to incorporate
   indices into the amplification products.
[000140] In preferred aspects and as shown in Figure 2, indices representative of
   the mixed sample from which a nucleic acid may be isolated are used to
   identify the source of the selected loci in a multiplexed assay system. In such
   aspects, the nucleic acids are uniquely identified with the sample index.
   Uniquely identified oligonucleotides may then be combined into a single
   reaction vessel with nucleic acids from other mixed samples prior to
   sequencing. In such a case, the sequencing data is segregated by the unique
   sample index to determine the frequency of each target locus for each mixed
   sample and to determine whether there is a chromosomal abnormality in an
   individual sample.
[000141] In aspects of the invention using sample indices, the fixed sequence
   oligonucleotides preferably are designed so that sample indices comprising
                                       50

   identifying information are located between the universal primer regions 209
   and 211 and the regions complementary to the selected loci in the sample 205
   and 207. Alternatively, the indices and universal amplification sequences can
   be added to the ligated first and second fixed sequence oligos (and the bridging
   oligo, if present) by including these indices in the primers used to amplify the
   ligation products for separate samples. In either case, preferably the indices are
   encoded upstream of the locus-specific sequences but downstream of the
   universal primers so that they are preserved upon amplification.
[000142] Figure 3 exemplifies methods of the assay system in which one or more
   bridging olignucleotides are employed and exemplifies how polymorphisms
   may be detected and identified.       In Figure 3, two fixed sets of sequence
   oligonucleotides are used which comprise substantially the same universal
   primers 309, 311 and sequence-specific regions 305, 307, but comprise
   different sample indices, 321, 323 on the fixed sequence oligonucleotides of the
   set where the different indices correspond to different base sequences for the
   single nucleotide polymorphism present in a particular sample. The ligation
   reactions are carried out with material from the same mixed sample 300, but in
   separate   tubes   with the    different  allele-specific  oligo  sets.  Bridging
   oligonucleotides corresponding to two possible nucleotides for this SNP in the
   selected loci 313, 333 are used to detect of the selected locus in each ligation
   reaction.   Two allele indices 321, 323 that are indicative of the particular
   polymorphic alleles are incorporated into the amplification products so that
   sequence determination of the actual sequence of the ligated first, second and
   bridging oligonucleotides are not necessarily needed, although the sequences of
                                        51

   the entire ligation products may still be determined to identify polymorphisms
   and/or provide confirmation.
[000143] Each of the fixed sequence oligonucleotides            comprises a region
   complementary to the selected locus 305, 307, and universal primer regions
   309, 311 used to amplify the different selected loci following initial selection
   and/or isolation of the selected loci from the mixed sample.        The universal
   primer regions are located at the ends of the fixed sequence oligonucleotides
   301, 303, and 323 flanking the indices and the regions complementary to the
   nucleic acid of interest, thus preserving the nucleic acid-specific sequences and
   the sample indices in the products of any universal amplification methods. The
   fixed sequence oligonucleotides 301, 303, 323 are introduced at step 302 to an
   aliquot of the genetic sample 300 and allowed to specifically bind to the
   selected loci 315 or 325.      Following hybridization, the unhybridized fixed
   sequence oligonucleotides are preferably separated from the remainder of the
   genetic sample by, e.g., washing (not shown).
[000144] The bridging oligos corresponding to an A/T SNP 313 or a G/C SNP
   333 are introduced and allowed to bind in step 304 to the region of the selected
   locus 315 or 325 between the first 305 and second 307 nucleic acid
   complementary regions of the fixed sequence oligonucleotides. Alternatively,
   the bridging oligos 313, 333 can be introduced to the sample simultaneously
   with the fixed sequence oligonucleotides.       The bound oligonucleotides are
   ligated in step 306 in the single reaction mixture to create a contiguous nucleic
   acid spanning and complementary to the selected locus.
[000145] Following ligation, the separate reactions may preferably be combined
   for the universal amplification and detection steps. Universal primers 317, 319
                                        52

   are introduced to the combined reactions at step 308 to amplify the ligated
   template regions and create at step 310 ligated first and second fixed sequence
   oligos and bridging oligo products 327, 329 that comprise the sequence of the
   selected locus representing both SNPs in the selected locus. These ligation
   products 327, 329 are detected and quantified through sequence determination
   of the ligation product, through the sample index and/or the region of the
   product containing the SNP in the selected locus.
[000146] In an alternative configuration of the methods of the assay systems of
   the invention, the bridging oligo may hybridize to a region that is not directly
   adjacent to the region complementary to one or both of the fixed sequence
   oligos, and an intermediate step requiring extension of one or more of the
   oligos is necessary prior to ligation.  For example, as illustrated in Figure 4,
   each set of oligonucleotides preferably contains two oligonucleotides 401, 403
   of fixed sequence and one or more bridging oligonucleotides 413. Each of the
   fixed sequence oligonucleotides comprises a region complementary to the
   selected locus 405, 407, and primer sequences, preferably universal primer
   sequences, 409, 411, i.e., oligo regions complementary to universal primers.
   The primer sequences 409, 411 are located at or near the ends of the fixed
   sequence oligonucleotides 401, 403, and thus preserve the nucleic acid-specific
   sequences in the products of any universal amplification methods. The fixed
   sequence oligonucleotides 401, 403 are introduced at step 402 to the mixed
   sample 400 and allowed to specifically bind to the complementary portions of
   the locus of interest 415. Following hybridization, the unhybridized fixed
   sequence oligonucleotides are preferably separated from the remainder of the
   genetic sample (not shown).
                                       53

[000147] The bridging oligonucleotide is then introduced at step 404 and allowed
   to bind to the region of the selected locus 415 between the first 401 and
    second 403 fixed sequence oligonucleotides. Alternatively, the bridging oligo
   can be introduced simultaneously with the fixed sequence oligonucleotides. In
   this exemplary aspect, the bridging oligo hybridizes to a region directly
    adjacent to the first fixed sequence oligo region 405, but is separated by one or
   more nucleotides from the complementary region of the second fixed sequence
   oligonucleotide 407.       Following hybridization of the fixed sequence and
   bridging oligos, the bridging oligo 413 is extended at step 406, e.g., using a
   polymerase and dNTPs, to fill the gap between the bridging oligo 413 and the
    second fixed sequence oligo 403.             Following extension,     the bound
   oligonucleotides are ligated at step 408 to create a contiguous nucleic acid
    spanning and complementary to the locus of interest 415.          After ligation,
   universal primers 417, 419 are introduced at step 410 to amplify the ligated
   first, second and bridging oligos to create at step 412 amplification products
   423 that comprise the sequence of the selected locus of interest. Amplification
   products 423 are optionally isolated, detected, and quantified to provide
   information on the presence and amount of the selected locus(s) in the mixed
    sample.
   Detecting Copy Number Variations
[000148] The present invention provides methods for identifying copy number
   variation at one or more loci and the presence or absence of one or more
   polymorphisms.       This can be performed using amplification methods for
                                        54

     identification of loci corresponding to specific chromosomes of interest loci
     corresponding to single gene sequences.
[000149] The assay systems utilize nucleic acid probes designed to identify, and
    preferably to isolate, selected loci in a mixed sample. Certain of the probes
    identify sequences of interest in selected loci interrogated for copy number (i.e.
    loci frequency), and other probes identify sequences that correspond to
    polymorphisms of interest (i.e. loci content) in nucleic acids corresponding to a
    major source or minor source in a mixed sample.
[000150] In specific aspects, the assay systems of the invention employ one or
    more selective amplification steps (e.g., using one or more primers that
    specifically hybridize to a selected locus) for isolating, amplifying or analyzing
    substantially all of the selected loci analyzed. This is in direct contrast to the
    random amplification approach used by others employing, e.g., massively
    parallel sequencing, as such amplification techniques generally involve random
    amplification of all or a substantial portion of the genome. In addition, the
    initial sample can optionally be enriched using methods such as general
    amplification to increase the copy number of nucleic acids in the mixed sample.
    Preferably the hybridization, ligation, and amplification steps used to identify
    the loci of interest are performed directly on the mixed sample.
[000151] In a general aspect, the user of the invention analyzes multiple selected
    loci on different chromosomes. When multiple loci are analyzed for a sample,
    a preferred embodiment is to amplify all of the selected loci for each sample in
    one reaction vessel. The frequencies of the multiple selected loci are used to
    determine whether a chromosomal abnormality exists, and optionally to
    identify polymorphisms in the selected loci.
                                         55

[000152] In preferred aspects, multiple selected loci from two or more samples
   may    be   amplified   in  a   single  reaction   vessel,  and   the  information
   simultaneously     analyzed   in a single     data  set, e.g.,  through   sequence
   determination.   The resulting data is then analyzed to separate the results for
   the different sample and used to determine the presence of absence of CNV and
   the source contribution in individual samples.
[000153] In one aspect, chromosomal abnormalities are identified in the assay
   system of the invention using multiple selected loci on multiple chromosomes,
   and the frequency of the selected loci on the multiple chromosomes compared
   to identify an increase likelihood of aneuploidy based on the ratios frequencies
   of the multiple loci on the chromosomes. Normalization or standardization of
   the frequencies can be performed for one or more selected loci.
[000154] In another aspect, the assay system sums the frequencies of the selected
   loci on two or more chromosomes and then compares the sum of the selected
   loci on one chromosome against another chromosome to determine whether a
   chromosomal aneuploidy exists. In another aspect, the assay system analyzes
   subsets of selected loci frequencies on two or more chromosomes to determine
   whether a chromosomal aneuploidy exists for one of the two chromosomes.
   The comparison can be made either within the same or different chromosomes.
[000155] In certain aspects, the data used to determine the frequency of the
   selected loci may exclude outlier data that appear to be due to experimental
   error, or that have elevated or depressed levels based on an idiopathic genetic
   bias within a particular sample. In one example, the data used for summation
   may exclude DNA regions with a particularly elevated frequency in one or
   more samples.     In another example, the data used for summation may exclude
                                         56

   selected loci that are found in a particularly low abundance in one or more
   samples.
[000156] In another aspect subsets of selected loci can be chosen to yield a
   statistically significant result when determining whether a chromosomal
   abnormality exists. Multiple analyses of different subsets of selected loci can
   be performed within a mixed sample to yield more statistical power.             For
   example, if there are 100 selected loci for chromosome 21 and 100 selected loci
   for chromosome 18, a series of analyses could be performed that evaluate fewer
   than 100 regions for each of the chromosomes. In this example, selected loci
   are not being selectively excluded.
[000157] The     quantity   of different    nucleic   acids  detectable   on   certain
   chromosomes may vary depending upon a number of factors, including general
   representation of loci in different cell sources in mixed samples, degradation
   rates of the different nucleic acids representing different loci in mixed samples,
   sample preparation methods, and the like. Thus, in another aspect, the quantity
   of particular loci on a chromosome is summed to determine the loci quantity
   for different chromosomes in the sample. The loci frequencies are summed for
   a particular chromosome, and the sum of the loci are used to determine
   aneuploidy. This aspect of the invention sums the frequencies of the individual
   loci on each chromosome and then compares the sum of the loci on one
   chromosome against one or more other chromosomes to determine whether a
   chromosomal abnormality exists.
[000158] The nucleic acids analyzed using the assay systems of the invention are
   preferably selectively amplified and optionally isolated from the mixed sample
   using primers specific to the locus of interest (e.g., to a locus of interest in a
                                         57

   mixed sample).      The primers for selective amplification may be chosen for
   various reasons, but are preferably designed to 1) efficiently amplify a region
   from the chromosome of interest; 2) have a predictable range of expression
   from maternal and/or fetal sources in different mixed samples; and 3) be
   distinctive to the particular chromosome, i.e., not amplify homologous regions
   on other chromosomes. The following are exemplary techniques that may be
   employed in the assay system or the invention.
[000159]    The assay system of the invention detects both aneuploidies and
   specific chromosomal abnormalities through identification and quantification
   of specific loci of interest.  Such chromosomal abnormalities include, but are
   not   limited to,    deletion  mutations,   insertion  mutations, copy  number
   polymorphisms, copy number variants, chromosome 22q1 1 deletion syndrome,
    1lq deletion    syndrome on chromosome          11,  8p deletion syndrome on
   chromosome 8, and the like. Generally, at least two selected loci present on the
   same or separate chromosomes are analyzed, and at least one of the selected
   loci is associated with the fetal allelic abnormality. The sequences of the two
   selected loci and number of copies of the two selected loci are then compared
   to determine whether the chromosomal abnormality is present, and if so, the
   nature of the abnormality.
[000160]    While much of the description contained herein describes detecting
   aneuploidy by counting the abundance of selected loci on one or more putative
   aneuploid chromosomes and the abundance of selected loci on one or more
   normal chromosomes, the same techniques may be used to detect copy number
   variations where such copy number variation occurs on only a portion of a
   chromosome.      In detection of copy number variations, multiple selected loci
                                        58

   within the putative copy number variation location are compared to multiple
   selected loci outside of the putative copy number variation location. For
   instance, one may detect a chromosome 22q1 1 deletion syndrome in a fetus in
   a maternal sample by selecting two or more loci within the 22q1 1 deletion and
   two or more loci outside of the 22q1 1 deletion.    The loci outside of the 22q1 1
   deletion may be on another region of Chromosome 22 or may be on a
   completely different chromosome. The abundance of each loci is determined
   by the methods described in this application.
[000161]    In some aspects a universal amplification may be used for amplifying
   the selected loci. In some aspects, the selected loci for each sample are assayed
   in a single reaction in a single vessel.    In other aspects, loci from multiple
   samples can be assayed in a single reaction in a single vessel.
[000162]    Certain aspects of the invention can detect a deletion, including the
   boundaries of such deletions. In some aspects, at least 24 selected loci may be
   used within the region of the putative deletion and at least 24 selected loci may
   be used outside of the region of the putative deletion. In another aspect at least
   48 selected loci may be used within the region of the putative deletion and at
   least 48 selected loci may be used outside of the region of the putative deletion.
   In another aspect at least 48 selected loci may be used within the region of the
   putative deletion and at least 96 selected loci may be used outside of the region
   of the putative deletion. In another aspect at least 48 selected loci may be used
   within the region of the putative deletion and at least 192 selected loci may be
   used outside of the region of the putative deletion. In a preferred aspect at least
   384 selected loci may be used within the region of the putative deletion and at
   least 384 selected loci may be used outside of the region of the putative
                                        59

   deletion.   The selected loci within the region of the putative and the selected
   loci outside of the region of the putative deletion are summed. These sums are
   then compared to each other to determine the presence or absence of a deletion.
   Optionally, a ratio of the sums is computed and that ratio may be compared to
   an average ratio created from a normal population. When the ratio for one or
   more selected loci falls statistically outside of an expected ratio, a deletion is
   detected. The threshold for positively identifying a deletion may be twice or
   more, preferably four or more times the variation calculated in the normal
   population. When a plurality of selected loci are sued within and outside the
   region of the putative deletion, boundaries of the deletion may be identified.
    Polymorphisms Associated with Diseases or Predispositions
[000163]     The assay systems of the invention can also be utilized to detect
   polymorphisms, such as those associated with an autosomal dominant or
   recessive disease or mutation.       Given the multiplexed nature of the assay
   systems of the invention, detection takes place in the same assay as the
   detection of chromosomal abnormalities.         Thus a single assay system can
   provide diagnostic information on different classes of genetic mutations.
   Accordingly, as the preferred assay systems of the invention are highly
   multiplexed and able to interrogate hundreds or even thousands of selected loci
   within a mixed sample, in certain aspects it is desirable to interrogate the
   sample for marker loci within the mixed sample, e.g., loci associated with
   genetic risk or that identify the presence or absence of infectious organisms.
   Thus, the assay systems provide detection of such marker loci in conjunction
                                         60

   with the detection of selected loci for copy number determination in a mixed
   sample.
[000164]     Thus, the assay system of the invention can be used to detect
   polymorphisms in a mixed sample, where such polymorphisms are associated
   with genes associated with autosomal recessive disorders, mutations associated
   with autosomal dominant disorders; polymorphisms associated with risk of
   developing a disease and/or disease progression (e.g., metastasis) and prognosis
   indicators.
[000165]     In other specific aspects, the assay system of the invention can be used
   to detect fetal mutations or polymorphisms in a maternal sample, where such
   mutations or polymorphisms are associated with polygenic disorders such as
   coronary heart disease, diabetes, hypertension, congenital heart defects, and
   epilepsy. Examples include mutations in genes associated with predispositions
   such as mutations in cancer susceptibility genes, (e.g. mutations ion BRCAI or
   II or in p53); polymorphisms associated with increased risk of developing later
   onset diseases, such as the apoE3 gene polymorphism associated with
   Alzheimer's risk,
[000166]     In addition to detection of chromosomal abnormalities and single gene
   mutations or polymorphisms associated with monogenic or polygenic disease,
   disorders or predispositions, the assay systems of the invention may identify
   infectious agents in the mixed sample.
             Selected amplification
                                          61

[000167]     Numerous selective amplification methods can be used to provide the
   amplified nucleic acids that are analyzed in the assay systems of the invention,
   and such methods are preferably used to increase the copy numbers of selected
   loci in a mixed sample in a manner that allows preservation of information
   concerning the initial content of the selected loci in the mixed sample.
   Although not all combinations of amplification and analysis are described
   herein in detail, it is well within the skill of those in the art to utilize different
   amplification methods and/or analytic tools to isolate and/or analyze the
   nucleic acids of region consistent with this specification, and such variations
   will be apparent to one skilled in the art upon reading the present disclosure.
[000168]     Such amplification methods include but are not limited to, polymerase
   chain reaction (PCR) (U.S.         Pat. Nos. 4,683,195; and 4,683,202;           PCR
   Technology: Principles and Applications for DNA Amplification, ed. H. A.
   Erlich, Freeman Press, NY, N.Y., 1992), ligase chain reaction (LCR) (Wu and
   Wallace, Genomics 4:560, 1989; Landegren et al., Science 241:1077, 1988),
   strand displacement amplification (SDA) (U.S. Pat. Nos. 5,270,184; and
   5,422,252), transcription-mediated       amplification (TMA)        (U.S.   Pat. No.
   5,399,491), linked linear amplification (LLA) (U.S. Pat. No. 6,027,923), and
   the like, self-sustained sequence replication (Guatelli et al., Proc. Nat. Acad.
   Sci. USA, 87, 1874 (1990) and W090/06995), selective amplification of target
   polynucleotide sequences (U.S. Pat. No. 6,410,276), consensus sequence
   primed polymerase chain reaction (CP-PCR) (U.S. Pat. No. 4,437,975),
   arbitrarily primed polymerase chain reaction (AP-PCR) (U.S. Pat. Nos. 5,
   413,909, 5,861,245) and nucleic acid based sequence amplification (NASBA).
   (See, U.S. Pat. Nos. 5,409,818, 5,554,517, and 6,063,603, each of which is
                                         62

   incorporated herein by reference). Other amplification methods that may be
   used include: Qbeta Replicase, described in PCT Patent Application No.
   PCT/US87/00880, isothermal amplification methods such as SDA, described in
   Walker et al., Nucleic Acids Res. 20(7):1691-6 (1992), and rolling circle
   amplification, described in U.S. Pat. No. 5,648,245. Other amplification
   methods that may be used are described in, U.S. Pat. Nos. 5,242,794,
   5,494,810, 4,988,617 and in U.S. Ser. No. 09/854,317 and US Pub. No.
   20030143599, each of which is incorporated herein by reference. In some
   aspects DNA is amplified by multiplex locus-specific PCR. In a preferred
   aspect the DNA is amplified using adaptor-ligation and single primer PCR.
   Other    available  methods    of   amplification,    such   as  balanced    PCR
   (Makrigiorgos, et al., Nature Biotechnol, 20:936-9 (2002)) and isothermal
   amplification methods such as nucleic acid sequence based amplification
   (NASBA) and self-sustained sequence replication (Guatelli et al., PNAS USA
   87:1874 (1990)). Based on such methodologies, a person skilled in the art
   readily can design primers in any suitable regions 5' and 3' to a locus of
   interest. Such primers may be used to amplify DNA of any length so long that
   the DNA comprises the selected loci of interest.
[000169]     The length of an amplified selected locus from a genomic region of
   interest is long enough to provide enough sequence information to distinguish
   the amplified locus from other loci that are amplified and/or selected.
   Generally, an amplified nucleic acid corresponding to a selected locus is at
   least about 16 nucleotides in length, and more typically, an amplified nucleic
   acid corresponding to a selected locus is at least about 20 nucleotides in length.
   In a preferred aspect of the invention, an amplified nucleic acid corresponding
                                       63

   to a selected locus is at least about 30 nucleotides in length. In a more preferred
   aspect of the invention, an amplified nucleic acid corresponding to a selected
   locus is at least about 32, 40, 45, 50, or 60 nucleotides in length. In other
   aspects of the invention, an amplified nucleic acid corresponding to a selected
   locus can be about 100, 150 or up to 200 in length.
[000170]    In certain aspects, selective amplification comprises an initial linear
   amplification step, which can be particularly useful if the starting amount of
   DNA from the mixed sample is quite limited, e.g., where the cell-free DNA in
   a sample is available in limited quantities.       This mechanism increases the
   amount of DNA molecules that are representative of the original DNA content,
   and helps to reduce sampling error where accurate quantification of the DNA or
   a fraction of the DNA (e.g., fetal DNA contribution in a maternal sample) is
   needed.
[000171]    Thus, in one aspect, a limited number of cycles of sequence-specific
   linear amplification are performed on the starting mixed sample comprising
   cfDNA. The number of cycles is generally less than that used for a typical
   PCR amplification, e.g., 5-30 cycles or fewer.         Primers or probes may be
   designed to amplify specific genomic segments or regions comprising selected
   loci. The primers or probes may be modified with an end label at the 5' end
   (e.g. with biotin) or elsewhere along the primer or probe such that the
   amplification products can be purified or attached to a solid substrate (e.g.,
   bead or array) for further isolation or analysis.       In a preferred aspect, the
   primers are multiplexed such that a single reaction yields multiple DNA
   fragments from different regions.        Amplification products from the linear
                                         64

    amplification could then be further amplified with standard PCR methods or
    with additional linear amplification.
[000172]      For example, cfDNA can be isolated from blood, plasma, or serum
    from a pregnant woman, and incubated with primers against a set number of
    selected loci that correspond to chromosomes of interest.          Preferably, the
    number of primers used for initial linear amplification will be 12 or more, more
    preferably 24 or more, more preferably 36 or more, even more preferably 48 or
    more, and even more preferably 96 or more. Each of the primers corresponds
    to a single selected locus, and is optionally tagged for identification and/or
    isolation.    A limited number of cycles, preferably 10 or fewer, are performed
    with linear amplification.        The amplification products    are subsequently
    isolated,   e.g.,   when the primers     are linked to a biotin molecule        the
    amplification products can be isolated via binding to avidin or streptavidin on a
    solid substrate.      The amplification products are then subjected to further
    biochemical processes such as further amplification with other primers and/or
    detection techniques such as sequence determination and hybridization.
[000173]      Efficiencies of linear amplification may vary between sites and
    between cycles so that in certain systems normalization may be used to ensure
    that the products from the linear amplification are representative in frequency
    and sequence of the nucleic acids in the mixed sample.        One practicing the
    assay system of the invention can utilize information from multiple aliquots of
    a sample to determine variation in the quantity of different amplification
    products representing the selected loci, including variation in different selected
    loci and/or       between  selected  loci following  the limited     initial linear
    amplification.     Such information can be used to determine the initial levels of
                                          65

   selected loci in the sample DNA content, allowing for normalization of the
   frequency of selected loci.
    Universal amplification
[000174]     In preferred aspects of the invention, the selectively amplified loci are
   preferably    further  amplified   through   universal   amplification  of all or
   substantially all of the various selected loci using the assay systems of the
   invention.     Universal primer regions      are added to the fixed sequence
   oligonucleotides so that the selectively amplified loci may be further amplified
   in a single universal amplification reaction. These universal primer sequences
   may be added to the nucleic acids regions during the selective amplification
   process, i.e., the primers for selective amplification comprise universal primer
   sequences.       Alternatively,  adapters   comprising    universal   amplification
   sequences can be added to the ends of the selectively amplified selected loci as
   adapters following initial amplification and after isolation of the selectively
   amplified selected loci from the mixed sample.
[000175]     In one exemplary aspect, selected lociare initially amplified from a
   mixed sample using primers complementary to selected loci of interest,
   followed by a universal amplification step to increase the number of loci for
   analysis.   Introduction of primer regions to the initial amplification products
   from a mixed sample allows subsequent controlled universal amplification of
   all or a portion of selected nucleic acids prior to or during analysis, e.g.
   sequence determination.
[000176]     Bias and variability can be introduced during DNA amplification, such
   as that seen during polymerase chain reaction (PCR).            In cases where an
                                         66

   amplification reaction is multiplexed, there is the potential that different
   selected loci will amplify at different rates or efficiency.  This may be due in
   part to some primers in a multiplex reaction having better efficiency (i.e. more
   favorable hybridization kinetics), due to experimental conditions that favor
   some primers over others such as sequence content of the primer and template
   DNA, buffer conditions, and other conditions. Universal DNA amplification in
   a multiplexed assay system generally introduces less bias and variability
   between amplified loci.
[000177]    Accordingly, in a one aspect, a small number (e.g., 1-10, preferably 3
   5) of cycles of selected amplification using loci specific sequences is
   performed, followed by universal amplification using universal primers. The
   number of cycles using universal primers will vary, but will preferably be at
   least 10 cycles, more preferably at least 5 cycles, even more preferably 20
   cycles or more. By moving to universal amplification following a lower
   number of amplification cycles, the bias of having certain loci amplify at
   greater rates than others is reduced.
[000178]    Optionally, the assay system will include a step between the selected
   amplification process and universal amplification process to remove any
   nucleic acids that are not selectively amplified in the selective amplification
   reaction.
[000179]    The whole product or an aliquot of the product from the selected
   amplification may be used for the universal amplification reaction. The same
   or different conditions (e.g., polymerase, buffers, and the like) may be used in
   the amplification steps, e.g., to ensure that bias and variability are not
   inadvertently introduced due to experimental conditions. In addition, variations
                                         67

   in primer concentrations may be used to differentially limit the number of
   sequence-specific amplification cycles for some selected loci as compared to
   other selected loci.
[000180]    In certain aspects, the universal primer regions of the primers or
   adapters used in the assay system are designed to be compatible with
   conventional    multiplexed    assay   methods   that  utilize  general   priming
   mechanisms to analyze large numbers of nucleic acids simultaneously in one
   reaction in one vessel. Such "universal" priming methods allow for efficient,
   high volume analysis of the quantity of selected loci present in a mixed sample,
   and allow for comprehensive quantification of the presence of selected loci
   within such a mixed sample for the determination of aneuploidy.
[000181]    Examples of such assay methods include, but are not limited to,
   multiplexing methods used to amplify and/or genotype a variety of samples
   simultaneously, such as those described in Oliphant et al., US Pat. No.
   7,582,420.
[000182]    Some aspects utilize coupled reactions for multiplex detection of
   nucleic acid sequences where oligonucleotides from an early phase of each
   process contain sequences which may be used by oligonucleotides from a later
   phase of the process. Exemplary processes for amplifying and/or detecting
   nucleic acids in samples can be used, alone or in combination, including but not
   limited to the methods described below, each of which are incorporated by
   reference in their entirety.
[000183]    In certain aspects, the assay system of the invention utilizes one of the
   following combined selective and universal amplification techniques: (1) ligase
   detection reaction ("LDR") coupled with polymerase chain reaction ("PCR");
                                        68

   (2) primary PCR coupled to secondary PCR coupled to LDR; and (3) primary
   PCR coupled to secondary PCR. Each of these aspects of the invention has
   particular applicability    in detecting  certain nucleic    acid characteristics.
   However, each requires the use of coupled reactions for multiplex detection of
   nucleic acid sequence differences where oligonucleotides from an early phase
   of each process contain sequences which may be used by oligonucleotides from
   a later phase of the process.
[000184]    Barany et al., US Pat Nos. 6,852,487, 6,797,470, 6,576,453, 6,534,293,
   6,506,594, 6,312,892, 6,268,148, 6,054,564, 6,027,889, 5,830,711, 5,494,810,
   describe the use of the ligase chain reaction (LCR) assay for the detection of
   specific sequences of nucleotides in a variety of nucleic acid samples.
[000185]    Barany et al., US Pat Nos. 7,807,431, 7,455,965, 7,429,453, 7,364,858,
   7,358,048, 7,332,285, 7,320,865, 7,312,039, 7,244,831, 7,198,894, 7,166,434,
   7,097,980, 7,083,917, 7,014,994, 6,949,370, 6,852,487, 6,797,470, 6,576,453,
   6,534,293, 6,506,594, 6,312,892, and 6,268,148 describe LDR coupled PCR
   for nucleic acid detection.
[000186]    Barany et al., US Pat No. 7,556,924 and 6,858,412, describe the use of
   precircle probes (also called "padlock probes" or "multi-inversion probes")
   with coupled LDR and polymerase chain reaction ("PCR") for nucleic acid
   detection.
[000187]    Barany et al., US Pat Nos. 7,807,431, 7,709,201, and 7,198, 814
   describe the use of combined endonuclease cleavage and ligation reactions for
   the detection of nucleic acid sequences.
                                        69

[000188]     Willis et al., US Pat Nos. 7,700,323 and 6,858,412, describe the use of
   precircle probes in multiplexed nucleic acid amplification, detection and
   genotyping.
[000189]     Ronaghi et al., US Pat. No. 7,622,281 describes amplification
   techniques for labeling and amplifying a nucleic acid using an adapter
   comprising a unique primer and a barcode.
[000190]     In a preferred aspect, the amplification products are multiplexed, as
   described previously.       In a preferred aspect, the multiplex amplification
   products are quantified by analysis of the amplification products. In a preferred
   aspect,    a representational    sample    of individual   molecules    from the
   amplification processes is isolated from the rest of the sample for further
   analysis.    To obtain a representational sample of individual molecules, the
   average number of molecules per locus must exceed the sampling noise created
   by the multiplexed reaction. In one aspect, the average number per locus is
   greater than 100. In another aspect, the average number per locus is greater
   than 500. In another aspect the average number per locus is greater than 1000.
[000191]     Individual molecules from the amplification product are preferably
   isolated physically from the other molecules in a manner that allows the
   different amplification products to be distinguished from one another in
   analysis. In a preferred aspect, this isolation occurs on a solid substrate. Each
   isolated molecule may be associated with a particular identifiable or physical
   address either prior to analysis, or the address may become known for the
   particular amplification products based on the outcome of the analysis. The
   substrate may be a planar surface or three-dimensional surface such as a bead.
                                         70

[000192]     Once isolated, the individual amplification product may be further
   amplified to make multiple identical copies of that molecule at the same known
   or identifiable location.    The amplification may occur before or after that
   location becomes an identifiable or physical address.            The amplification
   product and/or its copies (which may be identical or complementary to the
   amplification product) are then analyzed based on the sequence of the
   amplification product or its copies to identify the particular locus and/or allele
   it represents.
[000193]     In a preferred aspect, the entire length of the amplification product or a
   portion of the amplification product may be analyzed using sequence
   determination. The number of bases that need to be determined must be
   sufficient to uniquely identify the amplification product as belonging to a
   specific locus and/or allele.     In one preferred aspect, the locus is analyzed
   through sequence determination of the amplification product.
[000194]     Numerous methods of sequence determination are compatible with the
   assay systems of the inventions.              Exemplary    methods    for sequence
   determination include, but are not limited to, including, but not limited to,
   hybridization-based methods, such as disclosed in Drmanac, U.S. Pat. Nos.
   6,864,052;     6,309,824;  and 6,401,267;      and Drmanac et al, U.S. patent
   publication 2005/0191656, which are incorporated by reference, sequencing by
   synthesis methods, e.g., Nyren et al, U.S. Pat. No. 7,648,824, 7,459,311 and
   6,210,891; Balasubramanian, U.S. Pat. Nos. 7,232,656 and 6,833,246; Quake,
   U.S. Pat. No. 6,911,345; Li et al, Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci., 100: 414-419 (2003);
   pyrophosphate sequencing as described in Ronaghi et al., U.S. Pat. Nos.
   7,648,824, 7,459,311, 6,828,100, and 6,210,891; and ligation-based sequencing
                                         71

   determination    methods,    e.g.,  Drmanac    et  al.,  U.S.   Pat.  Appln    No.
   20100105052, and Church et al, U.S. Pat. Appln Nos. 20070207482 and
   20090018024.
[000195]    Sequence     information  may    be determined     using    methods   that
   determine many (typically thousands to billions) of nucleic acid sequences in
   an intrinsically parallel manner, where many sequences are read out preferably
   in parallel using a high throughput serial process. Such methods include but are
   not limited to pyrosequencing (for example, as commercialized by 454 Life
   Sciences, Inc.,   Branford, CT); sequencing by ligation (for example, as
   commercialized in the SOLiDTM technology, Life Technology, Inc., Carlsbad,
   CA);    sequencing     by  synthesis   using  modified    nucleotides    (such   as
   commercialized in TruSeqTM and HiSeqTM technology by Illumina, Inc., San
   Diego, CA, HeliScopeTM by Helicos Biosciences Corporation, Cambridge, MA,
   and PacBio RS by Pacific Biosciences of California, Inc., Menlo Park, CA),
   sequencing by ion detection technologies (Ion Torrent, Inc., South San
   Francisco, CA); sequencing of DNA nanoballs (Complete Genomics, Inc.,
   Mountain View, CA); nanopore-based sequencing technologies (for example,
   as developed by Oxford Nanopore Technologies, LTD, Oxford, UK), and like
   highly parallelized sequencing methods.
[000196]    Alternatively, in another aspect, the entire length of the amplification
   product or a portion of the amplification product may be analyzed using
   hybridization    techniques.       Methods     for   conducting     polynucleotide
   hybridization assays for detection of have been well developed in the art.
   Hybridization assay procedures and conditions will vary depending on the
   application and are selected in accordance with the general binding methods
                                        72

   known including those referred to in: Maniatis et al. Molecular Cloning: A
   Laboratory Manual (2nd Ed. Cold Spring Harbor, N.Y., 1989); Berger and
   Kimmel Methods in Enzymology, Vol. 152, Guide to Molecular Cloning
   Techniques (Academic Press, Inc., San Diego, Calif., 1987); Young and Davis,
   P.N.A.S, 80: 1194 (1983). Methods and apparatus for carrying out repeated and
   controlled hybridization reactions have been described in U.S. Pat. Nos.
   5,871,928, 5,874,219, 6,045,996 and 6,386,749, 6,391,623 each of which are
   incorporated herein by reference.
[000197]    The     present invention    also  contemplates    signal detection of
   hybridization between ligands in certain preferred aspects. See U.S. Pat. Nos.
   5,143,854, 5,578,832; 5,631,734; 5,834,758; 5,936,324; 5,981,956; 6,025,601;
   6,141,096; 6,185,030; 6,201,639; 6,218,803; and 6,225,625, in U.S. Patent
   application 60/364,731 and in PCT Application PCT/US99/06097 (published as
   W099/47964), each of which also is hereby incorporated by reference in its
   entirety for all purposes.
[000198]    Methods and apparatus for signal detection and processing of intensity
   data are disclosed in, for example, U.S. Pat. Nos. 5,143,854, 5,547,839,
   5,578,832, 5,631,734, 5,800,992, 5,834,758; 5,856,092, 5,902,723, 5,936,324,
   5,981,956, 6,025,601, 6,090,555, 6,141,096, 6,185,030, 6,201,639; 6,218,803;
   and 6,225,625, in U.S. Patent application 60/364,731 and in PCT Application
   PCT/US99/06097 (published as W099/47964), each of which also is hereby
   incorporated by reference in its entirety for all purposes.
 Variation Minimization Within and Between Samples
                                        73

 [000199] One challenge with the detection of chromosomal abnormalities by
     detection in a mixed sample is that the nucleic acids from the minor source
     may be present in much lower abundance than the nucleic acids from normal
     the major source.     In the case of a maternal sample containing fetal and
     maternal cfDNA, the cell free fetal DNA as a percentage of the total cfDNA
     may vary from less than one to forty percent, and most commonly is present at
     or below twenty percent and frequently at or below ten percent.           In the
     detection of an aneuploidy such as Trisomy 21 (Down Syndrome) in the fetal
     DNA of such maternal sample, the relative increase in Chromosome 21 is 50%
     in the fetal DNA and thus as a percentage of the total DNA in a maternal
     sample where, as an example, the fetal DNA is 5% of the total, the increase in
     Chromosome 21 as a percentage of the total is 2.5%. If one is to detect this
     difference robustly through the methods described herein, the variation in the
     measurement of Chromosome 21 has to be much less than the percent increase
     of Chromosome 21 contributed by a third chromosome 21 from the fetal
     DNA.
[000200]     The variation between levels found between samples and/or for loci
    within a sample may be minimized by using a combination of analytical
    methods, many of which are described in this application.           For instance,
    variation is lessened by using an internal reference in the assay. An example of
    an internal reference is the use of a chromosome present in a "normal"
    abundance (e.g., disomy for an autosome) to compare against a chromosome
    present in putatively abnormal abundance, such as aneuploidy, in the same
    sample.    While the use of one such "normal" chromosome as a reference
    chromosome may be sufficient, it is also possible to use two to many normal
                                         74

   chromosomes as the internal reference chromosomes to increase the statistical
   power of the quantification.
[000201]    One method of using an internal reference is to calculate a ratio of
   abundance of the putatively abnormal chromosomes to the abundance of the
   normal chromosomes in a sample, called a chromosomal ratio. In calculating
   the chromosomal ratio, the abundance or counts of each of the selected loci for
   each chromosome are summed together to calculate the total counts for each
   chromosome. The total counts for one chromosome are then divided by the
   total counts for a different chromosome to create a chromosomal ratio for those
   two chromosomes.
[000202]    Alternatively, a chromosomal ratio for each chromosome may be
   calculated by first summing the counts of each of the selected loci for each
   chromosome, and then dividing the sum for one chromosome by the total sum
   for two or more chromosomes. Once calculated, the chromosomal ratio is then
   compared to the average chromosomal ratio from a normal population.
[000203]    The average may be the mean, median, mode or other average, with or
   without normalization and exclusion of outlier data. In a preferred aspect, the
   mean is used. In developing the data set for the chromosomal ratio from the
   normal population, the normal variation of the measured chromosomes is
   calculated. This variation may be expressed a number of ways, most typically
   as the coefficient of variation, or CV. When the chromosomal ratio from the
   sample is compared to the average chromosomal ratio from a normal
   population, if the chromosomal ratio for the sample falls statistically outside of
   the average chromosomal ratio for the normal population, the sample contains
                                       75

an aneuploidy.    The criteria for setting the statistical threshold to declare an
aneuploidy depend upon the variation in the measurement of the chromosomal
ratio and the acceptable false positive and false negative rates for the assay. In
general, this threshold may be a multiple of the variation observed in the
chromosomal ratio. In one example, this threshold is three or more times the
variation of the chromosomal ratio.      In another example, it is four or more
times the variation of the chromosomal ratio. In another example it is five or
more times the variation of the chromosomal ratio. In another example it is six
or more times the variation of the chromosomal ratio. In the example above, the
chromosomal ratio is determined by summing the counts of selected loci by
chromosome.       Typically,  the   same number of selected loci for each
chromosome is used. An alternative method for generating the chromosomal
ratio would be to calculate the average counts for the loci for each
chromosome. The average may be any estimate of the mean, median or mode,
although typically an average is used. The average may be the mean of all
counts or some variation such as a trimmed or weighted average.          Once the
average counts for each chromosome have been calculated, the average counts
for each chromosome may be divided by the other to obtain a chromosomal
ratio between two chromosomes, the average counts for each chromosome may
be divided by the sum of the averages for all measured chromosomes to obtain
a chromosomal ratio for each chromosome as described above. As highlighted
above, the ability to detect an aneuploidy in a maternal sample where the
putative DNA is in low relative abundance depends greatly on the variation in
the measurements of different selected loci in the assay. Numerous analytical
methods can be used which reduce this variation and thus improve the
                                     76

   sensitivity of this method to detect aneuploidy.     One method for reducing
   variability of the assay is to increase the number of selected loci used to
   calculate the abundance of the chromosomes.        In general, if the measured
   variation of a single selected locus of a chromosome is X% and Y different
   selected loci are measured on the same chromosome, the variation of the
   measurement of the chromosomal abundance calculated by summing or
   averaging the abundance of each selected locus on that chromosome will be
   approximately X% divided by YA1/2. Stated differently, the variation of the
   measurement of the chromosome abundance would be approximately the
   average variation of the measurement of each selected locus'         abundance
   divided by the square root of the number of loci.
[000204]     In a preferred aspect of this invention, the number of selected loci
   measured for each chromosome is at least 24. In another preferred aspect of
   this invention, the number of selected loci measured for each chromosome is at
   least 48. In another preferred aspect of this invention, the number of selected
   loci measured for each chromosome is at least 100. In another preferred aspect
   of this invention the number of selected loci measured for each chromosome is
   at least 200. There is incremental cost to measuring each locus and thus it is
   important to minimize the number of selected loci. In a preferred aspect of this
   invention, the number of selected loci measured for each chromosome is less
   than 2000. In a preferred aspect of this invention, the number of selected loci
   measured for each chromosome is less than 1000. In a most preferred aspect of
   this invention, the number of selected loci measured for each chromosome is at
   least 48 and less than 1000.     In one aspect, following the measurement of
   abundance for each selected locus, a subset of the selected loci may be used to
                                       77

   determine the presence or absence of aneuploidy.       There are many standard
   methods for choosing the subset of selected loci.        These methods include
   outlier exclusion, where the selected loci with detected levels below and/or
   above a certain percentile are discarded from the analysis. In one aspect, the
   percentile may be the lowest and highest 5% as measured by abundance. In
   another aspect, the percentile may be the lowest and highest 10% as measured
   by abundance. In another aspect, the percentile may be the lowest and highest
   25% as measured by abundance.
[000205]    Another method for choosing the subset of selected loci includes the
   elimination of regions that fall outside of some statistical limit. For instance,
   selected loci that fall outside of one or more standard deviations of the mean
   abundance may be removed from the analysis. Another method for choosing
   the subset of selected loci may be to compare the relative abundance of a
   selected locus to the expected abundance of the same selected locus in a
   healthy population and discard any selected loci that fail the expectation test.
   To further minimize the variation in the assay, the number of times each
   selected locus is measured may be increased. As discussed, in contrast to the
   random methods of detecting aneuploidy where the genome is measured on
   average less than once, the assay systems of the present invention intentionally
   measures each selected locus multiple times. In general, when counting events,
   the variation in the counting is determined by Poisson statistics, and the
   counting variation is typically equal to one divided by the square root of the
   number of counts. In a preferred aspect of the invention, the selected loci are
   each measured on average at least 100 times.       In a preferred aspect to the
   invention, the selected loci are each measured on average at least 500 times. In
                                        78

   a preferred aspect to the invention, the selected loci are each measured on
   average at least 1000 times. In a preferred aspect to the invention, the selected
   loci are each measured on average at least 2000 times. In a preferred aspect to
   the invention, the selected loci are each measured on average at least 5000
   times.
[000206]     In another aspect, subsets of loci can be chosen randomly but with
   sufficient numbers of selected loci to yield a statistically significant result in
   determining whether a chromosomal abnormality exists. Multiple analyses of
   different subsets of loci can be performed within a mixed sample to yield more
   statistical power. In this example, it may or may not be necessary to remove or
   eliminate any selected loci prior to the random analysis. For example, if there
   are 100 selected loci for chromosome 21 and 100 selected loci for chromosome
   18, a series of analyses could be performed that evaluate fewer than 100 loci
   for each of the chromosomes.
[000207]     In addition to the methods above for reducing variation in the assay,
   other analytical techniques, many of which are described earlier in this
   application, may be used in combination. In general, the variation in the assay
   may be reduced when all of the selected loci for each sample are interrogated in
   a single reaction in a single vessel. Similarly, the variation in the assay may be
   reduced when a universal amplification system is used.            Furthermore, the
   variation of the assay may be reduced when the number of cycles of
   amplification is limited.
     Use of Assay Systems for Detection in Mixed Samples from CancerPatients
                                        79

[000208]    The assay system allow the detection of quantitative and qualitative
   tumor-specific alterations of cfDNA, such as DNA strand integrity, frequency
   of mutations, abnormalities of microsatellites, and methylation of genes, as
   diagnostic, prognostic, and monitoring markers in cancer patients.   The ability
   to combine such detection of single gene alterations (including point mutations,
   indels and copy number variation) with CNV detection provides a powerful
   method for assisting with clinical diagnosis, treatments, outcome prediction and
   progression monitoring in patients with or suspected of having a malignancy.
[000209]    In some aspects, the assay system of the invention is used for
   diagnostic purposes e.g., to detect the presence and/or nature of a malignancy
   in a patient or to provide a quantitative estimate of tumor load in a patient.
   Circulating tumor DNA and microRNAs have been associated with certain
   cancers, such as lung cancer (Roth C et al., Mol Oncol. 2011 Jun;5(3):281- 91.
   Epub 2011 Feb 24). Copy number variations have also been detected in certain
   cancers, such as amplified HER2 and estrogen receptor in the cfDNA in breast
   cancer patients. (Page K., Br J Cancer. 2011 Apr 12;104(8):1342-8. Epub 2011
   Mar 22).
[000210]    In other aspects of the invention, the assay system is used in cancer
   patients to monitor a response to treatment and/or to follow progress of the
   disease, e.g., to measure single gene alterations and cfDNA in patients
   receiving chemoradiotherapy (CRT). For certain cancers, it has been shown
   that cfDNA integrity index can be significantly and independently associated
   with tumor response to treatment. Agostini M et al., Ann Surg Oncol. 2011 Mar
   17. Also, the presence or absence of certain genetic alterations and/or
                                       80

   differences in copy number variation has been associated with response to
   chemotherapy and/or prognosis of a disease. See, e.g., Savas S., Acta Oncol.
   2010 Nov;49(8):1217-26. Epub 2010 Jul 29, which describes useful genetic
   variations for determination of treatment response and survival in cancer. For
   example, the detection of cfDNA levels combined with detection of mutations
   in the K-RAS gene and/or the p53 gene provide a powerful, relatively non
   invasive tool in measuring the prognosis of various cancers, including ovarian
   cancer, endometrial cancer and lymphomas. Dobrzycka B et al., Ann Oncol.
   2011 May;22(5):1133-40. Epub 2010 Nov 23; Dobrzycka B et al., Int J Cancer.
   2010 Aug      1;127(3):612-21;    Hosny   G et   al.,  Cancer  Lett. 2009 Mar
   18;275(2):234-9. Epub 2008 Nov 28.        Such analysis can be further assisted
   using tools such as Varietas, a functional database portal for identification of
   genetic variation and association with treatment outcomes and prognosis.
   Paananen J et al., Database (Oxford). 2010 Jul 29;2010:baqO16.
    Use of Assay Systems for Detection of Mixed Samples from Transplant
    Patients
[000211]    The assay systems of the invention can be used to monitor organ health
   in a transplant patient using a combination of detection of cfDNA and detection
   of SNPs or mutations in one or more single genes. Transplanted organs have
   genomes that are distinct from the genome of a recipient patient, and organ
   health can be detected using assay system.          For example, acute cellular
   rejection has been shown to be associated with significantly increased levels of
   cell-free DNA from the donor genome in heart transplant recipients. Snyder
   TM et al., Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2011 Apr 12;108(15):6229-34. Epub
                                       81

   2011 Mar 28.        In addition, chemokines and adhesion molecules mediate
   allograft rejection by recruiting leukocytes into the allograft, and SNPs located
   in interleukin (IL)-8, CXCR1, CXCR2, have been shown to correlate with
   allograft outcomes. Ro H. et al., Transplantation. 2011 Jan 15;91(1):57-64.
   Thus, the assay systems of the invention can provide noninvasive tests for
   monitoring solid organ transplant recipients, and can aid in identification of
   early signs of rejection without the necessity of organ biopsies or other more
   onerous diagnostic or prognostic techniques.
    Use of Assay Systems for Detection in MaternalSamples
[000212]     In certain specific aspects, determining the relative percentage of fetal
   DNA in a maternal sample may be beneficial in analyzing the amplification
   products, as the percentage of fetal DNA in the sample provides important
   information on the expected statistical presence of chromosomes, and variation
   from that expectation may be indicative of fetal aneuploidy.         This may be
   especially helpful in circumstances where the level of fetal DNA in a maternal
   sample is low, as the percent fetal contribution can be used in determining the
   quantitative statistical significance in the variations of levels of identified
   selected loci in a maternal sample. In other aspects, the determining of the
   relative percent fetal cfDNA in a maternal sample may be beneficial in
   estimating the level of certainty or power in detecting a fetal aneuploidy.
[000213]     In some specific aspects, the relative fetal contribution of maternal
   DNA at the allele of interest can be compared to the paternal contribution at
   that allele to determine approximate fetal DNA concentration in the sample. In
                                         82

   other specific aspects, the relative quantity of solely paternally-derived
   sequences      (e.g.,  Y-chromosome        sequences     or   paternally-specific
   polymorphisms) can be used to determine the relative concentration of fetal
   DNA in a maternal sample.
[000214]    Another exemplary      approach    to  determining  the   percent   fetal
   contribution in a maternal sample is through the analysis of DNA fragments
   with different patterns of DNA methylation between fetal and maternal DNA.
   In a preferred aspect, the amplified DNA from cell-free             DNA is by
   polymerase chain reaction (PCR). Other mechanisms for amplification can be
   used as well, including those described in more detail herein, as will be
   apparent to one skilled in the art upon reading the present disclosure.
[000215]    In circumstances where the fetus is male, percent fetal DNA in a
   sample    can be determined       through   detection  of Y-specific    loci and
   comparison to calculated maternal DNA content. Quantities of an amplified
   Y-specific locus, such as a region from the sex-determining region Y gene
   (SRY), which is located on the Y chromosome and is thus representative of
   fetal DNA, can be determined from the sample and compared to one or more
   amplified selected loci which are present in both maternal DNA and fetal
   DNA     and which are preferably not from a chromosome              believed to
   potentially be aneuploid in the fetus, e.g., an autosomal region that is not on
   chromosome 21 or 18.       Preferably, this amplification step is performed in
   parallel with the selective amplification step, although it may be performed
   either before or after the selective amplification depending on the nature of
   the multiplexed assay.
                                        83

[000216]     In particular aspects, the percentage of cell-free fetal DNA in a
    maternal sample can determined by PCR using serially diluted DNA isolated
    from the maternal sample, which can accurately quantify the number of
    genomes comprising the amplified genes.         PCR using serially diluted DNA
    isolated from the maternal sample may be preferred when determining
    percent fetal DNA with a male fetus. For example, if the blood sample
    contains 100% male fetal DNA, and 1:2 serial dilutions are performed, then
    on average the Y-linked signal will disappear 1 dilution before the autosomal
    signal, since there is 1 copy of the Y-linked gene and 2 copies of the
    autosomal gene.
[000217]     In a specific aspect, the percentage of free fetal DNA in maternal
    plasma is calculated for a male fetus using the following formula: percentage
    of free fetal DNA = (No. of copies of Y-linked gene x 2 x 100)/(No. of copies
    of autosomal gene), where the number of copies of each gene is determined
    by observing the highest serial dilution in which the gene was detected. The
    formula contains a multiplication factor of 2, which is used to normalize for
    the fact that there is only 1 copy of the Y-linked gene compared to two copies
    of the autosomal gene in each genome, fetal or maternal.
             Determinationof Minor source DNA Content in a Mixed Sample
[000218]     In certain aspects of the invention, determination of the contribution of
    DNA form a minor source may be useful in determining copy number variation
    of loci in those samples. For example, in each maternally-derived sample, the
    DNA from a fetus will inherit approximately 50% of genetic loci inherited
    from the mother and 50% of genetic loci from the father. Determining the loci
    contributed to the fetus from non-maternal sources allows the estimation of
                                         84

   fetal DNA in a maternal sample, and thus provides information used to
   calculate the statistically significant differences in chromosomal frequencies for
   chromosomes of interest.
[000219]    In certain aspects, the determination of minor source polymorphisms
   requires targeted SNP and/or mutation analysis to identify the presence of the
   minor source DNA in a mixed sample. The information needed for this
   calculation can be provided using the assay of the invention. In some aspects,
   the use of prior genotyping is helpful, e.g., genotyping of the donor of a
   transplant, genotyping of the father and mother in a maternal sample.             But
   generally this information pertaining to the prior genotyping is not necessary
   prior to performing the assay, and the genotyping is performed simultaneously
   with the determination of copy number of selected loci within a mixed sample.
[000220]    In one preferred aspect, the percent minor source nucleic acids in a
   mixed sample can be quantified using multiplexed SNP detection without using
   prior genotypic knowledge. In this aspect, two or more selected polymorphic
   loci with a known SNP in each region are used.            In a preferred aspect, the
   selected polymorphic loci are loci amplified.           In a preferred aspect, the
   amplification    is universal.      In   a preferred    embodiment, the      selected
   polymorphic loci are amplified in one reaction in one vessel. Each allele of the
   selected polymorphic loci in the maternal sample is determined and quantified.
   In   a preferred     aspect, high    throughput sequencing       is  used for such
   determination and quantification.       Loci are identified where the major and
   minor source genotypes are different, e.g., the donor genotype is homozygous
   and the recipient genotype is heterozygous.          This identification is done by
   observing a high relative frequency of one allele (>80%) and a low relative
                                          85

   frequency (<20% and >0.15%) of the other allele for a particular selected locus.
   The use of multiple loci is particularly advantageous as it reduces the amount
   of variation in the measurement of the abundance of the alleles. All or a subset
   of the loci that meet this requirement are used to determine minor source
   nucleic acid concentration through statistical analysis.        In one aspect,
   concentration is determined by summing the low frequency alleles from two or
   more loci together, dividing by the sum of the high frequency alleles and
   multiplying by two. In another aspect, the percent minor source nucleic acid is
   determined by averaging the low frequency alleles from two or more loci,
   dividing by the average of the high frequency alleles and multiplying by two.
[000221]    For many alleles, major and minor source nucleic acid sequences may
   be homozygous and identical, and as this information is not distinguishing it is
   not useful in the determination of minor source nucleic acid in a mixed sample.
   The    present invention utilizes     allelic information  where there     is  a
   distinguishable difference between the cell sources (e.g., a fetal allele
   containing at least one allele that differs from the maternal allele) in
   calculations of minor source nucleic acid percentages.       Data pertaining to
   allelic regions that are the same for the major and minor source are thus not
   selected for analysis, or are removed from the pertinent data prior to
   determination of percentage so as not to swamp out the useful data.
[000222]    Exemplary methods for quantifying fetal DNA in maternal plasma can
   be found, e.g., in Chu et al., Prenat Diagn 2010; 30:1226-1229, which is
   incorporated herein by reference.
[000223]    In one aspect, selected loci may be excluded if the amount or
   frequency of the region appears to be an outlier due to experimental error, or
                                       86

    from idiopathic genetic bias within a particular sample. In another aspect,
    selected nucleic acids may undergo statistical or mathematical adjustment such
    as normalization, standardization,      clustering, or transformation prior to
    summation or averaging. In another aspect, selected nucleic acids may undergo
    both normalization and data experimental error exclusion prior to summation or
    averaging.
[000224]     In a preferred aspect, 12 or more loci are used for the analysis. In
    another preferred aspect, 24 or more loci are used for the analysis. In another
    preferred aspect, 48 or more loci are used for the analysis. In another aspect,
    one or more indices are used to identify the sample
[000225]     In a specific aspect, minor source contribution can be quantified using
    tandem SNP detection. Techniques for identifying tandem SNPs in DNA
    extracted from, e.g., a maternal sample are disclosed in Mitchell et al, US Pat.
    No. 7,799,531 and U.S. Pat App Nos. 12/581,070, 12/581,083, 12/689,924, and
    12/850,588.     These describe the differentiation of fetal and maternal loci
    through detection of at least one tandem single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP)
    in a maternal sample that has a different haplotype between the fetal and
    maternal genome. Identification and quantification of these haplotypes can be
    performed directly on the maternal sample, as described in the Mitchell et al.
    disclosures, and used to determine the percent fetal contribution in the maternal
    sample.
 [000226] As a sample which has not previously been tested for fetal sex has an
     approximate 50% likelihood that the fetus will be male, Y-specific sequences
     will only be applicable in half of such samples.       In a specific aspect, the
                                         87

    polymorphic loci used for determination of fetal source contribution are not
    on the Y chromosome.
[000227]    Once the percent cfDNA has been calculated for the minor source, this
   data may be combined with methods for aneuploidy detection to determine the
   likelihood that a mixed sample may contain an aneuploidy. In one aspect, an
   aneuploidy detection method that utilizes analysis of random DNA segments is
   used, such as that described in, e.g.,   Quake, US Pat App No. 11/701,686;
   Shoemaker et al., US Pat App No. 12/230,628.            In a preferred aspect,
   aneuploidy detection methods that utilize analysis of selected loci in a mixed
   sample include both regions for determination of minor source DNA content as
   well as non-polymorphic regions from two or more chromosomes to detect a
   chromosomal abnormality in a single reaction.      The single reaction helps to
   minimize the risk of contamination or bias that may be introduced during
   various steps in the assay system which may otherwise skew results when
   utilizing minor source DNA content to help determine the presence or absence
   of a chromosomal abnormality.     In other aspects, a selected locus or regions
   may be utilized both for determination of minor source DNA content as well as
   detection of minor source chromosomal abnormalities.         Utilizing the same
   regions for both DNA content and detection of chromosomal abnormalities
   may further help minimize any bias due to experimental error or contamination.
                                      88

                                      EXAMPLES
[000228]         The following examples are put forth so as to provide those of ordinary
    skill in the art with a complete disclosure and description of how to make and use
   the present invention, and are not intended to limit the scope of what the inventors
   regard as their invention, nor are they intended to represent or imply that the
   experiments below are all of or the only experiments performed. It will be
    appreciated by persons skilled in the art that numerous variations and/or
   modifications may be made to the invention as shown in the specific aspects
   without departing from the spirit or scope of the invention as broadly described.
   The present aspects are, therefore, to be considered in all respects as illustrative
    and not restrictive.
[000229]         Efforts have been made to ensure accuracy with respect to numbers
   used (e.g.,     amounts, temperature, etc.) but some experimental errors and
   deviations should be accounted for. Unless indicated otherwise, parts are parts by
   weight, molecular weight is weight average molecular weight, temperature is in
   degrees centigrade, and pressure is at or near atmospheric.
        Example 1: General Aspects of the Assay Systems of the Invention
[000230]         A number of assay formats were tested to demonstrate the ability to
   perform selective amplification and detection of independent loci to demonstrate
   multiplexed, ligation-based detection of a large number (e.g., 96 or more) of loci
   of interest. These loci included loci that were indicative of the presence of a
   particular chromosome or the presence or absence of a mutation or polymorphism
   in a particular allele.
                                            89

[000231]         These assays were designed based on human genomic sequences, and
    each interrogation consisted of two fixed sequence oligos per selected locus
    interrogated in the assay. The first oligo, complementary to the 3' region of a
    genomic region, comprised the following sequential (5' to 3') oligo elements: a
    universal       PCR      priming      sequence      common       to    all    assays:
    TACACCGGCGTTATGCGTCGAGAC                      (SEQ ID NO:1); a nine nucleotide
    identification index specific to the selected locus; a 9 base locus- or locus/allele
    specific sequence that acts as a locus index in the first SNP-independent set and a
    locus/allele index in the polymorphism-specific second set; a hybridization
    breaking nucleotide which is different from the corresponding base in the genomic
    locus; and a 20-24 bp sequence complementary to the selected genomic locus. In
    cases where a SNP or mutation was detected in this portion of the selected
    genomic locus, the allele-specific interrogation set consisted of two first fixed
    sequence tandem ligation primers, each with a different locus/allele index and a
    different allele-specific base at the SNP position. These first oligos were designed
    for each selected nucleic acid to provide a predicted uniform Tm with a two degree
    variation across all interrogations in the assay set.
[000232]         The second fixed sequence oligo, complementary to the 5' region of
    the genomic loci, comprised the following sequential (5' to 3') elements: a 20-24b
    sequence complimentary to the 5' region in the genomic locus; a hybridization
    breaking nucleotide different from the corresponding base in the genomic locus;
    and a universal PCR priming sequence which was common to all third oligos in
    the assay set: ATTGCGGGGACCGATGATCGCGTC (SEQ ID NO:2).
   [000233]      In cases where a SNP or mutation was detected in the selected genomic
       locus, the allele-specific interrogation set consisted of two tandem ligation
                                             90

       primers, each with a different locus/allele index and a different allele-specific
       base at the mutation/SNP position. This second fixed sequence oligo was
       designed for each selected nucleic acid to provide a predicted uniform Tm with
       a two degree variation across all interrogations in the assay set that was
       substantially the same Tm range as the first oligo set.
   [000234]     In certain tested aspects, one or more bridging oligos were used that
       were complementary to the genomic locus sequence between the region
       complementary to the first and second fixed sequence oligos used for each
       selected locus. In specific aspects tested, more than one bridging oligo was
       used to span the gap between the fixed sequence oligonucleotides, and the one
       or more bridging oligo may optionally be designed to identify one or more
       mutations or SNPs in the sequence.                The length of the bridging
       oligonucleotides used in the assay systems varied from 5 to 36 base pairs.
   [000235]     All oligonucleotides used in the tandem ligation formats were
       synthesized using conventional solid-phase chemistry. The second fixed
       sequence oligos and the bridging oligonucleotides were synthesized with 5'
       phosphate moieties to enable ligation to 3' hydroxyl termini of adjacent
       oligonucleotides.
    Example 2: Preparation of DNA for Use in Tandem Ligation Procedures
[000236]        Genomic DNA from a Caucasian male (NA12801) or a Caucasian
    female (NA1 1995) was obtained from Coriell Cell Repositories (Camden, New
    Jersey) and fragmented by acoustic shearing (Covaris, Woburn, MA) to a mean
    fragment size of approximately 200bp.
[000237]        The Coriell DNA was biotinylated using standard procedures. Briefly,
    the Covaris fragmented DNA was end-repaired by generating the following
                                            91

   reaction in a 1.5 ml microtube: 5pg DNA, 12 pI loX T4 ligase buffer
    (Enzymatics, Beverly MA), 50 U T4 polynucleotide kinase (Enzymatics, Beverly
   MA), and H2 0 to 120 pl. This was incubated at 37'C for 30 minutes. The DNA
   was diluted using 10 mM Tris 1mM EDTA pH 8.5 to desired final concentration
   of -2 ng/pl.
[000238]        5 pl DNA was placed in each well of a 96-well plate, and the plate
    sealed with an adhesive plate sealer and spun for 10 seconds at 250 x g. The plate
   was then incubated at 95'C for 3 minutes, cooled to 25'C, and spun again for 10
    seconds at 250 x g. A biotinylation master mix was prepared in a 1.5ml microtube
   to final concentration of: IX TdT buffer (Enzymatics, Beverly, MA), 8U TdT
    (Enzymatics, Beverly, MA), 250 PM CoCl 2 , 0.01 nmol/pl biotin-16-dUTP
    (Roche, Nutley NJ), and H2 0 to 1.5 ml. 15 pl of the master mix was aliquoted into
   each well of a 96 well plate, and the plate sealed with adhesive plate sealer. The
   plate was spun for 10 seconds at 250 x g and incubated for 37'C for 60 minutes.
   Following incubation, the plate was spun again for 10 seconds at 250 x g, and 7.5
    pl precipitation mix (1 pg/pl Dextran Blue, 3mM NaOAC) was added to each
   well.
[000239]        The plate was sealed with an adhesive plate sealer and mixed using an
   IKA plate vortexer for 2 minutes at 3000 rpm. 27.5 pl of isopropanol was added
   into each well, the plate sealed with adhesive plate sealer, and vortexed for 5
   minutes at 3000 rpm. The plate was spun for 20 minutes at 3000 x g, the
    supernatant was decanted, and the plate inverted and centrifuged at 10 x g for 1
   minute onto an absorbent wipe. The plate was air-dried for 5 minutes, and the
   pellet resuspended in 30 pl 10mM Tris pH8.0, 1mM EDTA.
   Example 3: Exemplary Assay Formats using Tandem Ligation
                                          92

[000240]       Numerous tandem ligation assay formats using the biotinylated DNA
   were tested to illustrate proof of concept for the assay systems of the invention,
    and demonstrated the ability to perform highly multiplexed, targeted detection of a
   large number of independent loci using the series of different assay formats. The
   exemplary assay systems of the invention were designed to comprise 96 or more
   interrogations per loci in a genetic sample, and in cases where SNPs were detected
   the assay formats utilized 192 or more separate interrogations, each utilizing the
   detection of different alleles per 96 loci in genetic samples.       The examples
   described for each assay format utilized two different sets of fixed sequence
   oligonucleotides and/or bridging oligos (as described in Example 1), comprising a
   total 96 or 192 interrogation reactions for the selected loci depending upon
   whether or not SNPs were identified.
[000241]       A first exemplary assay format used locus-specific fixed sequence
   oligos and bridging oligos, where there was a one base gap between the first fixed
    sequence oligo and the bridging oligos, and a second one base gap between the
   bridging oligos and the second fixed sequence oligo.        Each of the two gaps
   encompassed two different SNPs. In this format, a DNA polymerase was used to
   incorporate each of the SNP bases, and ligase was used to seal the nicks formed
   thereby. SNP base discrimination derived from the fidelity of base incorporation
   by the polymerase, and in the event of mis-incorporation, the tendency of ligase to
   not seal nicks adjacent to mismatched bases.
[000242]       The second exemplary assay format used two locus-specific fixed
    sequence oligonucleotides without a bridging oligo, where there was a -15-35
   base gap between the fixed sequence oligos, and where the gap spanned one or
   more SNPs. In this format, a polymerase was used to incorporate the missing
                                           93

   bases of the gap, and a ligase was used to seal the nick formed thereby. SNP base
   discrimination derived from the fidelity of base incorporation by the polymerase,
    and in the event of misincorporation, the tendency of ligase to not seal nicks
    adjacent to mismatched bases.
[000243]        A third exemplary assay format used allele-specific first and second
   fixed sequence oligos without a bridging oligo, where there was a -15-35        base
   gap between the first and second fixed sequence oligos, and where the gap
    spanned one or more SNPs. Two separate allele-specific first fixed sequence
   oligos and two separate allele-specific second fixed sequence oligos were used. A
   polymerase was used to incorporate the missing bases, and a ligase was used to
    seal the nick formed thereby. SNP base discrimination derived from hybridization
    specificity, the tendency of non-proofreading polymerase to not extend annealed
   primers with mismatches near the 3' end, and the tendency of the ligase to not seal
   nicks adjacent to mismatched bases.
[000244]        A fourth exemplary format used allele-specific fixed sequence oligos
    and a locus-specific bridging oligo. In this format, two separate fixed sequence
   oligos complementary to the 3'end of the loci of interest, the first with a 3' base
    specific for one allele of the targeted SNP, and the second with a 3' base specific
   for the other allele of the targeted SNP. Similarly, two separate second fixed
    sequence oligos were used, the first with a 5' base specific for one allele of a
    second targeted SNP, and the second with a 5' base specific for the other allele of
   the second targeted SNP. The bridging oligos were complementary to the region
   directly adjacent to the locus regions complementary to the first and second fixed
    sequence oligos, and thus no polymerase was needed prior to ligation. Ligase was
   used to seal the nicks between the fixed sequence oligos and the bridging oligo.
                                            94

    SNP base discrimination in this assay format derived from hybridization
    specificity and the tendency of the ligase to not seal nicks adjacent to mismatched
   bases. This exemplary format was tested using either T4 ligase or Taq ligase for
   creation of the contiguous template, and both were proved effective in the reaction
    as described below.
[000245]        A fifth exemplary format used locus-specific fixed sequence oligos
   that were complementary to adjacent regions on the nucleic acid of interest, and
   thus no gap was created by hybridization of these oligos.          In this format, no
   polymerase was required, and a ligase was used to seal the single nick between the
   oligos.
[000246]        A sixth exemplary format used allele-specific fixed sequence oligos
    and locus-specific bridging oligos, where there was a short base gap of five bases
   between the loci region complementary to the fixed sequence oligos. The locus
    specific bridging oligo in this example was a 5mer complementary to the regions
   directly adjacent to the regions complementary to the first and second fixed
    sequence oligos. In this format, no polymerase was required, and a ligase was
   used to seal the two nicks between the oligos.
[000247]        A seventh exemplary format used locus-specific fixed sequence oligos
    and a locus-specific bridging oligo, where there was a shorter base gap of five
   bases containing a SNP in the region complementary to the bridging oligo.
   Allele-specific bridging oligos corresponding to the possible SNPs were included
   in the hybridization and ligation reaction.     In this format, no polymerase was
   required, and a ligase was used to seal the two nicks between the oligos.        SNP
   base discrimination in this assay format derived from hybridization specificity and
   the tendency of the ligase to not seal nicks adjacent to mismatched bases.
                                           95

[000248]       An eighth exemplary format used locus-specific fixed sequence oligos
   and two adjacent locus-specific bridging oligos, where there was a 10 base gap
   between the regions complementary to the first and second fixed sequence oligos.
   Locus-specific bridging oligos were included in the ligation reaction, with the gap
   requiring two contiguous 5mers to bridge the gap. In this format, no polymerase
   was required, and a ligase was used to seal the three nicks between the oligos.
[000249]       For each of the above-described assay formats, an equimolar pool (40
   nM each) of sets of first and second loci- or allele-specific fixed sequence
   oligonucleotides was created from the oligos prepared as set forth in Example 2. A
   separate equimolar pool (20 pM each) of bridging oligonucleotides was likewise
   created for the assay processes based on the sequences of the selected genomic
   loci.
[000250]       100pg of strepavidin beads were transferred into the wells of a 96 well
   plate, and the supernatant was removed. 60 pl BB2 buffer (100mM Tris pH 8.0,
   10mM EDTA, 500mM NaCl 2 , 58% formamide, 0.17% Tween-80), 10 pL 40 nM
   fixed sequence oligo pool and 30 pL of the biotinylated template DNA prepared
   in Example 2 were added to the beads. The plate was sealed with an adhesive
   plate sealer and vortexed at 3000 rpm until beads were resuspended. The oligos
   were annealed to the template DNA by incubation at 70'C for 5 minutes, followed
   by slow cooling to room temperature.
[000251]       The plate was placed on a raised bar magnetic plate for 2 minutes to
   pull the magnetic beads and associated DNA to the side of the wells. The
   supernatant was removed by pipetting, and was replaced with 50pl of 60% BB2
   (v/v in water). The beads were resuspended by vortexing, placed on the magnet
   again, and the supernatant was removed. This bead wash procedure was repeated
                                         96

   once using 50 pl 60% BB2, and repeated twice more using 50 pl wash buffer
    (10mM Tris pH 8.0, 1mM EDTA, 50mM NaCl 2 ).
[000252]       The beads were resuspended in 37 pl ligation reaction mix consisting
   of IX Taq ligase buffer (Enzymatics, Beverly, MA), 1U Taq ligase, and 2 pM
   bridging oligo pool (depending on the assay format), and incubated at 37'C for
   one hour. Where appropriate, and depending on the assay format, a non
   proofreading thermostable polymerase plus 200nM each dNTP was included in
   this mixture. The plate was placed on a raised bar magnetic plate for 2 minutes to
   pull the magnetic beads and associated DNA to the side of the wells. The
    supernatant was removed by pipetting, and was replaced with 50pLwash buffer.
   The beads were resuspended by vortexing, placed on the magnet again, and the
    supernatant was removed. The wash procedure was repeated once.
[000253]       To elute the products from the strepavidin beads, 30 pl of 10mM Tris
    1mM EDTA, pH 8.0 was added to each well of 96-well plate. The plate was
    sealed and mixed using an IKA vortexer for 2 minutes at 3000 rpm to resuspend
   the beads. The plate was incubated at 95 C for 1 minute, and the supernatant
    aspirated using an 8-channel pipetter. 25 pl of supernatant from each well was
   transferred into a fresh 96-well plate for universal amplification.
   Example 4: Universal Amplification of Tandem Ligated Products
[000254]       The polymerized and/or ligated nucleic acids were amplified using
   universal PCR primers complementary to the universal sequences present in the
   first and second fixed sequence oligos hybridized to the loci of interest. 25 pl of
   each of the reaction mixtures of Example 3 were used in each amplification
   reaction.   A 50 pl universal PCR reaction consisting of 25 pl eluted ligation
                                           97

   product plus IX Pfusion buffer (Finnzymes, Finland), IM Betaine, 400nM each
   dNTP, 1 U Pfusion error-correcting thermostable DNA polymerase, and the
   following primer pairs:
   TAATGATACGGCGACCACCGAGATCTACACCGGCGTTATGCGTCGAGA
    (SEQ ID NO:3) and
   TCAAGCAGAAGACGGCATACGAGATXAAACGACGCGATCATCGGTCC
    CCGCAA (SEQ ID NO:4), where X represents one of 96 different sample indices
   used to uniquely identify individual samples prior to pooling and sequencing. The
   PCR was carried out under stringent conditions using a BioRad TetradTM
   thermocycler.
[000255]        10 pl of universal PCR product from each of the samples were pooled
    and the pooled PCR product was purified using AMPureXPTM SPRI beads
    (Beckman-Coulter, Danvers, MA), and quantified using Quant-iTTM PicoGreen,
    (Invitrogen, Carlsbad, CA).
   Example 5: Detection and Analysis of Selected Loci
[000256]       The purified PCR products of each assay format were sequenced on a
    single lane of a slide on an Illumina HiSeqTM 2000 (Illumina, San Diego, CA).
    Sequencing runs typically give rise to -100M raw reads, of which -85M (85%)
   mapped to expected assay structures. This translated to an average of -885K
   reads/sample across the experiment, and (in the case of an experiment using 96
   loci) 9.2K reads/replicate/locus across 96 loci. The mapped reads were parsed into
   replicate/locus/allele  counts, and various metrics were computed for each
   condition, including:
                                          98

   [000257]        Yield: a metric of the proportion of input DNA that was queried in
       sequencing, computed as the average number of unique reads per locus (only
      counting unique identification index reads per replicate/locus) divided by the total
      number of genomic equivalents contained in the input DNA.
   [000258]        80 percentile locus frequency range: a metric of the locus frequency
      variability in the sequencing data, interpreted as the fold range that encompasses
       80% of the loci. It was computed on the distribution of total reads per locus,
       across all loci, as the 90h percentile of total reads per locus divided by the 10t
      percentile of the total reads per locus.
   [000259]        SNP error rate: a metric of the error rate at the SNP position, and
      computed as the proportion of reads containing a discordant base at the SNP
      position.
   [000260]        These results are summarized in Table 1:
      Table 1:Results Summary of Tandem Ligation Assay Formats
                    HIXED            BRDIG80%                                          SN
 ASSAY          SEQUENCE             BROLGING        ENZYME      YIELD                  NPERR
FORMAT       OLIGO (1" and/or                          USED                 FREQ
                     2  d)              USED                               RANGE      RATE
             L OCUS-SPECIFIC             Locu          pol+lig     9.5%      5.3      0.18%
                                        specific
    2        LOCUS-SPECIFIC               No           pol+lig     1.4%      58.3     0.19%
    3             APEFI                   No          pol+lig      0.4%      61.7     1.00%
    4             ALLELE-                Locus         Ta lig      5.0%      5.9      0.92%
                  SPECIFIC              specific
    4             ALLELE-                Locus         T4 lig      5.3%      4.4      0.95%
                  SPECIFIC              specific
    5        LOCUS-SPECIFIC               No           Taq lig    22.5%       1.7      N/A
    6        LOCUS-SPECIFIC              Locus         Taq lig      12.5     2.9       N/A
                                        specific
    7        LOCUS-SPECIFIC              Allele        Taq lig      14.3     2.8      0.20%
                                        specific
    8        LOCUS-SPECIFIC            2 Locus         Taq lig    18.5%      2.8       N/A
                                        specific
                                                99

[000261]        Table 1 indicates that the locus-specific tandem ligation assay using a
   bridging oligo converted template DNA into targeted product with high yield
    (-10%), with a high proportion of product derived from targeted loci (15% of
   reads did not contain expected assay structures), with limited locus bias (80% of
   loci fall within a -5-fold concentration range), and with high SNP accuracy (0.2%
    SNP error rate). The locus-specific tandem ligation assay without the use of a
   bridging oligo produced reduced yields and substantial locus bias, but still
   produced high accuracy SNP genotyping data. The allele-specific tandem ligation
    assay with a bridging oligo produced intermediate yields compared to the locus
    specific assay using both T4 and Taq ligase, but still produced limited locus bias
    and high accuracy SNP genotyping data. The allele-specific tandem ligation assay
   without a bridging produced reduced yields and substantial locus bias, but still
   produced high accuracy SNP genotyping data.
[000262]        Assay formats six through eight showed that template DNA can be
   converted into targeted product with high yield (12-18%), with a high proportion
   of product derived from targeted loci (-76% of reads contained expected assay
    structures), and with limited locus bias (80% of loci fall within a 2-3-fold
   concentration range). Figure 5 illustrates the genotyping performance that was
   obtained using assay format seven, comparing the sequence counts for the two
    alleles of all polymorphic assays observed in a single sample. Note the clear
    separation of the homozygous and heterozygous clusters, as well as the low
   background counts observed amongst the homozygous clusters.
   Example 6: Determination of Percent Fetal DNA using Tandem Ligation
                                           100

[000263]     One exemplary assay system of the invention was designed to
   determine percent fetal DNA concentration in a genetic sample as well as to
   provide counts for selected loci within the sample.         This exemplary assay
   comprised 480 separate interrogations, each utilizing the detection of different
   loci in a maternal sample. The initial example utilized a determination of
   percent fetal DNA in subjects carrying a male fetus, and so loci on the Y
   chromosome were utilized as well as loci containing a paternally-inherited fetal
   SNP that is different from the maternal sequence.
[000264]     Specifically, 480 selected nucleic acids were interrogated using the
   assay system. The 480 selected nucleic acids comprised 48 sequence-specific
   interrogations of nucleic acids corresponding to loci on chromosome Y, 192
   sequence-specific interrogations of nucleic acids corresponding to loci on
   chromosome 21, 192 sequence-specific interrogations of selected nucleic acids
   corresponding     to loci on chromosome          18, and   144 sequence-specific
   interrogations of selected nucleic acids corresponding to polymorphic loci on
   chromosomes 1-16 which.          These assays were designed based on human
   genomic sequences, and each interrogation used three oligos per selected
   nucleic acid interrogated in the assay.
[000265]     The first oligo used for each interrogation was complementary to the 3'
   region of the selected genomic region, and comprised the following sequential
   (5' to 3') oligo elements: a universal PCR priming sequence common to all
   assays:    TACACCGGCGTTATGCGTCGAGAC                     (SEQ    ID   NO:1);    an
   identification index specific to the selected loci comprising nine nucleotides;
   and a 20-24 bp sequence complementary to the selected genomic locus. This
   first oligo was designed for each selected nucleic acid to provide a predicted
                                         101

   uniform Tm with a two degree variation across all interrogations in the 480
   assay set.
[000266]     The second oligo used for each interrogation was a bridging oligo
   complementary to the genomic locus sequence directly adjacent to the genomic
   region complementary to the first oligonucleotide.       Based on the selected
   nucleic acids of interest, the bridging oligos were designed to allow utilization
   of a total of 12 oligonucleotide sequences that could serve as bridging oligos
   for all of the 480 interrogations in the assay set.
[000267]     The third oligo used for each interrogation was complementary to the
   5' region of the selected genomic locus, comprised the following sequential (5'
   to 3') elements: a 20-24b sequence complimentary to the 5' region in the
   genomic locus; a hybridization breaking nucleotide which was different from
   the corresponding base in the genomic locus; and a universal PCR priming
   sequence     which was common to all third oligos in the assay set:
   ATTGCGGGGACCGATGATCGCGTC (SEQ ID NO:2). This third oligo was
   designed for each selected nucleic acid to provide a predicted uniform Tm with
   a two degree variation across all interrogations in the 480 assay set, and the Tm
   range was substantially the same as the Tm range as the first oligo set.
[000268]     All oligonucleotides were synthesized using conventional solid-phase
   chemistry. The first and bridging oligonucleotides were synthesized with 5'
   phosphate moieties to enable ligation to 3' hydroxyl termini of adjacent
   oligonucleotides.      An equimolar pool of sets of the first and third
   oligonucleotides used for all interrogations in the multiplexed assay was
   created, and a separate equimolar pool of all bridging oligonucleotides was
   created to allow for separate hybridization reactions.
                                         102

[000269]     Genomic DNA was isolated from 5mL plasma using the Dynal Silane
    viral NA kit (Invitrogen, Carlsbad, CA). Approximately 12ng DNA was
    processed from each of 37 females, including 7 non-pregnant female subjects,
    10 female subjects pregnant with males, and 22 female subjects pregnant with
    females. The DNA was biotinylated using standard procedures, and the
    biotinylated DNA was immobilized on a solid surface coated with streptavidin
    to allow retention of the genomic DNA in subsequent assay steps.
[000270]     The immobilized DNA was hybridized to the first pool comprising the
    first and third oligos for each interrogated       sequences under stringent
    hybridization conditions.    The unhybridized oligos in the pool were then
    washed from the surface of the solid support, and the immobilized DNA was
    hybridized to the pool comprising the bridging oligonucleotides under stringent
    hybridization conditions. Once the bridging oligonucleotides were allowed to
    hybridize to the immobilized DNA, the remaining unbound oligos were washed
    from the surface and the three hybridized oligos bound to the selected loci were
    ligated using T4 ligase to provide a contiguous            DNA     template for
    amplification.
[000271]     The ligated DNA was amplified from the solid substrate using an error
    correcting thermostable DNA polymerase, a first universal PCR primer
    TAATGATACGGCGACCACCGAGATCTACACCGGCGTTATGCGTCGA
    GA     (SEQ      ID    NO:3)    and     a second    universal     PCR     primer
    TCAAGCAGAAGACGGCATACGAGATXAAACGACGCGATCATCGGTC
    CCCGCAA (SEQ ID NO:4), where X represents one of 96 different sample
    indices used to uniquely identify individual samples prior to pooling and
    sequencing.    10pL of universal PCR product from each of the 37 samples
                                        103

    described above were and the pooled PCR product was purified using
    AMPureTM SPRI beads (Beckman-Coulter, Danvers, MA), and quantified using
    Quant-iTTM PicoGreen, (Invitrogen, Carlsbad, CA).
[000272]     The purified PCR product was sequenced on 6 lanes of a single slide
    on an Illumina HiSeqTM 2000. The sequencing run gave rise to 384M raw
    reads, of which 343M (89%) mapped to expected genomic loci, resulting in an
    average of 3.8M reads per sample across the 37 samples, and 8K reads per
    sample per locus across the 480 loci. The mapped reads were parsed into
    sample and locus counts, and two separate metrics of percent fetal DNA were
    computed as follows.
[000273]     Percent male DNA detected by chromosome Y loci corresponds to the
    relative proportion of reads derived from chromosome Y locus interrogations
    versus the relative proportion      of reads   derived from autosomal      locus
    interrogations, and was computed as (number of chromosome Y reads in a test
    subject/number of autosome reads in test subject)/(number of reads in male
    control subject/number of autosome reads in the male control subject). This
    metric was used as a measure of percent fetal DNA in the case of a male fetus
    using the relative reads of chromosome Y.
[000274]     Percent fetal DNA detected by polymorphic loci corresponds to the
    proportion of reads derived from non-maternal versus maternal alleles at loci
    where such a distinction can be made.      First, for each identified locus, the
    number of reads for the allele with the fewest counts (the low frequency allele)
    was divided by the total number of reads to provide a minor allele frequency
    (MAF) for each locus.      Then, loci with an MAF between 0.075% and 15%
    were identified as informative loci. The estimated percent fetal DNA for the
                                        104

    sample was calculated as the mean of the minor allele frequency of the
    informative loci multiplied by two, i.e. computed as 2X average (MAF)
    occurrence where 0.075%<MAF<15%.
[000275]      Figure 6 demonstrates the results from these computations. As shown
    in Figure 6, the percent male loci determined using the above-described
    chromosome Y metrics (grey circles) can separate pregnancies involving male
    fetuses from pregnancies involving female fetuses (grey diamonds) and non
    pregnant samples (black circles). In addition, computation of the percent fetal
    amount in a sample by polymorphic loci metric can distinguish pregnant
    samples from non-pregnant samples. Finally, there was a correlation between
    the percent fetal DNA estimates for a sample obtained from chromosome Y
    and polymorphic loci in pregnancies involving male fetuses. This correlation
    persists down to quite low percent fetal values.
    Example 7: Detection of Aneuploidy in a Maternal Sample
[000276]      The assay systems of the invention were used in the detection of
    polymorphisms and chromosomal abnormalities in two separate cohorts of
    pregnant females. A first cohort of 190 normal, 36 T21, and 8 T18 pregnancies
    and a second cohort of 126 normal, 36 T21, and 8 T18 pregnancies were tested
    for fetal aneuploidy. The chromosomal aneuploidies were detected using 576
    chromosome 21 and 576 chromosome 18 assays, pooled together and assayed
    in a single reaction, as set forth below.
[000277]      The elements used in the aneuploidy detection assays are illustrated in
    FIG. 7. The cfDNA 701 isolated from maternal samples was used as a template
    for hybridization, ligation, and amplification of multiple selected loci from both
                                          105

   chromosome 21 and chromosome 18 in each maternal sample. Three
   oligonucleotides were hybridized to each selected locus to create ligation
   products for amplification and detection. The left (or first) fixed sequence
   oligonucleotide comprised a region complementary to a selected locus 709 and
   a first universal primer region 711. The right (or second) fixed sequence
   oligonucleotide 705 comprised a second region complementary to the selected
   locus 713 and a second universal primer region 715. The bridging
   oligonucleotides 707 used were designed so that each would hybridize to
   bridging regions of two or more selected loci used in the aneuploidy detection
   assay. When the fixed sequence oligonucleotides 703, 705 and the bridging
   oligonucleotide 707 hybridized to the complementary region on the cfDNA
   701, their termini formed two nicks. Upon ligation of the hybridized
   oligonucleotides to the cfDNA, a ligation product was created for each selected
   locus comprising 703, 705 and 707 which was used as a template for
   amplification primers 719, 721.
[000278]     Two amplification primers 719, 721 comprising regions
   complementary to the first and second universal primer regions, respectively,
   were then used to amplify the ligation product. This amplification product
   comprised the sequence of the selected locus. The right amplification primer
   also comprised a sample index 717 to identify the particular sample from which
   the locus was obtained in the multiplexed assay. Amplification with 96 distinct
   right amplification primers 729 enabled pooling and simultaneous sequencing
   of 96 different amplification products on a single lane.
[000279]     The amplification primers 719, 721 also contained a left cluster
   sequence 723 (TAATGATACGGCGACCACCGA)(SEQ ID NO:7) and a right
                                        106

   cluster sequence 725 (ATCTCGTATGCCGTCTTCTGCTTGA)(SEQ ID
   NO:8) that supported cluster amplification for sequencing using the Illumina
   HiSeqTM 2000 system (Illumina, San Diego, CA). A sequencing primer 727
   comprising the first universal primer sequence was used to determine the
   sequence of the amplification product, and a second sequencing primer 729
   was used to determine the sample index 717 of the amplification product.
[000280]    Briefly, approximately 1OmL peripheral blood was collected from each
   patient into a BCT tube (Streck, Omaha, NE), which was shipped via overnight
   courier to Tandem Diagnostics. Plasma was isolated from BCT tubes within
   72h of blood collection by centrifugation at 1600g for 10m. The plasma was
   transferred to a second tube and centrifuged at 16000g for 10m to remove any
   remaining cells. cfDNA was isolated from 4-5mL plasma per patient.
   Approximately 15ng cfDNA was isolated from each patient sample and arrayed
   into individual wells of a 96 well plate. All subsequent processing occurred on
   multiplexed batches of up to 96 cfDNA patient samples per array system
   method.
[000281]    cfDNA isolated from the maternal samples in each well was
   biotinylated precipitated and resuspended in 30uL TE as in Example 3 above.
   The biotinylated template DNA was mixed with 100ug MyOneC 1 streptavidin
   coated magnetic beads (Life Technologies, Carlsbad, CA), 60 pl BB2 buffer
   (100mM Tris pH 8.0, 10mM EDTA, 500mM NaCl 2, 58% formamide, 0.17%
   Tween-80), and10 pL of pooled 40 nM left 703 and right 705 fixed sequence
   oligonucleotides.. The mixture was heated to70'C, and cooled 2 hours. The
   beads were then magnetically immobilized to the side of the well, washed twice
   with 50uL 60% BB2 (v/v with H20), washed twice more with 50 pl wash
                                       107

     buffer (10mM Tris pH 8.0, 1mM EDTA, 50mM NaCl2), and then resuspended
     in a 50pL reaction containing 1U Taq ligase (Enzymatics, Beverly MA), IX
     Taq ligase buffer (Enzymatics), and 1OuM of a 5'-phosphorylated 5mer
     bridging oligonucleotide 707. The mixture was incubated at 37 0 C for 1 hour.
     The beads were again magnetically immobilized to the side of the well, washed
     twice with 50uL wash buffer and then resuspended in 30pL TE.
  [000282]     The ligation products were eluted from the immobilized beads by
     incubation at 95'C for 3 minutes. The eluted ligation products were amplified
     by 26 cycles of PCR in a 50uL reaction containing 1U Pfusion polymerase
     (Thermo Fisher, Waltham MA), IM Betaine, IX Pfusion buffer, and 400nM
     left and right amplification primers (719, 721 respectively). The right primer
     contained a 7 base sample index (717) that enabled 96 sample multiplexed
     sequencing on the HiSeq2000 (Illumina, San Diego, CA). The sequence of the
     left fixed sequence oligo was:
  TAATGATACGGCGACCACCGAGATCTACACCGGCGTTATGCGTCGAGA
  C
  (SEQ ID NO: 5)
  [000283]     And the sequence of the right fixed sequence oligo was:
TCAAGCAGAAGACGGCATACGAGATNNNNNNNAAACGACGCGATCATCG
GTCCCCGCAAT (SEQ ID NO:6)
  [000284]     Amplification products from a single 96 well plate were pooled in
     equal volume, and the pooled amplification products were purified with
     AMPureXPTM SPRI beads (Beckman-Coulter, Danvers, MA) according to the
     manufacturer's instructions. Each purified pooled library was used as template
     for cluster amplification on an Illumina TruSeq v2 SR cluster kit flow cell
                                         108

   (Illumina, San Diego, CA) according to manufacturer's protocols. The slide
   was processed on an Illumina HiSeqTM 2000 (Illumina, San Diego, CA) to
   produce 56 bases of locus-specific sequence from a left sequence primer 723
   and a separate read of 8 bases of sample specific sequence was obtained from
   the second sequence primer 725. An average of 903K raw reads per sample
   were collected. An average of 876K (97%) of the reads was assigned to
   expected assay structures.
[000285]    FIG. 8 shows exemplary data for a subset of the patient samples from
   the second cohort, which were all analyzed in one multiplexed assay on a
   single lane of a sequencing run. Initially 96 different samples were run in this
   particular run, but -six samples were later excluded from this analytical set as
   not meeting sample quality control thresholds. A trimmed mean was calculated
   for each chromosome 18 and chromosome 21 for the samples based on reads
   produced in the assay. The trimmed mean was computed by removing 10% of
   high and low counts for each chromosome by sample. The detected
   amplification products corresponding to the various selected loci were used to
   compute a chromosome 21 proportion metric and a chromosome 18 proportion
   metric for each sample. For chromosome 21 proportion, this was calculated as
   the trimmed mean of counts in the 384 chromosome 21 selected loci divided by
   the sum of trimmed means of counts for all 576 chromosome 21 loci and 576
   chromosome 18 loci for each sample.
[000286]    On average 834 read counts were observed per selected locus in the
   maternal samples of the first cohort, and 664 read counts were observed per
   selected locus from the second cohort. These counts were used to compute
   chromosome proportion z-scores for chromosome 21 and chromosome 18.
                                       109

[000287]    Briefly, the z-scores were calculated by scaling the median per locus
   count to a common value (e.g., 1000) for each sample, and the scaled counts
   were transformed by log base 2. An RMA log linear modeling and median
   polish were performed (Bolstad, B.Met al. (2003) Bioinformatics 19(2):185
   193; Rafael. A. (2003) Nucleic Acids Research 31(4):e15; Irizarry, RA et al.
   (2003) Biostatistics4(2):249-64) to estimate chromosome effects, locus effects,
   sample effects, and residuals. The estimated chromosome effects were set to a
   common value, e.g., 0, and 2A(chromosome effect + sample effect + residual)
   was calculated for each locus to create normalized counts. The Z scores were
   scaled using iterative censoring so that they had a mean of 0 and a standard
   deviation of 1.
[000288]    Data obtained from the first cohort of samples was used to determine
   first cohort z-scores for chromosome 21 and chromosome 18 are illustrated in
   FIGs. 9 and 10, respectively.     The normal samples are shown as dark grey
   diamonds, and the samples with a trisomy are shown as light grey diamonds.
   179/180 (99.4%) normal samples (dark grey diamonds) had z-scores <3; one
   normal sample had a chromosome 21 z-score of 3.4 and a chromosome 18 z
   score of 3.0. 35/35 (100%) T21 and 7/7 (100%) T18 samples had chromosome
   proportion z-scores >3. The mean T18 z-score was 8.5, and the range was 5.8
   10.9. The mean T21 z-score was 11.5, and the range was 6.1-19.8.
[000289]    The data provided in HG.         8 was combined with data from the
   remaining samples of the second cohort to determine z-scores for chromosome
   21 and chromosome 18 are illustrated in FIGs. 11 and 12, respectively. The
   normal samples are shown as dark grey diamonds, and the samples with a
   trisomy are shown as light grey diamonds. 125/125 normal samples had z
                                       110

    scores <3, 36/36 (100%) T21 and 8/8 (100%) T18 samples had z-scores >3.
    The mean T18 z-score was 9.5 and the range was 5.1-19.8. The mean T21 z
    score was 11.4 and the range was 3.4-21.8.
[000290]     In addition to the detection of aneuploidy in these cohorts, specific
    polymorphisms were also used to determine percent fetal contribution to the
    maternal samples. The general methodology used for determination of these
    fetal contribution percentages is described in US Ser No. 61/509,188 filed July
    19, 2011, which is incorporated by reference in its entirety.
[000291]     Briefly,   the    sequencing    of  certain    loci  having    detectable
    polymorphisms identified these loci as informative.           The counts of the
    identified loci having fetal polymorphic regions different from the maternal
    polymorphic regions were used to calculate the approximate fetal contribution
    for the maternal sample.      Each of the loci used in the calculation of percent
    fetal contribution to the maternal sample had a minimum of 256 counts.
    Exemplary SNP data sets for this calculation are illustrated below in Tables 2
    and 3. The data corresponding to the identified informative loci from these sets
    were used in the calculation of percent contribution. The informative loci are
    shown in each table in bolded text.
                                         111

Table 2: SNP Detection and Calculated Percent Fetal for Maternal Sample 1
                           SNP1       SNP2     Total    Calculated
 ChromosomeLocus                              Counts     Percent
                          Counts      Counts
                                                          Fetal
 ChO1_Lc067487                294         26      320    0.210138
 ChO1_LcO67489                187        167      354
 ChOl_Lc067490                389           1     390
 ChO1_LcO67491                233        113      346
 ChOl_Lc067492                  0        267      267
 ChO1_LcO67493                145        132      277
 ChO1_LcO67495                106        172      278
 ChO1_Lc067496                308         28      336
 ChOl_Lc067497                298          0      298
 ChOl_Lc067498                310           1     311
 ChOl_Lc067499                256           1     257
 ChO1_Lc067501                 26        273      299
 ChOl_Lc067503                296          0      296
 ChOl_Lc067504                134        149      283
 Ch02_Lc067508                  0        337      337
 Ch02_Lc067510                 37        324      361
 Ch02_Lc067511                138        147      285
 Ch02_Lc067512                180        251      431
 Ch02_Lc067514                  0        383      383
 Ch02_Lc067515                316         31      347
 Ch02_Lc067516                276          2      278
 Ch02_Lc067519                 42        276      318
 Ch02_Lc067521                312         47      359
 Ch02_Lc067522                158        170      328
 Ch02_Lc067523                 38        328      366
 Ch02_Lc067524                177        127      304
 Ch02_Lc067525                292          0      292
 Ch02_Lc067526                361          0      361
 Ch02_Lc067527                261         26      287
 Ch02_Lc067529                140        146      286
 Ch03_Lc067530                  0        268      268
 Ch03_Lc067531                217        178      395
 Ch03_Lc067532                245        153      398
 Ch03_Lc067533                  1        286      287
 Ch03_Lc067534                384         38      422
 Ch03_Lc067535                192        114      306
 Ch03_Lc067537                 32        276      308
 Ch03_Lc067538                243         15      258
 Ch03_Lc067539                132        247      379
 Ch03_Lc067540                162        105      267
 Ch03_Lc067541                239         35      274
                                  112

Ch03_Lc067542   3     406 409
Ch03_Lc067544   2     271 273
Ch03_Lc067545 373       0 373
Ch03_Lc067546 354       0 354
Ch03_Lc067547   1     256 257
Ch03_Lc067548 365       0 365
Ch03_LcO67549 187     111 298
Ch04_Lc067550  33     312 345
Ch04_Lc067552 323       1 324
Ch04_Lc067553 217     119 336
Ch04_Lc067557  35     236 271
Ch04_Lc067558 184     166 350
Ch04_Lc067559 295      32 327
Ch04_Lc067560 140     141 281
Ch04_Lc067561 160     123 283
Ch04_Lc067562 313       2 315
Ch04_Lc067566 142     191 333
Ch04_Lc067569 117     206 323
Ch05_Lc067570   0     403 403
Ch05_Lc067571 229     219 448
Ch05_Lc067572 185     134 319
Ch05_Lc067573 271      22 293
Ch05_Lc067575 261     142 403
Ch05_Lc067578   0     399 399
Ch05_Lc067579 307      46 353
Ch05_Lc067581 189     109 298
Ch05_Lc067582   0     268 268
Ch05_Lc067583 167     203 370
Ch05_Lc067585 209     119 328
Ch05_Lc067586   3     327 330
Ch05_Lc067587 321       0 321
Ch06_Lc067589 286       0 286
Ch06_Lc067590   2     344 346
Ch06_Lc067591 124     179 303
Ch06_Lc067592   0     330 330
Ch06_Lc067593   0     286 286
Ch06_Lc067594 396       2 398
Ch06_Lc067595 349       0 349
Ch06_Lc067597 340       1 341
Ch06_Lc067598   0     412 412
Ch06_Lc067599 182      93 275
Ch06_Lc067600  44     307 351
Ch06_Lc067601  43     324 367
Ch06_Lc067602 358       1 359
Ch07_Lc067603 160     141 301
Ch07_Lc067604 302       0 302
                  113

Ch07_Lc067605  37     414 451
Ch07_Lc067606 269     290 559
Ch07_Lc067607 166     159 325
Ch07_Lc067609   1     396 397
Ch07_LcO67610 225     134 359
Ch07_Lc067611  48     391 439
Ch07_LcO67612   2     333 335
Ch07_Lc067614 200     246 446
Ch07_Lc067615 188     184 372
Ch07_Lc067616 167     116 283
Ch07_Lc067617 204     186 390
Ch07_Lc067618 281      28 309
Ch07_Lc067619  44     297 341
Ch07_Lc067620 336       0 336
Ch07_Lc067621  48     342 390
ChO8_Lc067622 313       1 314
ChO8_Lc067623 414       0 414
Ch08_Lc067624 230     142 372
Ch08_Lc067625   0     377 377
Ch08_Lc067626  41     357 398
ChO8_Lc067627 133     258 391
ChO8_Lc067628 388       1 389
Ch08_Lc067629 348       0 348
Ch08_Lc067630  37     314 351
ChO8_Lc067631 185     129 314
Ch08_Lc067632  49     308 357
ChO8_Lc067633 186     195 381
ChO8_Lc067634 174     217 391
ChO8_Lc067635 161     152 313
ChO8_Lc067637   0     284 284
Ch08_Lc067638 343      50 393
Ch09_Lc067639 164      99 263
Ch09_Lc067640 185     186 371
Ch09_Lc067641 344       0 344
Ch09_Lc067642 294       0 294
Ch09_Lc067643  36     336 372
Ch09_Lc067644 221     144 365
Ch09_Lc067645 315      36 351
Ch09_Lc067646 141     143 284
Ch09_Lc067647  33     270 303
Ch09_Lc067648  43     349 392
Ch09_Lc067649 147     152 299
Ch09_Lc067650 201     187 388
Ch09_Lc067651 176     151 327
ChlO_Lc067652  29     277 306
ChlO_Lc067653 134     157 291
                  114

     Chl0_Lc067654               174        196     370
     Chl0_Lc067655               189        181     370
     Chl0_Lc067656               125        174     299
     Chl0_Lc067657               375          2     377
     Chl0_Lc067658                 0        345     345
     Chl0_Lc067659               204        174     378
     Chl0_Lc067661               236        271     507
     Ch1O_Lc067662                39        325     364
     Ch1l_Lc067663                 2        378     380
     Chi1_Lc067664                42        298     340
     Chl1_Lc067666               196        200     396
     Ch1l_Lc067667               220        164     384
     Chi1_Lc067668                20        290     310
     Chl1_Lc067670                 1        356     357
     Chl2_Lc067671               212        195     407
     Chl2_Lc067673                 1        298     299
     Chl2_Lc067674               242         30     272
     Chl2_Lc067675                 2        292     294
     Chl2_Lc067676                 1        381     382
     Chl2_Lc067677               139        179     318
    Table 3: Sample 2 SNP Detection and Calculated Percent Fetal
                           SNP 1       SNP 2     Total  Calculate
Chromosome/Locus           SNts        SNts      Tots   d Percent
                           Counts     Counts    Counts    Fea
                                                          Fetal
      ChOl_Lc067487          181        134     315     0.096075
      ChO1_Lc067489           18        337     355
      ChO1_Lc067490           17        333     350
      ChOl_Lc067491          356         0      356
      ChO1_Lc067492           12        264     276
      ChO1_Lc067493           7         385     392
      ChOl_Lc067494          140        118     258
      ChOl_Lc067495          163        118     281
      ChOl_Lc067496          198        172     370
      ChO1_Lc067498           15        301     316
      ChOl_Lc067499          162        170     332
      ChO1_Lc067501           11        252     263
      ChOl_Lc067502          129        130     259
      ChOl_Lc067503          148        172     320
      ChOl_Lc067504          157        146     303
      Ch02_Lc067508          188        196     384
      Ch02_Lc067510            1        356     357
                                    115

Ch02_LcO67511  3      308 311
Ch02_LcO67512 262     193 455
Ch02_LcO67513 318      0  318
Ch02_Lc067514   1     440 441
Ch02_LcO67515 169     166 335
Ch02_LcO67516 189     149 338
Ch02_LcO67519 218     133 351
Ch02_Lc067521 153     180 333
Ch02_Lc067522  14     326 340
Ch02_Lc067523 180     178 358
Ch02_Lc067524 330       1 331
Ch02_Lc067526 202     185 387
Ch02_Lc067527 149     192 341
Ch02_Lc067529 140     160 300
Ch03_Lc067530 132     128 260
Ch03_Lc067531 20      392 412
Ch03_Lc067532 202     270 472
Ch03_Lc067533 328      0  328
Ch03_Lc067534 224     223 447
Ch03_Lc067535 188     142 330
Ch03_Lc067537 315       1 316
Ch03_Lc067538 265      0  265
Ch03_Lc067539 191     214 405
Ch03_Lc067540 166     124 290
Ch03_Lc067542 256     208 464
Ch03_Lc067543 139     123 262
Ch03_Lc067544 190     180 370
Ch03_Lc067545 378      12 390
Ch03_Lc067546 22      352 374
Ch03_Lc067547 184     162 346
Ch03_Lc067548 363      0  363
Ch03_Lc067549  0      312 312
Ch04_Lc067550 162     156 318
Ch04_Lc067552 331      0  331
Ch04_Lc067553 225     155 380
Ch04_Lc067555 121     146 267
Ch04_Lc067557 284      13 297
Ch04_Lc067558 229     208 437
Ch04_Lc067559  7      311 318
Ch04_Lc067560 154     136 290
Ch04_Lc067561  12     258 270
Ch04_Lc067562 410       1 411
Ch04_Lc067566 320      18 338
Ch04_Lc067569  0      289 289
Ch05_Lc067570  19     444 463
Ch05_Lc067571 498      0  498
                  116

Ch05_LcO67572 169     182 351
Ch05_Lc067573 294      0  294
Ch05_Lc067575 422      0  422
Ch05_Lc067578  18     388 406
Ch05_Lc067579  17     304 321
Ch05_Lc067580 156     149 305
Ch05_Lc067581 303      19 322
Ch05_Lc067583 23      347 370
Ch05_Lc067585 22      293 315
Ch05_Lc067586 391      0  391
Ch05_Lc067587 434       1 435
Ch05_LcO67588 157     129 286
Ch06_Lc067589 274      0  274
Ch06_Lc067590 23      320 343
Ch06_Lc067591  10     342 352
Ch06_Lc067592 181     177 358
Ch06_Lc067593  0      296 296
Ch06_Lc067594 267     200 467
Ch06_Lc067595 212     201 413
Ch06_Lc067596 329      12 341
Ch06_Lc067597 319       1 320
Ch06_Lc067598 243     186 429
Ch06_Lc067600  0      341 341
Ch06_Lc067601 417      0  417
Ch06_Lc067602   1     340 341
Ch07_Lc067603 168     185 353
Ch07_Lc067604 333      11 344
Ch07_Lc067605 211     287 498
Ch07_Lc067606  2      542 544
Ch07_Lc067607 310      0  310
Ch07_Lc067609 178     189 367
Ch07_Lc067610 425      0  425
Ch07_Lc067611   1     449 450
Ch07_Lc067612 169     149 318
Ch07_Lc067614  0      446 446
Ch07_Lc067615  0      427 427
Ch07_Lc067616  13     278 291
Ch07_Lc067617 239     246 485
Ch07_Lc067618  17     267 284
Ch07_Lc067619  0      335 335
Ch07_Lc067620 319      0  319
Ch07_Lc067621  0      354 354
Ch08_Lc067622 25      232 257
ChO8_Lc067623 470      0  470
ChO8_Lc067624  0      376 376
ChO8_Lc067625 212     202 414
                  117

Ch08_Lc067626 377      0  377
Ch08_Lc067627 379      16 395
ChO8_LcO67628 189     210 399
Ch08_Lc067629  16     338 354
Ch08_Lc067630 152     153 305
Ch08_Lc067631  0      379 379
Ch08_LcO67632 25      355 380
Ch08_Lc067633 186     236 422
Ch08_Lc067634  2      375 377
Ch08_Lc067635 169     159 328
Ch08_Lc067636  13     274 287
Ch08_Lc067637 373      11 384
Ch08_Lc067638 28      431 459
Ch09_Lc067640 367      0  367
Ch09_Lc067641 359      0  359
Ch09_Lc067642 307       1 308
Ch09_Lc067643 350      32 382
Ch09_Lc067644 168     241 409
Ch09_Lc067645 174     179 353
Ch09_Lc067646 133     177 310
Ch09_Lc067647 199     188 387
Ch09_Lc067648 24      450 474
Ch09_Lc067649 340      0  340
Ch09_Lc067650 22      348 370
Ch09_Lc067651 20      365 385
ChlO_Lc067652  0      292 292
ChlO_Lc067653  0      279 279
ChlO_Lc067654  0      396 396
ChlO_Lc067655 160     170 330
ChlO_Lc067656 175     121 296
ChlO_Lc067657 212     188 400
ChlO_Lc067658  0      356 356
ChlO_Lc067659 400      13 413
ChlO_Lc067661 263     268 531
ChlO_Lc067662 20      324 344
Chi1_Lc067663  12     357 369
Chl1_Lc067664 142     179 321
Chl_Lc067665  278      0  278
Chl_Lc067666  180     232 412
Chit_Lc067667  13     438 451
Chl_Lc067668   0      365 365
Ch11_Lc067669  15     263 278
Chl_Lc067670   0      374 374
Chl2_Lc067671 233     183 416
Chl2_Lc067672  0      269 269
Chl2_Lc067673 412      11 423
                  118

      Ch12_LeO67676               37       436      473
      Chl2_LcO67677              168       197      365
[000292]    The data for these polymorphisms was obtained in the same data set as
   the aneuploidy data illustrated in FIGs. 11 and 12. Thus, a single assay
   demonstrated the ability to identify fetal aneuploidy, and the polymorphic
   differences between fetal and maternal loci allowed the identification of
   informative loci and calculation of estimated percent fetal cfDNA in the sample
   based on the informative loci.
                                       119

The claims defining the invention are as follows:
 1.       A method for determining percent fetal contribution in a maternal sample, comprising the
steps of:
          (a) introducing at least two first sets of first and second fixed sequence oligonucleotides to
the maternal sample under conditions that allow the first sets of fixed sequence oligonucleotides to
specifically hybridize to complementary regions in nucleic acid regions of interest, wherein the
nucleic acid regions comprise informative loci;
          (b) ligating the hybridized oligonucleotides to create ligation products complementary to the
nucleic acid regions of interest;
          (c) amplifying the ligation products to create amplification products; and
          (d) detecting and quantifying the amplification products from the first sets of fixed sequence
oligonucleotides to determine the percent fetal contribution in the maternal sample.
2. The method of claim 1. wherein the first and second fixed sequence oligonucleotides in each of the
first sets hybridize to adjacent complementary regions in the nucleic acid regions of interest.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the first and second fixed sequence oligonucleotides in each of the
first sets hybridize to nonadjacent complementary regions in the nucleic acid regions of interest.
4. The method of claim 3, wherein the method further comprises extending the hybridized first and/or
second fixed sequence oligonucleotides of the first sets using a primer extension reaction to create
adjacently-hybridized oligonucleotides.
5. The method of claim 3, wherein the method further comprises introducing one or more bridging
                                                     120

oligonucleotides to the maternal sample under conditions that allow the bridging oligonucleotides to
specifically hybridize to complementary regions in the nucleic acid regions of interest to create
adjacently or nonadjacently-hybridized oligonucleotides, wherein the one or more bridging
oligonucleotides are complementary to a region between the regions of the nucleic acid regions of
interest complementary to the first and second fixed sequence oligonucleotides of the first sets.
6. The method of any one of claims 1 to 5 further comprising
         (e) introducing at least two second sets of first and second fixed sequence oligonucleotides to
the maternal sample under conditions that allow the second sets of fixed sequence oligonucleotides to
specifically hybridize to complementary regions in nucleic acid regions of interest in a first
chromosome:
         (f) introducing at least two third sets of first and second fixed sequence oligonucleotides to
the maternal sample under conditions that allow the third sets of fixed sequence oligonucleotides to
specifically hybridize to complementary regions in nucleic acid regions of interest in a second
chromosome, wherein the second chromosome is different from the first chromosome;
         (g) ligating the hybridized oligonucleotides to create ligation products complementary to the
nucleic acid regions of interest in the first chromosome and the second chromosome;
         (h) amplifying the ligation products to create amplification products; and
         (i) detecting and quantifying the amplification products from the second and third sets of
fixed sequence oligonucleotides to detect the presence or absence of copy number variations in the
nucleic acid regions of interest in the first chromosome and the second chromosome.
7.       The method of any one of claims 1 to 6, wherein one or both of the first or second fixed
sequence oligonucleotides of the first, second and third sets of fixed sequence oligonucleotides
                                                    121

comprise universal primer regions.
8.       The method of claim any one of claims 1 to 7, wherein the hybridization products of the first,
second and third sets of fixed sequence oligonucleotides and the nucleic acid regions of interest to
which they hybridize are isolated prior to amplification.
9.       The method of any one of claims 1 to 8, wherein the amplification products are quantified by
next generation sequencing.
 10.     The method of any one of claims 1 to 9, wherein the first or second fixed sequence
oligonucleotide of each set of fixed sequence oligonucleotides comprises one or more indices.
11.      The method of claim 10, wherein the amplification product is detected and quantified by next
generation sequencing of the one or more indices.
12.      The method of claim 10, wherein the first or second fixed sequence oligonucleotide of the
first sets of fixed sequence oligonucleotides comprises an allele index and the first or second fixed
sequence oligonucleotide of the second and third sets of fixed sequence oligonucleotides comprises a
locus index.
 13.     The method of claim 12, wherein the amplification products are detected and quantified by
hybridization of the locus index or allele index to an array.
 14.     The method of claim 12, wherein the amplification products are detected and quantified by
                                                   122

next generation sequencing of the locus index or allele index.
15.      The method of any one of claims 1 to 14, wherein the amplification products are isolated
prior to the detecting and quantifying step.
16.      The method of any one of claims 6 to 15, wherein the amplification products from the first
sets of fixed sequence oligonucleotides are used with the second and third sets of fixed sequence
oligonucleotides to determine the presence or absence of copy number variations of a genomic
region.
 17.     The method of any one of claims 6 to 16, wherein the copy number variations are
chromosomal aneuploidies.
18.      The method of claim 17, wherein the chromosomal aneupolidies are trisomy 13, trisomy 18
or trisomy 21.
19.      The method of any one of claims 6 to 18, wherein the second and third sets of fixed sequence
oligonucleotides comprise fixed sequence oligonucleotides that hybridize to at least 96 nucleic acid
regions.
20.      The method of any one of claims 1 to 8, 10, 12, 13, and 15 to 19, wherein the amplification
products are detected and quantified by hybridization to an array.
21.      The method of any one of claims 6 to 20, wherein any one of the first, second or third sets of
                                                 123

first and second fixed sequence oligonucleotides comprise precircle probes.
22.      The method of any one of claims 1 to 21, wherein the informative loci are those loci that are
homozygous in the mother and heterozygous in the fetus
23. The method of any one of claims 1 to 21, wherein the informative loci are those loci that are
homozygous in the fetus and heterozygous in the mother.
                                                 124

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
