                                                                                   No.1-14F052
Abstract:
         A production method of controlled release particles 1 includes an oil phase component
preparation step in which an oil phase component containing a hydrophobic slurry is prepared by
dispersing, in a hydrophobic polymerizable vinyl monomer, an antibiotic compound that is
hydrophobic and is substantially insoluble to the hydrophobic polymerizable vinyl monomer
without the presence of a solvent; a water dispersion step in which a hydrophobic slurry is
dispersed in water to prepare an aqueous dispersion; and a polymerization step in which the
polymerizable vinyl monomer is subjected to suspension polymerization to produce a polymer.
                                                130

FIG. Al
     43
  8     8
     83
     8

                                                                                       No.1-14F052
DESCRIPTION
TITLE OF THE INVENTION
CONTROLLED RELEASE PARTICLES, PRODUCTION METHOD THEREOF, MOLDING
MATERIAL, AND MOLDED ARTICLE
TECHNICAL FIELD
[0001]
         The present invention relates to controlled release particles, a production method thereof,
a molding material, and a molded article.     In particular, the present invention relates to
controlled release particles that allow controlled-release of an antibiotic compound, a production
method thereof, a molding material, and a molded article.
BACKGROUND ART
[0002]
          There has been kmown particles such as the following: forming a microcapsule of
antibiotic compounds such as an insecticide, an insect repellent, an anti-termite agent, a sterilizer,
an antiseptic, a herbicide, an antialgae, and a repellent, controlled-release of the antibiotic
compound is allowed to ensure lasting effects.
[0003]
          For example, Patent Document 1 below has proposed a method for forming a
microcapsule of a neonicotinoid-based compound by dispersing a slurry containing a
neonicotinoid-based compound, a disperse medium, and a polyisocyanate component in water,
and thereafter, blending polyamine and interfacially polymerizing the mixture.
Citation List
Patent Document
[0004]
Patent Document 1: Japanese Unexamined Patent Publication No.2000-247821
SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
PROBLEM TO BE SOLVED BY THE INVENTION
[0005]
          However, particles are sometimes required to have controlled release properties
                                                   1

                                                                                      No.1- 14F052
  depending on use and purposes.      There are disadvantages, however, in the microcapsule
 produced by the method described in Patent Document 1 in that the above-described requirement
 cannot be satisfied sufficiently.
  [0006]
           There are disadvantages in that when the microcapsule described in Patent Document 1
 is kneaded with resin or rubber, the microcapsule is broken by shearing at the time of kneading.
 [0007]
          An object of the present invention is to provide controlled release particles with
 excellent controlled release properties and durability; a production method thereof; and a
 molding material and a molded article in which the controlled release particles are used.
MEANS FOR SOLVING THE PROBLEM
 [0008]
          The present inventors made an energetic study on the controlled release particles, a
production method thereof, and a molding material and a molded article in which the controlled
release particles are used of the above-described object, and found out that durable controlled
release particles with excellent controlled release properties, a molding material and a molded
article in which these are used can be produced by a production method including an oil phase
component preparation step in which an oil phase component containing a hydrophobic slurry is
prepared by dispersing, in a hydrophobic polymerizable vinyl monomer, an antibiotic compound
that is hydrophobic and is substantially insoluble to the hydrophobic polymerizable vinyl
monomer      without the presence of a solvent, a water dispersion step in which the oil phase
component is dispersed in water to prepare an aqueous dispersion, and a polymerization step in
which a polymerizable vinyl monomer is subjected to suspension polymerization to produce a
polymer, and accomplished a first invention group.
[0009]
          A first invention group relates to:
(1)
          controlled release particles produced by a production method including
           an oil phase component preparation step in which an oil phase component containing a
                                                   2

                                                                                       No.1-14F052
 hydrophobic slurry is prepared by dispersing, in a hydrophobic polymerizable vinyl monomer,
 an antibiotic compound that is hydrophobic and is substantially insoluble to the hydrophobic
 polymerizable vinyl monomer without the presence of a solvent,
            a water dispersion step in which the oil phase component is dispersed in water to
 prepare an aqueous dispersion, and
            a polymerization step in which the polymerizable vinyl monomer is subjected to
 suspension polymerization to produce a polymer;
 (2)
          the controlled release particles of the above-described (1), wherein in the
polymerization step, the polymerizable vinyl monomer is subjected to suspension polymerization
in the presence of a salt of a condensate of aromatic sulfonic acid and formaldehyde, and/or the
polymerizable vinyl monomer contains a (meth)acrylate monomer and a (meth)acrylate-based
crosslinkable monomer;
(3)
          the controlled release particles of the above-described (1) or (2), wherein the antibiotic
compound is a neonicotinoid-based insecticide;
(4)
          the controlled release particles of the above-described (3), wherein the neonicotinoid
based insecticide contains at least one selected from the group consisting of (E)-1-(2
chlorothiazole-5-ylmethyl)-3-methyl-2-nitroguanidine and 1-(6-chloro-3-pyridylmethyl)-N
nitroimidazolidin-2-ylideneamine;
(5)
          controlled release particles having a two-phase structure formed from a matrix made of
a polymer, and a domain made of an antibiotic compound substantially insoluble to a monomer
for producing the polymer and is dispersed in the matrix;
(6)
          the controlled release particles of the above-described (5), wherein both of the matrix
and the domain are exposed on the surface of the controlled release particles,
(7)
                                                    3

                                                                                      No.1- 14F052
           the controlled release particles of the above-described (5), wherein the domain is
 covered by the matrix,
 (8)
          the controlled release particles of the above-described (7), wherein the antibiotic
 compound is further attached to the surface of the matrix;
 (9)
          the controlled release particles of any one of the above-described (5) to (8), wherein the
antibiotic compound is a neonicotinoid-based insecticide,
(10)
          the controlled release particles of the above-described (9), wherein the neonicotinoid
based insecticide contains at least one selected from the group consisting of (E)-1-(2
chlorothiazole-5-ylmethyl)-3-methyl-2-nitroguanidine and 1-(6-chloro-3-pyridylmethyl)-N
nitroimidazolidin-2-ylideneamine;
(11)
          the controlled release particles of any one of the above-described (1) to (10), prepared as
powder formulation;
(12)
          a molding material containing a thermoplastic resin, and the controlled release particles
of any one of the above-described (1) to (11);
(13)
          a molded article containing a thermoplastic resin, and the controlled release particles of
any one of the above-described (1) to (11),
(14)
          a method for producing controlled release particles, the method including the steps of:
an oil phase component preparation step in which an oil phase component containing a
hydrophobic slurry is prepared by dispersing, in a hydrophobic polymerizable vinyl monomer,
an antibiotic compound that is hydrophobic and is substantially insoluble to the hydrophobic
polymerizable vinyl monomer without the presence of a solvent, a water dispersion step in which
the oil phase component is dispersed in water to prepare an aqueous dispersion, and a
                                                    4

                                                                                      No.1-14F052
 polymerization step in which the polymerizable vinyl monomer is subjected to suspension
 polymerization to produce a polymer;
 (15)
           the method for producing controlled release particles of the above-described (14),
 wherein in the polymerization step, the polymerizable vinyl monomer is subjected to suspension
polymerization in the presence of a salt of a condensate of aromatic sulfonic acid and
 formaldehyde, and/or the polymerizable vinyl monomer contains a (meth)acrylate monomer and
 a (meth)acrylate-based crosslinkable monomer;
 (16)
         the method for producing controlled release particles of the above-described (14) or (15),
further including a step of preparing powder formulation by blending the suspension produced in
the polymerization step and a solid carrier, and drying them;
(17)
          the method for producing controlled release particles of any one of the above-described
(14) to (16), wherein the antibiotic compound is a neonicotinoid-based insecticide; and
(18)
          the method for producing controlled release particles of the above-described (17),
wherein the neonicotinoid-based insecticide contains at least one selected from the group
consisting of (E)-1-(2-chlorothiazole-5-ylmethyl)-3-methyl-2-nitroguanidine and 1-(6-chloro-3
pyridylmethyl)-N-nitroimidazolidin-2-ylideneamine.
[0010]
          Furthermore, the present inventors made an energetic study on the controlled release
particles, production method thereof, and molding material and molded article in which the
controlled release particles are used of the above-described first invention group, and found out
that durable controlled release particles with excellent controlled release properties and alkali
resistance, molding material and molded article in which these are used can be produced by a
production method including an oil phase component preparation step in which an oil phase
component containing a hydrophobic slurry is prepared by dispersing, in a hydrophobic
polymerizable vinyl monomer, an antibiotic compound that is hydrophobic and is substantially
                                                  5

                                                                                      No.1- 14F052
 insoluble to the hydrophobic polymerizable vinyl monomer without the presence of a solvent, a
 water dispersion step in which the oil phase component is dispersed in water to prepare an
 aqueous dispersion, and a polymerization step in which the polymerizable vinyl monomer is
 subjected to suspension polymerization to produce a polymer, wherein in the polymerization step,
 the polymerizable vinyl monomer is subjected to suspension polymerization, and a hydrophobic
 shell-forming component and a hydrophilic-shell forming component are subjected to interfacial
 polymerization to form a shell that covers a suspension polymer, and accomplished a second
 invention group.
 [0011]
          A second invention group relates to:
 (1)
          controlled release particles produced by a production method including,
            an oil phase component preparation step in which an oil phase component containing a
hydrophobic slurry is prepared by dispersing, in a hydrophobic polymerizable vinyl monomer,
an antibiotic compound that is hydrophobic and is substantially insoluble to the hydrophobic
polymerizable vinyl monomer without the presence of a solvent,
           a water dispersion step in which the oil phase component is dispersed in water to
prepare an aqueous dispersion, and
           a polymerization step in which the polymerizable vinyl monomer is subjected to
suspension polymerization to produce a polymer,
           wherein in any of at least one step of the oil phase component preparation step, the
water dispersion step, and the polymerization step, a hydrophobic shell-forming component and
a hydrophilic-shell forming component are blended, and in the polymerization step, the
polymerizable vinyl monomer is subjected to suspension polymerization and the hydrophobic
shell-forming component and the hydrophilic shell-forming component are subjected to
interfacial polymerization to form a shell that covers a suspension polymer;
(2)
           the controlled release particles of the above-described (1), wherein the interfacial
polymerization is stated simultaneously with the stait of the suspension polymerization, or is
                                                    6

                                                                                      No.1- 14F052
started before the start of the suspension polymerization;
(3)
          the controlled release particles of the above-described (1) or (2), wherein the
hydrophobic shell-forming component contains polyisocyanate, and the hydrophilic shell
forming component contains polyamine;
(4)
          the controlled release particles of any one of the above-described (1) to (3), wherein the
antibiotic compound is a neonicotinoid-based insecticide;
(5)
            the controlled release particles of the above-described (4), wherein the neonicotinoid
based insecticide contains at least one selected from the group consisting of (E)-1-(2
chlorothiazole-5-ylmethyl)-3-methyl-2-nitroguanidine and 1-(6-chloro-3-pyridylmethyl)-N
nitroimidazolidin-2-ylideneamine;
(6)
            controlled release particles including a matrix made of a polymer, a domain made of an
antibiotic compound substantially insoluble to a monomer for producing the polymer and is
dispersed in the matrix, and a shell that covers the matrix;
(7)
         the controlled release particles of the above-described (6), wherein the shell is made of
polyurea,
(8)
         the controlled release particles of the above-described (6) or (7), wherein the antibiotic
compound is attached to the surface of the shell;
(9)
         the controlled release particles of any one of the above-described (6) to (8), wherein the
antibiotic compound is a neonicotinoid-based insecticide;
(10)
         the controlled release particles of the above-described (9), wherein the neonicotinoid
based insecticide contains at least one selected from the group consisting of (E)-l-(2
                                                     7

                                                                                      No.1-14F052
 chlorothiazole-5-ylmethyl)-3-methyl-2-nitroguanidine and 1-(6-chloro-3-pyridylmethyl)-N
 nitroimidazolidin-2-ylideneamine;
 (11)
          the controlled release particles of any one of the above-described (1) to (10), prepared as
powder formulation;
 (12)
          a molding material containing a thermoplastic resin, and the controlled release particles
of any one of the above-described (1) to (11);
(13)
          a molded article containing a thermoplastic resin, and the controlled release particles of
any one of the above-described (1) to (11);
(14)
            a method for producing controlled release particles, the method including the steps of:
            an oil phase component preparation step in which an oil phase component containing a
hydrophobic slurry is prepared by dispersing, in a hydrophobic polymerizable vinyl monomer,
an antibiotic compound that is hydrophobic and is substantially insoluble to the hydrophobic
polymerizable vinyl monomer without the presence of a solvent,
            a water dispersion step in which the oil phase component is dispersed in water to
prepare an aqueous dispersion, and
            a polymerization step in which the polymerizable vinyl monomer is subjected to
suspension polymerization to produce a polymer,
            wherein in any of at least one step of the oil phase component preparation step, the
water dispersion step, and the polymerization step, a hydrophobic shell-forming component and
a hydrophilic-shell forming component are blended, and in the polymerization step, the
polymerizable vinyl monomer is subjected to suspension polymerization and the hydrophobic
shell-forming component and the hydrophilic shell-forming component are subjected to
interfacial polymerization to form a shell that covers a suspension polymer;
(15)
          the method for producing controlled release particles of the above-described (14),
                                                    8

                                                                                        No.1- 14F052
 wherein in the polymerization step, the interfacial polymerization is started simultaneously with
 the start of the suspension polymerization, or is started before the start of the suspension
polymerization;
 (16)
           the method for producing controlled release particles of the above-described 14 or 15,
wherein the hydrophobic shell-forming component is polyisocyanate and the hydrophilic shell
forming component is polyamine;
(17)
           the method for producing controlled release particles of any one of the above-described
 14 to 16, further including a step of preparing powder formulation by blending the suspension
produced in the polymerization step and a solid carrier, and drying these;
(18)
           the method for producing controlled release particles of any one of the above-described
14 to 17, wherein the antibiotic compound is a neonicotinoid-based insecticide;
(19)
            the method for producing controlled release particles of the above-described (18),
wherein the neonicotinoid-based insecticide contains at least one selected from the group
consisting of (E)-1-(2-chlorothiazole-5-ylmethyl)-3-methyl-2-nitroguanidine and 1-(6-chloro-3
pyridylmethyl)-N-nitroimidazolidin-2-ylideneamine.
EFFECT OF THE INVENTION
[0012]
           The controlled release particles of the first invention group is produced by a production
method including an oil phase component preparation step in which an oil phase component
containing a hydrophobic slurry is prepared by dispersing, in a hydrophobic polymerizable vinyl
monomer, an antibiotic compound that is hydrophobic and is substantially insoluble to the
hydrophobic polymerizable vinyl monomer without the presence of a solvent, a water dispersion
step in which the oil phase component is dispersed in water to prepare an aqueous dispersion,
and a polymerization step in which the polymerizable vinyl monomer is subjected to suspension
polymerization to produce a polymer, and therefore durable controlled release particles with
                                                    9

                                                                                      No.1- 14F052
 excellent controlled release properties can be produced.
 [0013]
          With the method for producing controlled release particles of the first invention group,
 controlled release particles that are durable and have excellent controlled release properties can
 be produced.
 [0014]
          The controlled release particles of the first invention group have a two-phase structure
 formed from a matrix made of a polymer, and a domain made of an antibiotic compound and is
 dispersed in the matrix, and therefore controlled release of the antibiotic compound is excellent,
 and durability is excellent, and thus the controlled release particles are kneaded with resin
excellently.
 [0015]
          The molding material of the first invention group contains the above-described
controlled release particles, and therefore excellent controlled release properties of the antibiotic
compound can be given to the molded article of the first invention group.
 [0016]
          The controlled release particles of the second invention group are produced by a
production method including an oil phase component preparation step in which an oil phase
component containing a hydrophobic slurry is prepared by dispersing, in a hydrophobic
polymerizable vinyl monomer, an antibiotic compound that is hydrophobic and is substantially
insoluble to the hydrophobic polymerizable vinyl monomer without the presence of a solvent, a
water dispersion step in which the oil phase component is dispersed in water to prepare an
aqueous dispersion, and a polymerization step in which the polymerizable vinyl monomer is
subjected to suspension polymerization to produce a        polymer, and therefore durable controlled
release particles with excellent controlled release properties and alkali-resistance can be
produced.
 [0017]
          With the method for producing controlled release particles of the second invention
group, controlled release particles that are durable and have excellent controlled release
                                                   10

                                                                                      No.1-14F052
 properties and alkali-resistance can be produced.
 [0018]
           Furthermore, in the controlled release particles of the second invention group, in the
 polymerization step, the polymerizable vinyl monomer is subjected to suspension polymerization
 and a hydrophobic shell-forming component and a hydrophilic-shell forming component are
 subjected to interfacial polymerization to form a shell that covers a suspension polymer, and
 therefore a high encapsulation rate of the antibiotic compound and excellent alkali-resistance of
the antibiotic compound are achieved.
 [0019]
           The controlled release particles of the second invention group include a matrix made of
a polymer and a domain made of an antibiotic compound and is dispersed in the matrix, and
therefore the antibiotic compound has excellent controlled release properties and durability, thus
can be excellently kneaded with resin.
 [0020]
           Furthermore, the controlled release particles of the second invention group include a
shell that covers the matrix, and therefore the antibiotic compound has excellent controlled
release properties and alkali-resistance.
[0021]
           The molding material of the second invention group contains the above-described
controlled release particles, and therefore excellent controlled release properties and alkali
resistance of the antibiotic compound can be given to the second invention group.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0022]
[FIG. Al] FIG. Al shows a schematic cross-sectional view of the controlled release particles of
the first invention group in the first embodiment.
[FIG. A2] FIG. A2 shows a schematic cross-sectional view of the controlled release particles of
the first invention group in the second embodiment (embodiment in which the domain is covered
by the matrix, and attachment is attached to the surface of the matrix).
[FIG. A3] FIG. A3 shows a schematic cross-sectional view of a modified second embodiment
                                                   11

                                                                                 No.1-14F052
 (embodiment in which the entire surface of the matrix is exposed).
 [FIG. A4] FIG. A4 shows an image-processed SEM photograph of the controlled release
particles of Example Al.
 [FIG. A5] FIG. A5 shows an image-processed SEM photograph of the controlled release
particles of Example A2.
 [FIG. A6] FIG. A6 shows an image-processed SEM photograph of the controlled release
particles of Example A3.
[FIG. A7] FIG. A7 shows an image-processed SEM photograph of the controlled release
particles of Example A4.
[FIG. A8] FIG. A8 shows an image-processed SEM photograph of the controlled release
particles of Example A9.
[FIG. A9] FIG. A9 shows an image-processed SEM photograph of the controlled release
particles of Example A19.
[FIG. A10] FIG. Al0 shows an image-processed SEM photograph of the fracture surface of the
strand of Example A20.
[FIG. Al1] FIG. Al l shows an image-processed SEM photograph of the fracture surface of the
strand of Example A21.
[FIG. A12] FIG. A12 shows an image-processed TEM photograph of the controlled release
particles of Example Al.
[FIG. A13] FIG. A13 shows an image-processed TEM photograph of the controlled release
particles of Example A2.
[FIG. A14] FIG. A14 shows an image-processed TEM photograph of the controlled release
particles of Example A3.
[FIG. B1] FIG. Bl shows a schematic cross-sectional view of the controlled release particles of
the second invention group in the third embodiment.
[FIG. B2] FIG. B2 shows a schematic cross-sectional view of the controlled release particles of
the second invention group in the fourth embodiment.
[FIG. B3] FIG. B3 shows an image-processed SEM photograph of the controlled release
particles of Example B1.
                                                12

                                                                                       No.1-14F052
 [FIG. B4] FIG. B4 shows an image-processed SEM photograph of the controlled release
 particles of Example B2.
 [FIG. B5] FIG. B5 shows an image-processed SEM photograph of the controlled release
 particles of Example B6.
 [FIG. B6] FIG. B6 shows an image-processed SEM photograph of the controlled release
 particles of Example B30.
 [FIG. B7] FIG. B7 shows an image-processed SEM photograph of the controlled release
particles of Example B35.
 [FIG. B8] FIG. B8 shows an image-processed TEM photograph of the controlled release
particles of Example B2.
 [FIG. B9] FIG. B9 shows an image-processed TEM photograph of the controlled release
particles of Reference Example B 1.
 [FIG. B10] FIG. B10 shows an image-processed TEM photograph of the controlled release
particles of Reference Example B2.
 [FIG. B 11] FIG. B 11 shows an image-processed TEM photograph of the controlled release
particles of Reference Example B3.
DESCRIPTION OF EMBODIMENTS
 [0023]
           In the following, the first invention group and the second invention group that are
included in the present invention and are interrelated will be described in sequence.
 [0024]
 [First invention group]
<Description of method for producing controlled release particles>
           The method for producing controlled release particles of the first invention group
includes an oil phase component preparation step in which an oil phase component containing a
hydrophobic slurry is prepared by dispersing, in a hydrophobic polymerizable vinyl monomer,
an antibiotic compound that is hydrophobic and is substantially insoluble to the hydrophobic
polymerizable vinyl monomer without the presence of a solvent, a water dispersion step in which
the oil phase component is dispersed in water to prepare an aqueous dispersion, and a
                                                    13

                                                                                           No.1-14F052
 polymerization step in which the polymerizable vinyl monomer is subjected to suspension
 polymerization to produce a polymer.
 [0025]
           In the following, materials used in the above-described steps are described.
 [0026]
 (Antibiotic compound)
           The antibiotic compound is selected from, for example, an insecticide (including
 formicide), an insect repellent (including anti-termite agent), a sterilizer, an antibacterial agent,
 an antiseptic, a herbicide, an antialgae, a fungicide, an attractant, a repellent, and a rodenticide,
having antibiotic activity such as, for example, insecticidal (including formicide), insect repellent
 (including anti-termite), sterilization, antibacterial, antiseptic, herbicidal, antialgae, and
fungicidal activities.
 [0027]
          To be specific, examples of the antibiotic compound include the following.          Examples
of insecticides include neonicotinoid-based insecticides such as clothianidin ((E)- 1-(2
chlorothiazole-5-ylmethyl)-3-methyl-2-nitroguanidine), imidacloprid (1-(6-chloro-3
pyridylmethyl)-N-nitroimidazolidin-2-ylideneamine), thiacloprid, thiamethoxam ((EZ)-3-(2
chloro-1,3-thiazole-5-ylmethyl)-5-methyl-1,3,5-oxadiazinan-4-ylidene(nitro)amine),           and
dinotefuran; diamide-based insecticides such as flubendiamide and chlorantraniliprol; insect
growth regulators such as diflubenzuron, teflubenzuron, chlorfluazuron, tebufenozide,
methoxyfenozide, and cyromazine; acaricides such as clofentezine; and other synthetic agents
such as pymetrozine and sodium oleate.        Examples of the sterilizer include copper-based
sterilizers such as basic copper chloride, basic copper sulfate, and oxine-copper; silver-based
sterilizers such as metalic silver; organic sulfur-based sterilizers such as polycarbamate; melanin
biosynthesis inhibitors such as fthalid and tricyclazole; benzimidazole-based sterilizers such as
thiophanate-methyl, carbendazim (MBC), and diethofencarb; acid amide-based sterilizers such
as isotianil; sterol biosynthesis inhibitors such as triforine; isothiazolone-based sterilizers such as
 1,2-benzisothiazolin-3-one; and other synthesis inhibitors such as diclomezine, fluoroimide,
captan, chlorothalonil, chinomethionat, oxolinic acid, benthiavalicarb-isopropyl, cyazofamid,
                                                    14

                                                                                      No.1-14F052
 and zinc pyrithione.    Examples of the herbicide-antialgae include urea-based agents such as 3
 (3,4-dichlorophenyl)- 1,1 -dimethylurea (DCMU), cumyluron, and karbutilate; sulfonylurea-based
 agents such as ethoxysulfuron, halosulfuron-methyl, flazasulfron, nicosulfuron, thifensulfuron
methyl, imazosulfuron, cyclosulfamuron, flucetosulfuron, and sodium trifloxysulfuron; triazine
based agents such as simazine (CAT), atrazine, triaziflam, lenacil, cyfluthrin, and terbutryn;
amino acid-based agents such as glyphosate; phenylphthalimide-based agents such as
flumioxazin; triketone-based agents such as mesotrione; and other agents such as quinoclamin
and pyriftalid.   For the antibiotic compound, preferably, in view of chemo selectivity and safety,
neonicotinoid-based insecticides, and in view of versatility and effectiveness, zinc pyrithione is
used, more preferably, in view of insolubility, clothianidin, imidacloprid, zinc pyrithione are
used, even more preferably, clothianidin and imidacloprid are used.      Particularly preferably, in
view of safety for mammals, clothianidin is used.
[0028]
          The antibiotic compound is substantially hydrophobic.     To be specific, the antibiotic
compound has an extremely low solubility to, for example, water at room temperature (20 to
30'C, to be more specific, 25'C).     To be more specific, the antibiotic compound has a solubility
at, for example, room temperature, of 1.5 parts by mass/100 parts by volume of water (15g/L) or
less, preferably, 0.5 parts by volume/100 parts by mass of water (5g/L) or less, even more
preferably, 0.1 parts by mass/100 parts by volume of water (1g/L) or less.
[0029]
          The antibiotic compound is substantially insoluble to the polymerizable vinyl monomer.
To be specific, for example, the antibiotic compound has an extremely low solubility to the
polymerizable vinyl monomer at room temperature (20 to 30'C, to be more specific, 25'C).          To
be specific, the antibiotic compound has a solubility at room temperature of, for example, 0.1
part by mass/1 00 parts by volume of the polymerizable vinyl monomer (to be
used)(mixture)(1g/L) or less, preferably, 0.05 parts by mass/100 parts by volume of the
polymerizable vinyl monomer (to be used)(mixture)(0.5g/L) or less.
[0030]
          The antibiotic compound has a melting point of, for example, 80'C or more, preferably,
                                                 15

                                                                                     No.1-14F052
 100 C or more, and when the antibiotic compound is a compound that does not contain metal
atoms, for example, 300'C or less.
 [0031]
(Polymerizable vinyl monomer)
          Examples of the polymerizable vinyl monomer include a (meth)acrylate monomer, an
aromatic vinyl monomer, a vinyl ester monomer, a maleate monomer, a vinyl halide, a
vinylidene halide, a nitrogen-containing vinyl monomer, and a crosslinkable monomer.
[0032]
          Examples of the (meth)acrylate monomer include methacrylate and/or acrylate, to be
specific, alkyl (meth)acrylate having a straight chain, branched, or cyclic alkyl moiety with 1 to
6 carbon atoms such as methyl (meth)acrylate, ethyl (meth)acrylate, n-propyl (meth)acrylate,
isopropyl (meth)acrylate, (meth)n-butyl acrylate, isobutyl (meth)acrylate (i-BMA/i-BA), tert
butyl (meth)acrylate, n-pentyl (meth)acrylate, n-hexyl (meth)acrylate, and cyclohexyl
(meth)acrylate; alkoxyalkyl (meth)acrylate such as 2-methoxyethyl (meth)acrylate; (meth)acrylic
acidhydroxyalkyl such as hydroxyethyl (meth)acrylate; epoxy group-containing (meth)acrylates
such as glycidyl (meth)acrylate.    Preferably, alkyl (meth)acrylate is used.
[0033]
          For the alkyl (meth)acrylate, more preferably, alkyl (meth)acrylate having an alkyl
moiety with 1 to 6 carbon atoms, particularly preferably, isobutyl methacrylate(i-BMA) is used.
[0034]
          Examples of the aromatic vinyl monomer include styrene monomers
(monovinylbenzene) such as styrene(vinylbenzene), p-methylstyrene, o-methylstyrene, a
methylstyrene, and ethylvinylbenzene.      Preferably, styrene and ethylvinylbenzene are used.
[0035]
          Examples of the vinyl ester monomer include vinyl acetate and vinyl propionate.
[0036]
          Examples of the maleate monomer include dimethyl maleate, diethyl maleate, and
dibutyl maleate.
[0037]
                                                  16

                                                                                    No.1- 14F052
          Examples of the vinyl halide include vinyl chloride and vinyl fluoride.
 [0038]
          Examples of the vinylidene halide include vinylidene chloride and vinylidene fluoride.
 [0039]
          Examples of the nitrogen-containing vinyl monomer include (meth)acrylonitrile, N
phenylmaleimide, and vinylpyridine.
 [0040]
         Examples of the crosslinkable monomer include (meth)acrylate crosslinkable monomers,
 allyl monomers, and aromatic crosslinkable monomers.       Examples of the (meth)acrylate
crosslinkable monomer include mono or polyethylene glycoldi(meth)acrylate such as ethylene
glycoldi(meth)acrylate and diethylene glycoldi(meth)acrylate; alkane diol di(meth)acrylate such
as 1,3-propanedioldi(meth)acrylate, 1,4-butanedioldi(meth)acrylate, and 1,5
pentanedioldi(meth)acrylate; and alkane polyol poly(meth)acrylate such as
trimethylolpropanetri(meth)acrylate and pentaerythritoltetra(meth)acrylate(PETA/PETM).
Examples of the allyl monomer include allyl(meth)methacrylate and triallyl(iso)cyanurate.
Examples of the aromatic crosslinkable monomer include divinylbenzene and trivinylbenzene.
Preferably, mono or polyethylene glycoldi(meth)acrylate and divinylbenzene, more preferably,
ethylene glycoldi(meth)acrylate and divinylbenzene are used.
[0041]
          The polymerizable vinyl monomer can be used singly, or can be used in combination.
[0042]
          The polymer produced by polymerization of the polymerizable vinyl monomer has
durable surface at room temperature, and therefore has a glass transition temperature of, for
example, 30'C or more, preferably, 50'C or more, and the polymerizable vinyl monomer is
selected to give such a glass transition temperature.
[0043]
          The polymerizable vinyl monomer is, for example, substantially hydrophobic.      To be
specific, the polymerizable vinyl monomer has an extremely low solubility to, for example,
water at room temperature.     To be more specific, the polymerizable vinyl monomer has a
                                                 17

                                                                                         No.1- 14F052
 solubility at room temperature of, for example, 10 parts by mass/100 parts by volume of water
 (100g/L) or less, preferably, 8 paits by mass/100 pails by volume of water (80g/L) or less.
 When different kinds of polymerizable vinyl monomers are used, the entire polymerizable vinyl
monomer (that is, mixture of different kinds of polymerizable vinyl monomers) is substantially
hydrophobic.
 [0044]
           Next, each step in the method for producing controlled release particles is described in
sequence.
 [0045]
(Oil phase component preparation step)
          In the oil phase component preparation step, without the presence of a solvent, an oil
phase component containing a hydrophobic slurry is prepared by dispersing, in a hydrophobic
polymerizable vinyl monomer, an antibiotic compound that is hydrophobic and is substantially
insoluble to the hydrophobic polymerizable vinyl monomer.
[0046]
          To be specific, the above-described polymerizable vinyl monomer and the antibiotic
compound are blended, and stirred without blending a solvent (hydrophobic organic solvent such
as hexane, toluene, and ethyl acetate).    A hydrophobic slurry is prepared in this manner.       The
hydrophobic slurry is contained in the oil phase component.
[0047]
          To disperse the antibiotic compound in the polymerizable vinyl monomer, for example,
a disperser such as a paint shaker, a homodisper (high-speed disperser), a bead mill (including
batch type bead mill), a ball mill, and a rod mill are used.    The disperser can be used singly, or
can be used in combination.      For the disperser, preferably, in view of the fact that it can be used
for a wide range of viscosity, and can be used for a large-scale industrial production, a batch type
bead mill is used.
[0048]
          The above-described dispersion allows for wet grinding of the antibiotic compound.
[0049]
                                                   18

                                                                                       No.1-14F052
           The whole of the polymerizable vinyl monomer can be blended in the antibiotic
 compound, or the polymerizable vinyl monomer can be blended in the antibiotic compound
 dividedly.    When the polymerizable vinyl monomer is blended in dividedly, first, a portion of
 the polymerizable vinyl monomer is blended in the antibiotic compound, and the mixture is
 dispersed to prepare a hydrophobic slurry, and thereafter, the remaining portion of the
polymerizable vinyl monomer is blended in the hydrophobic slurry.
 [0050]
          In this manner, an oil phase component containing a hydrophobic slurry is prepared.
 [0051]
          The mixing ratio of the antibiotic compound relative to the polymerizable vinyl
monomer based on the mass ratio (that is, parts by mass of the antibiotic compound/parts by
mass of the polymerizable vinyl monomer) is, for example, 1/99 or more, preferably 10/90 or
more, more preferably 15/85 or more, and for example, 90/10 or less, preferably, 75/25 or less,
more preferably, 70/30 or less, even more preferably, 65/35 or less, and particularly preferably,
60/40 or less.
[0052]
          The mixing ratio of the antibiotic compound relative to 100 parts by mass of the
polymerizable vinyl monomer is, for example, 1 part by mass or more, preferably, 10 part by
mass or more, more preferably, 20 parts by mass or more, and for example, 900 parts by mass or
less, preferably, 300 parts by mass or less, more preferably, 200 parts by mass or less, even more
preferably, 150 parts by mass or less.
[0053]
          The oil phase component has an antibiotic compound content of, for example, 1 mass%
or more, preferably, 10 mass% or more, and for example, 90 mass% or less, preferably, 80
mass% or less, more preferably, 70 mass% or less, more preferably, 60 mass% or less.
[0054]
          In the above-described dispersion, as necessary, a dispersing agent (a first dispersing
agent) can be blended.    Examples of the dispersing agent include an amphiphilic polymer
dispersing agent and non ionic surfactant (first surfactant).
                                                  19

                                                                                     No.1- 14F052
 [0055]
          Examples of the amphiphilic polymer dispersing agent include non ionic amphiphilic
polymer dispersing agent such as EFKA4008 and EFKA4009 (urethane-based polymer
 dispersing agent manufactured by Ciba Specialty Chemicals), DISPERBYK-2164 and
DISPERBYK-164 (pigment dispersing functional group-modified copolymer manufactured by
BYK Japan KK), NUOSPERSE2008, NUOSPERSE FA-196, and NUOSPERSE657
(manufactured by Elementis plc), FlOWLEN D-90, POLYFLOW KL-100, POLYFLOW KL
700 (manufactured by Kyoeisha Chemical Co., Ltd.), and HOMOGENOL L-95 (manufactured
by Kao Corporation).      The examples of the amphiphilic polymer dispersing agent also include
anionic amphiphilic polymer dispersing agent such as FlOWLEN G-900 (carboxyl group
modified polymer manufactured by IKyoeisha Chemical Co., Ltd.), DISPARLON DA-234,
DISPARLON DA-325, DISPARLON DA-375, DISPARLON DA-550, and DISPARLON AQ
330 (polyether phosphate manufactured by Kusumoto Chemicals, Ltd.).          Furthermore,
examples of the amphiphilic polymer dispersing agent include cationic amphiphilic polymer
dispersing agent such as NOPCOSPERSE 092 (manufactured by San Nopco Limited).
[0056]
          Examples of the non ionic surfactant include Amorgen CBH (alkylbetaine), Amorgen
SH (alkylamidebetaine), NOIGEN lOE (polyoxyethylene oleyl ether), NOIGEN EA73
(polyoxyethylenedodecylphenylether), NOIGEN ES99(monooleic acid polyethylene glycol),
Dianol CME (palm oil fatty acid monoethanolamide), Dianol 300 (palm oil fatty acid
monoethanoldiamide), Solgen 30 (sorbitan sesquioleate), Solgen 40 (sorbitan monooleate),
Solgen 50 (sorbitan monostearate), Epan 420 (polyoxyethylenepolyoxypropylene glycol), and
Epan 720 (polyoxyethylenepolyoxypropylene glycol)(all manufactured by Kao Corporation).
[0057]
          For the dispersing agent, preferably, the amphiphilic polymer dispersing agent is used,
more preferably, non ionic amphiphilic polymer dispersing agent and anionic amphiphilic
polymer dispersing agent are used, even more preferably, non ionic amphiphilic polymer
dispersing agent is used, particularly preferably, pigment dispersing functional group-modified
copolymer dispersing agent and urethane-based polymer dispersing agent are used.
                                                  20

                                                                                       No.1-14F052
 [0058]
          The mixing ratio of the dispersing agent relative to the antibiotic compound is, for
 example, 0.1 mass% or more, preferably, 1 mass% or more, and for example, 40 mass% or less,
preferably, 20 mass% or less.
 [0059]
          The antibiotic compound in the oil phase component has an average particle size of, for
example, 5 tm or less, preferably, 2.5 [im or less, and for example, 0.05 Vm or more, preferably,
0.1   m or more.
 [0060]
          In this method, for example, at the same time with the preparation of the hydrophobic
slurry, or after the preparation of the hydrophobic slurry, a polymerization initiator is blended.
Preferably, after the preparation of the hydrophobic slurry, the polymerization initiator is
blended in the prepared hydrophobic slurry.      In such a case, the polymerizable vinyl monomer
can be dividedly blended in the antibiotic compound, to be specific, a portion of the
polymerizable vinyl monomer can be blended in the antibiotic compound to prepare the
hydrophobic slurry, and then a polymerization initiator can be dissolved in the remaining portion
of the polymerizable vinyl monomer, and then the mixture is blended in the prepared
hydrophobic slurry.     In this manner, an oil phase component containing a polymerization
initiator and a hydrophobic slurry is prepared.
[0061]
          For the polymerization initiator, a radical polymerization initiator generally used in
suspension polymerization is used, and to be specific, an oil-soluble polymerization initiator is
used.
[0062]
          Examples of the oil-soluble polymerization initiator include oil-soluble organic peroxide
such as dilauroyl peroxide, 1,1,3,3-tetramethylbutylperoxy-2-ethylhexanoate, t-hexylperoxy-2
ethylhexanoate, diisopropylperoxydicarbonate, and benzoyl peroxide, and oil-soluble azo
compounds such as 2,2'-azobisisobutyronitrile, 2,2'-azobis(2,4-dimethylvaleronitrile), and 2,2'
azobis(2-methylbutyronitrile).    Preferably, dilauroyl peroxide, t-hexylperoxy-2-ethylhexanoate,
                                                   21

                                                                                       No.1- 14F052
 and 2,2'-azobisisobutyronitrile are used.
 [0063]
           The polymerization initiator can be used singly or in combination of two or more.
 [0064]
           The mixing ratio of the polymerization initiator relative to 100 parts by mass of the
polymerizable vinyl monomer is, for example, 0.01 parts by mass or more, preferably, 0.1 parts
by mass or more, more preferably, 0.5 parts by mass or more, and for example, 5 parts by mass
or less, preferably, 3 parts by mass or less, more preferably, 1.0 part by mass or less.   When the
mixing ratio of the polymerization initiator is more than the above-described upper limit, the
molecular weight of the polymer may be reduced excessively, and when the mixing ratio of the
polymerization initiator is below the above-described lower limit, the conversion rate does not
improve sufficiently, and unreacted polymerizable vinyl monomer may remain a several % or
more.
[0065]
(Water dispersion step)
          Then, the above-described oil phase component is dispersed (suspended) in water.
[0066]
          That is, the oil phase component and water are blended and stirred homogeneously,
thereby dispersing (suspending) the oil phase component in water.        A dispersion (suspension)
of the oil phase component in water is produced in this manner.
[0067]
          Conditions for the dispersion in water are not particularly limited.   For example, the
dispersion in water may be performed at normal temperature, or can be performed by heating.
[0068]
          In dispersion of the oil phase component in water, preferably, a dispersing agent (second
dispersing agent) and a surfactant (second surfactant) are blended.
[0069]
          Examples of the dispersing agent (second dispersing agent) include water-soluble
polymers such as polyvinyl alcohol (PVA), polyvinyl pyrrolidone, gelatin, gum arabic,
                                                 22

                                                                                      No. -14F052
hydroxyethyl cellulose, hydroxypropyl cellulose, carboxymethyl cellulose, cationic starch,
polyacrylic acid and its sodium salt, a styrene maleic acid copolymer and its sodium salt; and
inorganic dispersing agents such as tribasic calcium phosphate, colloidal silica, montmorillonite,
magnesium carbonate, aluminum hydroxide, and zinc white.
 [0070]
         Of the dispersing agent, preferably, polyvinylalcohol(PVA)and tribasic calcium
phosphate are used.    Even more preferably, polyvinylalcohol(PVA) is used.
[0071]
         The mixing ratio of the dispersing agent relative to 100 parts by mass of the oil phase
component is, for example, 0.01 parts by mass or more, preferably 0.1 parts by mass or more,
more preferably I part by mass or more, and for example, 10 parts by mass or less, preferably, 5
parts by mass or less.
[00721
         The surfactant (second surfactant) is used to effectively prevent particle coagulation
during radical polymerization, preferably, in combination with the above-described dispersing
agent (second dispersing agent), and examples thereof include anionic surfactants such as
sodium dodecylbenzene sulphonate, sodium lauryl sulfate, sodium di-2-ethylhexyl
sulfosuccinate, sodium dodecyl diphenyl ether disulphonate, sodium nonyl diphenyl ether
sulfonate, and a salt of a condensate of aromatic sulfonic acid and formaldehyde; and non ionic
surfactants such as polyoxyethylene lauryl ether, polyoxyethylene nonyl phenyl ether,
polyoxyethylene monostearate, polyoxyethylene sorbitan monooleate, and a polyoxyethylene
polyoxypropylene block copolymer.       Preferably, a non ionic surfactant and an anionic
surfactant, more preferably, a polyoxyethylene polyoxypropylene block copolymer and a salt of
a condensate of aromatic sulfonic acid and formaldehyde are used.
[0073]
         The mixing ratio of the surfactant relative to 100 parts by mass of the oil phase
component is, for example, 0.0001 parts by mass or more, preferably, 0.001 parts by mass or
more, and for example, 1.0 part by mass or less, preferably 0.1 parts by mass or less.
[00741
                                                 23

                                                                                     No.1- 14F052
         The dispersing agent, or the dispersing agent and surfactant can be blended, for example,
 before or after blending the oil phase component in water, and preferably, blended in water
before blending the oil phase component.       An aqueous solution of dispersing agent or an
 aqueous solution of dispersing agent and surfactant are prepared in this manner.
 [0075]
          In the above-described dispersion (suspension) of the oil phase component in water, for
example, dispersers such as a homomixer (Homo Mixer), an ultrasonic homogenizer, a pressure
homogenizer, Milder, and porous membrane injection disperser are used, and preferably, a
homomixer is used.
[0076]
         The conditions for water dispersion are set suitably, and when Homo Mixer is used, the
number of revolution is set to, for example, 100 rpm or more, preferably 1000 rpm or more, and
for example, 10000 rpm or less, for example, 8000 rpm or less.
[0077]
         An aqueous dispersion in which the oil phase component is dispersed in an aqueous
phase is prepared in this manner.
[0078]
         When the dispersing agent (second dispersing agent), or the dispersing agent and
surfactant is/are blended in the aqueous dispersion, the dispersing agent or the dispersing agent
and surfactant stabilize droplets of the oil phase component in the aqueous dispersion more.
[0079]
         The mixing ratio of the water (or aqueous solution) relative to 100 parts by mass of the
oil phase component is adjusted to be, for example, 50 parts by mass or more, preferably, 100
parts by mass or more, more preferably, 150 parts by mass or more, and for example, 1900 parts
by mass or less, preferably, 900 parts by mass or less, more preferably, 400 paits by mass or less.
[0080]
(Polymerization step)
         In the polymerization step, the polymerizable vinyl monomer is subjected to suspension
polymerization, thereby producing a polymer.       To subject the polymerizable vinyl monomer to
                                                  24

                                                                                      No.1-14F052
 suspension polymerization, the temperature of the aqueous dispersion is increased to a
 predetermined temperature.      In suspension polymerization, the polymerizable vinyl monomer is
 allowed to react (to be specific, radical polymerization) while stirring the aqueous dispersion so
 as to maintain the water dispersed state of the aqueous dispersion, thereby producing a polymer
 of the polymerizable vinyl monomer.       The suspension polymerization is an in situ
polymerization, because all of the polymerizable vinyl monomer that is going to be a polymer is
in water dispersion particles (hydrophobic liquid phase).
 [0081]
           To be specific, in suspension polymerization, by heating the aqueous dispersion while
stirring, the polymerizable vinyl monomer starts to polymerize as is in the water dispersion
particles, thereby producing a polymer.
 [0082]
           The stirring can be performed, for example, with a stirrer having an impeller.  The
stirring can be performed so that the circumferential speed of the impeller is, for example, 10
m/min or more, preferably, 20 m/min or more, and 400 m/min or less, preferably 200 m/min or
less.
[0083]
          The aqueous dispersion is heated so that its temperature is, for example, 40'C or more,
preferably, 50 C or more, more preferably, 60'C or more, and for example, 100 C or less,
preferably, 90'C or less, more preferably, 80'C or less.
[0084]
          Then, suspension polymerization progresses while the antibiotic compound is in non
miscible state with the polymer.
[0085]
          The heating time is, for example, 2 hours or more, preferably, 3 hours or more, and for
example, 12 hours or less, preferably, 8 hours or less.   Furthermore, the heating can also be
carried out in stages: after heating to a predetermined temperature, the temperature is kept for a
predetermined time period, and thereafter, the heating and the temperature keeping is repeated.
[0086]
                                                  25

                                                                                      No.1-14F052
          In suspension polymerization, the antibiotic compound is substantially insoluble to the
 polymerizable vinyl monomer, and the antibiotic compound maintains the non-miscible state to
 the polymerizable vinyl monomer and/or polymer from the start of polymerization to after
 polymerization.
 [0087]
          Thereafter, the aqueous dispersion after polymerization is cooled, for example, by
 allowing the aqueous dispersion after polymerization to stand to cool and filtering with filter
 cloth of 100 mesh, and an aqueous dispersion (suspension) of controlled release particles is
obtained.
 [0088]
          The cooling temperature is, for example, room temperature (20 to 30'C, to be more
specific, 25'C).
 [0089]
          The produced controlled release particles have an antibiotic compound concentration of,
for example, 1 mass% or more, preferably, 5 mass% or more, more preferably, 10 mass% or
more, and for example, 50 mass% or less, preferably, 40 mass% or less, more preferably, 35
mass% or less.
 [0090]
          The controlled release particles content in the suspension is determined by the blending
amounts of the oil phase component and the water (or aqueous solution) in which it is dispersed,
to be specific, for example, 10 mass% or more, preferably, 20 mass% or more, and for example,
50 mass% or less, preferably, 40 mass% or less.
 [0091]
          The controlled release particles have an average particle size of, for example, 1 [tm or
more, preferably, 2 [tm or more, and for example, 20 mm or less, preferably, 10 mm or less.
The average particle size is calculated as median size/diameter.
 [0092]
          The controlled release particles produced by the above-described method for producing
controlled release particles have a two-phase structure formed from a matrix and a domain
                                                  26

                                                                                        No.1-14F052
 dispersed in the matrix, both to be described later.
 [0093]
          As necessary, known additives such as other dispersing agents, a thickening agent, an
antifreezing agent, an antiseptic, a microbial growth inhibitor, and a specific gravity adjuster can
be added suitably to the aqueous dispersion (suspension) containing the controlled release
particles produced by the above-described production method.
 [0094]
          The thus produced controlled release particles may be used as is (suspension), that is,
may be used as a suspending agent.       Alternatively, the thus produced controlled release
particles may be spray-dried and directly used as a powder formulation.        Alternatively, the thus
produced controlled release particles may be formulated into a known form such as powder
formulation or granular formulation, subjecting to solid-liquid separation by, for example,
centrifugal separation and filter pressing, and as necessary, after washing, for example, dried by,
for example, fluid bed drying and shelf drying, and as necessary, crushed with, for example,
atomizer and feather mill, and classified with a vibrating sieve.
[0095]
          To formulate the controlled release particles into powder formulation, for example, the
suspension of the controlled release particles is blended with a solid carrier and the mixture is
stirred, and thereafter, the mixture is dried (powder formulation step).     That is, the method for
producing controlled release particles can further include, in addition to the oil phase component
preparation step, water dispersion step, and polymerization step, a powder formulation step.
[0096]
          Examples of the solid carrier include pumice, bentonite, clay, kaolin, tale, acid clay,
zeolite, vermiculite, pearlite, calcium carbonate, and silica sand.    For the solid carrier,
preferably, pumice is used.     For the solid carrier, a commercially available product can be used.
To be specific, KAGALITE series products (fine grain of natural pumice, manufactured by
KAGALITE KOGYO CO., LTD.) are used.               The solid carrier has an average particle size of,
for example, 100 pm or more, preferably, 300 ptm or more, and for example, 5.00 mm or less,
preferably, 2.00 mm or less.
                                                   27

                                                                                         No.1- 14F052
 [0097]
           In the powder formulation step, the mixing ratio of the suspension of the controlled
 release particles is adjusted such that the produced powder formulation (solid carrier and
 controlled release particles) has an antibiotic compound concentration of, for example, 0.01
 mass% or more, preferably, 0.05 mass% or more, and for example, 2 mass% or less, preferably,
 1 mass% or less.     To be specific, the mixing ratio of the suspension (including water) of the
 controlled release particles relative to 100 parts by mass of the solid carrier is, for example, 0.01
parts by mass or more, preferably, 0.05 parts by mass or more, more preferably, 0.1 parts by
mass or more, even more preferably, 0.2 parts by mass or more, and for example, 10 parts by
mass or less, preferably, 5 parts by mass or less.
 [0098]
<Effects of controlled release particles of the first invention group>
           The controlled release particles of the first invention group are produced by a
production method including an oil phase component preparation step in which an oil phase
component containing a hydrophobic slurry is prepared by dispersing, in a hydrophobic
polymerizable vinyl monomer, an antibiotic compound that is hydrophobic and is substantially
insoluble to the hydrophobic polymerizable vinyl monomer without the presence of a solvent, a
water dispersion step in which the oil phase component is dispersed in water to prepare an
aqueous dispersion, and a polymerization step in which the polymerizable vinyl monomer is
subjected to suspension polymerization to produce a polymer, and therefore durable controlled
release particles with excellent controlled release properties can be produced.
[0099]
           However, the microcapsule produced by the method described in Patent Document 1 is
produced only by interfacial polymerization, and the disperse medium (solvent) remains in the
microcapsule.      Therefore, its surface hardness may be insufficient.    As a result, when the
dispersion liquid of the microcapsule undergoes a step in which a high shearing force is applied
or is stored for a long period of time, the microcapsule may coagulate and redispersion may be
difficult.
 [0100]
                                                    28

                                                                                       No.1- 14F052
           Furthermore, because of insufficient surface hardness of the microcapsule, the
microcapsule easily undergoes blocking, and it may become difficult to take out the
microcapsule as dried particles.
 [0101]
           Meanwhile, the controlled release particles of the first invention group are produced by
a production method including an oil phase component preparation step in which an oil phase
component containing a hydrophobic slurry is prepared by dispersing, in a hydrophobic
polymerizable vinyl monomer, an antibiotic compound that is hydrophobic and is substantially
insoluble to the hydrophobic polymerizable vinyl monomer without the presence of a solvent, a
water dispersion step in which the oil phase component is dispersed in water to prepare an
aqueous dispersion, and a polymerization step in which the polymerizable vinyl monomer is
subjected to suspension polymerization to produce a polymer, and therefore the above-described
interfacial reduction in surface hardness of the controlled release particles, caused by the
presence of solvent in polymerization, is prevented, durable controlled release particles can be
produced, and the produced controlled release particles can be redispersed excellently and has
excellent resistance to blocking.
[0102]
          With the method for producing controlled release particles, the controlled release
particles that are durable, and are excellent in redispersiveness and resistance to blocking can be
produced.
[0103]
             Such controlled release particles can be applied to various industrial products, and
can be added to, for example, indoor/outdoor paint, rubber, fiber, resin (including plastic),
adhesive, joint mixture, sealing agent, building material, caulking agent, wood treatment agent,
soil treating agent, white water in paper-making processes, pigment, treatment liquid for printing
plates, cooling water, ink, cutting oil, cosmetic products, nonwoven fabric, spinning oil, and
leather.    The amount of the antibiotic compound added in the controlled release particles for
these industrial products is, for example, 10 mg/kg to 100 g/kg (product weight).
[0104]
                                                   29

                                                                                        No.1- 14F052
          Next, description is given below of an embodiment in which the powder formulation
 formulated from the controlled release particles is blended with the thermoplastic resin.
 [0105]
          In this method, first, the suspension of the controlled release particles is dried and
 formulated into powder formulation.
 [0106]
          Then, the powder formulation and thermoplastic resin are melt-kneaded, thereby
preparing a kneaded material.
 [0107]
          To prepare the kneaded material, for example, to be specific, an extruder or Banbury
mixer is used. Examples of the extruder include biaxial extruder and uniaxial extruder.          The
kneaded material is a molding material for molding a molded article.       To be specific, the
kneaded material is cooled once and prepared as a pelletized molding material (kneaded material
pellet, or master batch).   In contrast, the kneaded material can be continuously subjected to
molding to be described later as is in the melted state without taking out as a solid molding
material (melt-kneaded material).
 [0108]
          The powder formulation is blended with the thermoplastic resin so that the antibiotic
compound content relative to the thermoplastic resin is, for example, 0.01 mass% or more,
preferably, 0.1 mass% or more, and for example, 10 mass% or less, preferably, 3 mass% or less.
However, when the kneaded material is prepared as master batch, the above does not apply.          To
be specific, the powder formulation is blended with the thermoplastic resin so that the antibiotic
compound content relative to the thermoplastic resin is, for example, 1 mass% or more,
preferably, 5 mass% or more, and for example, 50 mass% or less, preferably, 30 mass% or less,
thereby producing a master batch.
 [0109]
          The thermoplastic resin is not particularly limited, and examples thereof include
polyolefin resins such as polyethylene and polypropylene; polystyrene and/or polyacrylic resin
such as polystyrene, or polymethyl methacrylate, acrylonitrile-styrene copolymer resin (AS
                                                  30

                                                                                       No.1- 14F052
resin), methyl methacrylate-styrene copolymer (MS resin), and acrylonitrile-styrene-butadiene
copolymer resin (ABS resin); polyester resins such as polyethylene terephthalate and polylactic
acid; polyamide resins such as 6-nylon; vinyl halide resins such as vinyl chloride resin and
vinylidene chloride resin; polycarbonate; polyphenylene ether; polyacetal; and thermoplastic
polyurethane.      The thermoplastic resin can be used singly, or can be used in combination.
Preferably, polyolefin resin, vinyl chloride resin, thermoplastic polyurethane, more preferably,
polyolefin resin, vinyl chloride resin, even more preferably, polyethylene and polypropylene are
used.
[0110]
          Then, the kneaded material pellet, or the melt-kneaded material is molded into a molded
article.
[0111]
          For the molding method, for example, injection molding, extrusion molding, inflation
molding, pultrusion molding, and compression molding are used.
[0112]
          In this manner, a molded article molded into a predetermined shape and to which
powder formulation (controlled release particles) is added is produced.
[0113]
          In the description above, powder formulation formulated from the controlled release
particles is added to the thermoplastic resin.   However, it is not particularly limited as long as it
is resin, and for example, it can be added to the thermosetting resin.
[01141
          In particular, the powder formulation can be suitably added to a resin such as epoxy
resin and silicone resin in liquid state.
[0115]
           Such a molded article is used in various use, and is used as, for example, building
material; for example, electric wire cable material and covering material for the electric wire
cable; for example, pipes for gas and a covering material for the pipe; and for example, textile
goods such as garments and a mosquito net.
                                                  31

                                                                                        No.1- 14F052
 [0116]
<Effects of molded article of the first invention group>
          In such a molded article, the controlled release particles of powder formulation have a
durable two-phase structure formed from the matrix and the domain, are not damaged when the
powder formulation is kmeaded and molded, and are dispersed in the molded article or localized
on the surface.   In a molded article to which the above-described powder formulation is added,
the antibiotic compound is released excellently with control.       In other words, the above
described molding material contains the above-described controlled release particles, and
therefore the above-described controlled release particles are dispersed in the above-described
molded article localized on the surface, and can provide excellent controlled release of the
antibiotic compound to the molded article.
[0117]
          Furthermore, by forming controlled release particles into beads having a diameter of 1
mm to 20 mm, and by setting/providing/fixing the beads in a distribution channel of fluid (gas
and liquid), antibiotic effects such as sterilization can be given to the passing fluid steadily.
[0118]
          The controlled release particles produced by the above-described method for producing
controlled release particles include, to be specific, the controlled release particles of the first
embodiment and the second embodiment to be described next.
[0119]
[First embodiment]
          The controlled release particles in the first embodiment are described with reference to
FIG. Al.
[0120]
          As shown in the cross-sectional view of FIG. Al, controlled release particles 1 are
formed, for example, as spherical particles.      The controlled release particles 1 have a two-phase
structure formed from a matrix 2, and a domain 3 dispersed in the matrix 2.        The matrix 2 is
made of a polymer produced from the above-described polymerizable vinyl monomer.               The
domain 3 is made of the above-described antibiotic compound.
                                                    32

                                                                                          No.1- 14F052
 [0121]
           To be specific, in the controlled release particles 1, the matrix 2 forms a medium or a
 continuous phase, and a multidomain structure or a sea-island structure (or polynuclear structure)
 in which a plurality of domains 3 are scattered in isolation is formed.     Furthermore, in the
 controlled release particles 1, the matrix 2 and the domain 3 are immiscible to each other, and
form a phase separation structure separating from each other.
 [0122]
           The matrix 2 is in a region other than the domain 3 in the controlled release particles 1,
and is formed into a shape that complements domain 3.
 [0123]
           The plurality of domains 3 form a dispersion phase in the matrix 2.      The shape of the
domain 3 is not particularly limited, and is formed, for example, suitably into a shape such as an
amorphous shape, spherical, bulk shape, and plate shape.        The domain 3 has an average
maximum length of, for example, 0.05 [tm or more, preferably, 0.1 jim or more, and for example,
20 ptm or less, preferably, 10 jim or less.
[0124]
           Furthermore, the domain 3 includes a projection 4 that projects from the inside to the
outside of the matrix 2.    The projection 4 is exposed from the surface of the matrix 2.       In this
manner, at the surface of the controlled release particles 1, both of the matrix 2 and the domain 3
are exposed.     The projection 4 includes an embedded portion 8 embedded in the outer layer
portion of the matrix 2.    The projection 4 functions to increase the initial controlled-release
speed of the antibiotic compound of the controlled release particles 1, and to significantly
increase resistance to blocking of the controlled release particles 1.     The exposure percentage
(that is, exposure percentage of the domain 3) of the projection 4 relative to the entire surface of
the matrix 2 is, relative to the entire surface of the controlled release particles 1, for example,
0.1% or more, preferably, 1% or more, and for example, 50% or less, preferably, 30% or less.
The exposure percentage of the matrix 2 is obtained by deducting the exposure percentage of the
projection 4 from the entire surface of the controlled release particles 1.
[0125]
                                                    33

                                                                                       No.1-14F052
          The surface of the controlled release particles 1 has a hole 6, which is formed by a
portion of the domain 3 eliminated (fell off) from the matrix 2.      The hole 6 is formed so as to
correspond to the shape of the antibiotic compound forming the domain 3.
 [0126]
         To produce the controlled release particles 1, in the above-described production method
of the controlled release particles 1, particularly in the oil phase component preparation step,
(meth)acrylate monomer and (meth)acrylate crosslinkable monomer are not used as the
polymerizable vinyl monomer, and in the water dispersion step, preferably, a salt of a condensate
of aromatic sulfonic acid and formaldehyde is not blended as the surfactant (second surfactant).
[0127]
         In the oil phase component preparation step, for the polymerizable vinyl monomer,
preferably, a combination of an aromatic vinyl monomer and an aromatic crosslinkable monomer
is used.
[0128]
         When the polymerizable vinyl monomer is a combination of the aromatic vinyl
monomer and the aromatic crosslinkable monomer, the aromatic vinyl monomer content relative
to 100 parts by mass of a total amount of the aromatic vinyl monomer and the aromatic
crosslinkable monomer is, for example, 10 parts by mass or more, preferably, 20 parts by mass
or more, more preferably, 30 parts by mass or more, and for example, 90 parts by mass or less,
preferably, 80 parts by mass or less, more preferably, 70 parts by mass or less.
[0129]
         In the water dispersion step, a salt of a condensate of aromatic sulfonic acid and
formaldehyde is not blended as the surfactant (second surfactant), but preferably, a dispersing
agent (second dispersing agent) is blended.
[0130]
<Effects of first embodiment>
         In the method for producing controlled release particles for producing the controlled
release particles in the first embodiment, in the oil phase component preparation step,
(meth)acrylate monomer and (meth)acrylate crosslinkable monomer are not used as the
                                                   34

                                                                                          No.1-14F052
polymerizable vinyl monomer, and in the water dispersion step, a salt of a condensate of
 aromatic sulfonic acid and formaldehyde is not blended, and then in the polymerization step, the
 above-described polymerizable vinyl monomer is subjected to suspension polymerization, and
therefore the projection 4 can be formed reliably.
 [0131]
          On the surface of the controlled release particles 1, both of the matrix 2 and the domain
3 are exposed.      In particular, on the surface of the controlled release particles 1, the antibiotic
compound is exposed so as to protrude to the outside, thereby forming the projection 4.           The
controlled release particles 1 have a two-phase structure formed from the matrix 2 and the
domain 3, and do not have a shell.
[0132]
          Furthermore, in the controlled release particles 1, the projection 4 is exposed from the
matrix 2, and therefore the projection 4 allows for more improvement in resistance to blocking.
[0133]
          Furthermore, in the controlled release particles 1, the antibiotic compound forming the
exposed projection 4 can start controlled release from the initial period, and when the projection
4 falls off, the initial controlled-release speed of the antibiotic compound accelerates furthermore,
and therefore the initial controlled-release speed of the antibiotic compound can be made faster
to adjust the controlled-release speed of the antibiotic compound.
[0134]
          As shown in FIG. Al, the controlled release particles 1 have a two-phase structure
formed from a matrix 2 made of a polymer and a domain 3 made of an antibiotic compound and
dispersed in the matrix 2, and therefore the antibiotic compound has excellent controlled release
properties and excellent durability.      Therefore, the controlled release particles can be
excellently kmeaded with resin as described above.
[0135]
[Second embodiment]
          The controlled release particles in the second embodiment are described with reference
to FIG. A2.
                                                    35

                                                                                       No. - 14F052
 [0136]
          As shown in the cross-sectional view of FIG. A2, on the surface of the controlled
release particle 1, the domain 3 is not exposed, and all of the domains 3 are enclosed in the
matrix 2.    That is, in the controlled release particles 1, the antibiotic compound that forms the
domain 3 is covered and protected by the matrix 2.
[0137]
          On the surface of the matrix 2 of the controlled release particles 1, for example, the
antibiotic compound is attached.      To be specific, an attachment 5 made of the antibiotic
compound is attached so as to cover entirely or portion of the entire surface of the matrix 2.
The attachment 5 is different from the projection 4 of the controlled release particles 1 (ref: FIG.
Al) of the first embodiment, does not have the embedded portion 8, and is in contact with the
surface of the matrix 2.     The shape of the attachment 5 is not particularly limited, and for
example, suitably formed into a shape such as an amorphous shape, spherical, bulk shape, and
plate shape.   In particular, the internal face (contact face making contact with the surface of the
matrix 2) of the attachment 5 has a concave surface corresponding to the surface (spherical
surface) of the matrix 2, to be specific, has a bent surface sunken externally.    The attachment 5
has the same size as that of the domain 3 or smaller, relative to the average value of the
maximum length of the domain 3, for example, 100% or less, preferably, 50% or less, and for
example, 0.01% or more, and to be specific, the average value of the maximum length of the
attachment 5 is, for example, 10 tm or less, preferably, 5 [m or less, for example, 0.05 pim or
more, preferably, 0.1 [m or more.       The covering percentage of the attachment 5 relative to the
entire surface of the matrix 2 is, for example, 10% or more, preferably, 20% or more, and for
example, 100% or less, preferably, 90% or less.
[0138]
          To produce the controlled release particles 1, in the water dispersion step of the above
described production method of the controlled release particles 1, a salt of a condensate of
aromatic sulfonic acid and formaldehyde is blended as a surfactant (second surfactant), and/or in
the oil phase component preparation step, (meth)acrylate monomer and (meth)acrylate
crosslinkable monomer are blended as the polymerizable vinyl monomer.
                                                   36

                                                                                       No.1-14F052
 [01391
          The second surfactant is preferably used in combination with the above-described
second dispersing agent.
 [0140]
          Examples of the aromatic sulfonic acid include benzene sulfonic acid, toluene sulfonic
acid, cumene sulfonic acid, and naphthalene sulfonic acid.      Preferably, naphthalene sulfonic
acids such as a-naphthalene sulfonic acid and p-naphthalene sulfonic acid are used.
[0141]
          For cation forming the salt, for example, monovalent cation is used.     Examples of the
monovalent cation include alkali metal cation such as sodium cation and potassium cation, and
ammonium cation.       Preferably, alkali metal cation is used.
[0142]
          Examples of the salt of a condensate of aromatic sulfonic acid and formaldehyde
include, to be specific, a salt of a condensate of naphthalene sulfonic acid and formaldehyde
(naphthalene sulfonic acid formaldehyde condensate sodium salt).        For the salt of a condensate
of aromatic sulfonic acid and formaldehyde, a commercially available product can be used, to be
specific, DEMOL NL (0- naphthalene sulfonic acid formaldehyde condensate sodium salt, 41%
aqueous solution, manufactured by Kao Corporation) may be used.
[0143]
          The mixing ratio of the salt of a condensate of aromatic sulfonic acid and formaldehyde
relative to 100 parts by mass of the hydrophobic slurry is, for example, 0.0001 parts by mass or
more, preferably, 0.001 parts by mass or more, and for example, 1.0 part by mass or less,
preferably, 0.2 parts by mass or less, more preferably, 0.1 parts by mass or less.
[0144]
          The polymerizable vinyl monomer has a (meth)acrylate crosslinkable monomer content
of, for example, 10 mass% or more, preferably, 30 mass% or more, and for example, 100 mass%
or less.
[0145]
          Because the polymerizable vinyl monomer contains the (meth)acrylate monomer and
                                                  37

                                                                                       No.1-14F052
 (meth)acrylate crosslinkable monomer, the polymer has a crosslinking structure, in which the
polymer of the (meth)acrylate monomer is crosslinked by the (meth)acrylate-based crosslinkable
monomer or its polymer.
 [0146]
 <Effects of second embodiment>
          In the method for producing controlled release particles for producing the controlled
release particles in the second embodiment, in the water dispersion step, a salt of a condensate of
aromatic sulfonic acid and formaldehyde is blended, and/or in the oil phase component
preparation step, (meth)acrylate monomer and (meth)acrylate crosslinkable monomer are used as
the polymerizable vinyl monomer, and in the polymerization step, (meth)acrylate monomer and
(meth)acrylate crosslinkable monomer are subjected to suspension polymerization.          Therefore,
exposure of the domain 3 made of an antibiotic compound on the surface of the controlled
release particles 1 can be suppressed (ref: FIG. Al).   That is, as shown in FIG. A2, the domain
3 can be covered with and protected by the matrix 2.
[0147]
          Furthermore, in the polymerization step, when the polymerizable vinyl monomer is
subjected to suspension polymerization in the presence of a salt of a condensate of naphthalene
sulfonic acid and formaldehyde (preferably, naphthalenesulfonic acid sodium salt), the interface
between the suspension polymer and water continuous phase in the polymerization step is more
stabilized, and therefore leakage of the antibiotic compound to the outside of the controlled
release particles can be suppressed.   As a result, based on the ratio of the salt of a condensate of
naphthalene sulfonic acid and formaldehyde, controlled release properties of the antibiotic
compound in the controlled release particles can be adjusted.
[0148]
          Furthermore, in the polymerization step, when (meth)acrylate monomer and
(meth)acrylate crosslinkable monomer are subjected to suspension polymerization, and the
antibiotic compound particles are dispersed and stabilized in the oil phase, and therefore leakage
of the antibiotic compound to outside the controlled release particles can be suppressed.     As a
result, by using the (meth)acrylate monomer and (meth)acrylate crosslinkable monomer as the
                                                  38

                                                                                         No.1-14F052
polymerizable vinyl monomer, controlled release properties of the antibiotic compound in the
 controlled release particles can be adjusted.
 [0149]
          To be specific, in the controlled release particles produced by the above-described
method for producing controlled release particles including the water dispersion step, as shown
in FIG. A2, the domain 3 can be covered with the matrix 2, and the attachment 5 can be allowed
to adhere to the surface of the matrix 2.    Therefore, the controlled release particles 1 of the
second embodiment are excellent in resistance to blocking based on the attachment 5.
Furthermore, with the attachment 5, the initial controlled-release speed of the antibiotic
compound can be made faster, and the controlled-release speed of the antibiotic compound can
be adjusted.
[0150]
          Then, as shown in FIG. A2, in the second embodiment, although the attachment 5 is
attached to the surface of the matrix 2, the domain 3 is covered with the matrix 2, and therefore
compared with the controlled release particles 1 (ref: FIG. Al) including the projection 4 of the
first embodiment, alkali-resistance is excellent.     That is, with the controlled release particles 1
of the second embodiment, compared with the controlled release particles 1 of the first
embodiment, even if it is stored in an alkaline aqueous solution, it can suppress reduction in the
antibiotic compound concentration based on the projection 4 in the controlled release particles.
[0151]
<Modified example of second embodiment>
          As shown in FIG. A3, the entire surface of the matrix 2 can be exposed without
attaching the attachment 5 to the surface of the matrix 2.
[0152]
[Second invention group]
<Description of method for producing controlled release particles>
          The method for producing controlled release particles of the second invention group is
described.
[0153]
                                                   39

                                                                                        No.1-14F052
         A production method of controlled release particles includes an oil phase component
preparation step in which an oil phase component containing a hydrophobic slurry is prepared by
dispersing, in a hydrophobic polymerizable vinyl monomer, an antibiotic compound that is
hydrophobic and is substantially insoluble to the hydrophobic polymerizable vinyl monomer
without the presence of a solvent, a water dispersion step in which the oil phase component is
dispersed in water to prepare an aqueous dispersion, and a polymerization step in which the
polymerizable vinyl monomer is subjected to suspension polymerization to produce a polymer.
In the method for producing controlled release particles, in any of at least one step of the oil
phase component preparation step, water dispersion step, and polymerization step, a hydrophobic
shell-forming component and a hydrophilic-shell forming component are blended.
[0154]
         In the method for producing controlled release particles, preferably, in the oil phase
component preparation step, a hydrophobic slurry is prepared by dispersing the antibiotic
compound in a polymerizable vinyl monomer, and then the hydrophobic slurry and a
hydrophobic shell-forming component are blended, thereby preparing an oil phase component
containing the hydrophobic slurry and the hydrophobic shell-forming component.            Furthermore,
in the method for producing controlled release particles, preferably, in any of at least one step of
the water dispersion step and the polymerization step, hydrophilic shell-forming component are
blended, more preferably, in the polymerization step, the hydrophilic shell-forming component is
blended.
[0155]
         In the following, the above-described antibiotic compound, polymerizable vinyl
monomer, hydrophobic shell-forming component and hydrophilic-shell forming component are
described in sequence.
[0156]
(Antibiotic compound)
         The antibiotic compound is selected from, for example, an insecticide (including
formicide), an insect repellent (including anti-termite agent), a sterilizer, an antibacterial agent,
an antiseptic, a herbicide, an antialgae, a fungicide, an attractant, a repellent, and a rodenticide,
                                                   40

                                                                                          No.1- 14F052
 having antibiotic activity such as, for example, insecticidal (including formicide), insect repellent
 (including anti-termite), sterilization, antibacterial, antiseptic, herbicidal, antialgae, and
 fungicidal activities.
 [0157]
           To be specific, examples of the antibiotic compound include the following.         Examples
 of insecticides include neonicotinoid-based insecticides such as clothianidin ((E)-1 -(2
 chlorothiazole-5-ylmethyl)-3-methyl-2-nitroguanidine), imidacloprid (1-(6-chloro-3
pyridylmethyl)-N-nitroimidazolidin-2-ylideneamine), thiacloprid, thiamethoxam ((EZ)-3-(2
 chloro-1,3-thiazole-5-ylmethyl)-5-methyl-1,3,5-oxadiazinan-4-ylidene(nitro)amine),          and
 dinotefuran; diamide-based insecticides such as flubendiamide and chlorantraniliprol; insect
 growth regulators such as diflubenzuron, teflubenzuron, chlorfluazuron, tebufenozide,
methoxyfenozide, and cyromazine; acaricides such as clofentezine; and other synthetic agents
such as pymetrozine and sodium oleate.        Examples of the sterilizer include copper-based
sterilizers such as basic copper chloride, basic copper sulfate, and oxine-copper; silver-based
sterilizers such as metal silver; organic sulfur-based sterilizers such as polycarbamate; melanin
biosynthesis inhibitors such as fthalid and tricyclazole; benzimidazole-based sterilizers such as
thiophanate-methyl, carbendazim (MBC), and diethofencarb; acid amide-based sterilizers such
as isotianil; sterol biosynthesis inhibitors such as triforine; isothiazolone-based sterilizers such as
 1,2-benzisothiazolin-3 -one; and other synthesis inhibitors such as diclomezine, fluoroimide,
captan, chlorothalonil, chinomethionat, oxolinic acid, benthiavalicarb-isopropyl, cyazofamid,
and zinc pyrithione.     Examples of the herbicide-antialgae include urea-based agents such as 3
(3,4-dichlorophenyl)-1,1-dimethylurea (DCMU), cumyluron, and karbutilate; sulfonylurea-based
agents such as ethoxysulfuron, halosulfuron-methyl, flazasulfron, nicosulfuron, thifensulfuron
methyl, imazosulfuron, cyclosulfamuron, flucetosulfuron, and trifloxysulfuron-sodium salt;
triazine-based agents such as simazine (CAT), atrazine, triaziflam, lenacil, cyfluthrin, and
terbutryn; amino acid-based agents such as glyphosate; phenylphthalimide-based agents such as
flumioxazin; triketone-based agents such as mesotrione; and other agents such as quinoclamin
and pyriftalid.    For the antibiotic compound, preferably, in view of chemo selectivity and safety,
neonicotinoid-based insecticides, and in view of versatility and effectiveness, zinc pyrithione is
                                                    41

                                                                                     No. - 14F052
used, more preferably, in view of insolubility, clothianidin, imidacloprid, zinc pyrithione are
used, even more preferably, clothianidin and imidacloprid are used.     Particularly preferably, in
view of safety for mammals, clothianidin is used.
[0158]
          The antibiotic compound is substantially insoluble to the polymerizable vinyl monomer.
To be specific, for example, the antibiotic compound has an extremely low solubility to the
polymerizable vinyl monomer at room temperature (20 to 30'C, to be more specific, 25'C).          To
be specific, the antibiotic compound has a solubility at room temperature of, for example, 0.1
part by mass/i 00 parts by volume of the polymerizable vinyl monomer (to be
used)(mixture)(1g/L) or less, preferably, 0.05 parts by mass/i 00 paits by volume of the
polymerizable vinyl monomer (to be used)(mixture)(0.5g/L) or less.
[0159]
          The antibiotic compound is substantially insoluble to the polymerizable vinyl monomer.
To be specific, for example, the antibiotic compound has an extremely low solubility to the
polymerizable vinyl monomer at room temperature (20 to 30'C, to be more specific, 25'C).         To
be specific, the antibiotic compound has a solubility at room temperature of, for example, 0.1
part by mass/1 00 parts by volume of the polymerizable vinyl monomer (to be
used)(mixture)(1g/L) or less, preferably, 0.05 parts by mass/100 parts by volume of the
polymerizable vinyl monomer (to be used)(mixture)(0.5g/L) or less.
[0160]
          The antibiotic compound has a melting point of, for example, 80'C or more, preferably,
100 0 C or more, and when the antibiotic compound is a compound that does not contain metal
atoms, for example, 300'C or less.
[0161]
(Polymerizable vinyl monomer)
          Examples of the polymerizable vinyl monomer include a (meth)acrylate monomer, an
aromatic vinyl monomer, a vinyl ester monomer, a maleate monomer, a vinyl halide, a
vinylidene halide, a nitrogen-containing vinyl monomer, and a crosslinkable monomer.
                                                 42

                                                                                    No.1-14F052
 [0162]
          Examples of the (meth)acrylate monomer include methacrylate and/or acrylate, to be
specific, alkyl (meth)acrylate having a straight chain, branched, or cyclic alkyl moiety with 1 to
6 carbon atoms such as methyl (meth)acrylate, ethyl (meth)acrylate, n-propyl (meth)acrylate,
isopropyl (meth)acrylate, (meth)n-butyl acrylate, isobutyl (meth)acrylate (i-BMA/i-BA), tert
butyl (meth)acrylate, n-pentyl (meth)acrylate, n-hexyl (meth)acrylate, and cyclohexyl
(meth)acrylate; (meth)acrylic acid alkoxyalkyl ester such as 2-methoxyethyl (meth)acrylate;
(meth)acrylic acidhydroxyalkyl such as (meth)acrylic acidhydroxyethyl; epoxy group-containing
(meth)acrylates such as glycidyl (meth)acrylate.
          Preferably, alkyl (meth)acrylate is used.
[0163]
          For the alkyl (meth)acrylate, more preferably, alkyl (meth)acrylate having an alkyl
moiety with 1 to 6 carbon atoms, particularly preferably, isobutyl methacrylate(i-BMA) is used.
[0164]
          Examples of the aromatic vinyl monomer include styrene monomers
(monovinylbenzene) such as styrene(vinylbenzene), p-methylstyrene, o-methylstyrene, a
methylstyrene, and ethylvinylbenzene.      Preferably, styrene and ethylvinylbenzene are used.
[0165]
          Examples of the vinyl ester monomer include vinyl acetate and vinyl propionate.
[0166]
          Examples of the maleate monomer include dimethyl maleate, diethyl maleate, and
dibutyl maleate.
[0167]
          Examples of the vinyl halide include vinyl chloride and vinyl fluoride.
[0168]
          Examples of the vinylidene halide include vinylidene chloride and vinylidene fluoride.
[0169]
          Examples of the nitrogen-containing vinyl monomer include (meth)acrylonitrile, N
phenylmaleimide, and vinylpyridine.
                                                  43

                                                                                    No.1-14F052
 [0170]
         Examples of the crosslinkable monomer include (meth)acrylate crosslinkable monomers,
allyl monomers, and aromatic crosslinkable monomers.       Examples of the (meth)acrylate
crosslinkable monomer include mono or polyethylene glycoldi(meth)acrylate such as ethylene
glycoldi(meth)acrylate and diethylene glycoldi(meth)acrylate; alkane diol di(meth)acrylate such
as 1,3-propanedioldi(meth)acrylate, 1,4-butanedioldi(meth)acrylate, and 1,5
pentanedioldi(meth)acrylate; and alkane polyol poly(meth)acrylate such as
trimethylolpropanetri(meth)acrylate and pentaerythritoltetra(meth)acrylate(PETA/PETM).
Examples of the allyl monomer include allyl(meth)methacrylate and triallyl(iso)cyanurate.
Examples of the aromatic crosslinkable monomer include divinylbenzene and trivinylbenzene.
Preferably, mono or polyethylene glycoldi(meth)acrylate and divinylbenzene, more preferably,
ethylene glycoldi(meth)acrylate and divinylbenzene are used.
[0171]
          The polymerizable vinyl monomer can be used singly, or can be used in combination.
[0172]
          For the polymerizable vinyl monomer, preferably, a combination of (meth)acrylate
monomer and a crosslinkable monomer, and a combination of an aromatic vinyl monomer and a
crosslinkable monomer is used.
[0173]
          When the polymerizable vinyl monomer is a combination of a (meth)acrylate monomer
and a crosslinkable monomer, the (meth)acrylate monomer content relative to 100 parts by mass
of a total of the (meth)acrylate monomer and the crosslinkable monomer is, for example, 10 parts
by mass or more, preferably, 20 parts by mass or more, more preferably, 30 parts by mass or
more, and for example, 90 parts by mass or less, preferably, 80 parts by mass or less, more
preferably, 70 parts by mass or less.  When the polymerizable vinyl monomer is a combination
of the aromatic vinyl monomer and the crosslinkable monomer, the mixing ratio of the aromatic
vinyl monomer relative to 100 parts by mass of a total of the aromatic vinyl monomer and the
crosslinkable monomer is, for example, 10 parts by mass or more, preferably, 20 parts by mass
or more, more preferably, 30 parts by mass or more, and for example, 90 parts by mass or less,
                                               44

                                                                                    No.1- 14F052
 preferably, 80 parts by mass or less, more preferably, 70 parts by mass or less.
 [0174]
          The polymer produced by polymerization of the polymerizable vinyl monomer has
 durable surface at room temperature, and therefore has a glass transition temperature of, for
 example, 30 C or more, preferably, 50 C or more, and the polymerizable vinyl monomer is
 selected to give such a glass transition temperature.
 [0175]
          The polymerizable vinyl monomer is, for example, substantially hydrophobic.       To be
specific, the polymerizable vinyl monomer has an extremely low solubility to, for example,
water at room temperature.      To be more specific, the polymerizable vinyl monomer has a
solubility at room temperature of, for example, 10 parts by mass/100 parts by volume of water
(100g/L) or less, preferably, 8 parts by mass/100 parts by volume of water (80g/L) or less.
When different kinds of polymerizable vinyl monomers are used, the entire polymerizable vinyl
monomer (that is, mixture of different kinds of polymerizable vinyl monomers) is substantially
hydrophobic.
[0176]
(Hydrophobic shell-forming component and hydrophilic-shell forming component)
          The hydrophobic shell-forming component and the hydrophilic-shell forming
component are two components that react by polyaddition or polycondensation (condensation
polymerization) and are different from each other.
[0177]
          The hydrophobic shell-foiming component is, for example, substantially hydrophobic,
to be specific, has an extremely low solubility to water at room temperature, to be more specific,
for example, has a solubility at room temperature of, 1 part by mass/1 00 parts by volume of
water (10g/L) or less, preferably, 0.5 parts by mass/100 parts by volume of water (5g/L) or less,
more preferably, 0.1 parts by mass/100 paits by volume of water (1g/L) or less.
 [0178]
          The hydrophobic shell-forming component is an oil-soluble compound that forms a
shell by polyaddition or polycondensation with the hydrophilic shell-forming component, and
                                                  45

                                                                                       No.1- 14F052
 examples thereof include polyisocyanate, polycarboxylic acid chloride, and polysulfonate
 chloride.
 [0179]
           Examples of the polyisocyanate include aromatic polyisocyanate (aromatic
diisocyanate) such as diphenylmethane diisocyanate, and toluenediisocyanate; aliphatic
polyisocyanate (aliphatic diisocyanate) such as hexamethylene diisocyanate; alicyclic
polyisocyanate (alicyclic diisocyanate) such as isophorone diisocyanate (IPDI), hydrogenated
xylylenediisocyanate, and hydrogenated diphenylmethane diisocyanate; and aralkyl
polyisocyanate (aralkyl diisocyanate) such as xylylenediisocyanate and
tetramethylxylylenediisocyanate.
[0180]
          Examples of the polyisocyanate also include multimers of the above-described
polyisocyanate, to be specific, dimers, trimers (isocyanurate group-containing polyisocyanate,
cyclic trimer), pentamers, and septamers.     Preferably, trimer, to be specific, an IPDI trimer is
used.
[0181]
          Furthermore, examples also include modified polyisocyanates of the above-described
polyisocyanates (excluding multimers) including polyol modified polyisocyanate such as an
IPDI adduct of trimethylolpropane.
[0182]
          Examples of the polycarboxylic acid chloride include sebacic acid dichloride, adipic
acid dichloride, azelaic acid dichloride, terephthalic acid dichloride, and trimesic acid dichloride.
 [0183]
           Examples of polysulfonic acid chloride include benzenesulfonyl dichloride.
 [0184]
           The hydrophobic shell-forming component can be used singly, or can be used in
combination.
 [0185]
           For the hydrophobic shell-forming component, preferably, polyisocyanate, more
                                                  46

                                                                                     No.1-14F052
 preferably, a cyclic trimer of diisocyanate, and a trimethylolpropane adduct are used.
 [0186]
          The hydrophilic shell-forming component is a water-soluble compound that is present in
the aqueous phase before the interfacial polymerization.     The hydrophilic shell-forming
 component is an active hydrogen group-containing compound, and the active hydrogen group
containing compound includes a compound having an active hydrogen group such as an amino
group and a hydroxyl group, and to be specific, examples include polyamine, polyol, and water.
 [0187]
          Examples of the polyamine include diamines such as ethylene diamine, propylene
diamine, hexamethylene diamine, diaminotoluene, phenylene diamine, and piperazine; and
polyamine having a valency of 3 or more such as diethylene triamine, triethylenetetramine,
tetraethylene, pentamine, and pentaethylenehexamine.       Preferably, polyamine with a valency of
3 or more, more preferably, diethylene triamine is used.
[0188]
          Examples of polyol include diols such as ethylene glycol, propanediol, 1,4-butanediol,
1,6-hexanediol, neopentyl glycol, diethylene glycol, triethylene glycol, dipropylene glycol,
cyclohexanedimethanol, polyethylene glycol, and polypropylene glycol; triols such as glycerine,
and trimethylolpropane; and tetraol such as pentaerythritol.
[0189]
          The hydrophilic shell-forming component can be used singly, or can be used in
combination.
[0190]
          For the hydrophilic shell-forming component, preferably, polyamine and polyol, more
preferably, polyamine is used.
[0191]
         Next, an oil phase component preparation step, a water dispersion step, and a
polymerization step are described in sequence.
[0192]
(Oil phase component preparation step)
                                                  47

                                                                                         No.1-14F052
          In the oil phase component preparation step, without the presence of a solvent, a
hydrophobic slurry is prepared by dispersing, in a hydrophobic polymerizable vinyl monomer,
an antibiotic compound that is hydrophobic and is substantially insoluble to the hydrophobic
polymerizable vinyl monomer, and then the hydrophobic slurry and a hydrophobic shell-forming
component are blended, thereby preparing an oil phase component containing the hydrophobic
slurry and the hydrophobic shell-forming component.
 [0193]
          To be specific, first, the above-described polymerizable vinyl monomer and the
antibiotic compound are blended, and stirred without blending a solvent (hydrophobic organic
solvent such as hexane, toluene, and ethyl acetate).      A hydrophobic slurry is prepared in this
manner.     The hydrophobic slurry is contained in the oil phase component.
[0194]
         To disperse the antibiotic compound in the polymerizable vinyl monomer, for example,
a disperser such as a paint shaker, a homodisper (high-speed disperser), a bead mill (including
batch type bead mill), a ball mill, and a rod mill are used.     The disperser can be used singly, or
can be used in combination.       For the disperser, preferably, in view of the fact that it can be used
for a wide range of viscosity, and can be used for a large-scale industrial production, a batch type
bead mill is used.
[0195]
         The above-described dispersion allows for wet grinding of the antibiotic compound.
[0196]
         The mixing ratio of the antibiotic compound relative to the polymerizable vinyl
monomer based on the mass ratio (that is, parts by mass of the antibiotic compound/parts by
mass of the polymerizable vinyl monomer) is, for example, 1/99 or more, preferably 10/90 or
more, more preferably 15/85 or more, and for example, 90/10 or less, preferably, 75/25 or less,
more preferably, 70/30 or less, even more preferably, 65/35 or less, and particularly preferably,
60/40 or less.
[0197]
          The mixing ratio of the antibiotic compound relative to 100 parts by mass of the
                                                    48

                                                                                      No.1- 14F052
polymerizable vinyl monomer is, for example, 1 part by mass or more, preferably, 10 part by
mass or more, more preferably, 20 parts by mass or more, and for example, 900 parts by mass or
less, preferably, 300 parts by mass or less, more preferably, 200 paits by mass or less, even more
preferably, 150 parts by mass or less.
[0198]
          In the above-described dispersion, as necessary, a dispersing agent (a first dispersing
agent) can be blended.    Examples of the dispersing agent include an amphiphilic polymer
dispersing agent and non ionic surfactant (first surfactant).
[0199]
          Examples of the amphiphilic polymer dispersing agent include non ionic amphiphilic
polymer dispersing agent such as EFKA4008 and EFKA4009 (urethane-based polymer
dispersing agent manufactured by Ciba Specialty Chemicals), DISPERBYK-2164 and
DISPERBYK-164 (pigment dispersing functional group-modified copolymer manufactured by
BYK Japan KK), NUOSPERSE2008, NUOSPERSE FA-196, and NUOSPERSE657
(manufactured by Elementis plc), FlOWLEN D-90, POLYFLOW KL-100, POLYFLOW KL
700 (manufactured by Kyoeisha Chemical Co., Ltd.), and HOMOGENOL L-95 (manufactured
by Kao Corporation).     The examples of the amphiphilic polymer dispersing agent also include
anionic amphiphilic polymer dispersing agent such as FlOWLEN G-900 (carboxyl group
modified polymer manufactured by Kyoeisha Chemical Co., Ltd.), DISPARLON DA-234,
DISPARLON DA-325, DISPARLON DA-375, DISPARLON DA-550, and DISPARLON AQ
330 (polyether phosphate manufactured by Kusumoto Chemicals, Ltd.).         Furthermore,
examples of the amphiphilic polymer dispersing agent include cationic amphiphilic polymer
dispersing agent such as NOPCOSPERSE 092 (manufactured by San Nopco Limited).
[0200]
          Examples of the non ionic surfactant include Amorgen CBH (alkylbetaine), Amorgen
SH (alkylamidebetaine), NOIGEN 1OOE (polyoxyethylene oleyl ether), NOIGEN EA73
(polyoxyethylenedodecylphenylether), NOIGEN ES99(monooleic acid polyethylene glycol),
Dianol CME (palm oil fatty acid monoethanolamide), Dianol 300 (palm oil fatty acid
monoethanoldiamide), Solgen 30 (sorbitan sesquioleate), Solgen 40 (sorbitan monooleate),
                                                 49

                                                                                      No.1-14F052
Solgen 50 (sorbitan monostearate), Epan 420 (polyoxyethylenepolyoxypropylene glycol), and
Epan 720 (polyoxyethylenepolyoxypropylene glycol)(all manufactured by Kao Corporation).
[0201]
         For the dispersing agent, preferably, the amphiphilic polymer dispersing agent is used,
more preferably, non ionic amphiphilic polymer dispersing agent and anionic amphiphilic
polymer dispersing agent are used, even more preferably, non ionic amphiphilic polymer
dispersing agent is used, particularly preferably, pigment dispersing functional group-modified
copolymer dispersing agent and urethane-based polymer dispersing agent are used.
[0202]
         The mixing ratio of the dispersing agent relative to the antibiotic compound is, for
example, 0.1 mass% or more, preferably, 1 mass% or more, and for example, 40 mass% or less,
preferably, 20 mass% or less.
[0203]
         After the preparation of the hydrophobic slurry, the hydrophobic slurry and the
hydrophobic shell-forming component are blended.
[0204]
         To be specific, the hydrophobic shell-forming component is blended to the hydrophobic
slurry.
[0205]
         Preferably, the hydrophobic shell-forming component is blended, along with the
polymerization initiator, to the hydrophobic slurry.
[0206]
         For the polymerization initiator, a radical polymerization initiator generally used in
suspension polymerization is used, and to be specific, an oil-soluble polymerization initiator is
used.
[0207]
         Examples of the oil-soluble polymerization initiator include oil-soluble organic
peroxides such as dilauroyl peroxide (10 hours half-life temperature TI/2 :61.6 0 C), 1,1,3,3
tetramethylbutylperoxy-2-ethylhexanoate (10 hours half-life temperature T1 2 :65.3-C), t
                                                  50

                                                                                       No. -14F052
 hexylperoxy-2-ethylhexanoate (10 hours half-life temperature TI/ 2 :69.9 0 C),
 diisopropylperoxydicarbonate (10 hours half-life temperature TIu2 :40.5 0 C), and benzoyl peroxide
 (10 hours half-life temperature TI/2 :73.6 0C); and oil-soluble azo compounds such as 2,2'
 azobisisobutyronitrile (10 hours half-life temperature TI/ 2 :60'C), 2,2'-azobis(2,4
 dimethylvaleronitrile) (10 hours half-life temperature Tu/2 :51 C), and 2,2'-azobis(2
methylbutyronitrile) (10 hours half-life temperature TI/2 :67 0C).    Preferably, dilauroyl peroxide,
t-hexylperoxy-2-ethylhexanoate, and 2,2'-azobisisobutyronitrile are used.
 [0208]
          The polymerization initiator has a 10 hours half-life temperature Tu/2 of, for example,
40'C or more, preferably, 50 or more, and for example, 90'C or less, preferably, 80'C or less.
The 10 hours half-life temperature Tv1 2 of the polymerization initiator is regarded as a 10 hours
value temperature in a graph in which concentration half-life hours is plotted at several arbitrary
temperatures.
[0209]
          The polymerization initiator can be used singly or in combination of two or more.
[0210]
          The mixing ratio of the polymerization initiator relative to 100 parts by mass of the
polymerizable vinyl monomer is, for example, 0.01 parts by mass or more, preferably, 0.1 parts
by mass or more, more preferably, 0.5 parts by mass or more, and for example, 5 parts by mass
or less, preferably, 3 parts by mass or less, more preferably, 2.0 parts by mass or less.    When
the mixing ratio of the polymerization initiator is more than the above-described upper limit, the
molecular weight of the polymer may be reduced excessively, and when the mixing ratio of the
polymerization initiator is below the above-described lower limit, the conversion rate does not
improve sufficiently, and unreacted polymerizable vinyl monomer may remain a several % or
more.
 [0211]
          The polymerizable vinyl monomer can be blended dividedly, and in such a case, first, a
portion of the polymerizable vinyl monomer is blended with the antibiotic compound, and the
mixture is dispersed to prepare a hydrophobic slurry, and thereafter, the polymerization initiator
                                                   51

                                                                                    No. 1-14F052
 and the hydrophobic shell-forming component are dissolved in the remaining portion of the
polymerizable vinyl monomer, and the mixture is blended with the hydrophobic slurry.
 [0212]
          In this manner, an oil phase component containing a polymerization initiator, the
hydrophobic shell-forming component, and the hydrophobic slurry is prepared.
 [0213]
          The mixing ratio of the hydrophobic shell-forming component relative to 100 parts by
mass of the polymerizable vinyl monomer is, for example, 2 parts by mass or more, preferably, 5
parts by mass or more, more preferably, 10 parts by mass or more, even more preferably, 20
parts by mass or more, and for example, 100 parts by mass or less, preferably, 80 parts by mass
or less, more preferably, 70 parts by mass or less, even more preferably, 60 paits by mass or less.
[0214]
          The mixing ratio of the hydrophobic shell-forming component relative to the oil phase
component is, for example, 1 mass% or more, preferably, 2 mass% or more, and for example, 60
mass% or less, preferably, 40 mass% or less.
[0215]
         Meanwhile, the oil phase component has an antibiotic compound content of, for
example, 1 mass% or more, preferably, 10 mass% or more, and for example, 90 mass% or less,
preferably, 80 mass% or less, more preferably, 70 mass% or less, more preferably, 60 mass% or
less.
[0216]
         The oil phase component has a polymerizable vinyl monomer content of, for example,
10 mass% or more, preferably, 30 mass% or more, preferably, 50 mass% or more, and for
example, 90 mass% or less, preferably, 80 mass% or less, more preferably, 70 mass% or less.
[0217]
         The antibiotic compound in the oil phase component has an average particle size of, for
example, 5 im or less, preferably, 2.5ptm or less, and for example, 0.05pm or more, preferably,
0.1 m or more.
[0218]
                                                 52

                                                                                      No.1- 14F052
          Although in the description above, the hydrophobic shell-forming component and the
 polymerization initiator are blended with the hydrophobic slurry, for example, the hydrophobic
 shell-forming component and the polymerization initiator can be blended with the antibiotic
 compound and the polymerizable vinyl monomer before preparing the hydrophobic slurry.          To
 be specific, first, the hydrophobic shell-forming component is blended to the antibiotic
 compound and the polymerizable vinyl monomer, and then the mixture is dispersed to prepare
the hydrophobic slurry.      In this manner, the oil phase component containing the antibiotic
 compound, the polymerizable vinyl monomer, the hydrophobic shell-forming component and the
polymerization initiator is prepared at once.
 [0219]
(Water dispersion step)
          Then, the above-described oil phase component is dispersed (suspended) in water.
 [0220]
          That is, the oil phase component and water are blended and stirred homogeneously,
thereby dispersing (suspending) the oil phase component in water.       A dispersion (suspension)
of the oil phase component in water is produced in this manner.
[0221]
          Conditions for the dispersion in water are not particularly limited.  For example, the
dispersion in water may be performed at room temperature, or can be performed by heating.
[0222]
          In dispersion of the oil phase component in water, preferably, a dispersing agent (second
dispersing agent) and a surfactant (second surfactant) are blended.
[0223]
          Examples of the dispersing agent (second dispersing agent) include water-soluble
polymers such as polyvinyl alcohol (PVA), polyvinyl pyrrolidone, gelatin, gum arabic,
hydroxyethyl cellulose, hydroxypropyl cellulose, carboxymethyl cellulose, cationic starch,
polyacrylic acid and its sodium salt, a styrene maleic acid copolymer and its sodium salt; and
inorganic dispersing agents such as tribasic calcium phosphate, colloidal silica, montmorillonite,
magnesium carbonate, aluminum hydroxide, and zinc white.
                                                   53

                                                                                     No. -14F052
[0224]
         Of the dispersing agent, preferably, polyvinylalcohol(PVA)and tribasic calcium
phosphate are used.    Even more preferably, polyvinylalcohol(PVA) is used.
[0225]
         The mixing ratio of the dispersing agent relative to 100 parts by mass of the oil phase
component is, for example, 0.01 parts by mass or more, preferably 0.1 parts by mass or more,
more preferably 1 part by mass or more, and for example, 10 parts by mass or less, preferably, 5
parts by mass or less.
[0226]
         The surfactant (second surfactant) is used to effectively prevent particle coagulation
during radical polymerization, preferably, in combination with the above-described dispersing
agent (second dispersing agent), to be specific, examples thereof include anionic surfactants such
as sodium dodecylbenzene sulphonate, sodium lauryl sulfate, sodium di-2-ethylhexyl
sulfosuccinate, sodium dodecyl diphenyl ether disulphonate, sodium nonyl diphenyl ether
sulfonate, and a salt of a condensate of aromatic sulfonic acid and formaldehyde; and a non ionic
surfactants such as polyoxyethylene lauryl ether, polyoxyethylenenonylphenylether,
polyoxyethylene monostearate, polyoxyethylene sorbitan monooleate, and a polyoxyethylene
polyoxypropylene block copolymer.       Preferably, a non ionic surfactant and an anionic
surfactant, more preferably, a polyoxyethylene polyoxypropylene block copolymer and a salt of
a condensate of aromatic sulfonic acid and formaldehyde are used.
[0227]
         The surfactant can be used singly, or can be used in combination.     Preferably, a
combination of a non ionic surfactant and an anion surfactant is used, more preferably, a
combination of a polyoxyethylene polyoxypropylene block copolymer and a salt of a condensate
of aromatic sulfonic acid and formaldehyde is used.
[0228]
         Examples of the aromatic sulfonic acid include benzene sulfonic acid, toluene sulfonic
acid, cumene sulfonic acid, and naphthalene sulfonic acid.     Preferably, naphthalene sulfonic
acids such as a-naphthalene sulfonic acid and p-naphthalene sulfonic acid are used.
                                                 54

                                                                                       No.1-14F052
 [0229]
          For cation forming the salt, for example, monovalent alkali metal cation such as sodium
 cation and potassium cation, and ammonium cation is used.       Preferably, monovalent alkali
metal cation is used.
 [0230]
          Examples of the salt of a condensate of aromatic sulfonic acid and formaldehyde
include, to be specific, a salt of a condensate of naphthalene sulfonic acid and formaldehyde
(naphthalene sulfonic acid formaldehyde condensate sodium salt).       For the salt of a condensate
of aromatic sulfonic acid and formaldehyde, a commercially available product can be used, to be
specific, DEMOL NL ($- naphthalene sulfonic acid formaldehyde condensate sodium salt, 41%
aqueous solution, manufactured by Kao Corporation) may be used.
[0231]
          The mixing ratio of the surfactant relative to 100 parts by mass of the oil phase
component is, for example, 0.0001 parts by mass or more, preferably, 0.001 parts by mass or
more, and for example, 1.0 part by mass or less, preferably 0.1 parts by mass or less.
          When the surfactant is a combination of the non ionic surfactant and the anion
surfactant, the mixing ratio of the non ionic surfactant and the mixing ratio of the anion
surfactant relative to 100 parts by mass of the oil phase component is, for example, 0.0001 parts
by mass or more, preferably, 0.001 parts by mass or more, and for example, 1.0 part by mass or
less, preferably, 0.1 parts by mass or less.
[0232]
         The dispersing agent, or the dispersing agent and surfactant can be blended, for example,
before or after blending the oil phase component in water, and preferably, blended in water
before blending the oil phase component.      An aqueous solution of dispersing agent or an
aqueous solution of dispersing agent and surfactant are prepared in this manner.
[0233]
          In the above-described dispersion (suspension) of the oil phase component in water, for
example, dispersers such as a homomixer (Homo Mixer), an ultrasonic homogenizer, a pressure
homogenizer, Milder, and porous membrane injection disperser are used, and preferably, a
                                                  55

                                                                                     No.1-14F052
homomixer is used.
[0234]
         The conditions for water dispersion are set suitably, and when Homo Mixer is used, the
number of revolution is set to, for example, 100 rpm or more, preferably 1000 rpm or more, and
for example, 10000 rpm or less, for example, 8000 rpm or less.
[0235]
         An aqueous dispersion in which the oil phase component is dispersed in an aqueous
phase is prepared in this manner.
[0236]
         When the dispersing agent (second dispersing agent), or the dispersing agent and
surfactant is/are blended in the aqueous dispersion, the dispersing agent or the dispersing agent
and surfactant stabilize droplets of the oil phase component in the aqueous dispersion more.
[0237]
         The mixing ratio of the water (or aqueous solution) relative to 100 parts by mass of the
oil phase component is adjusted to be, for example, 50 parts by mass or more, preferably, 100
parts by mass or more, more preferably, 150 parts by mass or more, and for example, 1900 parts
by mass or less, preferably, 900 parts by mass or less, more preferably, 400 parts by mass or less.
[0238]
(Polymerization step)
         In the polymerization step, the polymerizable vinyl monomer is subjected to suspension
polymerization, and a hydrophobic shell-forming component and a hydrophilic-shell forming
component are subjected to interfacial polymerization, thereby forming a shell that covers a
suspension polymer.     That is, the shell is fonned so as to cover the polymer produced by
suspension polymerization, that is, suspension polymer.
[0239]
<Suspension polymerization>
         In the polymerization step, the polymerizable vinyl monomer is subjected to suspension
polymerization, thereby producing a polymer.        To subject the polymerizable vinyl monomer to
suspension polymerization, the temperature of the aqueous dispersion is increased to a
                                                   56

                                                                                      No.1- 14F052
predetermined temperature.       In suspension polymerization, the polymerizable vinyl monomer is
 allowed to react (to be specific, radical polymerization) while stirring the aqueous dispersion so
 as to maintain the water dispersed state of the aqueous dispersion, thereby producing a polymer
of the polymerizable vinyl monomer.        The suspension polymerization is an in situ
polymerization, because all of the polymerizable vinyl monomer that is going to be a polymer is
in water dispersion particles (hydrophobic liquid phase).
 [0240]
           To be specific, in suspension polymerization, by heating the aqueous dispersion while
stirring, the polymerizable vinyl monomer starts to polymerize as is in the water dispersion
particles, thereby producing a polymer.
[0241]
          The stirring can be performed, for example, with a stirrer having an impeller.    The
stirring can be performed so that the circumferential speed of the impeller is, for example, 10
m/min or more, preferably, 20 m/min or more, and 400 m/min or less, preferably 200 m/min or
less.
[0242]
          The aqueous dispersion is heated so that its temperature is, for example, 40'C or more,
preferably, 50'C or more, more preferably, 60'C or more, and for example, 100'C or less,
preferably, 90'C or less, more preferably, 80'C or less.
[0243]
          Then, suspension polymerization progresses while the antibiotic compound is in non
miscible state with the polymer.
[0244]
          The heating time is, for example, 2 hours or more, preferably, 3 hours or more, and for
example, 12 hours or less, preferably, 8 hours or less.   Furthermore, the heating can also be
carried out in stages: after heating to a predetermined temperature, the temperature is kept for a
predetermined time period, and thereafter, the heating and the temperature keeping is repeated.
[0245]
          In suspension polymerization, the antibiotic compound is substantially insoluble to the
                                                  57

                                                                                        No.1-14F052
polymerizable vinyl monomer, and the antibiotic compound maintains the non-miscible state to
the polymerizable vinyl monomer and/or polymer from the start of polymerization to after
polymerization.
 [0246]
           By suspension polymerization, the polymer prepared from the polymerizable vinyl
monomer is produced as the suspension polymer.
 [0247]
<Interfacial polymerization>
           To perform interfacial polymerization along with the above-described suspension
polymerization, for example, the hydrophilic shell-forming component is blended with the
aqueous dispersion containing the hydrophobic shell-forming component, and the temperature of
the aqueous dispersion is increased.      To be specific, the hydrophilic shell-forming component is
blended with the aqueous dispersion containing the hydrophobic shell-forming component, and
the temperature of the aqueous dispersion is increased to the temperature (to be specific,
temperature of the decomposition temperature of the polymerization initiator or more) at which
suspension polymerization starts.
 [0248]
           The temperature at which interfacial polymerization starts (starting temperature) Tip is
not particularly limited, and for example, 00 C or more, preferably, 100 C or more, and for
example, 100 0 C or less, preferably, 80'C or less.    The reaction of the interfacial polymerization
accelerates when heating is carried out to achieve the temperature of, for example, 25'C or more,
preferably, 40'C or more, and for example, 100'C or less, preferably, 80'C or less.
 [0249]
           The temperature (starting temperature) Ti at which the suspension polymerization starts
and the above-described 10 hours half-life temperature T1/2 of the polymerization initiator
 satisfies, for example, a relation of the formula (1) shown below.
 [0250]
           T 1/ 2 -10 Ti  T 1/2 +10 (1)
 (where Ti represents starting temperature of suspension polymerization, and T 1/2 represents 10
                                                   58

                                                                                      No.1-14F052
 hours half-life temperature of polymerization initiator.)
          To be specific, the temperature at which suspension polymerization starts is, for
 example, 55'C or more, preferably, 60'C or more, and for example, 100 0 C or less, preferably,
 80'C or less.
 [0251]
          Therefore, the starting temperature Ti of suspension polymerization is set, for example,
higher compared with the starting temperature Tip of the interfacial polymerization.      To be
specific, the starting temperature Ti of suspension polymerization is higher, compared with the
starting temperature Tip of interfacial polymerization, for example, by 5'C or more, preferably,
 10 C or more, more preferably, 20'C or more, and for example, higher by 100 C or less.
[0252]
<Timing of interfacial polymerization>
          Examples of methods for interfacial polymerization and suspension polymerization
include the following: (1) method in which interfacial polymerization is started simultaneously
with the start of suspension polymerization, (2) method in which interfacial polymerization is
started before the start of the suspension polymerization, and (3) method in which interfacial
polymerization is started after the start of suspension polymerization.
[0253]
          In the method in which (1) interfacial polymerization is started simultaneously with the
start of suspension polymerization, for example, temperature of an aqueous dispersion in which
an oil phase component containing a hydrophobic shell-forming component is contained is
increased to the temperature at which suspension polymerization starts or more, and at this time,
at the point when the temperature of the aqueous dispersion reached the temperature at which the
suspension polymerization starts, the hydrophilic shell-forming component is blended with the
aqueous dispersion.
[0254]
          In the method in which (2) interfacial polymerization is started before the start of the
suspension polymerization, before the temperature is increased to the temperature at which
suspension polymerization starts, the hydrophilic shell-forming component is blended with the
                                                  59

                                                                                         No.1-14F052
 aqueous dispersion in which an oil phase component containing a hydrophobic shell-forming
 component is contained.      That is, first, the hydrophilic shell-forming component is blended with,
for example, an aqueous dispersion having a temperature of room temperature (20 to 30'C), and
thereafter, the temperature of the aqueous dispersion having the normal temperature is increased
to the temperature at which suspension polymerization starts.
 [0255]
         It is also possible to increase the temperature of the aqueous dispersion to a temperature
less than a temperature at which suspension polymerization starts immediately after the
hydrophilic shell-forming component is blended with the aqueous dispersion in which an oil
phase component containing a hydrophobic shell-forming component is contained, and thereafter,
the temperature of the aqueous dispersion is increased to a temperature at which suspension
polymerization starts.    When the temperature of the aqueous dispersion is increased to a
temperature less than the temperature at which suspension polymerization starts, the aqueous
dispersion is heated so that its temperature is, for example, less than 550 C, preferably less than
50'C. In this manner, interfacial polymerization can be sufficiently accelerated before starting
suspension polymerization.
[0256]
         In the method in which (3) interfacial polymerization is started after the start of
suspension polymerization, first, the temperature of the aqueous dispersion is increased to the
temperature at which suspension polymerization starts or more, and thereafter, the hydrophilic
shell-forming component is blended with the aqueous dispersion.          To be specific, the time from
when the temperature of the aqueous dispersion is increased to the temperature at which
suspension polymerization starts or more to when the hydrophilic shell-forming component is
blended with the aqueous dispersion is, for example, 0.5 hours or more, preferably, 1 hour or
more, and for example, 8 hours or less, preferably, 5 hours or less.
 [0257]
         In the method of (1) or (2), compared with the method of (3), falling off of the antibiotic
compound from the matrix (described later) can be suppressed, and therefore, the state in which
the antibiotic compound is dispersed in the matrix is kept while forming the shell.       That is, in
                                                     60

                                                                                       No.1-14F052
 the controlled release particles, the shell can reliably encapsulate the antibiotic compound in the
matrix.    Therefore, alkali-resistance of the antibiotic compound in the controlled release
particles can be improved.
 [0258]
          In the method in which (2) interfacial polymerization is started before the start of the
 suspension polymerization, the shell can be formed so as to cover the droplets of the oil phase
component, and therefore transferring of the antibiotic compound encapsulated in the suspension
polymerization from the suspension polymer to the aqueous phase interface (that is, interface
between the suspension polymer and water continuous phase) can be controlled.
 [0259]
          The mixing ratio of the hydrophilic shell-forming component is, when the hydrophobic
shell-forming component is polyisocyanate, the equivalent ratio (isocyanate group/amino group)
of the isocyanate group of the hydrophobic shell-forming component relative to the active
hydrogen group (when the hydrophilic shell-forming component is polyamine, amino group) of
the hydrophilic shell-forming component is, for example, 0.4 or more, preferably, 0.6 or more,
and for example, 1.2 or less, preferably, 1.0 or less.
[0260]
          In the description above, the hydrophilic shell-forming component is blended with the
aqueous dispersion containing the hydrophobic shell-forming component, but for example, when
the hydrophilic shell-forming component is water, separately, the hydrophilic shell-forming
component is not blended with the aqueous dispersion, and water contained in the aqueous
dispersion is used as the hydrophilic shell-forming component, and the hydrophilic shell-forming
component and the hydrophobic shell-forming component can be subjected to interfacial
polymerization.     When the hydrophilic shell-forming component is water, a polyaddition
catalyst such as dibutyltin dilaurate may be used.
 [0261]
          In interfacial polymerization, the hydrophobic shell-forming component in the oil phase
component (oil phase) and the hydrophilic shell-foiming component in the aqueous phase
undergo interfacial polymerization at the surface of the water dispersion particles.
                                                    61

                                                                                        No.1-14F052
 [0262]
          The polymerization time of the interfacial polymerization depends on the temperature of
 suspension polymerization, but can be confirmed by reduction (reaching point of neutralization)
in pH of polymerization reaction liquid.     The time for the interfacial polymerization completion
is, when the polymerization temperature is 60 to 70'C, for example, 2 hours to 4 hours.
 [0263]
          By starting the interfacial polymerization, preferably, before the start of or
simultaneously with the start of suspension polymerization, shells covering the oil phase
component droplets can be formed.        As a result, transferring of the antibiotic compound
encapsulated in the suspension polymerization from the suspension polymer to the aqueous
phase interface (interface between the suspension polymer and water continuous phase) can be
controlled.
[0264]
          Furthermore, on the surface of the suspension polymer produced by interfacial
polymerization of the hydrophobic shell-forming component and the hydrophilic-shell forming
component, a shell made of the polymer of the hydrophobic shell-forming component and the
hydrophilic-shell forming component is formed.         Therefore, the controlled-release speed of the
antibiotic compound in the controlled release particles is reduced, and controlled release
properties for a long time period can be achieved.
[0265]
          After the interfacial polymerization and suspension polymerization, the aqueous
dispersion after the reaction is cooled, for example, by allowing the aqueous dispersion after the
reaction to stand to cool and filtering with filter cloth of 100 mesh, and an aqueous dispersion
(suspension) of controlled release particles is obtained.
[0266]
          The cooling temperature is, for example, room temperature (20 to 30'C, to be more
specific, 25'C).
 [0267]
          The produced controlled release particles have an antibiotic compound concentration of,
                                                   62

                                                                                       No.1- 14F052
 for example, 1 mass% or more, preferably, 5 mass% or more, more preferably, 10 mass% or
more, and for example, 50 mass% or less, preferably, 40 mass% or less, more preferably, 35
mass% or less.
 [0268]
          The controlled release particles content in the aqueous dispersion (suspension) is
determined by the blending amounts of the oil phase component and the water (or aqueous
solution) in which it is dispersed, to be specific, for example, 10 mass% or more, preferably, 20
mass% or more, and for example, 50 mass% or less, preferably, 40 mass% or less.
[0269]
          The controlled release particles have a shell concentration of, for example, 1 mass% or
more, preferably, 2 mass% or more, and for example, 50 mass% or less, preferably, 40 mass% or
less.
[0270]
          The controlled release particles have an average particle size of, for example, 1 tm or
more, preferably, 2 pm or more, and for example, 20 mm or less, preferably, 10 mm or less.
The average particle size is calculated as median size/diameter.
[0271]
<Effects of controlled release particles of the second invention group>
          The controlled release particles of the second invention group are produced by a
production method including an oil phase component preparation step in which an oil phase
component containing a hydrophobic shell-forming component and a hydrophobic slurry is
prepared by dispersing, in a hydrophobic polymerizable vinyl monomer, an antibiotic compound
that is hydrophobic and is substantially insoluble to the hydrophobic polymerizable vinyl
monomer without the presence of a solvent; a water dispersion step in which the oil phase
component is dispersed in water to prepare an aqueous dispersion, and a polymerization step in
which the hydrophobic shell-forming component and the hydrophilic shell-forming component
are subjected to interfacial polymerization to form a polymer that is going to be a shell; and the
polymerizable vinyl monomer is subjected to suspension polymerization to produce a polymer
that is going to be a core, and therefore, durable controlled release particles with excellent
                                                   63

                                                                                      No.1-14F052
controlled release properties and alkali-resistance can be produced.
[0272]
           However, the microcapsule produced by the method described in Patent Document 1 is
produced only by interfacial polymerization, and the disperse medium (solvent) remains in the
microcapsule.     Therefore, its surface hardness may be insufficient.   As a result, when the
dispersion liquid of the microcapsule undergoes a step in which a high shearing force is applied
or is stored for a long period of time, the microcapsule may coagulate and redispersion may be
difficult.
[0273]
           Furthermore, because of insufficient surface hardness of the microcapsule, the
microcapsule easily undergoes blocking, and it may become difficult to take out the
microcapsule as dried particles.
[0274]
           Meanwhile, the controlled release particles of the second invention group are produced
by a production method including an oil phase component preparation step in which, without the
presence of a solvent, a hydrophobic slurry, in which an antibiotic compound that is hydrophobic
and is substantially insoluble to the hydrophobic polymerizable vinyl monomer is dispersed in a
hydrophobic polymerizable vinyl monomer, and an oil phase component containing a
hydrophobic shell-forming component are prepared; a water dispersion step in which the oil
phase component is dispersed in water to prepare an aqueous dispersion; and a polymerization
step in which the hydrophobic shell-forming component and the hydrophilic shell-forming
component are subjected to interfacial polymerization to form a polymer that is going to be a
shell, and the polymerizable vinyl monomer is subjected to suspension polymerization to form a
polymer that is going to be a core, and therefore due to the presence of the solvent in the above
described interfacial polymerization, reduction in surface hardness of the controlled release
particles is prevented, durable controlled release particles can be produced, and the produced
controlled release particles can be redispersed excellently and have excellent resistance to
blocking.
[0275]
                                                  64

                                                                                       No.1-14F052
           With the method for producing controlled release particles, the controlled release
particles that are durable, and are excellent in redispersiveness and resistance to blocking can be
produced.
 [0276]
           With the method for producing controlled release particles, a shell that covers a
suspension polymer subjected to suspension polymerization is formed, and therefore the
encapsulation rate (antibiotic compound concentration of the controlled release particles) of the
antibiotic compound can be increased, and at the same time the antibiotic compound has
excellent controlled release properties and alkali-resistance.    Controlled release properties of
the controlled release particles and alkali-resistance of the antibiotic compound in the controlled
release particles are related to each other, and to be specific, when alkali-resistance of the
antibiotic compound in the controlled release particles is improved, controlled release properties
of the controlled release particles improve.
[0277]
          In particular, when the hydrophobic shell-forming component contains polyisocyanate,
and the hydrophilic shell-forming component contains polyamine, the shell is made of polyurea,
and therefore controlled release particles having excellent melting miscibility with thermoplastic
urethane resin can be obtained.
[0278]
             Such controlled release particles can be applied to various industrial products, and
can be added to, for example, indoor/outdoor paint, rubber, fiber, resin (including plastic),
adhesive, joint mixture, sealing agent, building material, caulking agent, wood treatment agent,
soil treating agent, white water in paper-making processes, pigment, treatment liquid for printing
plates, cooling water, ink, cutting oil, cosmetic products, nonwoven fabric, spinning oil, and
leather.    The amount of the antibiotic compound added in the controlled release particles for
these industrial products is, for example, 10 mg/kg to 100 g/kg (product weight).
[0279]
          Next, description is given below of an embodiment in which the powder formulation
formulated from the controlled release particles is blended with the thermoplastic resin.
                                                   65

                                                                                        No.1- 14F052
 [0280]
          In this method, first, the suspension of the controlled release particles is dried and
formulated into powder formulation.
 [0281]
          Then, the powder formulation and thermoplastic resin are melt-kneaded, thereby
preparing a kneaded material.
[0282]
          To prepare the kneaded material, for example, to be specific, an extruder or Banbury
mixer is used.    Examples of the extruder include biaxial extruder and uniaxial extruder.       The
kneaded material is a molding material for molding a molded article.       To be specific, the
kneaded material is cooled once and prepared as a pelletized molding material (kneaded material
pellet, or master batch).   In contrast, the kneaded material can be continuously subjected to
molding to be described later as is in the melted state without taking out as a solid molding
material (melt-kneaded material).
[0283]
          The powder formulation is blended with the thermoplastic resin so that the antibiotic
compound content relative to the thermoplastic resin is, for example, 0.01 mass% or more,
preferably, 0.1 mass% or more, and for example, 10 mass% or less, preferably, 3 mass% or less.
However, when the kneaded material is prepared as master batch, the above does not apply.          To
be specific, the powder formulation is blended with the thermoplastic resin so that the antibiotic
compound content relative to the thermoplastic resin is, for example, 1 mass% or more,
preferably, 5 mass% or more, and for example, 50 mass% or less, preferably, 30 mass% or less,
thereby producing a master batch.
[0284]
          The thermoplastic resin is not particularly limited, and examples thereof include
polyolefin resins such as polyethylene and polypropylene; styrene and/or acrylic resin such as
polystyrene, or polymethyl methacrylate, acrylonitrile-styrene copolymer resin (AS resin),
methyl methacrylate-styrene copolymer (MS resin), and acrylonitrile-styrene-butadiene
copolymer resin (ABS resin); polyester resins such as polyethylene terephthalate and polylactic
                                                  66

                                                                                        No.1-14F052
acid; polyamide resins such as 6-nylon; vinyl halide resins such as vinyl chloride resin and
vinylidene chloride resin; polycarbonate; polyphenylene ether; polyacetal; and thermoplastic
polyurethane.      Preferably, polyolefin resin, vinyl chloride resin, thermoplastic polyurethane are
used.
 [0285]
          Then, the kneaded material pellet, or the melt-kneaded material is molded into a molded
article.
[0286]
          For the molding method, for example, injection molding, extrusion molding, inflation
molding, pultrusion molding, and compression molding are used.
[0287]
          In this manner, a molded article molded into a predetermined shape and to which
powder formulation (controlled release particles) is added is produced.
[0288]
          In the description above, powder formulation formulated from the controlled release
particles is added to the thermoplastic resin.    However, it is not particularly limited as long as it
is resin, and for example, it can be added to the thermosetting resin.
[0289]
          In particular, the powder formulation can be suitably added to a resin such as epoxy
resin and silicone resin in liquid state.
[0290]
          Such a molded article is used in various use, and is used as, for example, building
material; for example, electric wire cable material and covering material for the electric wire
cable; for example, pipes for gas and a covering material for the pipe; and for example, textile
goods such as garments and a mosquito net.
[0291]
<Effects of molded article of the second invention group>
          Such a molded article is molded from the molding material containing the above
described controlled release particles, and therefore is excellent in controlled release properties
                                                    67

                                                                                       No.1-14F052
 of the antibiotic compound and alkali-resistance.
 [0292]
          The controlled release particles produced by the above-described method for producing
controlled release particles of the second invention group include, to be specific, a third
embodiment and a fourth embodiment of the controlled release particles to be described next.
 [0293]
 [Third embodiment]
          The controlled release particles in the third embodiment are described with reference to
FIG. B1.
[0294]
          The controlled release particles 1 are formed, as shown in the cross-sectional view of
FIG. B 1, for example, into spherical particles.    The controlled release particles 1 include a
matrix 2, a domain 3 dispersed in the matrix 2, and a shell 7 that covers the matrix 2.
[0295]
          The matrix 2 is made of a polymer prepared from the above-described polymerizable
vinyl monomer.      The domain 3 is made of the above-described antibiotic compound.         The
shell 7 is made of a polymer prepared from the above-described hydrophobic shell-forming
component and hydrophilic-shell forming component.
[0296]
          To be specific, in the controlled release particles 1, a multi domain structure or a sea
island structure (or polynuclear structure) in which the matrix 2 forms medium or continuous
phase, and a plurality of domains 3 are dispersed in isolation in the matrix 2 is formed.
Furthermore, in the controlled release particles 1, the matrix 2 and the domain 3 are immiscible
to each other, and form a phase separation structure or two-phase structure that are separate from
each other.    The matrix 2 and the domain 3 form a core, to the shell 7 to be described later.
[0297]
          To be specific, the plurality of domains 3 form a dispersion phase in the matrix 2.     The
shape of the domain 3 is not particularly limited, and is formed, for example, suitably into a
shape such as an amorphous shape, spherical, bulk shape, and plate shape.        The domain 3 has
                                                   68

                                                                                        No.1-14F052
 an average maximum length of, for example, 0.05 [tm or more, preferably, 0.1 [tm or more, and
 for example, 20      or less, preferably, 10 pum or less.
                     mun
 [0298]
          The shell 7 is formed on the surface of the matrix 2 (polymer produced by suspension
 polymerization of the above-described polymerizable vinyl monomer).           To be specific, the shell
 7 covers, for example, at least a portion of the surface of the matrix 2, preferably, the entire
 surface of the matrix 2.   That is, the shell 7 forms a core-shell structure along with the core
made of the matrix 2 and the domain 3.
 [0299]
          In FIG. B 1, the interface having a circular cross section is clearly formed between the
matrix 2 and the shell 7.    However, as shown in the TEM photo of FIG. B8, the interface
between the matrix 2 and the shell 7 does not have to be formed clearly.        As shown in the TEM
photo of FIG. B8, the shell 7 is made of a polymer prepared from a hydrophobic shell-forming
component and a hydrophilic-shell forming component, and to be specific, the outermost layer
(outermost surface) is substantially made only of the polymer of interfacial polymerization, and
it is made in a manner such that the concentration of the polymer prepared from the hydrophobic
shell-forming component and a hydrophilic-shell forming component is lower relative to the
matrix 2 (polymer) gradually from the outermost layer (outermost surface) to the inner side.        In
this manner, the shell 7 is disposed (unevenly distributed) at the outer layer of the matrix 2 so as
to suiTound the domain 3.
 [0300]
          Then, to obtain the controlled release particles 1, in the oil phase component preparation
step of the above-described production method of the controlled release particles 1, the antibiotic
compound is blended so that the antibiotic compound concentration of the controlled release
particles is, for example, less than 30 mass%.
 [0301]
<Effects of third embodiment>
          The controlled release particles 1 of the third embodiment include the matrix 2 made of
a polymer of a polymerizable vinyl monomer, and the domain 3 made of an antibiotic compound
                                                    69

                                                                                        No.1-14F052
 and dispersed in the matrix 2, and therefore the controlled release particles 1 of the third
 embodiment have excellent controlled release properties of the antibiotic compound, excellent
 durability, and can be excellently kneaded with resin.
 [0302]
          The effects of the third embodiment are described furthermore in detail with reference
to a reference embodiment of the second invention group.
 [0303]
          In the reference embodiment, as shown in FIG. B9, the domain 3 includes a projection 4
that projects from the inside to the outside of the matrix 2.    The projection 4 is exposed from
the surface of the matrix 2.    In this manner, at the surface of the controlled release particles 1,
both of the matrix 2 and the domain 3 are exposed.       The projection 4 includes an embedded
portion 8 embedded in the outer layer portion of the matrix 2.      The controlled release particles 1
have a two-phase structure formed from the matrix 2 and the domain 3, and does not have the
shell 7.
[0304]
          The controlled release particles 1 shown in FIG. B9 are produced by the above
described production method, except that the hydrophobic shell-forming component and the
hydrophilic-shell forming component are not blended, and interfacial polymerization is not
performed.
[0305]
          The controlled release particles 1 of the above-described third embodiment shown in
FIG. B1 have, unlike the controlled release particles 1 in the reference embodiment of FIG. B9,
no projection 4, and the suspension polymer is covered with the shell 7, and therefore are
excellent in continuous controlled release for a long time.     To be specific, with the third
embodiment, as shown in FIG. B 1, the domain 3 (antibiotic compound) of the controlled release
particles 1 can be protected with the shell 7.    Therefore, the controlled release particles 1 of the
third embodiment have excellent controlled release properties of antibiotic compound and alkali
resistance compared with the controlled release particles 1 of the reference embodiment.
 [0306]
                                                   70

                                                                                       No.1- 14F052
 <Fourth embodiment>
          The controlled release particles in the fourth embodiment are described with reference
to FIG. B2.
 [0307]
          As shown in the cross-sectional view of FIG. B2, in the fourth embodiment, attachments
 5 made of the antibiotic compound are attached on the surface of the shell 7.
 [0308]
          The shape of the attachment 5 is not particularly limited, and for example, the
attachment 5 is formed suitably into a shape such as an amorphous shape, spherical, bulk shape,
and plate shape.     In particular, the internal face (contact face making contact with the surface of
the shell 7) of the attachment 5 has a concave surface corresponding to the surface (spherical
surface) of the shell 7, to be specific, has a bent surface sunken externally.   The attachment 5
has the same size as that of the domain 3 or smaller, relative to the average value of the
maximum length of the domain 3, for example, 100% or less, preferably, 50% or less, and for
example, 0.01% or more, and to be specific, the average value of the maximum length of the
attachment 5 is, for example, 10 pm or less, preferably, 5 [Lm or less, for example, 0.05 pm or
more, preferably, 0.1 ptm or more.       The covering percentage of the attachment 5 relative to the
entire surface of the shell 7 is, for example, 10% or more, preferably, 20% or more, and for
example, 100% or less, preferably, 90% or less.
[0309]
         To produce the above-described controlled release particles 1, in the oil phase
component preparation step of the production method of the above-described controlled release
particles 1, the antibiotic compound is blended so that the antibiotic compound concentration of
the controlled release particles is, for example, more than 28 mass%, preferably, 30 mass% or
more, more preferably, 35 mass%.
[0310]
<Effects of fourth embodiment>
         With the controlled release particles in the fourth embodiment, the attachment 5 allows
for more improvement in resistance to blocking.
                                                    71

                                                                                       No.1- 14F052
 [0311]
          In the second invention group, both of the controlled release particles in the third
embodiment and the controlled release particles of the fourth embodiment        can be mixedly
present, and in such a case, the mixing ratio of the controlled release particles in the third
embodiment and the controlled release particles of the fourth embodiment (controlled release
particles in the third embodiment/controlled release particles of the fourth embodiment) based on
mass is, for example, 1/99 or more, more preferably 10/90 or more, and for example, 99/1 or less,
and further preferably 90/10 or less.
          EXAMPLES
[0312]
[1] Examples A corresponding to the first invention group
          The numeral values of Preparation Example A and Example A shown below can be
replaced with the numeral values shown in the above-described "DESCRIPTION OF
EMBODIMENTS" section (that is, the upper limit value or lower limit value).          The unit in
Preparation Example A, Example A, and Comparative Example A, such as % represents mass%
unless specified otherwise.
[0313]
         First, details of the abbreviations used in Preparation Example A, Example A, and
Comparative Example A are described next.
[0314]
   Clothianidin: (E)-1-(2-chlorothiazole-5-ylmethyl)-3-methyl-2-nitroguanidine, molecular
weight 250, melting point 177 0 C, solubility to water: 0.33 g/L, manufactured by Sumitomo
Chemical Co., Ltd.
   Imidacloprid: 1-(6-chloro-3-pyridylmethyl)-N-nitroimidazolidin-2-ylideneamine, molecular
weight 256, melting point 144'C, solubility to water: 0.48 g/L, manufactured by maruzen
syoudoku Co., Ltd.
   EGDMA: ethylene glycol dimethacrylate, trade name "Light ester EG", insoluble to water,
manufactured by Kyoeisha Chemical Co., Ltd.
   i-BMA: isobutyl methacrylate, solubility to water: 0.6 g/L, manufactured by Nippon Shokubai
                                                  72

                                                                                   No.1-14F052
Co., Ltd.
   DVB-570: trade name, insoluble to water, composition: divinylbenzene (upper limit 60%),
ethylvinylbenzene (upper limit 40%), manufactured by NIPPON STEEL & SUMIKIN
CHEMICAL CO., LTD.
   Styrene: solubility to water: 0.3 g/L, Waco special grade, manufactured by Wako Pure
Chemical Industries, Ltd.
  DISPERBYK-164: trade name, acetic acid butyl solution of functional group-modified
copolymer for dispersing pigment (tertiary amine-containing polyester-modified polyurethane
polymer, molecular weight 10000 to 50000), solid content concentration 60%, manufactured by
BYK Additives & Instruments
  PEROYL L: trade name, dilauroyl peroxide, manufactured by NOF CORPORATION
  Perhexyl 0: trade name, t-hexylperoxy-2-ethylhexanoate, manufactured by NOF
CORPORATION
  Pronon 208: trade name, polyoxyethylene polyoxypropylene block copolymer manufactured
by NOF CORPORATION
    PVA-217: trade name "Kuraray Poval 217", partially saponified polyvinyl alcohol,
manufactured by Kuraray Co., Ltd.
  DEMOL NL: trade name, 41% aqueous solution of P- naphthalene sulfonic acid sodium salt,
manufactured by Kao Corporation
(Preparation of hydrophobic slurry)
         Preparation Example Al (Preparation of clothianidin slurry (slurry A))
         A glass bottle was charged with 90g of EGDMA, 90g of i-BMA, 20g of DISPERBYK
164, and 1OOg of clothianidin, and zirconia beads with a diameter of 1.0mm were introduced in
an amount of 1/3 of the capacity of the glass bottle.  The mixture was subjected to wet grinding
with a paint conditioner (paint shaker, trade name "THE CLASSIC model 1400", manufactured
by Red Devil Equipment Company.) for 2 hours, thereby producing a slurry (hydrophobic slurry,
hereinafter referred to as "slurry A".) containing 33.3% of clothianidin.
[0315]
         Clothianidin in Slurry A had an average particle size measured with a concentrated
                                                  73

                                                                                     No.1-14F052
particle size analyzer FPAR-1000 (manufactured by Otsuka Electronics Co. Ltd.) of 1.38gm.
[0316]
          Preparation Example A2 (Preparation of clothianidin slurry (slurry B))
          7200g of DVB-570 and 804g of DISPERBYK-164 were stirred and dispersed with a
batch media disperser (batch bead mill, trade name "AD mill (AD-5), zirconia beads diameter
1.5mm", manufactured by ASADA IRON WORKS.CO.,LTD.) until the mixture is
homogeneous, and thereafter 3996g of clothianidin was further introduced, and subjected to wet
grinding for 150 minutes, thereby producing a slurry containing 33.3% of clothianidin
(hydrophobic slurry, hereinafter may be referred to as "slurry B").
[0317]
          Clothianidin in Slurry B had an average particle size measured with a concentrated
particle analyzer FPAR-1000 (manufactured by Otsuka Electronics Co. Ltd.) of 0.45pm.
[0318]
         Preparation Example A3 to Preparation Example A8
   (Preparation of clothianidin slurry (slurry C to H))
          Clothianidin slurry (hydrophobic slurry, hereinafter may be referred to as "slurry C to
H") was produced in the same manner as in Preparation Example Al, except that the mixing
formulation was changed according to the formulation shown in Table Al.
[0319]
          The average particle size of clothianidin of slurry C to H is shown in Table Al.
[0320]
          Preparation Example A9
(Preparation of imidacloprid slurry (slurry I))
          Imidacloprid slurry (hydrophobic slurry, hereinafter may be referred to as "slurry I")
was produced in the same manner as in Preparation Example Al, except that the mixing
formulation was changed according to the formulation shown in Table Al.
[0321]
          Table Al shows the average particle size of imidacloprid in slurry I.
                                                  74

                                            C        0
                                                    C>           C   0
                                                                    C,        '
    CO
     C)                                                                     C')        (('
            '   d                           0I
0
                                    00      0D                      CD      CC
                                                                       C:)
                                                                       CD  C)
                                    C-                    C')
                              00                    C:)C'
                                         00-q       Cl    CD')             C'
                                                                                ~C
                          (/:3
                                                                   C)       C'
                                               -          -
                                               0 C0    C)   C0     C0      C')
            C:)                                                                        C)
                                               C C0  i
                                  CDC)                                      C
                                                                   C,        ')
                      CD0
                                                   00                      C')d
                                        O=                C')
                                                                                       000
                  0,0
                                               Cd              0         0
                                     2,
          i
        0~
                                                                                   II)  (0
                               P-                                  --
  E       -

                                                                                    No.1-14F052
(Water dispersion step and polymerization step)
         Example Al (Synthesis of clothianidin-containing controlled release particles:
corresponding to first embodiment)
         A 200mL beaker (1) was charged with 100g of slurry B prepared in Preparation
Example A2 and 0.5g of PEROYL L, and the mixture was stirred at room temperature, thereby
dissolving PEROYL L in slurry B.       In this manner, an oil phase component containing
PEROYL L and slurry B was prepared.
[0322]
         Separately, a 500mL beaker (2) was charged with 258.50g of ion-exchange water, 40g
of an aqueous solution of 10% PVA-217, and 1g of an aqueous solution of 1% Pronon 208, and
the mixture was stirred at room temperature, thereby producing a homogeneous aqueous solution.
[0323]
         Then, an oil phase component was added to the 500mL beaker (2), and the mixture was
stirred with a T.K.Homo Mixer MARK type 2.5 (manufactured by PRIMIX Corporation) at a
number of revolution of 6000 rpm for 5 minutes to disperse the oil phase component in water,
thereby preparing a suspension (aqueous dispersion).
[0324]
         Thereafter, the suspension (aqueous dispersion) was transferred to a 500mL 4-neck
flask equipped with a stirrer, a reflux condenser, a thermometer, and a nitrogen inlet tube, and
subjected to suspension polymerization while increasing the temperature under a nitrogen gas
flow and stirring.
[0325]
         In suspension polymerization, polymerization started at a point where the temperature
reached 550 C, and thereafter, polymerization was performed continuously at 701 C for 5 hours,
and at 80+1C for 2 hours.
[0326]
         Thereafter, the suspension after reaction was cooled to 30'C or less, thereby producing a
suspension (suspending agent) of controlled release particles containing clothianidin and having
a median size of 28.2 tm.
                                                 76

                                                                                     No.1-14F052
 [0327]
           The median size of the controlled release particles was measured with a laser diffraction
 scattering particle size distribution analyzer LA-920 (manufactured by HORIBA, Ltd.).       The
 measurement of the median size was conducted in the same manner as in Examples and
 Comparative Examples.
 [0328]
           Example A2 (Synthesis of clothianidin-containing controlled release particles:
 corresponding to second embodiment)
          A 200mL beaker (1) was charged with 1OOg of slurry B prepared in Preparation
Example A2, and 0.5g of PEROYL L, and the mixture was stirred at room temperature, thereby
dissolving PEROYL L in slurry B.
          In this manner, an oil phase component containing PEROYL L and slurry B was
prepared.
 [0329]
           Separately, a 500mL beaker (2) was charged with 258.26 g of ion-exchange water, 40g
of an aqueous solution of 10% PVA-217, 1g of an aqueous solution of 1% Pronon 208, and
0.24g of DEMOL NL, and the mixture was stirred at room temperature, thereby producing a
homogeneous aqueous solution.
 [0330]
          Then, an oil phase component was added to the 500mL beaker (2), and the mixture was
stirred with a T.K.Homo Mixer MARK type 2.5 (manufactured by PRIMIX Corporation) at a
number of revolution of 6000 rpm for 5 minutes to disperse the oil phase component in water,
thereby preparing a suspension (aqueous dispersion).
 [0331]
          Thereafter, suspension polymerization was performed under the same conditions with
those in Example Al, thereby producing a suspension (suspending agent) of controlled release
particles containing clothianidin and having a median size of 24.5pIm.
 [0332]
          Example A3 (Synthesis of clothianidin-containing controlled release particles:
                                                  77

                                                                                   No.1- 14F052
 corresponding to second embodiment)
          A 200mL beaker (1) was charged with lOOg of slurry A prepared in Preparation
Example Al and 0.5g of PEROYL L, and the mixture was stirred at room temperature, thereby
 dissolving PEROYL L in slurry A.      In this manner, an oil phase component containing
PEROYL L and slurry A was prepared.
 [0333]
          Separately, a 500mL beaker (2) was charged with 258.50g of ion-exchange water, 40g
of an aqueous solution of 10% PVA-217, and 1g of an aqueous solution of 1%Pronon 208, and
the mixture was stirred at room temperature, thereby producing a homogeneous aqueous solution.
 [0334]
          Then, an oil phase component was added to the 500mL beaker (2), and the mixture was
stirred with a T.K.Homo Mixer MARK type 2.5 (manufactured by PRIMIX Corporation) at a
number of revolution of 3000rpm for 5 minutes to disperse the oil phase component, thereby
preparing a suspension (aqueous dispersion).
 [0335]
          Thereafter, suspension polymerization was performed under the same conditions with
those in Example Al, thereby producing a suspension (suspending agent) of controlled release
particles containing clothianidin and having a median size of 43.5 pm.
 [0336]
          Example A4 (Synthesis of clothianidin-containing controlled release particles:
corresponding to second embodiment)
          A 200mL beaker (1) was charged with 50g of slurry A prepared in Preparation Example
Al, 25g of i-BMA, 25g of EGDMA, and 0.5g of PEROYL L, and the mixture was stirred at
room temperature, thereby dissolving i-BMA, EGDMA, and PEROYL L in slurry A.             In this
manner, an oil phase component containing i-BMA, EGDMA, PEROYL L, and slurry A was
prepared.
 [0337]
          Separately, a 500mL beaker (2) was charged with 258.26g of ion-exchange water, 40g
 of an aqueous solution of 10% PVA-217, 1g of an aqueous solution of 1%Pronon 208, and
                                                 78

                                                                                    No.1-14F052
 0.24g of DEMOL NL, and the mixture was stirred at room temperature, thereby producing a
homogeneous aqueous solution.
 [0338]
          Then, an oil phase component was added to the 500mL beaker (2), and the mixture was
stirred with a T.K.Homo Mixer MARK type 2.5 (manufactured by PRIMIX Corporation) at a
number of revolution of 5000rpm for 5 minutes to disperse the oil phase component, thereby
preparing a suspension (aqueous dispersion).
 [0339]
          Thereafter, suspension polymerization was performed under the same conditions with
those in Example Al, thereby producing a suspension (suspending agent) of controlled release
particles containing clothianidin and having a median size of 9.3pm.
[0340]
          Example A5 to Example A8, Example A13, Example A15, Example A16 (Synthesis of
clothianidin-containing controlled release particles: corresponding to second embodiment)
          A suspension (suspending agent) of controlled release particles containing clothianidin
was produced in the same manner as in Example A4, except that the mixing formulation was
changed according to the description shown in Table A2 and Table A3.        The average particle
size of the controlled release particles in the suspension is shown in Table A2 and Table A3.
[0341]
          Example A9 (Synthesis of clothianidin-containing controlled release particles:
corresponding to second embodiment)
          A 200mL beaker (1) was charged with 50g of slurry C prepared in Preparation Example
A1, 25g of styrene, 25g of EGDMA, and 0.5g of PEROYL L, and the mixture was stirred at
room temperature, thereby dissolving styrene, EDGMA, and PEROYL L in slurry C.           In this
manner, an oil phase component containing styrene, EDGMA, PEROYL L, and slurry C was
prepared.
 [0342]
          Separately, a 500mL beaker (2) was charged with 258.26g of ion-exchange water, 40g
of an aqueous solution of 10% PVA-217, 1g of an aqueous solution of 1% Pronon 208, and
                                                   79

                                                                                     No.1-14F052
0.24g of DEMOL NL, and the mixture was stirred at room temperature, thereby producing a
homogeneous aqueous solution.
[0343]
          Then, an oil phase component was added to the 500mL beaker (2), and the mixture was
stirred with a T.K.Homo Mixer MARK type 2.5 (manufactured by PRIMIX Corporation) at a
number of revolution of 5000rpm for 5 minutes to disperse the oil phase component, thereby
preparing a suspension (aqueous dispersion).
[0344]
          Thereafter, suspension polymerization was performed under the same conditions with
those in Example Al, thereby producing a suspension (suspending agent) of controlled release
particles containing clothianidin and having a median size of 14.5um.
[0345]
         Example AlO to Example A12, Example A14, Example A17, Example A18 (Synthesis
of clothianidin-containing controlled release particles: corresponding to second embodiment)
         A suspension (suspending agent) of controlled release particles containing clothianidin
was produced in the same manner as in Example A9, except that the mixing formulation was
changed according to the description shown in Table A3.       The average particle size of the
controlled release particles in the suspension is shown in Table A3.
[0346]
         Example Al 9 (Synthesis of imidacloprid-containing controlled release particles:
corresponding to second embodiment)
          A suspension (suspending agent) of controlled release particles containing imidacloprid
was produced in the same manner as in Example A4, except that the mixing formulation was
changed according to the description shown in Table A3.       The average particle size of the
controlled release particles in the suspension is shown in Table A3.
                                                  80

04                                                                                            C
                                         kc   )                  0'0                           )
                                     ClD
                   4)c
               <n                    00  kn        t'                                        C:,
                      CCZ
                            4C)
                                    00                                                               0'
                   6,                                                C)                       Cl      L
                                          (k)                              C)
            00n                                 C)    n   'n   'n)'
     ~~                                                 6      Cl                l
0      l
              4):
                                -0'    g
                  ':n                                            ~
                                                               C)-                      r 0) CD6
                      4))
   4)4                                                                              -$,
                                  oj
                                    'n)
                                         C4-4
                                                0                             0
                                                                                   -d
                                                                                                 4))
                                                                        00
                                                                                                 ~AIN
                        0)(                                                                             0
                                                             0                      0
                          0ou                                                 c)S
         Cd~2

Q~~                                                  C' kn                                                                             'c(
                                                                                                      (N                              'C)       00
                                (N                                                      C)
             -n                            o
                        0c)
                                              C)~~'  C2k           r                                                             C
                                                          kr)                                                    Nq C                r     C)
                                                                  (Nkr                      00-            ~           ~         ~            (
                                                   0~                                                                            if)
                                                                                        C)
           C)
                                                                                         n               '                       C'         )
           I'D                                      C kn             1-kr)
             ~~             -)~TS'                                  N       ~                          '         ~         kfC   C'
                                                                                                                       C:)       C:)(
                                 66          o"l                           6D-     .       1C
                                                   "D
                                      in                                   C'       c)
                                          5i                                       CD             ~             6              (          c
                                       0)
      P            ,     N                                                         QICC
                                                              ,                                       LOC 4
         96                               06                   cl              C'C                                               C)             -q
                     0)                                                            In                                            L
     -)                            C'                        In                               '                 N,                  '           0 01
                                       0)                                      0)  If
     C-          C)                                         in                     N)                           N                C
        0)
                        g,   00                                                    C',          El                 .o
                                  o              0
                                                                                       4*
                                                                                                0)
                                                                                     0
                         4
                                             0~
                                                                                ~0                                                t
                        0 -(
                                                          0                                     0 !             ) ,C
           16  )O                                                                                                  -
                  _                                                                                          .(*o                        0
                  Cr)C-                                                                                              0
                                                                                                    -                     0-      0
                                                                                                                                  0
    0                                                                                               (9

                                                                                        No.1-14F052
          In Table A2 and Table A3, "1" in "polymerization conditions" section indicates that the
 temperature of the suspension in the polymerization step was adjusted to "70+1 0 C for 5 hours,
 801'C for 2 hours" and "2" indicates that the temperature of the suspension in the
 polymerization step was adjusted to "80+1 0 C for 3 hours, 851'C for 3 hours".
 [0347]
           "1"in "controlled release particles type" section indicates that the controlled release
particles have the structure of the first embodiment shown in FIG. Al, and "2" indicates that the
 controlled release particles have the structure of the second embodiment shown in FIG. A2.
 [0348]
 (Powder formulation of controlled release particles, kmeading with thermoplastic resin, and
molding)
          Example A20 (kneading of powder formulation of Example Al with polyethylene and
molding)
          The suspension of the controlled release particles produced in Example Al was filtered
with a filter cloth having 100 pores, and thereafter, dried at room temperature for one day,
thereby producing powder of the controlled release particles (powder formulation).         The
produced powder of the controlled release particles (powder formulation) was dry-blended with
high-density polyethylene (HDPE) HI-ZEX 6300M (manufactured by Prime Polymer Co., Ltd.,
melt flow rate 0.11 g/l 0 min) so that clothianidin relative to HDPE was 0.25%, introduced into a
biaxial extrusion and injection molding DSMXplore MC15M (manufactured by DSM), melt
kneaded at 220'C for 5 minutes to produce a strand, and then injection molded in the melted
state, thereby producing a strip molded article (10mm x 76mm x 4mm).
[0349]
          Example A21 (Kneading of powder formulation of Example A3 with polyethylene and
molding)
          A strip molded article was produced in the same manner as in Example A20, except that
the suspension of the controlled release particles produced in Example A3 was used instead of
the suspension of the controlled release particles produced in Example Al.
 [0350]
                                                  83

                                                                                      No.1- 14F052
 (Formulation of powder formulation of controlled release particles)
          Example A22
          1.2 parts by mass of the suspension of the controlled release particles produced in
Example Al (clothianidin concentration 8.3 mass%) was blended with 100 parts by mass of
KAGALITE No. 2 (manufactured by KAGALITE KOGYO CO., LTD., fine grain of pumice,
particle size 425 to 1400 [tm), and then the mixture was dried, thereby producing clothianidin
powder formulation.     The powder formulation had a clothianidin concentration of about 0.1
mass%.
 [0351]
         Example A23
         A clothianidin powder formulation was produced in the same manner as in Example
A22, except that 1.2 parts by mass of the suspension of the controlled release particles produced
in Example A3 (clothianidin concentration 8.3 mass%) was blended instead of the suspension of
the controlled release particles produced in Example Al.     The powder formulation had a
clothianidin concentration of about 0.1 mass%.
[0352]
          Comparative Example Al (kneading of dried product of clothianidin microcapsule
suspension with polyethylene)
         The same processes were carried out as in Example A6, except that clothianidin
microcapsule suspension "XYLAMON MC" manufactured by Japan EnviroChemicals, Ltd.
produced by interfacial polymerization was dried at room temperature for 1 day and ground to
produce a sample, and the sample was used instead of the controlled release particles powder
(powder formulation) prepared in Example Al.        However, the capsules were broken while
melt-kneading and the solvent was atomized, and kneading could not be done.
 [0353]
         Evaluation
 1.SEM (Scanning Electron Microscope) observation
          The suspension (suspending agent) of Example Al to Example A4, and Example A9
and Example A19 was dropped on a stage, and thereafter, water was vaporized away.          Then, the
                                                 84

                                                                                       No.1-14F052
produced controlled release particles were observed with a scanning electron microscope Hitachi
 TM-3000 (manufactured by Hitachi High-Technologies Corporation).            SEM images of the
 controlled release particles of Example Al to Example A4, and Example A9 and Example Al 9
were shown in FIG. A4 to FIG. A9.
 [0354]
           The strand of Example A20 and Example A21 was immersed in liquid nitrogen, and the
fracture surface of the brittle fracture was observed with a scanning electron microscope Hitachi
TM-3000 (manufactured by Hitachi High-Technologies Corporation).            SEM images of the
cross section of Example A20 and Example A21 are shown in FIG. Al 0 and FIG. Al 1.
 [0355]
2. TEM (Transmission Electron Microscope) observation
          The suspension (suspending agent) of Example Al to Example A3 was freeze-dried,
then dispersed in a bisphenol liquid epoxy resin, and thereafter cured with amine.      Then, the
cured product was cut with an ultramicrotome to expose its cross section, the cross section was
dyed with osmium tetroxide, and as necessary, also with ruthenium tetroxide, the cross section
was cut out with an ultramicrotome into extremely thin slices, thereby preparing samples.       The
prepared samples were observed with a transmission electron microscope (model number "H
7100", manufactured by Hitachi, Ltd.).
[0356]
          Image-processed TEM photographs of Example Al to Example A3 are shown in FIG.
A12 to FIG. A14, respectively.
[0357]
          In FIG. A12 to FIG. A14, the blank space shown with reference numeral 3 represents a
mark showing that clothianidin was dissolved and fell off in the process of allowing the ultrathin
slice to float and to be collected in water, and represents the shape of the clothianidin domain.
[0358]
3.Alkali-resistance test
3-1. Suspending agent of controlled release particles
          Alkali-resistance test was conducted for the suspending agent of controlled release
                                                   85

                                                                                      No.1-14F052
particles with the following procedure.
 [0359]
          The suspension of the controlled release particles produced in Example Al to Example
A3 was filtered with a filter cloth having 100 pores, and thereafter, dried at room temperature for
one day, thereby producing powder of the controlled release particles (powder formulation).
The powder was diluted with deionized water to 1000 times, 6.3 mL of the dilution was
measured and introduced in a glass bottle, and 2 mL of a saturated calcium hydroxide solution
was added, thereby preparing a test solution.     The test solution was allowed to stand in a
constant temperature of 40 0 C.
[0360]
          1OmL of acetinitrile was added to the test solution after 1 day and after 7 days from the
test, clothianidin was extracted, the clothianidin amount was determined with HPLC, and the
remaining ratio was calculated.
[0361]
          As a control, an aqueous solution of technical product of clothianidin was used and the
test was conducted in the same manner.
[0362]
          The results are shown in Table A4.
[Table A4]
                                                Clothianidin remaining ratio(%)
                                                                    After seven
                           Example A            After one day
                                                                       days
                          Example Al                 91.2               11.9
                          Example A2                 92.5               15.6
                          Example A3                 92.1               15.4
                          Clothianidin
                                                     86.7               7.3
                            (Control)
                                                  86

                                                                                        No.1-14F052
           As can be seen from Table A4, the suspending agent containing the controlled release
 particles of Example Al to Example A3 has a high clothianidin remaining ratio of, after one day
 from when the test started, 91 to 93%, and a clothianidin remaining ratio of, after seven days
 from when the test started, 12 to 16%.    Although the clothianidin remaining ratio after seven
 days from when the test started decreased compared with the clothianidin remaining ratio after
 one day from when the test started, considering the test result with the control was 7%, it is still
 at a practical level.  Furthermore, Table A4 also shows that the controlled release particles of
Example A2 and Example A3 corresponding to the second embodiment are excellent in alkali
resistance in any of the clothianidin remaining ratio after one day from when the test started and
the clothianidin remaining ratio after seven days from when the test started, compared with the
controlled release particles of Example Al corresponding to the first embodiment.
 [0363]
3-2. Powder formulation of controlled release particles
           1.Og of the powder formulation produced in Example A22 and Example A23 was
measured and taken out, and 3.6mL of deionized water and 2mL of a saturated calcium
hydroxide aqueous solution were added thereto, thereby preparing a test solution.        The test
solution was allowed to stand in a constant temperature of 40'C.
[0364]
           1OmL of acetinitrile was added to the test solution after 1 day and after 7 days from the
test, clothianidin was extracted, the clothianidin amount was determined with HPLC, and the
remaining ratio was calculated.
[0365]
          As a control, an aqueous solution of technical product of clothianidin was used and the
test was conducted in the same manner.
[0366]
          The results are shown in Table A5.
                                                  87

                                                                                         No.1-14F052
 [Table A5]
                                                Clothianidin remaining ratio(%)
                                                                      After seven
                            Example A            After one day
                                                                          days
                          Example A22                 90.2                10.9
                          Example A23                91.8                 15.1
                           Clothianidin
                                                     86.7                  7.3
                             (Control)
          As can be seen from Table A5, the powder formulation of Example A22 and Example
A23 containing the controlled release particles of Example Al and Example A3 has a high
clothianidin remaining ratio of, after one day from when the test started, 90 to 92%, and a
clothianidin remaining ratio of, after seven days from when the test started, 11 to 15%.
Although the clothianidin remaining ratio after seven days from when the test started decreased
compared with the clothianidin remaining ratio after one day from when the test started,
considering the test result with the control was 7%, it is still at a practical level.  Furthermore,
Table A5 also shows that the powder formulation of Example A23 containing the controlled
release particles of Example A3 corresponding to the second embodiment are excellent in alkali
resistance of the antibiotic compound in any of the clothianidin remaining ratio after one day
from when the test started and the clothianidin remaining ratio after seven days from when the
test started, compared with the powder formulation of Example A22 containing the controlled
release particles of Example Al corresponding to the first embodiment.
4.Termite control test of molded article
          Silica sand was watered so that its water content was 8% (optimal water content for
termite activities), and a plastic vessel was charged with the silica sand.     Then, the strip molded
article of Example A20 and Example A21 was set on the surface of the silica sand.
[0367]
                                                  88

                                                                                      No.1- 14F052
          As a comparison, test was conducted for the one in which a strip molded article made
 only of HDPE to which controlled release particles were not kneaded was set.
 [0368]
          50 ergates of coptotermes were introduced to the above-described plastic vessel, and the
number of the dead coptotermes (=death rate) and activities of the termites were observed for 7
days (test was conducted with n = 2).       All the termites were dead on the second and third days
from the start of the test with the strip molded article of Example A20 and Example A21.
 [0369]
          Meanwhile, with the strip molded article with only HDPE, i.e., a comparison, the
termites were not dead even after 7 days, and no change can be seen in the activities of the
termites.
 [0370]
          That is, significant formicidal effects can be seen in Example A20 and Example A21.
[0371]
[2] Examples B corresponding to the second invention group
          The numeral values of Preparation Example B, Example B, and Reference Example B
shown below can be replaced with the numeral values shown in the above-described
"DESCRIPTION OF EMBODIMENTS" section (that is, the upper limit value or lower limit
value).   The unit in Preparation Example B, Example B, and Reference Example B, such as %
represents mass% unless specified otherwise.
 [0372]
          First, details of the abbreviations used in Preparation Example B, Example B, and
Reference Example B are described next.
 [0373]
   clothianidin:(E)-1-(2-chlorothiazole-5-ylmethyl)-3-methyl-2-nitroguanidine,     molecular
weight250, melting points 770 C, solubility to water:0.33g/L, manufactured by Sumitomo
Chemical Co., Ltd.
   Imidacloprid : 1-(6-chloro-3-pyridylmethyl)-N-nitroimidazolidin-2-ylideneamine, molecular
weight256, melting pointl440 C, solubility to water:0.48g/L, manufactured by maruzen syoudoku
                                                    89

                                                                                   No.1-14F052
 Co., Ltd.
    EGDMA: ethylene glycol dimethacrylate, trade name " Light ester EG", insoluble to water,
 manufactured by Kyoeisha Chemical Co., Ltd.
    i-BMA: isobutyl methacrylate, solubility to water:0.6g/L, manufactured by Nippon Shokubai
 Co., Ltd.
   DVB-570:trade name, insoluble to water, composition: divinylbenzene(upper limit60%),
 ethylvinylbenzene(upper limit 40%), manufactured by NIPPON STEEL & SUMIKIN
 CHEMICAL CO., LTD.
   styrene: solubility to water:0.3g/L, Waco special grade, manufactured by Wako Pure
Chemical Industries, Ltd.
   DISPERBYK-164:trade name, acetic acid butyl solution of functional group-modified
copolymer for dispersing pigment (tertiary amine-containing polyester-modified polyurethane
polymer, molecular weight 10000 to 50000), solid content concentration 60%, manufactured by
BYK Additives & Instruments
   PEROYL L:trade name, dilauroyl peroxide, 10 hours half-life temperature T112 :61.6 0 C,
manufactured by NOF CORPORATION
   Pronon 208: trade name, a polyoxyethylene polyoxypropylene block copolymer manufactured
by NOF CORPORATION
     PVA-217: trade name "Kuraray Poval 217", partially saponified polyvinyl alcohol,
manufactured by Kuraray Co., Ltd.
   DEMOL NL: trade name, 41% aqueous solution of P- naphthalene sulfonic acid sodium salt,
manufactured by Kao Corporation
         T-1890: trade name "VESTANAT T 1890/100", cyclic trimer of isophorone
diisocyanate (IPDI), solubility to water: 0.02g/L, manufactured by Evonik industries
         DETA: diethylene triamine, Wako 1st grade reagent, manufactured by Wako Pure
Chemical Industries, Ltd.
(Preparation of hydrophobic slurry)
         Preparation Example B 1 (Preparation of clothianidin slurry (slurry A))
         A glass bottle was charged with 90g of EGDMA, 90g of i-BMA, 20g of DISPERBYK
                                                 90

                                                                                     No.1-14F052
 164, and 100g of clothianidin, and zirconia beads with a diameter of 1.0mm were introduced in
an amount of 1/3 of the capacity of the glass bottle.    The mixture was subjected to wet grinding
with a paint conditioner (paint shaker, trade name "THE CLASSIC model 1400", manufactured
by Red Devil Equipment Company.) for 2 hours, thereby producing a slurry (hydrophobic slurry,
hereinafter referred to as "slurry A".) containing 33.3% of clothianidin.
[0374]
          Clothianidin in Slurry A had an average particle size measured with a concentrated
particle size analyzer FPAR-1000 (manufactured by Otsuka Electronics Co. Ltd.) of 1.38pm.
[0375]
          Preparation Example B2(Preparation of clothianidin slurry (slurry B))
          7200g of DVB-570 and 804g of DISPERBYK-164 were stirred and dispersed with a
batch media disperser (batch bead mill, trade name "AD mill (AD-5), zirconia beads diameter
1.5mm", manufactured by ASADA IRON WORKS.CO.,LTD.) until the mixture is
homogeneous, and thereafter 3996g of clothianidin was further introduced, and subjected to wet
grinding for 150 minutes, thereby producing a slurry containing 33.3% of clothianidin
(hydrophobic slurry, hereinafter may be referred to as "slurry B").
[03761
          Clothianidin in Slurry B had an average particle size measured with a concentrated
particle analyzer FPAR-1000 (manufactured by Otsuka Electronics Co. Ltd.) of 0.45tm.
[0377]
          Preparation Example B3 to Preparation Example B8
(Preparation of clothianidin slurry (slurry C to H))
          Clothianidin slurry (hydrophobic slurry, hereinafter may be referred to as "slurry C to
H") was produced in the same manner as in Preparation Example B 1, except that the mixing
formulation was changed according to the formulation shown in Table B 1.
[0378]
          The average particle size of clothianidin of slurry C to H is shown in Table B 1.
 [0379]
          Preparation Example B9
                                                  91

                                                                                   No.1-14F052
(Preparation of imidacloprid slurry (slurry I))
         Imidacloprid slurry (hydrophobic slurry, hereinafter may be referred to as "slurry I")
was produced in the same manner as in Preparation Example B 1, except that the mixing
formulation was changed according to the formulation shown in Table B 1.
[0380]
         Table B 1 shows the average particle size of imidacloprid in slurry I.
                                                92

                               C)   C
           00 C0 CD C>    C        C>
                          vi       C) C
                             'r) I  0
          00        0    or
                        CCl
   Ir         C) 00 Cl)  CD
              o0    Co
                    0)   0m           r
                         00        C)
      4))
                                        c~co
                                             ~m
                         000
4)

                                                                                       No.1- 14F052
 (Water dispersion step and polymerization step)
          Example BI (Synthesis of polyurea covered/clothianidin-containing controlled release
particles: corresponding to third embodiment)
          A 200mL beaker (1) was charged with 85g of slurry B prepared in Preparation Example
B2, 15g of T-1890, and 0.5g of PEROYL L, and the mixture was stirred at room temperature,
thereby dissolving T-1890 and PEROYL L in slurry B.          In this manner, an oil phase component
containing T- 1890, PEROYL L, and slurry B was prepared.
 [0381]
          Separately, a 500mL beaker (2) was charged with 240.26g of ion-exchange water, 40g
of an aqueous solution of 10% PVA-217, lg of an aqueous solution of 1% Pronon 208, and
0.24g of DEMOL NL, and the mixture was stirred at room temperature, thereby producing a
homogeneous aqueous solution.
[0382]
          Then, an oil phase component was added to the 500mL beaker (2), and the mixture was
stirred with a T.K.Homo Mixer MARK type 2.5 (manufactured by PRIMIX Corporation) at a
number of revolution of 6000 rpm for 5 minutes to disperse the oil phase component, thereby
preparing a suspension (aqueous dispersion).
[0383]
          Thereafter, the suspension (aqueous dispersion) was transferred to a 500mL 4-neck
flask equipped with a stirrer, a reflux condenser, a thermometer, and a nitrogen inlet tube, and
the mixture was stirred under nitrogen gas flow.
[0384]
          Then, 18g of an aqueous solution of 10 mass% diethylene triamine was added to the
suspension to start interfacial polymerization, and thereafter, the temperature of the suspension
was increased to start suspension polymerization.
[0385]
          To be specific, first, to the suspension of room temperature, 18g of an aqueous solution
of 10 mass% diethylene triamine was added, and immediately after the addition, the temperature
of the suspension was increased to 70'C, and the temperature was kept for 5 hours.       Thereafter,
                                                   94

                                                                                       No.1- 14F052
 the temperature of the suspension was increased to 80'C, and the temperature was kept for 2
 hours.
 [0386]
           The interfacial polymerization was started when the aqueous solution of 10 mass%
 diethylene triamine was introduced, and the suspension polymerization was started when the
temperature reached 55'C while increasing the temperature of the suspension to 70'C.
 [0387]
           In this manner, clothianidin is dispersed in the matrix formed by suspension
polymerization, and the matrix is covered with polyurea, thereby producing a suspension
(suspending agent) of controlled release particles.
[0388]
           Thereafter, the suspension after reaction was cooled to 30'C or less, clothianidin is
dispersed in the matrix, and the matrix is covered with polyurea formed in interfacial
polymerization, thereby producing a suspension (suspending agent) of controlled release
particles.
[0389]
          The median size of the controlled release particles in the suspension was measured with
a laser diffraction scattering particle size distribution analyzer LA-920 (manufactured by
HORIBA, Ltd.).         The results are shown in Table B2.    The measurement of the median size
was conducted in the same manner as in Examples, Reference Example, and Comparative
Example, and the results are shown in Table B2 to Table B6.
[0390]
          Example B2 (Synthesis of polyurea covered/clothianidin-containing controlled release
particles: corresponding to third embodiment)
          A 200mL beaker (1) was charged with 50g of slurry A prepared in Preparation Example
B1, 17.5g of i-BMA, 17.5g of EGDMA, 15g of T-1890, and 0.5g of PEROYL L, and the mixture
was stirred at room temperature, thereby dissolving i-BMA, EGDMA, T-1 890, and PEROYL L
in slurry A.     In this manner, an oil phase component containing i-BMA, EGDMA, T-1890,
PEROYL L, and slurry A was prepared.
                                                    95

                                                                                     No.1-14F052
 [0391]
          Separately, a 500mL beaker (2) was charged with 240.26g of ion-exchange water, 40g
 of an aqueous solution of 10% PVA-217, lg of an aqueous solution of 1% Pronon 208, and
 0.24g of DEMOL NL, and the mixture was stirred at room temperature, thereby producing a
homogeneous aqueous solution.
 [0392]
          Then, an oil phase component was added to the 500mL beaker (2), and the mixture was
stirred with a T.K.Homo Mixer MARK type 2.5 (manufactured by PRIMIX Corporation) at a
number of revolution of 5000 rpm for 5 minutes to disperse the oil phase component, thereby
preparing a suspension (aqueous dispersion).
 [0393]
          Thereafter, the suspension (aqueous dispersion) was transferred to a 500mL 4-neck
flask equipped with a stirrer, a reflux condenser, a thermometer, and a nitrogen inlet tube, and
the mixture was stirred under nitrogen gas flow.
 [0394]
          Then, 18 g of aqueous solution of 10 mass% diethylene triamine was added to the
suspension to start interfacial polymerization, and thereafter, the temperature of the suspension
was increased to start suspension polymerization.
 [0395]
          To be specific, first, to the suspension of room temperature, 18g of an aqueous solution
of 10 mass% diethylene triamine was added, and immediately after the addition, the temperature
of the suspension was increased to 70'C, and the temperature was kept for 5 hours.       Thereafter,
the temperature of the suspension was increased to 80'C, and the temperature was kept for 2
hours.
 [0396]
          The interfacial polymerization was started when the aqueous solution of 10 mass%
diethylene triamine was introduced, and the suspension polymerization was started when the
temperature reached 55 0 C while increasing the temperature of the suspension to 70'C.
 [0397]
                                                   96

                                                                                      No.1- 14F052
          In this manner, clothianidin is dispersed in the matrix formed by suspension
polymerization, and the matrix is covered with polyurea formed in interfacial polymerization,
thereby producing a suspension (suspending agent) of controlled release particles.
 [0398]
          Thereafter, the suspension after reaction was cooled to 30'C or less, thereby producing a
suspension (suspending agent) of controlled release particles, in which clothianidin is dispersed
in the matrix, and the matrix is covered with polyurea.
 [0399]
          Example B3 (Synthesis of polyurea covered/clothianidin-containing controlled release
particles: corresponding to third embodiment)
          The processes were conducted in the same manner as in Example B2 except that the
polymerization conditions were changed as follows, thereby producing a suspension (suspending
agent) of controlled release particles, in which clothianidin is dispersed in the matrix and the
matrix is covered with polyurea.
 [0400]
          That is, immediately after the addition of the aqueous solution of diethylene triamine,
the temperature of the suspension was increased to 60'C, and the temperature was kept for 1
hour, and then the temperature of the suspension was increased to 70'C, and the temperature was
kept for 2 hours.    Thereafter, the temperature of the suspension was increased to 80'C, and the
temperature was kept for 1 hour.
 [0401]
          The interfacial polymerization was started when the aqueous solution of 10 mass%
diethylene triamine was introduced, and the suspension polymerization was started when the
temperature reached 55'C while increasing the temperature of the suspension to 60'C.
 [0402]
          Example B4 (Synthesis of polyurea covered/clothianidin-containing controlled release
particles: corresponding to third embodiment)
          A suspension (suspending agent) of controlled release particles containing clothianidin
was produced in the same manner as in Example B2, except that the polymerization conditions
                                                  97

                                                                                       No.1-14F052
were changed as follows.
 [0403]
          That is, after adding the aqueous solution of diethylene triamine, the temperature of the
suspension was increased to 50'C, and the temperature was kept for 2 hours, and then the
temperature of the suspension was increased to 60'C, and the temperature was kept for 1 hour,
and then the temperature of the suspension was increased to 70'C, and the temperature was kept
for 2 hours.    Thereafter, the temperature of the suspension was increased to 80'C, and the
temperature was kept for 1 hour.
[0404]
          The interfacial polymerization was started when the aqueous solution of 10 mass%
diethylene triamine was introduced, and suspension polymerization was started after the start of
interfacial polymerization and when the temperature of the suspension was increased to 55 C
while increasing the temperature to 60'C.
[0405]
          Example B5 (Synthesis of polyurea covered/clothianidin-containing controlled release
particles: corresponding to third embodiment)
          A suspension (suspending agent) of controlled release particles containing clothianidin
was produced in the same manner as in Example B2 except that the polymerization conditions
were changed as follows.
[0406]
          That is, first, the temperature of the suspension was increased to 60'C, and the
temperature was kept for 1 hour.       Thereafter, the aqueous solution of diethylene triamine was
added, and immediately thereafter, the temperature of the suspension was increased to 70'C, and
the temperature was kept for 2 hours.      Thereafter, the temperature of the suspension was
increased to 80'C, and the temperature was kept for 1 hour.
 [0407]
          That is, the suspension polymerization was started when the temperature reached 55 0 C
while increasing the temperature of the suspension to 60'C, and interfacial polymerization was
started after the start of suspension polymerization and when the aqueous solution of 10 mass%
                                                    98

                                                                                   No.1-14FO52
 diethylene triamine was introduced.
 [0408]
          Example B10 to Example B13, Example B19 to Example B23, Example B27, Example
B28, Example B31 and Example B32
(Synthesis of polyurea covered/clothianidin-containing controlled release particles)
(Example B10 to Example B13, Example B19 to Example B23, Example B27, Example B31 and
Example B32: corresponding to third embodiment)
(Example B28: corresponding to fourth embodiment)
          A suspension (suspending agent) of controlled release particles covered with polyurea
and containing clothianidin was produced in the same manner as in Example B2, except that the
mixing formulation was changed according to the description shown in Table B3 to Table B5.
[0409]
          Example B6 (Synthesis of polyurea covered/clothianidin-containing controlled release
particles: corresponding to third embodiment)
          A 200mL beaker (1) was charged with 50g of slurry C prepared in Preparation Example
B3, 17.5g of styrene, 17.5g of EGDMA, 15g of T-1 890, and 0.5g of PEROYL L, and the mixture
was stirred at room temperature, thereby dissolving styrene, EGDMA, T-1 890, and PEROYL L
in slurry C.   In this manner, an oil phase component containing styrene, EGDMA, T-1890,
PEROYL L, and slurry C was prepared.
[0410]
          Separately, a 500mL beaker (2) was charged with 240.26g of ion-exchange water, 40g
of an aqueous solution of 10% PVA-217, 1g of an aqueous solution of 1%Pronon 208, and
0.24g of DEMOL NL, and the mixture was stirred at room temperature, thereby producing a
homogeneous aqueous solution.
[0411]
          Then, a 500mL beaker (2) was charged with the oil phase component in which styrene,
EGDMA, T-1890, and PEROYL L, and the mixture was stirred with a T.K.Homo Mixer MARK
type 2.5 (manufactured by PRIMIX Corporation) at a number of revolution of 5000rpm for 5
minutes to disperse the oil phase component, thereby preparing a suspension (aqueous
                                                99

                                                                                      No.1- 14F052
 dispersion).
 [0412]
           Thereafter, the suspension (aqueous dispersion) was transferred to a 500mL 4-neck
 flask equipped with a stirrer, a reflux condenser, a thermometer, and a nitrogen inlet tube, and
 the mixture was stirred under nitrogen gas flow.
 [0413]
          Then, 18g of an aqueous solution of 10 mass% diethylene triamine was added to the
 suspension to start interfacial polymerization, and thereafter, the temperature of the suspension
was increased to start suspension polymerization.
 [0414]
          To be specific, first, to the suspension of room temperature, 18g of an aqueous solution
of 10 mass% diethylene triamine was added to the suspension, and immediately after the
addition, the temperature of the suspension was increased to 70'C, and the temperature was kept
for 5 hours.    Thereafter, the temperature of the suspension was increased to 80'C, and the
temperature was kept for 2 hours.
[0415]
          The interfacial polymerization was started when the aqueous solution of 10 mass%
diethylene triamine was introduced, and the suspension polymerization was started when the
temperature reached 55'C while increasing the temperature of the suspension to 70'C.
[0416]
          In this manner, a suspension (suspending agent) of controlled release particles in which
clothianidin is dispersed in matrix formed by suspension polymerization and the matrix is
covered with polyurea formed by interfacial polymerization was produced.
[0417]
          Thereafter, the suspension after reaction was cooled to 30'C or less, a suspension
(suspending agent) of controlled release particles in which clothianidin is dispersed in the matrix,
and the matrix is covered with polyurea was produced.
[0418]
         Example B7 to Example B9, Example B14 to Example B18, Example B24 to Example
                                                  100

                                                                                    No.1-14F052
B26, Example B29, Example B30, Example B33, Example B34
(Synthesis of polyurea covered/clothianidin-containing controlled release particles)
(Example B7 to Example B9, Example B14 to Example B18, Example B24 to Example B26,
Example B33 and Example B34: corresponding to third embodiment)
(Example B29 and Example B30: corresponding to fourth embodiment)
          A suspension (suspending agent) of controlled release particles covered with polyurea
and containing clothianidin was produced in the same manner as in Example B6, except that the
mixing formulation and polymerization conditions were changed in accordance with the
description in Table B2 to Table B5.
[0419]
          Example B35 (Synthesis of imidacloprid-containing controlled release particles:
corresponding to third embodiment)
          A suspension (suspending agent) of controlled release particles containing imidacloprid
was produced in the same manner as in Example B2, except that the mixing formulation was
changed according to the description shown in Table B5.
[0420]
          Reference Example B1 (Synthesis of clothianidin-containing controlled release
particles: corresponding to reference embodiment)
          A 200mL beaker (1) was charged with 1Og of slurry B prepared in Preparation
Example B2 and 0.5g of PEROYL L, and the mixture was stirred at room temperature, thereby
dissolving PEROYL L in slurry B.      In this manner, an oil phase component containing
PEROYL L and slurry B was prepared.
[0421]
          Separately, a 500mL beaker (2) was charged with 258.50g of ion-exchange water, 40g
of an aqueous solution of 10% PVA-217, and 1g of an aqueous solution of 1% Pronon 208, and
the mixture was stirred at room temperature, thereby producing a homogeneous aqueous solution.
[0422]
          Then, a 500mL beaker (2) was charged with an oil phase component to which PEROYL
L was blended, and the mixture was stirred with a T.K.Homo Mixer MARK type 2.5
                                                101

                                                                                       No.1-14F052
 (manufactured by PRIMIX Corporation) at a number of revolution of 6000 rpm for 5 minutes to
 disperse the oil phase component in water, thereby preparing a suspension (aqueous dispersion).
 [0423]
          Thereafter, the suspension (aqueous dispersion) was transferred to a 500mL 4-neck
flask equipped with a stirrer, a reflux condenser, a thermometer, and a nitrogen inlet tube, and
subjected to suspension polymerization while increasing the temperature under a nitrogen gas
flow and stirring.
 [0424]
          In suspension polymerization, polymerization was started at a point where the
temperature reached 55 0 C, and thereafter, polymerization was performed continuously at
701'C for 5 hours and at 801'C for 2 hours.
[0425]
          Thereafter, the suspension after reaction was cooled to 3 00 C or less, and a suspension
(suspending agent) of controlled release particles containing clothianidin was produced.
[0426]
       . Reference Example B2 (Synthesis of clothianidin-containing controlled release
particles: corresponding to reference embodiment)
          A 200mL beaker (1) was charged with 1OOg of slurry B prepared in Preparation
Example B2 and 0.5g of PEROYL L, and the mixture was stirred at room temperature, thereby
dissolving PEROYL L in slurry B.       In this manner, an oil phase component containing
PEROYL L and slurry B was prepared.
[0427]
          Separately, a 500mL beaker (2) was charged with 258.26g of ion-exchange water, 40g
of an aqueous solution of 10% PVA-217, lg of an aqueous solution of 1% Pronon 208, and
0.24g of DEMOL NL, and the mixture was stirred at room temperature, thereby producing a
homogeneous aqueous solution.
 [0428]
          Then, an oil phase component was added to the 500mL beaker (2), and the mixture was
stirred with a T.K.Homo Mixer MARK type 2.5 (manufactured by PRIMIX Corporation) at a
                                                  102

                                                                                  No.1-14F052
number of revolution of 6000 rpm for 5 minutes to disperse the oil phase component in water,
thereby preparing a suspension (aqueous dispersion).
 [0429]
          Thereafter, suspension polymerization was performed in the same manner as in
Reference Example B 1, thereby producing a suspension (suspending agent) of controlled release
particles containing clothianidin.
 [0430]
          Reference Example B3 (Synthesis of clothianidin-containing controlled release
particles: corresponding to reference embodiment)
          A 200mL beaker (1) was charged with 1OOg of slurry A prepared in Preparation
Example BI and 0.5g of PEROYL L, and the mixture was stirred at room temperature, thereby
dissolving PEROYL L in slurry A.      In this manner, an oil phase component containing
PEROYL L and slurry A was prepared.
[0431]
          Separately, a 500mL beaker (2) was charged with 258.50g of ion-exchange water, 40g
of an aqueous solution of 10% PVA-217, and lg of an aqueous solution of 1%Pronon 208, and
the mixture was stirred at room temperature, thereby producing a homogeneous aqueous solution.
 [0432]
          Then, an oil phase component was added to the 500mL beaker (2), and the mixture was
stirred with a T.K.Homo Mixer MARK type 2.5 (manufactured by PRIMIX Corporation) at a
number of revolution of 6000 rpm for 5 minutes to disperse the oil phase component, thereby
preparing a suspension (aqueous dispersion).
 [0433]
          Thereafter, suspension polymerization was performed in the same manner as in
Reference Example B1, thereby producing a suspension (suspending agent) of controlled release
particles containing clothianidin.
                                                103

C1
10
                                                                                  CD                   I
               CD c                      0   C)InCD,-D                                            In
   o
                                                                            Nl   'Z,                   k0   ,kI
     00     \0
          S   CD             00                InC)~                       C)
                                 Cl     Cq
                                                                                                                                 4))
                  c)0                                      ..      nn~C                                         o6
          ~< ~C)                                                                  C')                                        C/)l~0 +0
                                                                                  f ~~~C                                Clo
                              C')                                                   C> C)
                                                       ,In      In            C:)                                  I
      q    Cl
                                                                        CD Cl
               ~      Cl*                      k              I                        CD          n    N       C
        S   C)           't   -'                                                 In)      C-                    Cl
                                                              uu
                                                                           C')                     C      0                         CD
                        Ci                     00                                 C''
                                                                                    )I                          00l  C      ..         C
                          00
                       Cl                    ~0
          ~Cl
                                                                                         o"           00
                                                                                        C.)4"
                             En                                               0              C
                             HJ                  00
                                       0
                                    04                                                                                  0
                                                                                           0  /      0l                 C)
                               0                                                        0~
                                                                                    00
                                                                                                            r2       '0
                                         0.>
                                                                                (D       ~      '           ~
                            Cd~

LO-                                                     C)     , -        V     .6         )C
                                                                   (,q    Cl            0      in
    9-         cq
                              ~~~f)~C                   kn          N~       Ln                C)~C~
                                                                                                      C                  -           -       c
                                CCl
                                                  Le                Cl:l
       In    c
                                     C)0
                                                  -s      )
                                                                          c   )(C:)
                                                                                               Cl)Cl    "
                                                                                                                                    I--     o        '0
                                                                                                                                                             0r f
                                                  C,    C:         C)         )        -      8)               i
          -:               C!                                                                 Cl
                              ClCD
                                                                     IC'.t--        C          CT)              Cl
             Clq
                                               0lq           Cl          CD  C)
               o                                                                                                                                            0n
             "00N c-                                                                                                                   )   N
          SCl                                    E0      00                  M     C.C           0kIt            l
                       CAl~ Cl),~                                                                              Cl
                       C)l                                                                    It                        -          -ie
                             00
                                Cl~~if                  000'g0                                            f
                                         00
                                                   .~00
                            0       D
                                                                                                                           0    0E                        0
                                    C)                             0~                  PI'
                                       0          ot                                                                                                     0
             00                                                                    P-1          0~ 0                                      -,            .
                                                                                               0      0     En     0                                     0/
                         J        0~                                                          .           w                C).~ U        I--             0
                                                                                                                             0            '0
                                            0'              ~,-o                                                                                         0
                                                                                                             P,        0    0                  b)         05
                                                                                                                         c      0
                                                                                                                     0                            4-'En.2
                                0I,
             0          aI
                     0  z0
    C'                     m

                         -n                                                                 k0                                       k  fl    00
                                                     cl       -   .      k)                        )    C)                                                    C
0
          (,             cl                 0N                                                                                                  l
                            C                                                           C)Cq                                                                CD
                                                            oV                      kn                IC)                  -           l        -     0      f
      P"      C      l                      00)                                        I C )   C)       0                                      O
            S r5q                    l.      I                                                                                                              C)C)0
                                                 0                          C )     tn         C:                                                             0:
                                                                                                0                   -
                       cC                                                                             IC)                            kc,
               -)                           00                                                 C)    0f
                                                                                                      C)     _                                ON            IC6)
                                      C)o                           l       I       I)               Og                   0 0
                                       0q              0                                                                                                    kr
                               Cl)                     0q                                      C)(,                                    )
                                                        CCl
         N
                       ~-Cl
                        C)
                                          ~        ~          'o)                              )0
                                                                                                  D8
                                                                                                                  C
                                                                                                                    )k)r
                                                                                                                                'C)
                                                                                                                                                             00c
                                       0                             C)                                                  '-r               Cl  I/r)
             00
                                      C))
                        >
                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                  0       In
                                                                                                                  p                                       0
                                                        ~00
                                                                  H                                                                                     05
                            0
                                                                                                     IC                     0
                                                                                                       19      ~ 0-
                                                                                                                0N
                                                        V                                -0                       5-01                                  0
             *     0                        15
                                            -0
                                                                          CI4~ 0O ~   3
                                                                                          PO-4
                                                                                                                                            (DO
                                                                                O                                         CO
                        C/)         ~       0            t                                                 0      0
                                                           00
                                                                                                             0d           0                         0
                                                o                                              H
                                                                                   00
                                                                                                               0              0                         5
                                                       0d
                                                                                                        0                           0 0
                0o1,.                                                                                  0         (.
      IU)                         U)0
  '-4   0                     0       L
      ,~0                                                             U)0
                                  (1
                              &_ __
                                   _                                .

CD
                                                   co                  Cl
                                                                                   LC)                                              I
                                             CC,
z
                     q oo                            *.n         0-    C                     F                     00~'
   CXI               C)                                                                                                     kI
                                                                                                                                      4)      kr
                                                                                                                        ,   0
                                          2q  c)      n        L
                                                            knC)                                                   l
               inlq9.                         CIf)         tf-                                            'C'      0C         0 0
                                        U                                                                                                     CD~'~-~
       C)                              2c
       -                               '0
                          00lO                                   C)    Cl')                            N
                                                                                                       C)                  00
                               6~-            00                      C'
                                                        C'                  Nl                     Cl)                                   00
                                                                                     I,-/)
                  4)                                                   C)
                     6C0~I.I~nf               00                            -Cl             In         Cl
                   1     00l                                                                            1
                                                                                                              .2                                 0C
                                                                                                                                            l
                                    -                            ~0
               c       l                                                     -                                                           0lC~
                      4))             .5                                                             Fl         0         c);
              4-           00
              ~00Cl                                                                         tl                .'l          C'
                                                                                                              0C
                 0
                   ~~~'N~~~~lt                                          l
                                                                               0, t0I
                                                                                 - r~f'- l
                                                                              C-)~                     C
                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                             ~Cll     )    C
               Cl                                                     If+      1)            $-                             C
                                                                     0                               0
                                 0,                                 . l                             -d
           0lv                0                                                                      0                                 4-      0
                                                                                   CJO Cl       ~)                                0
                                                                                          0       0             0~
          0 (D 0           0            -        d                                           0      r
                                                                                                          C
          (1       C 4)      ,t)
       -COI "10                                                                              o                                           0
                        00     P,                                                                                0

                                                                                    No.1- 14F052
 [Table B6]
  Composition           Material       Reference       Reference    Reference          Control
                                      Example BI      Example B2   Example B3
                    Deionized water      258.50         258.26        258.50
                      AQUEOUS
                    SOLUTION OF            40               40          40
    Aqueous          10% PVA-217
     phase        Aqueous solution of
                    _% Pronon 208
                      DEMOL NL              -             0.24
                                            B               B            A           (
                                                                                     o
                                                                                                8
                                      Clothianidin    Clothianidin Clothianidin
   Oil phase             Slurry          slurry          slurry       slurry
                                           100             100          100
                      PEROYL L             0.5             0.5          0.5          o
                  Total                   400              400         400
      Controlled release particles                         25           25
    concentration in suspension(%)
  Antibiotic compound concentration       33.3            33.3         33.3
   in controlled release particles(%)
  Antibiotic compound concentration        8.3             8.3          8.3                     0
            in suspension(%)
                                       Reference       Reference    Reference
    Controlled release particles type embodiment      embodiment   embodiment
           Median size (rim)              28.2            24.5         43.5
                                                                         i
                  Notes                   DVB             DVB      BMA/EGDMA
                                          100%            100%       50%/50%
          In Table B2 to Table B5, "1 in the polymerization conditions section indicates that
immediately after the aqueous solution of diethylene triamine is added to the suspension, the
temperature of the suspension was increased to 70'C, and the temperature was kept for 5 hours.
Thereafter, the temperature of the suspension was increased to 80'C, and the temperature was
kept for 2 hours.
 [0434]
           In Table B2 to Table B6, "2" in the polymerization conditions section indicates that
immediately after the aqueous solution of diethylene triamine is added to the suspension, the
temperature of the suspension was increased to 60'C, and the temperature was kept for 1 hour,
and then the temperature of the suspension was increased to 70'C, and the temperature was kept
                                                  108

                                                                                       No.1-14F052
for 2 hours.     Thereafter, the temperature of the suspension was increased to 80'C, and the
temperature was kept for 1 hour.
 [0435]
           In Table B2 to Table B5, "3"in the polymerization conditions section indicates that
immediately after the aqueous solution of diethylene triamine was added to the suspension, the
temperature of the suspension was increased to 500 C, and the temperature was kept for 2 hours,
and then the temperature of the suspension was increased to 60'C, and the temperature was kept
for 1 hour.     Thereafter, the temperature of the suspension was increased to 70'C, and the
temperature was kept for 2 hours.      Thereafter, the temperature of the suspension was increased
to 80'C, and the temperature was kept for 1 hour.
 [0436]
           In Table B2 to Table B5, "4" in the polymerization conditions section indicates that the
temperature of the suspension was increased to 60'C, and the temperature was kept for 1 hour,
and thereafter the aqueous solution of diethylene triamine was added.      Immediately thereafter,
the temperature of the suspension was increased to 70'C, and the temperature was kept for 2
hours.    Thereafter, the temperature of the suspension was increased to 80'C, and the
temperature was kept for 1 hour.
 [0437]
           In Table B2 to Table B5, "l"in the controlled release particles type section indicates
that the controlled release particles have a structure of the third embodiment shown in FIG. B 1,
and "2" in the controlled release particles type section indicates that controlled release particles
have a structure of the fourth embodiment shown in FIG. B2.
 [0438]
(Kneading of powder formulation of controlled release particles with thermoplastic resin, and
molding)
           Example B36 (kneading of powder formulation of Example B1 with polyethylene and
molding)
           The suspension of the controlled release particles produced in Example B 1 was filtered
 with a filter cloth having 100 pores, and thereafter, dried at room temperature for one day,
                                                   109

                                                                                      No.1- 14F052
 thereby producing powder of the controlled release particles (powder formulation).
          The produced powder of the controlled release particles (powder formulation) was dry
 blended with high-density polyethylene (HDPE) HI-ZEX 6300M (manufactured by Prime
 Polymer Co., Ltd., melt flow rate 0.1 1g/10 min) so that clothianidin relative to HDPE was 0.25%,
 introduced into a biaxial extrusion and injection molding DSM Xplore MC 15M (manufactured
by DSM), melt-kneaded at 220'C for 5 minutes to produce a strand, and then injection molded in
the melted state, thereby producing a strip molded article (10mm x 76mm x 4mm).
 [0439]
          Example B37 (Kneading of powder formulation of Example B27 with polyethylene and
molding)
         A strip molded article was produced in the same manner as in Example B36, except that
the suspension of the controlled release particles produced in Example B27 was used instead of
the suspension of the controlled release particles produced in Example B 1.
[0440]
         Reference Example B4 (Kneading of powder formulation of Reference Example B 1
with polyethylene and molding)
         A strip molded article was produced in the same manner as in Example B36, except that
the suspension of the controlled release particles produced in Reference Example B 1 was used
instead of the suspension of the controlled release particles produced in Example B 1.
[0441]
         Reference Example B5 (Kneading of powder formulation of Reference Example B3
with polyethylene and molding)
         A strip molded article was produced in the same manner as in Example B3 6, except that
the suspension of the controlled release particles produced in Example B3 was used instead of
the suspension of the controlled release particles produced in Example B 1.
 [0442]
(Formulation of powder formulation of controlled release particles)
         Example B38
          1.4 parts by mass of the suspension of the controlled release particles produced in
                                                 110

                                                                                     No.1- 14F052
Example BI (clothianidin concentration 7.0 mass%) was blended with 100 parts by mass of
KAGALITE No. 2 (manufactured by KAGALITE KOGYO CO., LTD., fine grain of pumice,
particle size 425 to 1400 [tm), and then the mixture was dried, thereby producing clothianidin
powder formulation.      The powder formulation had a clothianidin concentration of about 0.1
mass%.
[0443]
          Example B39
         A clothianidin powder formulation was produced in the same manner as in Example
B38, except that 1.4 parts by mass of the suspension of the controlled release particles produced
in Example B27 (clothianidin concentration 7.0 mass%) was blended instead of the suspension
of the controlled release particles produced in Example B1.     The powder formulation had a
clothianidin concentration of about 0.1 mass%.
[0444]
         Reference Example B6
         A clothianidin powder formulation was produced in the same manner as in Example
B38, except that 1.2 parts by mass of suspension (clothianidin concentration 8.3 mass%) of the
controlled release particles produced in Reference Example B 1 was blended instead of the
suspension produced in Example B1.       The powder formulation had a clothianidin concentration
of about 0.1 mass%.
[0445]
         Reference Example B7
         A clothianidin powder formulation was produced in the same manner as in Example
B3 8, except that 1.2 parts by mass of the suspension (clothianidin concentration 8.3 mass%) of
the controlled release particles produced in Reference Example B3 was blended instead of the
suspension produced in Example Bl.       The powder formulation had a clothianidin concentration
of about 0.1 mass%.
 1. SEM (Scanning Electron Microscope) observation
          The suspension (suspending agent) of Example BI, Example B2, Example B6, Example
B30, and Example B35 was dropped on the stage, and thereafter, after water was vaporized away,
                                                 111

                                                                                       No.1- 14F052
the produced controlled release particles were observed with a scanning electron microscope
Hitachi TM-3000 (manufactured by Hitachi High-Technologies Corporation).             SEM images of
the controlled release particles produced in Example B 1, Example B2, Example B6, Example
B30, and Example B35 are shown in FIG. B3 to FIG. B7, respectively.
2. TEM (Transmission Electron Microscope) observation
          The suspension (suspending agent) of Example B2 and Reference Example BI to
Reference Example B3 was freeze-dried, then dispersed in a bisphenol liquid epoxy resin, and
thereafter cured with amine.     Then, the cured product was cut with an ultramicrotome to expose
its cross section, the cross section was dyed with osmium tetroxide, and as necessary, also with
ruthenium tetroxide, the cross section was cut out with an ultramicrotome into extremely thin
slices, thereby preparing samples.     The prepared samples were observed with a transmission
electron microscope (model number "H-7100", manufactured by Hitachi, Ltd.).
[0446]
          Image-processed TEM photographs of Example B2 and Reference Example B 1 to
Reference Example B3 is shown in FIG. B8 to FIG. B 11, respectively.
[0447]
          In FIG. B 8 to FIG. B 11, the blank space shown with reference numeral 3 represents a
mark showing that clothianidin was dissolved and fell off in the process of allowing the ultrathin
slice to float and to be collected in water, and represents the shape of the clothianidin domain.
[0448]
          In FIG. B8, the shell 7 is made of polyurea, to be specific, made in a manner such that
the polyurea concentration is lower relative to the matrix 2 gradually from the outermost layer
(outermost surface) to the inner side.    The shell 7 is disposed (unevenly distributed) at the outer
layer portion of the matrix 2 so as to surround the domain 3.
 [0449]
           Meanwhile, as is clear from FIG. B9 to FIG. B 11, in the controlled release particles 1 of
Reference Example B 1 to Reference Example B3, the shell 7 (ref: FIG. B 8) is not formed.
3. Alkali-resistance test
 3-1. Suspending agent of controlled release particles
                                                  112

                                                                                       No.1-14F052
          Alkali-resistance test (test A and B) of the controlled release particles was conducted in
the following manner.
 [0450]
 (Test A)
          The suspending agent of Example BI to Example B35 was diluted with deionized water
so that the antibiotic compound concentration (for Example B 1 to Example B34, clothianidin
concentration, for Example B35, imidacloprid concentration) was 0.25%.           1mL of the diluted
suspending agent was weighed in a glass bottle, and 4mL of a saturated calcium hydroxide
solution was added thereto, thereby preparing a test solution.     The test solution was allowed to
stand in a constant temperature of 40'C.
 [0451]
          After 7 days from allowing the test solution to stand, 5mL of acetinitrile was added to
the test solution, the antibiotic compound was extracted, the amount of the antibiotic compound
was determined with HPLC, and the remaining ratio of the antibiotic compound was calculated.
[0452]
          The results are shown in Table B2 to Table B6.
[0453]
          Separately, as a control, an aqueous solution of 0.25% clothianidin and aqueous solution
of 0.25% imidacloprid was used and the test was conducted in the same manner.          As a result,
the remaining ratio in test A of the aqueous solution of 0.25% clothianidin was 2.5%, and the
remaining ratio in test A of the aqueous solution of 0.25% imidacloprid was 0%.
 [0454]
          Table B2 to Table B6 show at least the following points.
 [0455]
          In Example B2 to Example B4, interfacial polymerization is started before the start of
suspension polymerization, and therefore the phase separation between the matrix containing
clothianidin and the shell can be progressed well.     Meanwhile, in Example B5, interfacial
polymerization is started after the start of suspension polymerization, and therefore the phase
separation between the matrix and the shell cannot be progressed well, and Example B2 to
                                                  113

                                                                                       No.1-14F052
Example B4 have excellent alkali-resistance compared with Example B5.
[0456]
          In Example B6 to Example B8, interfacial polymerization is started before the start of
suspension polymerization, and therefore the phase separation between the matrix containing
clothianidin and the shell can be progressed well.    Meanwhile, in Example B9, interfacial
polymerization is started after the start of suspension polymerization, and therefore the phase
separation between the matrix and the shell cannot be progressed well, and in Example B6 to
Example B8, alkali-resistance is excellent compared with Example B9.
[0457]
          The amount of T-1 890 blended relative to i-BMA and EGDMA increases in the order of
Example B13, Example B12, Example Bl1, Example B2, and Example B10.                 Therefore, the
shell thickness (the shell concentration in the controlled release particles) increases in the order
of Example B13, Example B12, Example Bl1, Example B2, and Example B10.                 Therefore,
alkali-resistance increases in the order of Example B 13, Example B 12, Example B 11, Example
B2, and Example B10.
[0458]
          The amount of T- 1890 relative to styrene and EGDMA increases in the order of
Example B18, Example B17, Example B16, Example B15, Example B6, and Example B14.
Therefore, the shell thickness (shell concentration in controlled release particles) increases in the
order of Example B18, Example B17, Example B16, Example B15, Example B6, and Example
B14.    Therefore, alkali-resistance improves in the order of Example B18, Example B17,
Example B16, Example B15, Example B6, and Example B14.
[0459]
          The amount of clothianidin blended in controlled release particles decreases in the order
of Example B28, Example B27, and Example B2, and alkali-resistance improves in the order of
Example B28, Example B27, and Example B2.
[0460]
          The amount of clothianidin in the controlled release particles is reduced and alkali
resistance improves in the order of Example B30, Example B29, and Example B2.
                                                  114

                                                                                        No.1-14F052
[0461]
          With the suspension polymer having higher hydrophobicity, phase separation from
polyurea progresses well.    Therefore, in Example B2 and Example B19 to Example B23, in
Example B2 and Example B19 to Example B21 in which the amount of i-BMA blended is
relatively large, compared with Example B22 and Example B23 having significantly low amount
of i-BMA blended, phase separation progresses well between the shell and the matrix containing
clothianidin.   Therefore, alkali-resistance is excellent in Example B2, Example B20, and
Example B21 compared with Example B22 and Example B23.
[0462]
          Of Example B6 and Example B23 to Example B26, in Example B6, Example B24, and
Example B25 in which the amount of styrene blended is relatively high, compared with Example
B23 and Example B26 in which styrene is significantly low, phase separation progresses well
between the shell and the matrix containing clothianidin.      Therefore, alkali-resistance is
excellent in Example B6, Example B24, and Example B25 compared with Example B23 and
Example B26.
[0463]
          In Example B6, styrene is contained as the polymerizable vinyl monomer.         In Example
B2, i-BMA is contained as the polymerizable vinyl monomer.         Styrene in Example B6 is highly
hydrophobic compared with i-BMA in Example B2, and therefore phase separation between
shell and polymer progresses well.     Therefore, alkali-resistance is excellent in Example B6
compared with Example B2.
[0464]
(Test B)
         The suspension of the controlled release particles produced in Example B 1, Example B2,
and Reference Example B 1 to Example B3 was filtered with a filter cloth having 100 pores, and
thereafter, dried at room temperature for one day, thereby producing powder of the controlled
release particles (powder formulation).    The powder was diluted with deionized water to 1000
times, and 6.3mL of the dilution was measured and introduced in a glass bottle, and 2mL of a
saturated calcium hydroxide solution was added, thereby preparing a test solution. The test
                                                  115

                                                                                      No.1- 14F052
solution was allowed to stand in a constant temperature of 40'C.
 [0465]
          1OmL of acetinitrile was added to the test solution after 1 day and after 7 days from the
test, and clothianidin was extracted.    The clothianidin amount was determined with HPLC, and
the remaining ratio was calculated.
[0466]
          As a control, an aqueous solution of technical product of clothianidin was used and the
test was conducted in the same manner.
[0467]
          The results are shown in Table B7.
[Table B7]
                                                   Clothianidin remaining
                                Test B
                                                           ratio(%)
                         Reference Example       After 1 day     After 7 days
                            B -Example B
                             Example B1             100.0            57.9
                             Example B2             100.0            58.2
                         Reference Example
                                                     91.2            11.9
                                  B1
                         Reference Example
                                                     92.5            15.6
                                  B2
                         Reference Example
                                                     92.1            15.4
                                  B3
                             Clothianidin
                                                     86.7             7.3
                               (control)
          As can be seen from Table B7, the suspending agent containing the controlled release
particles having shell (ref: reference numeral 7 in FIG. B 1) of Examples B 1 and 2 has a high
                                                 116

                                                                                      No.1-14F052
clothianidin remaining ratio in any of after 1 day and after 7 days from the test start, compared
with the suspending agent containing the controlled release particles having no shell of
Reference Example B1 to Reference Example B3.
3-2. Powder formulation of controlled release particles
          1.Og of powder formulation produced in Example B38, Example B39, and Reference
Example B6, Reference Example B7 was measured, and 3.6mL of deionized water and 2mL of
aqueous solution of saturated calcium hydroxide was added thereto, thereby preparing a test
solution.    The test solution was allowed to stand in a constant temperature of 40'C.
[0468]
          1OmL of acetinitrile was added to the test solution after 1 day and after 7 days from the
test, and clothianidin was extracted.   The clothianidin amount was determined with HPLC, and
the remaining ratio was calculated.
[0469]
          As a control, an aqueous solution of technical product of clothianidin was used and the
test was conducted in the same manner.
[0470]
          The results are shown in Table B8.
                                                 117

                                                                                     No.1- 14F052
 [0471]
 [Table B8]
                                                     Clothianidin remaining
                                                            ratio(%)
                         Reference Example
                                                   After 1 day    After 7 days
                            B-Example B
                             Example B38               99.0           55.8
                             Example B39               99.2           56.3
                         Reference Example
                                                       90.2           10.9
                                  B6
                         Reference Example
                                                       91.8           15.1
                                  B7
                             Clothianidin
                                                       86.7            7.3
                               (control)
           As can be seen from Table 8, the powder formulation of Example B38 and Example
B39 containing the controlled release particles having shell (ref: reference numeral 7 in FIG. B1)
of Example B 1 and Example B2 has a high clothianidin remaining ratio in any of 1 day after the
test start and 7 days after the test start, compared with the powder formulation of Reference
Example B6 and Reference Example B7 containing the controlled release particles of Reference
Example B1 and Reference Example B3 having no shell.
4. Termite control test on molded article
           Silica sand was watered so that its water content was 8% (optimal water content for
ternite activities), and a plastic vessel was charged with the silica sand.  Then, the strip molded
article of Example B36 and Example B371 was set on the surface of the silica sand.
 [0472]
           As a comparison, test was conducted for the one in which a strip molded article made
                                                   118

                                                                                       No.1- 14F052
only of HDPE to which controlled release particles were not kneaded was set.
 [0473]
          50 ergates of coptotermes were introduced to the above-described plastic vessel, and the
number of the dead coptotermes ( =         death rate) and activities of the termites were observed
for 7 days (test was conducted with n = 2).      All the termites were dead on the second and third
day from the start of the test with the strip molded article of Example B36 and Example B37.
 [0474]
          Meanwhile, with the strip molded article with only HDPE, i.e., a comparison, the
termites were not dead even after 7 days, and no change can be seen in the activities of the
termites.
[0475]
          That is, significant formicidal effects can be seen in Example B36 and Example B37.
[0476]
          While the illustrative embodiments of the present invention are provided in the above
description, such is for illustrative purpose only and it is not to be construed as limiting the scope
of the present invention.    Modification and variation of the present invention that will be
obvious to those skilled in the art is to be covered by the following claims.
          Description of reference numeral
[0477]
 1 Controlled release particles
2 Matrix
3 Domain
5 Attachment
7 Shell
          Industrial Applicability
 [0478]
          The controlled release particles produced by the production method of controlled release
                                                   119

                                                                                      No.1- 14F052
particles are used in various use, and is used for, for example, building material; for example,
electric wire cable material and covering material for the electric wire cable; for example, pipes
for gas and a covering material for the pipe; and for example, textile goods such as garments and
a mosquito net.
                                                 120

                                                                                      No.1-14F052
CLAIMS
 1.       The controlled release particles produced by a production method including:
           an oil phase component preparation step in which an oil phase component containing a
hydrophobic slurry is prepared by dispersing, in the hydrophobic polymerizable vinyl monomer,
an antibiotic compound that is hydrophobic and is substantially insoluble to the hydrophobic
polymerizable vinyl monomer without the presence of a solvent,
           a water dispersion step in which the oil phase component is dispersed in water to
prepare an aqueous dispersion, and
           a polymerization step in which the polymerizable vinyl monomer is subjected to
suspension polymerization to produce a polymer.
2.        The controlled release particles according to Claim 1,
           wherein in the polymerization step, the polymerizable vinyl monomer is subjected to
suspension polymerization in the presence of a salt of a condensate of aromatic sulfonic acid and
formaldehyde, and/or
           the polymerizable vinyl monomer contains a (meth)acrylate monomer and a
(meth)acrylate-based crosslinkable monomer.
3.         The controlled release particles according to Claim 1, wherein the antibiotic compound
is a neonicotinoid-based insecticide.
4.        The controlled release particles according to Claim 3, wherein the neonicotinoid-based
insecticide contains at least one selected from the group consisting of (E)- 1-(2-chlorothiazole-5
ylmethyl)-3-methyl-2-nitroguanidine and 1-(6-chloro-3-pyridylmethyl)-N-nitroimidazolidin-2
ylideneamine.
5.        Controlled release particles having a two-phase structure formed from
           a matrix made of a polymer, and
                                                 121

                                                                                     No.1-14F052
            a domain made of an antibiotic compound substantially insoluble to a monomer for
producing the polymer and is dispersed in the matrix.
6.        The controlled release particles according to Claim 5, wherein both of the matrix and
the domain are exposed on the surface of the controlled release particles.
7.        The controlled release particles according to Claim 5, wherein the domain is covered by
the matrix.
8.        The controlled release particles according to Claim 7, wherein the antibiotic compound
is further attached to the surface of the matrix.
9.        The controlled release particles according to Claim 5, wherein the antibiotic compound
is a neonicotinoid-based insecticide.
10.       The controlled release particles according to Claim 9, wherein the neonicotinoid-based
insecticide contains at least one selected from the group consisting of (E)-1-(2-chlorothiazole-5
ylmethyl)-3-methyl-2-nitroguanidine and 1-(6-chloro-3-pyridylmethyl)-N-nitroimidazolidin-2
ylideneamine.
11.       The controlled release particles according to Claim 1, prepared as powder formulation.
12.       A molding material comprising:
           a thermoplastic resin, and
           controlled release particles,
  wherein
           the controlled release particles are produced by a production method including:
           an oil phase component preparation step in which an oil phase component containing a
hydrophobic slurry is prepared by dispersing, in a hydrophobic polymerizable vinyl monomer,
                                                  122

                                                                                    No.1-14F052
an antibiotic compound that is hydrophobic and is substantially insoluble to the hydrophobic
polymerizable vinyl monomer without the presence of a solvent,
           a water dispersion step in which the oil phase component is dispersed in water to
prepare an aqueous dispersion, and
           a polymerization step in which the polymerizable vinyl monomer is subjected to
suspension polymerization to produce a polymer.
13.      A molded article comprising:
          a thermoplastic resin, and
          controlled release particles,
 wherein
          the controlled release particles are produced by a production method including:
          an oil phase component preparation step in which an oil phase component containing a
hydrophobic slurry is prepared by dispersing, in a hydrophobic polymerizable vinyl monomer,
an antibiotic compound that is hydrophobic and is substantially insoluble to the hydrophobic
polymerizable vinyl monomer without the presence of a solvent,
          a water dispersion step in which the oil phase component is dispersed in water to
prepare an aqueous dispersion, and
          a polymerization step in which the polymerizable vinyl monomer is subjected to
suspension polymerization to produce a polymer.
14.      A method for producing controlled release particles, the method comprising the steps of:
          an oil phase component preparation step in which an oil phase component containing a
hydrophobic slurry is prepared by dispersing, in a hydrophobic polymerizable vinyl monomer,
an antibiotic compound that is hydrophobic and is substantially insoluble to the hydrophobic
polymerizable vinyl monomer without the presence of a solvent,
          a water dispersion step in which the oil phase component is dispersed in water to
prepare an aqueous dispersion, and
          a polymerization step in which the polymerizable vinyl monomer is subjected to
                                                 123

                                                                                    No.1-14F052
 suspension polymerization to produce a polymer.
 15.      The method for producing controlled release particles according to Claim 14, wherein
           in the polymerization step, the polymerizable vinyl monomer is subjected to
suspension polymerization in the presence of a salt of a condensate of aromatic sulfonic acid and
formaldehyde, and/or
           the polymerizable vinyl monomer contains a (meth)acrylate monomer and a
(meth)acrylate-based crosslinkable monomer.
 16.     The method for producing controlled release particles according to Claim 14, further
including a step of preparing powder formulation by blending the suspension produced in the
polymerization step and a solid carrier, and drying these.
17.      The method for producing controlled release particles according to Claim 14, wherein
the antibiotic compound is a neonicotinoid-based insecticide.
18.      The method for producing controlled release particles according to Claim 17, wherein
the neonicotinoid-based insecticide contains at least one selected from the group consisting of
(E)-1-(2-chlorothiazole-5-ylmethyl)-3-methyl-2-nitroguanidine and 1-(6-chloro-3
pyridylmethyl)-N-nitroimidazolidin-2-ylideneamine.
 19.     Controlled release particles produced by a production method including:
           an oil phase component preparation step in which an oil phase component containing a
hydrophobic slurry is prepared by dispersing, in a hydrophobic polymerizable vinyl monomer,
an antibiotic compound that is hydrophobic and is substantially insoluble to the hydrophobic
polymerizable vinyl monomer without the presence of a solvent,
           a water dispersion step in which the oil phase component is dispersed in water to
prepare an aqueous dispersion, and
           a polymerization step in which the polymerizable vinyl monomer is subjected to
                                                 124

                                                                                      No.1- 14F052
suspension polymerization to produce a polymer,
  wherein
            in any of at least one step of the oil phase component preparation step, the water
dispersion step, and the polymerization step, a hydrophobic shell-forming component and a
hydrophilic-shell forming component are blended, and
           in the polymerization step, the polymerizable vinyl monomer is subjected to
suspension polymerization and the hydrophobic shell-foiming component and the hydrophilic
shell-foiming component are subjected to interfacial polymerization to form a shell that covers a
suspension polymer.
20.       The controlled release particles according to Claim 19, wherein the interfacial
polymerization is started simultaneously with the start of the suspension polymerization, or is
started before the start of the suspension polymerization.
21.       The controlled release particles according to Claim 19, wherein the hydrophobic shell
forming component contains polyisocyanate, and
           the hydrophilic shell-forming component contains polyamine.
22.      The controlled release particles according to Claim 19, wherein the antibiotic compound
is a neonicotinoid-based insecticide.
23.      The controlled release particles according to Claim 22, wherein the neonicotinoid-based
insecticide contains at least one selected from the group consisting of (E)-1-(2-chlorothiazole-5
ylmethyl)-3-methyl-2-nitroguanidine and 1-(6-chloro-3-pyridylmethyl)-N-nitroimidazolidin-2
ylideneamine.
24.       Controlled release particles comprising:
           a matrix made of a polymer,
           a domain made of an antibiotic compound substantially insoluble to a monomer for
                                                    125

                                                                                     No.1- 14F052
producing the polymer and is dispersed in the matrix, and
            a shell that covers the matrix.
25.       The controlled release particles according to Claim 24, wherein the shell is made of
polyurea.
26.       The controlled release particles according to Claim 24, wherein the antibiotic compound
is attached to the surface of the shell.
27.       The controlled release particles according to Claim 24, wherein the antibiotic compound
is a neonicotinoid-based insecticide.
28.       The controlled release particles according to Claim 27, wherein the neonicotinoid-based
insecticide contains at least one selected from the group consisting of (E)-1-(2-chlorothiazole-5
ylmethyl)-3-methyl-2-nitroguanidine and 1-(6-chloro-3-pyridylmethyl)-N-nitroimidazolidin-2
ylideneamine.
29.       The controlled release particles according to Claim 19, prepared as powder formulation.
30.       A molding material comprising:
           a thermoplastic resin, and
           controlled release particles,
 wherein
           the controlled release particles are produced by a production method including:
           an oil phase component preparation step in which an oil phase component containing a
hydrophobic slurry is prepared by dispersing, in a hydrophobic polymerizable vinyl monomer,
an antibiotic compound that is hydrophobic and is substantially insoluble to the hydrophobic
polymerizable vinyl monomer without the presence of a solvent,
           a water dispersion step in which the oil phase component is dispersed in water to
                                                  126

                                                                                      No.1- 14F052
prepare an aqueous dispersion, and
           a polymerization step in which the polymerizable vinyl monomer is subjected to
suspension polymerization to produce a polymer,
  and
           in any of at least one step of the oil phase component preparation step, the water
dispersion step, and the polymerization step, a hydrophobic shell-forming component and a
hydrophilic-shell forming component are blended, and
           in the polymerization step, the polymerizable vinyl monomer is subjected to
suspension polymerization and the hydrophobic shell-forming component and the hydrophilic
shell-forming component are subjected to interfacial polymerization to form a shell that covers a
suspension polymer.
31.      A molded article comprising:
           a thermoplastic resin, and
           controlled release particles
 wherein
          the controlled release particles are produced by a production method including:
         an oil phase component preparation step in which an oil phase component containing a
hydrophobic slurry is prepared by dispersing, in a hydrophobic polymerizable vinyl monomer,
an antibiotic compound that is hydrophobic and is substantially insoluble to the hydrophobic
polymerizable vinyl monomer without the presence of a solvent,
           a water dispersion step in which the oil phase component is dispersed in water to
prepare an aqueous dispersion, and
           a polymerization step in which the polymerizable vinyl monomer is subjected to
suspension polymerization to produce a polymer,
 and
           in any of at least one step of the oil phase component preparation step, the water
dispersion step, and the polymerization step, a hydrophobic shell-forming component and a
hydrophilic-shell forming component are blended, and
                                                   127

                                                                                      No.1- 14F052
            in the polymerization step, the polymerizable vinyl monomer is subjected to
 suspension polymerization and the hydrophobic shell-forming component and the hydrophilic
 shell-forming component are subjected to interfacial polymerization to form a shell that covers a
 suspension polymer.
 32.       A method for producing controlled release particles, the method comprising the steps
 of:
           an oil phase component preparation step in which an oil phase component containing a
hydrophobic slurry is prepared by dispersing, in a hydrophobic polymerizable vinyl monomer,
an antibiotic compound that is hydrophobic and is substantially insoluble to the hydrophobic
polymerizable vinyl monomer without the presence of a solvent,
           a water dispersion step in which the oil phase component is dispersed in water to
prepare an aqueous dispersion, and
           a polymerization step in which the polymerizable vinyl monomer is subjected to
suspension polymerization to produce a polymer,
  wherein
           in any of at least one step of the oil phase component preparation step, the water
dispersion step, and the polymerization step, a hydrophobic shell-forming component and a
hydrophilic-shell forming component are blended, and
           in the polymerization step, the polymerizable vinyl monomer is subjected to
suspension polymerization and the hydrophobic shell-forming component and the hydrophilic
shell-forming component are subjected to interfacial polymerization to form a shell that covers a
suspension polymer.
33.       The method for producing controlled release particles according to Claim 32, wherein in
the polymerization step, interfacial polymerization is started simultaneously with the start of the
suspension polymerization, or is started before the start of the suspension polymerization.
34.       The method for producing controlled release particles according to Claim 32, wherein
                                                   128

                                                                                   No.1- 14F052
           the hydrophobic shell-forming component is polyisocyanate, and
           the hydrophilic shell-forming component is polyamine.
 35.     The method for producing controlled release particles according to Claim 32, further
including a step of preparing powder formulation by blending the suspension produced in the
polymerization step and a solid carrier, and drying these.
36.      The method for producing controlled release particles according to Claim 32, wherein
the antibiotic compound is a neonicotinoid-based insecticide.
37.      The method for producing controlled release particles according to Claim 36, wherein
the neonicotinoid-based insecticide contains at least one selected from the group consisting of
(E)-1-(2-chlorothiazole-5-ylmethyl)-3-methyl-2-nitroguanidine and 1-(6-chloro-3
pyridylmethyl)-N-nitroimidazolidin-2-ylideneamine.
                                                129

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           1/14

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           2/14

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           3/14

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           4/14

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           5/14

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           6/14

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           7/14

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           8/14

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           9/14

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           10/14

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           11/14

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           12/14

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           13/14

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           14/14

