                A Method for Assembly and Installation of Continuous Linear
                                                 Lighting
ABSTRACT
[001]       A method for on-site assembling and installation of continuous linear lighting is
provided. The mounting system for linear lighting includes a continuous luminaire, i.e. at least
two luminaire segments and at least one mounting bracket. The at least one mounting bracket
includes a fixing surface and a resiliently flexible member. The method comprises the steps of
identifying mounting points on the mounting surface, fastening the mounting brackets to the
mounting surface, assembling the at least two segments at a suitable location by the installer via
rail type engagement, engaging the mechanical fasteners between the segments, connecting the
assembled luminaire to power sources and attaching the luminaire into the mounting brackets.
The method of the present disclosure, as described in various embodiments, results in improved
installation ergonomics and reduced installation time.

               A Method for Assembly and Installation of Continuous Linear
                                                   Lighting
FIELD OF TECHNOLOGY
 [001]      This disclosure relates generally to a mounting system for continuous linear lighting,
and more particularly to a method for on-site assembling and installing continuous linear
lighting.
BACKGROUND
 [002]      Typically, for the installation of a surface mounted linear lighting system, there is a
need for a housing to be fixed to the mounting surface, luminaire segments to be joined and
transformer wired prior to final assembly of the product. The installation methods of the
existing linear lighting solutions involve a high proportion of the final product to be assembled
on site since the final product needs to be disassembled for installation.
 [003]      Further, the installation of existing linear lighting systems on different mounting
surfaces requires varied installation techniques thereby increasing the complexity and duration
of installation. For example a typical linear lighting system may consist of recessed, surface
mounted and suspended luminaires within the same space and each mounting method requires
a different installation technique. Thus, a homogenous linear lighting installation process
across multiple mounting surfaces is not available.
 [004]      The existing solutions provides several alternatives to reduce the complexity of
typical linear lighting installation. The existing installation methods offer detailed installation
diagrams to the end user or provide qualified installers who know the system to remove the
learning curve. As a result, on-site labour is required to install a linear lighting system. Further,
the existing installation methods make use of electrical connectors on multiple pre-assembled
sections, or make use of snap-fit light engines to speed up assembly into the luminaire housing.
Moreover, an alternative of shipping longer sections is also considered to limit the amount of
joints in the installation.
 [005]      Furthermore, while installing a linear lighting traditional system, the installer may
be on a ladder for majority of the installation working on segments of the luminaire which are
directly above the installer. Working in this position limits access, increasing the duration of
                                                   1

tasks and over a period of time, causing strain to the installer due to unfavorable body position.
In addition, it is not easy for the installer to carry all the required tools or components while
installing the linear lighting and therefore, the installer may need to do multiple trips up and
down the ladder thereby increasing the installation time.
SUMMARY
[006]       In order to solve at least some of the above mentioned problems, a method for quick
assembly and installation of linear lighting is needed. A mounting system facilitating reduction
in time, error and complexity for installation of linear lighting with the incorporation of a quick
mounting system that removes the need to disassemble the final product for installation is
needed. A system that reduces the complexity as the installation technique and avoids the
installers multiple trips up and down the ladder is needed.
[007]       Briefly, according to an exemplary embodiment, a method for on-site assembly of a
continuous linear lighting system and installation within a space is disclosed. The method
comprises the steps of identifying mounting points on the mounting surface; fastening the at
least one mounting bracket to the mounting surface, i.e. the fixing surface; assembling the two
or more luminaire segments via a rail-type engagement on-site at a suitable location; wiring
the assembled luminaire segments to the available power source at the same location and
attaching the assembled luminaire to the mounting bracket via a snap-fit engagement.
[008]       The summary above is illustrative only and is not intended to be in any way limiting.
Further aspects, exemplary embodiments, and features will become apparent by reference to
the drawings and the following detailed description.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE FIGURES
[009]       These and other features, aspects, and advantages of the exemplary embodiments
can be better understood when the following detailed description is read with reference to the
accompanying drawings in which like characters represent like parts throughout the drawings,
wherein:
[0010]      FIG. 1 illustrates an agile mounting system featuring its profile view prior to
installation of the linear lighting, according to an embodiment of the present disclosure;
                                                  2

[0011]      FIG. 2 illustrates an isometric view and a profile view of an agile mounting system
with assembled segment that is configured for installation of linear lighting, according to an
embodiment of the present disclosure;
[0012]      FIG. 3A and FIG. 3B illustrates the step by step installation process of the agile
mounting system, according to an embodiment of the present disclosure;
[0013]      FIG. 4 illustrates a perspective view of the sub-assembly of the agile mounting
system, according to an embodiment of the present disclosure; and
[0014]      FIG. 5 illustrates various mounting bracket configurations for different mounting
surfaces, according to an embodiment of the present disclosure.
[0015]      Further, skilled artisans will appreciate that elements in the figures are illustrated for
simplicity and may not have necessarily been drawn to scale. Furthermore, in terms of the
construction of the device, one or more components of the device may have been represented
in the figures by conventional symbols, and the figures may show only those specific details
that are pertinent to understanding the embodiments of the present invention so as not to
obscure the figures with details that will be readily apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art
having the benefit of the description herein.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION
[0016]      For the purpose of promoting an understanding of the principles of the invention,
reference will now be made to the embodiments illustrated in the figures and specific language
will be used to describe the same. It will nevertheless be understood that no limitation of the
scope of the invention is thereby intended, such alterations and further modifications in the
illustrated system, and such further applications of the principles of the invention as illustrated
therein being contemplated as would normally occur to one skilled in the art to which the
invention relates.
[0017]      It will be understood by those skilled in the art that the foregoing general description
and the following detailed description are exemplary and explanatory of the invention and are
not intended to be restrictive thereof.
[0018]      The terms "comprises", "comprising", or any other variations thereof, are intended
to cover a non-exclusive inclusion, such that a process or method that comprises a list of steps
                                                  3

does not comprise only those steps but may comprise other steps not expressly listed or inherent
to such process or method. Similarly, one or more devices or sub-systems or elements or
structures or components proceeded by "comprises... a" does not, without more constraints,
preclude the existence of other devices or other sub-systems or other elements or other
structures or other components or additional devices or additional sub-systems or additional
elements or additional structures or additional components. Appearances of the phrase "in an
embodiment", "in another embodiment" and similar language throughout this specification
may, but do not necessarily, all refer to the same embodiment.
[0019]      At least one exemplary embodiment is generally directed towards a method for on
site assembling and installation of an agile mounting system for linear lighting. The agile
mounting system for linear lighting includes a continuous luminaire and at least one mounting
bracket. The continuous luminaire includes at least one segment of a light source housing and
a light source. The at least one mounting bracket includes a fixing surface and a resiliently
flexible member. The fixing surface is positioned adjacent to a mounting surface when installed
and the resiliently flexible member is extending perpendicular to the fixing surface for
receiving the continuous light source housing via a snap-fit engagement.
[0020]      The method as disclosed in the present disclosure reduces time and complexity of a
linear lighting system installation. In one embodiment, the present disclosure discloses an agile
or a quick mounting system that removes the need to disassemble the luminaire for installation.
The secondary benefit of the method of the present disclosure is the consistency in the
installation across multiple mounting surfaces, further reducing the time and complexity of a
linear lighting system installation.
[0021]      Unless otherwise defined, all technical and scientific terms used herein have the
same meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art to which this
invention belongs. The system, methods, and examples provided herein are illustrative only
and not intended to be limiting.
[0022]      In addition to the illustrative aspects, exemplary embodiments, and features
described above, further aspects, exemplary embodiments of the present disclosure will
become apparent by reference to the drawings and the following detailed description.
[0023]      FIG. 1 illustrates an agile mounting system 100 featuring its profile view with
assembled segment that is configured for installation of linear lighting, according to an
                                                 4

embodiment of the present disclosure. In particular, the profile view of the agile mounting
system 100 illustrates a fixing surface 120, a mounting bracket 110, a resiliently flexible
member 115, a luminaire 125, a light source housing 130, a light engine 135, and a light source
145.
[0024]     In one embodiment, the FIG. 1 illustrates the agile mounting system 100 configured
for installation of linear lighting that removes the need to disassemble the luminaire
(continuous luminaire 108) during the process of installation.
[0025]     Referring to FIG. 1, the agile mounting system 100 includes at least one mounting
bracket 110 comprising the fixing surface 120 adjacent to the mounting surface when installed
and the resiliently flexible member 115 extending generally perpendicular to the fixing surface
120 for receiving the continuous light source housing 130 via snap-fit engagement.
[0026]     The agile mounting system 100 further comprises the continuous luminaire 125. In
one embodiment, the continuous luminaire 125 includes at least one segment of a light source
housing 130 and light source 145. The continuous luminaire also includes a light engine
thermally bonded to the light source housing and the light source. The resiliently flexible
member 115 required for the snap fit engagement could be on the light source housing 130
instead of the mounting bracket 110.
[0027]     In one example embodiment, during the process of installation the continuous
luminaire 108 can be assembled and wired at the desired position of the installer prior fixing
to the mounting surface via the at least one mounting bracket 110. In another embodiment, the
at least one mounting bracket 110 can be modified for various mounting methods including
recessed, surface mounted and suspended linear systems.
[0028]     In one embodiment, the continuous luminaire 108 includes a light engine 135 which
is thermally bonded to the light source 145 and light source housing 130. The light engine 135
is assembled with the light source housing 130 via a rail type engagement. When assembled
(as shown by reference numeral 100-B), the length of the light engine 135 and light source
housing 130 are offset such that the offset provides rigidity at the join of two segments, wherein
the one segment includes the light source 145 and the light source housing 130 and the light
engine 135 whilst also preventing light leaks. In the preferred embodiment the force required
to disengage the light source housing 130 from the mounting bracket 110 is less than the force
                                                 5

required to disengage the mounting bracket 110 from the mounting surface such that the
mounting surface is not damaged when servicing the luminaire 125.
[0029]      In one example embodiment, the continuous luminaire 108 could be fixed to the
mounting bracket 110 via magnetic force instead of a snap fit. In another embodiment, the
luminaire 125 could be fixed to the mounting bracket 110 via a push-to-close latch instead of
a snap fit. In yet another embodiment, luminaire 125 could be fixed to the mounting bracket
110 via any combination of the above retention methods.
[0030]      FIG. 2 illustrates an isometric view 200-A and a profile view 200-B of the agile
mounting system 100 of FIG 1., with assembled segment that is configured for installation of
linear lighting, according to an embodiment of the present disclosure. Referring to FIG. 2, the
offset length 202 is used to provide rigidity between the segments, wherein the one segment
includes the light source 114 and the light source housing 110 and the light engine 112 whilst
also preventing light leaks.
[0031]      FIG. 3A and 3B illustrate a method for on-site assembly of a continuous linear
lighting system and installation within a space, in accordance with embodiments of the present
disclosure. The method initiates at step 302 with identification and marking of mounting points
on the mounting surface by an installer. At step 304, the mounting brackets are fastened to the
mounting surface by the installer using equipment known in the art. Further at step 306, the
one or more luminaire segments are positioned as per the instructions.
[0032]      At step 308, if the one or more luminaire segments as positioned can be lifted as a
single piece, then the segments are first assembled using rail-type engagement (step 310). Next,
at step 312, the mechanical fasteners are engaged between the at least two luminaire segments
and the assembled luminaire is connected to the power source. At step 314, the assembled
luminaire is then attached to the mounting brackets via the resiliently flexible member 115 in
a snap-fit engagement.
[0033]      In an alternate embodiment, at step 308, if the one or more luminaire segments as
positioned cannot be lifted as a single piece, then at step 322, one or more viable sub-assembly
segments are identified by the installer. At step 324, each of the sub-segment is assembled via
rail-type engagement, followed by engaging mechanical fasteners between the assembled
segments at step 326. Further, at step 328, each of the assembled segment is connected to the
available power source(s). In one embodiment, each of the assembled segment may be
                                                 6

connected to one or more available power sources and after wiring an AC connector between
the assembled segments, the assembled AC connector is attached to the mounting bracket(s).
Further, at step 330, end caps are assembled on each of the segments and the assembled
luminaire is attached into the corresponding mounting brackets.
 [0034]           As is evident from the foregoing disclosure of the method for on-site assembling
and installation, the installation ergonomics and installation time are significantly improved
when compared with prior art methods for installation of continuous linear systems.
 [0035]     Referring to FIG. 4, disassembled segments of a continuous luminaire are shown as
shown by reference numeral 400-A. The continuous luminaire as shown by reference numeral
400-A are shipped to the installation site. The assembled segments of a continuous luminaire
are shown by reference numeral 400-B. In one embodiment, the segments are joined on-site in
the preferred location of installer. The joining of segments is easy task (plug and play) for the
installer as described in the method of FIG.3.
 [0036]     In a preferred embodiment of the present disclosure, the length of the light source
housing (130) and the light engine offset (135) are assembled such that the assembling of two
luminaire segments provides rigidity before a mechanical fastener is used to fix the parts. Each
segment is assembled with an offset proportional to the corresponding segments either side of
the luminaire segment.
 [0037]     Further, the method comprises fixing a secondary part to one luminaire segment
which can then be used for the rail-type engagement instead of the offset as described earlier.
The secondary part being a second luminaire segment, for example.
 [0038]     It is to be noted that fixing assembled luminaire segments together via a mechanical
fastener provides a constant tension between each segment such that gaps are prevented at the
joins when installed if a bending moment is applied. The mechanical fastener is recessed into
a cavity on the top of the light source housing, this is the same cavity the mounting bracket
attaches to. The mechanical fastener is, for example, a standard draw latch, cam-lock or a spring
loaded clip. Constant tension between the two segments is maintained to ensure the join has
no gaps and are held at the desired angle. The tension is provided with a spring loaded joining
mechanism such as a pull latch or spring loaded lever (not shown). The spring loaded
mechanism can be used with straight or angled segment joins depending on the requirement.
                                                  7

For angled joins additional brackets may be attached to the light engine to maintain rigidity at
the joint.
[0039]      As is evident, actuation of the tensioned mechanical fastener is achieved without the
use of a tool such that the complexity of the task and material requirements are reduced.
Consequently, lower skilled labour could be used for a traditionally specialist task.
[0040]      Further, the method of the present disclosure comprises the steps of assembling a
secondary film optic via snap-fit engagement between the light engine and the top surface of
the primary lens optic. The film optic can be removed or replaced at any time after installation
such that the beam characteristics of the luminaire can be change to meet new space
requirements.
[0041]      As shown in Fig. 5, the at least one mounting bracket can be modified for various
mounting methods including but not limited to surface mounted (502), recessed (504),
suspended linear systems (506) and the like. In one embodiment, the method for installation of
the suspended linear system (506) includes the steps of adjusting the cable height after the
luminaire is assembled to the mounting bracket such that the position can be optimized to
minimize glare.
[0042]      As is evident from the foregoing disclosure, the force required to disengage the light
source housing (130) from the mounting bracket (110) is less than the force required to
disengage the mounting bracket (110) from the mounting surface (120) due to the snap-fit
engagement at the resiliently flexible member (115). Thus ensuring that the mounting surface
(120) is not damaged when servicing the luminaire.
[0043]      While specific language has been used to describe the disclosure, any limitations
arising on account of the same are not intended. As would be apparent to a person skilled in
the art, various working modifications may be made to the method in order to implement the
inventive concept as taught herein. The figures and the foregoing description give examples of
embodiments. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that one or more of the described elements
may well be combined into a single functional element. Alternatively, certain elements may be
split into multiple functional elements. Elements from one embodiment may be added to
another embodiment. For example, orders of processes described herein may be changed and
are not limited to the manner described herein. Moreover, the actions of any flow diagram need
not be implemented in the order shown; nor do all of the acts necessarily need to be performed.
                                                  8

Also, those acts that are not dependent on other acts may be performed in parallel with the
other acts. The scope of embodiments is by no means limited by these specific examples.
Numerous variations, whether explicitly given in the specification or not, such as differences
in structure, dimension, and use of material, are possible. The scope of embodiments is at least
as broad as given by the following claims.
                                                9

Claims:
1.        A method for on-site assembly of a continuous linear lighting system and installation
within a space, the method comprising:
          fastening at least one mounting bracket to a fixing surface;
          assembling at least two luminaire segments via a rail-type engagement at a suitable
location within the installation space;
          wiring the at least one assembled luminaire to mains power at the same suitable
location;
          attaching the at least one assembled luminaire to the mounting bracket via a snap-fit
engagement.
2. The method as claimed in claim 1, further comprising assembling the length of the light
source housing and the light engine offset such that assembling two luminaire segments
provides rigidity before a mechanical fastener is used to fix the parts.
3. The method as claimed in claim 2, wherein the assembling step further comprises fixing
assembled luminaire segments together via a mechanical fastener that provides a constant
tension between each segment such that gaps are prevented at the joins when installed if a
bending moment is applied.
4. The method as claimed in claim 3, wherein the mechanical fastener is recessed into a
cavity where the mounting bracket is attached and wherein a secondary optic film is
assembled via a snap-fit engagement between the light engine and the top surface of a
primary lens optic coupled to the light source.
5. The method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the mounting bracket is configured to be
modified for a plurality of mounting surfaces such as surface mounted, recessed, suspended
and the like, and wherein the mounting bracket is configured to be disengaged mechanically
for servicing the luminaire.

                     <removed-apn> <removed-date>
         110
                 115
             125
                     130
               135
             140
G. 1
     1/7

               <removed-apn> <removed-date>
         200-B
G. 2
     2/7

IG. 3 A
                <removed-apn> <removed-date>
     302
     304
     306
              A
    310
    312
      314
          3/7

                          <removed-apn> <removed-date>
bly segments
                      322
l type engagement
                     324
etween assembled
                     326
t to available power
                     328
ts and attach each
mounting brackets
                      330
           4/7

         <removed-apn> <removed-date>
G. 4
     5/7

             <removed-apn> <removed-date>
  506
         508        510
FIG. 5
     6/7

          <removed-apn> <removed-date>
    FIG. 6B
7/7

