                               ABSTRACT
  The  disclosure   extends   to  methods,   systems,  and    computer
  program products    for  generating    and  optimizing  irrigation
5 protocols.   The disclosure extends to methods, systems,            and
  computer   program   products   for   optimizing  water    usage     in
  growing   plants   for  yard   and  crops.   The  disclosure       also
  extends  to methods,    systems   and  computer  program products
  for providing automated irrigation.

                     16 OF 16
              1630
                                     S1645
  WEBPARD1)                              N
ACCOUNT               PAIRED
                                                1625
          1640a        1640b       1640c
                   ZONE 2      ZONE 3    ZONE 1
                             LANDSCAPE
                                                  1600
                              1605
                      FIG. 16

                        WATER INSTRUCTIONS AND IRRIGATION PROTOCOLS
                                           SENT OVER A NETWORK
BACKGROUND
[0001]       With the increased desire for water conservation while maintaining healthy yard and crops, it has
become important to use the advances in technology and communication systems to provide efficient use of
water resources.
[0002]       What is needed are methods, systems, and computer program implemented products for regulating
the use of water in areas that are predictable and often over watered because caretakers and/or older irrigations
systems are not responsive enough to effectively conserve water while maintaining aesthetically pleasing or
healthy landscapes.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0003]       Non-limiting and non-exhaustive implementations of the disclosure are described with reference to
the following figures, wherein like reference numerals refer to like parts throughout the various views unless
otherwise specified. Advantages of the disclosure will become better understood with regard to the following
description and accompanying drawings where:
[0004]       FIG. 1 illustrates an overhead view of a landscaped yard surrounding a house with a zoned
irrigation system in accordance with the teachings and principles of the disclosure;
[0005]       FIG. 2 illustrates a schematic diagram of an optimized irrigation control system that communicates
over network in accordance with the teachings and principles of the disclosure;
[0006]       FIG. 3 illustrates a schematic diagram of a pairing between a control unit and an account in
accordance with the teachings and principles of the disclosure;
[0007]       FIG. 4 illustrates a schematic diagram of a pairing between a control unit and an account in
accordance with the teachings and principles of the disclosure;
[0008]       FIG. 5 illustrates a method for initiating an irrigation optimization system in accordance with the
teachings and principles of the disclosure;
[0009]       FIG. 6 illustrates a method of initiating a smart irrigation system in accordance with the teachings
and principles of the disclosure;
[0010]       FIG. 7 illustrates a method for setting up each zone of a smart irrigation system in accordance with
the teachings and principles of the disclosure;
[0011]       FIG. 8 illustrates a schematic diagram of a database and protocol generator in accordance with the
teachings and principles of the disclosure;
[0012]       FIG. 9 illustrates a block diagram of an example computing device in accordance with the teachings
and principles of the disclosure;
[0013]       FIG. 10 illustrates a schematic diagram of a system for optimizing irrigation in an irrigation system
having a controller connected to an irrigation server over computer network in accordance with the teachings
and principles of the disclosure;
[0014]       FIG. 11 illustrates an implementation of a system and method for optimizing irrigation in an
irrigation system having a controller connected to an irrigation server over computer network in accordance
with the teachings and principles of the disclosure;
                                                        1

[0015]        FIG. 12 illustrates an implementation of a system and method for optimizing irrigation in an
irrigation system having a controller connected to an irrigation server over computer network in accordance
with the teachings and principles of the disclosure;
[0016]        FIG. 13 is a schematic diagram illustrating communication from a cloud service or a network with a
weather service in accordance with the teachings and principles of the disclosure;
[0017]        FIG. 14 illustrates an implementation of a system and method for optimizing irrigation in an
irrigation system having a controller connected to an irrigation server over a computer network in accordance
with the teachings and principles of the disclosure;
[0018]        FIG. 15 illustrates an implementation of a system and method for optimizing irrigation in an
irrigation system having a controller connected to an irrigation server over a computer network in accordance
with the teachings and principles of the disclosure; and
[0019]        FIG. 16 illustrates an implementation of a system and method for optimizing irrigation in an
irrigation system having a controller connected to an irrigation server over a computer network in accordance
with the teachings and principles of the disclosure.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION
[0020]        The disclosure extends to methods, systems, and computer program products for optimizing water
usage in growing plants for yard and crops. In the following description of the disclosure, reference is made to
the accompanying drawings, which form a part hereof, and in which is shown by way of illustration specific
implementations in which the disclosure may be practiced. It is to be understood that other implementations
may be utilized and structural changes may be made without departing from the scope of the disclosure.
[0021]        It will be appreciated that the disclosure also extends to methods, systems, and computer program
products for smart watering utilizing up-to-date weather data, interpreting that weather data, and using that
interpreted weather data to send irrigation protocols with computer implemented instructions to a controller.
The controller may be electronically and directly connected to a plumbing system that may have at least one
electronically actuated control valve for controlling the flow of water through the plumbing system, where the
controller may be configured for sending actuation signals to the at least one control valve thereby controlling
water flow through the plumbing system in an efficient and elegant manner to effectively conserve water while
maintaining aesthetically pleasing or healthy landscapes.
[0022]        FIG. 1 illustrates an overhead view of a landscaped yard surrounding a house. As can be seen in
the figure, the yard has been divided into a plurality of zones. For example, the figure is illustrated as having
ten zones, but it will be appreciated that any number of zones may be implemented by the disclosure. It will be
appreciated that the number of zones may be determined based on a number of factors, including soil type, plant
type, slope type, area to be irrigated, etc. which will help determine the duration that needed for each zone. It
will be appreciated that the controller and its zonal capacity may determine the number of zones that may be
irrigated. For example, a controller may have a capacity of eight, meaning that the controller can optimize eight
zones (i.e., Zone 1 - Zone 8). However, it will be appreciated that any zonal capacity may be utilized by the
disclosure.
[0023]        In an implementation, each zone may have different watering needs. Each zone may be associated
with a certain control valve 115 that allows water into the plumbing that services each area, which corresponds
                                                         2

to each zone. As can be seen in the figure, a zone may be a lawn area, a garden area, a tree area, a flower bed
area, a shrub area, another plant type area, or any combination of the above. It will be appreciated that zones
may be designated using various factors. In an implementation, zones may be designated by the amount of
shade an area gets. In an implementation, zones may be defined according to soil type, amount of slope present,
plant or crop type and the like. In some implementations, one or more zones may comprise drip systems, or one
or more sprinkler systems, thereby providing alternative methods of delivering water to a zone.
[0024]       It will be appreciated, as illustrated in FIG. 1, that a landscape may have a complex mix of zones or
zone types, with each zone having separate watering needs. Many current watering systems employ a controller
110 for controlling the timing of the opening and closing of the valves within the plumbing system, such that
each zone may be watered separately. These controllers 110 or control systems usually run on low voltage
platforms and control solenoid type valves that are either completely open or completely closed by the actuation
from a control signal. Often control systems may have a timing device to aid in the water intervals and
watering times. Controllers have remained relatively simple, but as disclosed herein below in more detail, more
sophisticated controllers or systems will provide optimization of the amount of water used through networked
connectivity and user interaction as initiated by the system.
[0025]       FIG. 2 illustrates a schematic diagram of an optimized irrigation control system 200 that
communicates over network in order to benefit from user entered and crowd sourced irrigation related data
stored and accessed from a database 226. As illustrated in the figure, a system 200 for providing automated
irrigation may comprise a plumbing system, such as a sprinkler system (all elements are not shown specifically,
but the system is conceptualized in landscape 200), having at least one electronically actuated control valve
215. The system 200 may also comprise a controller 210 that may be electronically connected to or in
electronic communication with the control valve 215. The controller 210 may have a display or control panel
and an input for providing information to and receiving information from the user. The controller 210 may
comprise a display or a user interface 211 for allowing a user to enter commands that control the operation of
the plumbing system. The system 200 may also comprise a network interface 212 that may be in electronic
communication with the controller 210. The network interface 212 may provide network 222 access to the
controller 210. The system 200 may further comprise an irrigation protocol server 225 providing a web based
user interface 231 on a display or computer 230. The system 200 may comprise a database 226 that may
comprise data such as weather data, location data, user data, operational historical data, and other data that may
be used in optimizing an irrigation protocol from an irrigation protocol generator 228.
[0026]       The system 200 may further comprise a rule/protocol generator 228 using data from a plurality of
databases for generating an irrigation protocol, wherein the generation of an irrigation protocol is initiated in
part in response to at least an input by a user. It should be noted that the network 222 mentioned above could
be a cloud-computing network, and/or the Internet, and/or part of a closed/private network without departing
from the scope of the disclosure.
[0027]       Additionally, as illustrated in FIG. 2, access may be granted to third party service providers through
worker terminals 234 that may connect to the system through the network 222. The service providers may be
granted pro-status on the system and may be shown more options through a user interface because of their
knowledge and experience, for example, in landscaping, plumbing, and/or other experience. In an
                                                         3

implementation, worker terminals may be a portable computing device such as portable computer, tablet, smart
phone, PDA, and/or the like.
[0028]        An additional feature of the system 200 may be to provide notices or notifications to users of
changes that impact their irrigation protocol. For example, an implementation may provide notice to a home
owner/user that its professional lawn service has made changes through a worker terminal 234. An
implementation may provide a user the ability to ratify changes made by others or to reject any changes.
[0029]        In an implementation, an irrigation system 200 may comprise a plurality of control valves 215,
wherein each control valve corresponds to a zone of irrigation.
[0030]        In an implementation, user communication may be facilitated through a mobile application on a
mobile device configured for communicating with the irrigation protocol server 225. One or more notifications
may be provided as push notifications to provide real time responsiveness from the users to the system 200.
[0031]        The system 200 may further comprise an interval timer for controlling the timing of when the
notifications are sent to users or customers, such that users/customers are contacted at useful intervals. For
example, the system 200 may initiate contact with a user after predetermined interval of time has passed for the
modifications to the irrigation protocol to take effect in the landscape, for example in plants, shrubs, grass, trees
and other landscape.
[0032]        In an implementation, the notifications may ask the user to provide information or indicia regarding
such things as: soil type of a zone, crop type of a zone, irrigation start time, time intervals during which
irrigation is occurring, the condition of each zone, or other types of information or objective indicia.
[0033]        Illustrated in FIGS. 3 and 4 are schematic diagrams of a pairing between a user's control unit and
an account, such as a web account. In an implementation illustrated in FIG. 3, the system may comprise a
pairing operation 333 between the controller 310 and a web based service in order to initiate the system 300.
As is illustrated in FIG. 3, a user may electronically connect (pair) a controller 310 to an associated web account
315 viewed on a computer 320 in order to ease the collection of user data. It will be appreciated that a user
would not be required to enter the desired user data through the limited input capabilities of a feasible irrigation
controller 310, although it is possible for a user to enter information via the controller 310. Rather, a
user/customer could conveniently enter data from a computer 320 having a web interface 315 representing a
user account. A pairing operation 333 may be used to connect the web account 315 and the controller 310.
Once the pairing is complete the data entered into the user account may be used to generate irrigation protocols
for the controller 310 to execute. It will be appreciated that pairing process or operation 333 may involve user
interaction. This user interaction may be the basis for confirming the identity of the controller 310 and the web
account 315. Once pairing successfully completes, a bond will have been formed between the controller 310
and the web account 315, enabling the controller 310 and the web account 315 to connect to each other in the
future without requiring the pairing process in order to confirm the identity of the devices.
[0034]        Referring now to FIG. 4, there is illustrated an implementation pairing between a user's control unit
and an account, such as a web account. As is illustrated in FIG. 4, a user may electronically connect (pair) a
controller 410 to an associated web account 415 viewed on a computer 420 in order to ease the collection of
user data. A user/customer may conveniently enter data from a computer 420 having a web interface 415
representing a user account. A pairing operation 433 may be used to connect the web account 415 and the
                                                        4

controller 410. In an implementation, the pairing operation 433 may comprise Once the pairing is complete the
data entered into the user account may be used to generate irrigation protocols for the controller 410 to execute.
[0035]         In an implementation, the pairing process 333 or 433 may involve establishing a relationship
between the controller 310, 410 and the account 315, 415. During the pairing process, the device(s) and the
account involved establish a relationship by creating a shared secret code or a link key. If the code or link key
is stored by both the device and the account they are said to be paired or bonded. A device that wants to
communicate only with a bonded device can cryptographically authenticate the identity of the other device or
account, and so be sure that it is the same device or account it previously paired with. Once a link key has been
generated, an authenticated Asynchronous Connection-Less (ACL) link between the devices may be encrypted
so that the data that they exchange over the airwaves is protected against eavesdropping.
[0036]         Link keys may be deleted at any time by either the controller device or the account. If done by
either the controller or the account, then such action will remove the bonding between the controller and the
account. Thus, it is possible for one of the controller or the account to have a link key stored, but not be aware
that it is no longer bonded to the controller or account associated with the given link key depending upon
whether the link key was deleted from the controller or the account.
[0037]         The paired controller and account may require either encryption or authentication, and as such
require pairing before they allow a remote device to use the given service. In some implementations, the
system may elect not to require encryption or authentication so that pairing does not interfere with the user
experience associated with the service.
[0038]         It will be appreciated that the disclosure may utilize any pairing process or mechanism that are
known or that may become known without departing from the scope of the disclosure. Pairing mechanisms
may include legacy pairing, secure simple pairing (SSP), or other pairing mechanisms.
[0039]         The mechanism known as legacy pairing may include entering a PIN code to each device and
account to be paired. Pairing may only be successful if both the device and the account (or multiple devices and
the account) enter the same PIN code. It will be appreciated that any 16-byte UTF-8 string may be used as a
PIN code. It will likewise be appreciated that any number of alpha-numeric characters may be used as a PIN
code, e.g., 6-digit, 7-digit, 8-digit, 9-digit, 10-digit, etc., without departing from the scope of the disclosure.
However, it will be appreciated that not all devices may be capable of entering all possible PIN codes. For
example, limited input devices are not capable of entering PIN codes because they generally have few inputs for
a user. These devices usually have a fixed PIN, for example "0000"or "1234" that are hard-coded into the
device. Numeric input devices, such as mobile phones or controllers 310, 410 may allow a user to enter a
numeric value up to 16 digits in length into the device or account. Alpha-numeric input devices, such as
computers, controllers 310, 410 and smartphones are examples of these devices. They allow a user to enter full
UTF-8 text as a PIN code.
[0040]         In an implementation of the disclosure, the pairing mechanism may be Secure Simple Pairing
(SSP). Secure Simple Pairing (SSP) may use a form of public key cryptography. It will be understood that SSP
does not necessarily require any user interaction. However, a device, such as controller 310, 410, may prompt
the user to confirm the pairing process. Such a method may be used by devices with limited input/output
                                                           5

capabilities, and may be more secure than the fixed PIN mechanism described above, which is typically used
for legacy pairing by this set of limited devices.
[0041]        SSP may use a numeric comparison as part of the pairing process. If both the device and the
account have a display and at least one can accept a binary Yes/No user input, then numeric comparison may be
used. This method displays a 6-digit numeric code on each device and account to be paired. The user should
compare the numbers to ensure they are identical. If the comparison succeeds, then the user may confirm
pairing on the device(s) and/or the account that can accept an input. This method provides some security
protection, assuming the user confirms on both paired devices (or a paired device and account) and actually
performs the comparison properly.
[0042]        SSP may also use a passkey entry method. This method may be used between a device with a
display and a device with numeric keypad entry (such as a keyboard), or two devices with numeric keypad
entry. In the first case, when the controller 310, 410 is connected to the network (whether through Wi-Fi or
otherwise) the controller may provide a unique identifier over a network to identify itself to the protocol server
225. The protocol server 225 may randomly generate a code using a serial generator and provide the code back
to the controller 310, 410 over the network. The display of the controller 310, 410 may be used to show the
code, which may be a 6-digit numeric code for example, to the user who then enters the code on the computing
device or smartphone with a keypad or other input mechanism. In the second case, the user of each device
enters the same 6-digit number. Both of these cases provide some security protection. It is to be understood
that any number of alpha-numeric characters may be used as a code that may be randomly generated, e.g., 6
digit, 7-digit, 8-digit, 9-digit, 10-digit, etc., without departing from the scope of the disclosure.
[0043]        It will be appreciated that any pairing mechanism may be used by the disclosure without departing
from the scope of the disclosure. The above implementations are exemplary of the pairing mechanisms that
may be utilized by the disclosure.
[0044]        FIG. 5 illustrates a method 500 for initiation of an irrigation optimization system having the
features of the disclosure. The method 500, may initiate at 510 by determining the language the user will use in
interacting with the system. The user selection will be recorded into computer memory on the system. At 520,
the geo graphical location of the user may then be determined, and at 530 the geographical location of the zones
may be further refined using more specific questions about the geographical location, such as querying about a
postal code or equivalent thereof in different areas of the world. Once the location has been established, the
system 500 may then establish connectivity with a cloud network at 540.
[0045]        At 550, the network connectivity may be skipped and at 551 a user may be asked to manually set up
a watering protocol by responding to questions from the controller. At 552, a watering protocol of instructions
will be generated and stored for the controllers use and at 569 the controller is ready for use and irrigation may
begin automatically based on the protocol of instructions provided to the controller.
[0046]        Alternatively, at 560 a user may be presented with available Wi-Fi connection options and may
choose the desired connection, or at 570 a user may enter custom network settings directly. At 563, the
controller or unit may be connected to the network or cloud.
[0047]        Once connected to the network or cloud, at 565 the controller may be paired with an online account
previously (or concurrently) set up through a web interface or other interface as seen in FIGS. 3 and 4.
                                                           6

[0048]        At 567, a watering protocol may be generated by an irrigation protocol generator (illustrated best in
FIG. 8). The protocol may be sent and transmitted through the network or cloud to the paired controller. The
watering instructions or protocol may be formulated and generated, at least in part, based on user responses to
queries output from the system through the web account or through the control panel user interface of the
controller.
[0049]        At 569, the controller is ready for use and irrigation may begin automatically based on the protocol
of instructions provided to and received by the controller from the network or cloud.
[0050]        FIG. 6 illustrates a method 600 of initiating a smart irrigation system comprising specific logic
when initializing a new controller having a controller. After a controller has been wired to a plurality of control
valves, the user/customer may be led through a series of queries on a control panel or user interface. In order to
initialize the system, the interface may show a query about the language of communication to be used. The user
may input or select the language of communication at 601. Next at 603, the user may be prompted to input or
select the country in which the zones, which represent the real estate or landscape to be watered, reside. The
user may be further prompted for information about its geographic location for refining the location of the zones
at 605. For example, a user may be queried to input or select a zip code or other geographical area information
to refine the geographical location of the watering zones.
[0051]        At 607, the user may be prompted to set up a connection to a network/cloud through a Wi-Fi
internet connection. At 609, the user may be prompted to input or select whether or not to connect to the
network/cloud or run the irrigation system manually from the controller and control panel.
[0052]        If the user decides not to connect to the network/cloud, at 615, the user will be prompted to enter
data in manually, such as soil texture data, plant type data, sprinkler type data, slope type data, shade data, and
duration of watering per zone. At 617, the user may be prompted to manually select or enter an irrigation
interval or days to water. If the user chooses to input or enter an interval, at 619, the user will be prompted to
enter the interval. Alternatively, if the user inputs or selects to irrigate according to days, at 623, the user will
be prompted to enter the days for irrigation. It should be noted that in an implementation the user may be able
to select both irrigation days and irrigation intervals without departing from the scope of the disclosure.
Whether the user inputs or selects a watering interval or watering days or some combination thereof, at 617, the
user will be prompted to input or select a duration and/or day for each of the zones controlled by the controller
at 621.
[0053]        At 609, if the user selected or entered that Wi-Fi is available to connect to a network then the user
may be prompted to select from available networks at 610, or enter network name and security information in
order to add a custom network at 612. At 614, the user may be prompted for a password. At 616, if the
password fails the user will be redirected to 610 or 612 to retry the network security information or 614 to re
enter the password information. At 616, if connecting to the Wi-Fi network or internet is successful, at 625 a
pairing request may be sent from the controller to a server on the network/cloud. The controller may
authenticate itself with the server by providing a unique identifier to the server. The server may then receive
the request from the controller. At 627, the server may then send and communicate instructions to a pairing
code generator where a pairing code is generated. The pairing code may then be sent to the controller in order
to pair a cloud based web account to the controller. Additionally, at 627, pairing codes may be established for a
                                                        7

plurality of computing devices that may comprise additional controllers, control modules, mobile devices,
computers, and the like. At 629, the system may set up each zone individually as shown in more detail in FIG.
7.
[0054]        Referring now to FIG. 7, there is illustrated a method for setting up each zone of a smart irrigation
system. At 729, the system may set up each zone individually. The system may prompt the user to input or
select various parameters or criteria for each zone. At 731, the system may prompt the user to input or select
data relating to the soil texture type. For example, the system may ask the user to input or select clay, sand, silt,
or other soil texture type at 741. At 733, the system may prompt the user to input or select data relating to the
plant type. For example, at 743, the system may ask the user to input or select grass, trees, shrubs, flowers, or
other plant type data in order to determine the amount of water that may be lost through evapotranspiration. At
735, the system may prompt the user to input or select data relating to the sprinkler or plumbing fixture type.
For example, the system may ask the user to input or select a spray sprinkler, a rotary sprinkler, a drip system,
or other sprinkler or plumbing fixture type at 745. At 737, the system may prompt the user to input or select
data relating to the slope type. For example, the system may ask the user to input or select steep slope, slight
slope, flat slope, or a certain degree of slope at 747. At 739, the system may prompt the user to input or select
data relating to the shade type. For example, the system may ask the user to input or select full shade, partial
shade, no shade, or other shade data at 749. At 751, the system utilizes the inputs and selections from the user
and runs the information through a duration protocol generator to generate and suggest a protocol for watering
each zone for a specified duration. At 753, the protocol or instructions may be sent to the controller. At 755,
the protocol or instructions may be stored in memory in the controller for automatically initiating the irrigation
system.
[0055]        FIG. 8 illustrates a schematic diagram of a database 800 and protocol generator 810 in accordance
with the features of the disclosure. For example, as can be seen in the figure, a database 800 may comprise
weather data 820, operational historic data 830, location data 840, time limitation data 850, user zone data 860,
and other data 870, such as crop or plant type data. The time and date may also be generated by a time
generator and/or supplied by a database. The network or cloud may supply such data to a server or database to
generate operating instructions, which in turn may be sent to the controller. In various implementations, one or
more databases may be spread over a plurality of computers and computing devices that are in communication
over the network. In an implementation, some data may be supplied by third party providers and may be
aggregated from many sources. In an implementation, some data may be entered by users such as customers
and service personnel.
[0056]        It will be appreciated that implementations of the disclosure may comprise or utilize a special
purpose or general-purpose computer, including computer hardware, such as, for example, one or more
processors and system memory as discussed in greater detail below. Implementations within the scope of the
disclosure also include physical and other computer-readable media for carrying or storing computer-executable
instructions and/or data structures. Such computer-readable media can be any available media that can be
accessed by a general purpose or special purpose computer system. Computer-readable media that store
computer-executable instructions are computer storage media (devices). Computer-readable media that carry
computer-executable instructions are transmission media. Thus, by way of example, and not limitation,
                                                        8

implementations of the disclosure can comprise at least two distinctly different kinds of computer-readable
media: computer storage media (devices) and transmission media.
[0057]       Computer storage media (devices) includes RAM, ROM, EEPROM, CD-ROM, solid state drives
("SSDs") (e.g., based on RAM), Flash memory, phase-change memory ("PCM"), other types of memory, other
optical disk storage, magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices, or any other medium which can
be used to store desired program code means in the form of computer-executable instructions or data structures
and which can be accessed by a general purpose or special purpose computer.
[0058]       A "network" is defined as one or more data links that enable the transport of electronic data
between computer systems and/or modules and/or other electronic devices. When information is transferred or
provided over a network or another communications connection (either hardwired, wireless, or a combination of
hardwired or wireless) to a computer, the computer properly views the connection as a transmission medium.
Transmission media can include a network and/or data links, which can be used to carry desired program code
means in the form of computer-executable instructions or data structures and which can be accessed by a
general purpose or special purpose computer. Combinations of the above should also be included within the
scope of computer-readable media.
[0059]       Further, upon reaching various computer system components, program code means in the form of
computer-executable instructions or data structures can be transferred automatically from transmission media to
computer storage media (devices) (or vice-versa). For example, computer-executable instructions or data
structures received over a network or data link can be buffered in RAM within a network interface module (e.g.,
a "NIC"), and then eventually transferred to computer system RAM and/or to less volatile computer storage
media (devices) at a computer system. RAM can also include solid-state drives (SSDs or PCIx based real time
memory tiered storage, such as FusionIO). Thus, it should be understood that computer storage media (devices)
can be included in computer system components that also (or even primarily) utilize transmission media.
[0060]       Computer-executable instructions comprise, for example, instructions and data, which, when
executed at a processor, cause a general purpose computer, special purpose computer, or special purpose
processing device to perform a certain function or group of functions. The computer executable instructions
may be, for example, binaries, intermediate format instructions such as assembly language, or even source code.
[0061]       Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the disclosure may be practiced in network computing
environments with many types of computer system configurations, including, personal computers, desktop
computers, laptop computers, message processors, hand-held devices, multi-processor systems, microprocessor
based or programmable consumer electronics, network PCs, minicomputers, mainframe computers, mobile
telephones, PDAs, tablets, pagers, routers, switches, various storage devices, commodity hardware, commodity
computers, and the like. The disclosure may also be practiced in distributed system environments where local
and remote computer systems, which are linked (either by hardwired data links, wireless data links, or by a
combination of hardwired and wireless data links) through a network, both perform tasks. In a distributed
system environment, program modules may be located in both local and remote memory storage devices.
[0062]        Implementations of the disclosure can also be used in cloud computing environments. In this
description and the following claims, "cloud computing" is defined as a model for enabling ubiquitous,
convenient, on-demand network access to a shared pool of configurable computing resources (e.g., networks,
                                                       9

servers, storage, applications, and services) that can be rapidly provisioned via virtualization and released with
minimal management effort or service provider interaction, and then scaled accordingly. A cloud model can be
composed of various characteristics (e.g., on-demand self-service, broad network access, resource pooling,
rapid elasticity, measured service, or any suitable characteristic now known to those of ordinary skill in the
field, or later discovered), service models (e.g., Software as a Service (SaaS), Platform as a Service (PaaS),
Infrastructure as a Service (IaaS)), and deployment models (e.g., private cloud, community cloud, public cloud,
hybrid cloud, or any suitable service type model now known to those of ordinary skill in the field, or later
discovered). Databases and servers described with respect to the disclosure can be included in a cloud model.
[0063]        Further, where appropriate, functions described herein can be performed in one or more of:
hardware, software, firmware, digital components, or analog components. For example, one or more
application specific integrated circuits (ASICs) can be programmed to carry out one or more of the systems and
procedures described herein. Certain terms are used throughout the following description and claims to refer to
particular system components. As one skilled in the art will appreciate, components may be referred to by
different names. This document does not intend to distinguish between components that differ in name, but not
function.
[0064]        Referring now to FIG. 9, a block diagram of an example computing device 900 is illustrated.
Computing device 900 may be used to perform various procedures, such as those discussed herein. Computing
device 900 can function as a server, a client, or any other computing entity. Computing device 900 can perform
various monitoring functions as discussed herein, and can execute one or more application programs, such as
the application programs described herein. Computing device 900 can be any of a wide variety of computing
devices, such as a desktop computer, a notebook computer, a server computer, a handheld computer, tablet
computer and the like.
[0065]        Computing device 900 includes one or more processor(s) 902, one or more memory device(s) 904,
one or more interface(s) 906, one or more mass storage device(s) 908, one or more Input/Output (1/0) device(s)
910, and a display device 930 all of which are coupled to a bus 912. Processor(s) 902 include one or more
processors or controllers that execute instructions stored in memory device(s) 904 and/or mass storage device(s)
908. Processor(s) 902 may also include various types of computer-readable media, such as cache memory.
[0066]        Memory device(s) 904 include various computer-readable media, such as volatile memory (e.g.,
random access memory (RAM) 914) and/or nonvolatile memory (e.g., read-only memory (ROM) 916).
Memory device(s) 904 may also include rewritable ROM, such as Flash memory.
[0067]        Mass storage device(s) 908 include various computer readable media, such as magnetic tapes,
magnetic disks, optical disks, solid-state memory (e.g., Flash memory), and so forth. As shown in FIG. 9, a
particular mass storage device is a hard disk drive 924. Various drives may also be included in mass storage
device(s) 908 to enable reading from and/or writing to the various computer readable media. Mass storage
device(s) 908 include removable media 926 and/or non-removable media.
[0068]        1/0 device(s) 910 include various devices that allow data and/or other information to be input to or
retrieved from computing device 900. Example 1/0 device(s) 910 include cursor control devices, keyboards,
keypads, microphones, monitors or other display devices, speakers, printers, network interface cards, modems,
and the like.
                                                       10

[0069]        Display device 930 includes any type of device capable of displaying information to one or more
users of computing device 900. Examples of display device 930 include a monitor, display terminal, video
projection device, and the like.
[0070]        Interface(s) 906 include various interfaces that allow computing device 900 to interact with other
systems, devices, or computing environments. Example interface(s) 906 may include any number of different
network interfaces 920, such as interfaces to local area networks (LANs), wide area networks (WANs), wireless
networks, and the Internet. Other interface(s) include user interface 918 and peripheral device interface 922.
The interface(s) 906 may also include one or more user interface elements 918. The interface(s) 906 may also
include one or more peripheral interfaces such as interfaces for printers, pointing devices (mice, track pad, or
any suitable user interface now known to those of ordinary skill in the field, or later discovered), keyboards, and
the like.
[0071]        Bus 912 allows processor(s) 902, memory device(s) 904, interface(s) 906, mass storage device(s)
908, and 1/0 device(s) 910 to communicate with one another, as well as other devices or components coupled to
bus 912. Bus 912 represents one or more of several types of bus structures, such as a system bus, PCI bus,
IEEE 1394 bus, USB bus, and so forth.
[0072]        For purposes of illustration, programs and other executable program components are shown herein
as discrete blocks, although it is understood that such programs and components may reside at various times in
different storage components of computing device 900, and are executed by processor(s) 902. Alternatively, the
systems and procedures described herein can be implemented in hardware, or a combination of hardware,
software, and/or firmware. For example, one or more application specific integrated circuits (ASICs) can be
programmed to carry out one or more of the systems and procedures described herein.
[0073]        Referring now to FIG. 10, there is illustrated a schematic diagram of a system for optimizing
irrigation in an irrigation system having a controller connected to an irrigation server over computer network in
accordance with the teachings and principles of the disclosure. The system 1000 may comprise a plumbing
system 1050 having at least one, and may comprise a plurality of, electronically actuated control valve 1040 for
controlling the flow of water through the plumbing system 1050. It will be appreciated that the system 1000
may comprise an irrigation server 1030 comprising one or more processors and memory for executing
computing instructions. The system 1000 may comprise a web account 1020 that may be facilitated by the
irrigation server 1030 and may be provided to a user 1005 for receiving inputted data from the user 1005.
[0074]        It will be appreciated that the user 1005 may input data via a controller 1025 or via the web account
1020 without departing from the scope of the disclosure. The controller 1025 may be a dedicated controller that
may be electronically and directly connected to the one or more control valves 1040a, 1040b, 1040c and may be
configured for sending actuation signals to the one or more control valves, thereby controlling water flow
through the plumbing system 1050. It will be appreciated that the controller 1025 may comprise a user
interface 1010 that may allow the user 1005 to enter irrigation related data into the system 1000.
[0075]        The system 1000 may further comprise a network interface 1022 that may be in electronic
communication with the controller 1025, which may provide communication with the web account 1020 such
that the web account 1020 and the controller 1025 may be securely paired over a network. It will be
                                                       11

appreciated that the pairing process 1045 between the controller 1025 and the web account 1020 may aggregate
user input data entered at the controller 1025 and through the web account 1020.
[0076]        The system 1000 may comprise a clock configured to provide time stamp data to events within the
system 1000. The system 1000 may further comprise a notice generator that generates notifications for users
1005 regarding events within the system 1000 and transmits the notifications to users 1005. The system 1000
may comprise an irrigation protocol that itself may comprise instructions for the controller 1025 derived in part
from user responses to the notifications and time stamp data.
[0077]        In an implementation, the system 1000 may further comprise a plurality of control valves 1040a,
1040b, 1040c, wherein each control valve corresponds to a zone of irrigation. In an implementation, the system
1000 may further comprise a mobile application on a mobile device configured for communicating with the
irrigation protocol server 1030, wherein the server 1030 may comprise or communicate with one or more
databases 1031, 1032. In an implementation, the system 1000 may further comprise a notification protocol for
providing push notifications to a user over the mobile application. In an implementation, the system 1000 may
further comprise an interval timer for determining the timing of when the notification may be sent to customers
or users 1005.
[0078]        It will be appreciated that the type of user data that may be entered and shared with the system 1000
may include the information provided herein, including without limitation soil type, crop or plant type, sprinkler
type, slope type, shade type, irrigation start time, an irrigation interval of time in which irrigation may take
place for one or more zones.
[0079]        In an implementation, the system 1000 may further comprise a predetermined interval for initiating
queries to users 1005. In an implementation, the system 1000 may further comprise a serviceman portal for
third party landscaping service providers to specially enter the system 1000.
[0080]        In an implementation, the system 1000 may further comprise a pairing process between the
controller 1025 and a web based network or service, such as a cloud service.
[0081]        FIG. 11 illustrates an implementation of a system and method for optimizing irrigation in an
irrigation system having a controller connected to an irrigation server over computer network in accordance
with the teachings and principles of the disclosure. The method 1100 may comprise, at 1110, prompting a user
through a user interface on a computing device to select a given zone. At 1115, the method may further
comprise receiving a zone selection and storing the selection in computer memory 1105. The method 1100 may
further comprise prompting a user for zone characteristic data and receiving zone characteristic data from the
user. The method may comprise storing that zone characteristic data in computer memory. At 1170, the
method 1100 may comprise receiving and aggregating weather data from a plurality of databases. It will be
appreciated that the weather data may be related to each zone, or to a plurality of zones, or to all of the zones in
the system. The method may further comprise generating a suggested irrigation protocol at 1172 based, at least
in part, on the zone characteristic data and the aggregated weather data. The method may comprise transmitting
or sending the irrigation protocol to the controller at 1174. The method may comprise receiving a confirmation
of the suggested irrigation protocol from the user and writing the confirmed irrigation protocol into computer
memory of a controller that is in electronic communication with pluming of the irrigation system.
                                                        12

[0082]        At 1176, the method may comprise generating a notification regarding the suggested irrigation
protocol, such as a notification inquiring or querying the user about the success of the protocol in terms of how
the landscape appears from an aesthetics stand point or the like. The method may comprise conveying the
notification to a corresponding user for confirmation of the success of the protocol and the like. The method
may further comprise terminating a connection between an irrigation server and the controller at 1178. It will
be appreciated that terminating communication between the controller and the irrigation server may be done
after the irrigation protocol has been written to controller memory.
[0083]        The method may further comprise starting a feedback tracking clock or calendar at 1182. The
method may comprise generating prompts to the user regarding current watering protocol and various
calendared or timed intervals at 1184. The method may comprise executing the irrigation protocol thereby
actuating the irrigation system to irrigate each of the zones in the system or at least the zones in the protocol.
[0084]        In an implementation, the method may further comprise providing a schedule for events within the
irrigation system. In an implementation, the method may comprise an event that may be a reduction in water
usage. In an implementation, the method may comprise an event that is a modification of the irrigation protocol
requested by a user. In an implementation, the method may comprise an event that is a notification to be sent to
the user. In an implementation, the method may comprise an event that is a predetermined set of queries
regarding current characteristics of the zone.
[0085]        In an implementation, the method may further comprise starting a feedback clock that may
correspond to the schedule of events, such that notifications may be sent to users in accordance to the schedule
of events. In an implementation, the method may comprise modifying the schedule of events to accommodate
an unscheduled event.
[0086]        In an implementation, the method may comprise suggesting a first water reduction followed by a
scheduled query to a user regarding the health of plants within the corresponding zone. In an implementation,
the method may comprise suggesting a second water reduction followed by second scheduled query to a user
regarding the health of plants within the corresponding zone.
[0087]        In an implementation, the method may comprise zone querying or prompting the user to enter zone
characteristic data. At 1120, the method may prompt the user to enter soil type data for each zone in the
system. At 1125, the user may enter and send information or data relating to the query or prompt, where the
data is received by the system and written to memory 1105. At 1130, the method may prompt the user to enter
plant type data for each zone in the system. At 1135, the user may enter and send information or data relating
to the query or prompt, where the data is received by the system and written to memory 1105. At 1140, the
method may prompt the user to enter shade type data for each zone in the system. At 1145, the user may enter
and send information or data relating to the query or prompt, where the data is received by the system and
written to memory 1105. At 1150, the method may prompt the user to enter sprinkler or sprinkler head type
data for each zone in the system. At 1155, the user may enter and send information or data relating to the query
or prompt, where the data is received by the system and written to memory 1105. At 1160, the method may
prompt the user to enter slope type data for each zone in the system. At 1165, the user may enter and send
information or data relating to the query or prompt, where the data is received by the system and written to
memory 1105.
                                                       13

[0088]       FIG. 12 illustrates an implementation of a system and method for optimizing irrigation in an
irrigation system having a controller connected to an irrigation server over computer network in accordance
with the teachings and principles of the disclosure. The method 1200 may comprise determining an elapsed
time from initialization of the system at 1210. At 1220, the method may comprise retrieving current irrigation
protocol data from memory. At 1230, the method may comprise generating prompts for a user to analyze and
assess the landscape and the health of the plants or other landscape for each zone. At 1240, the system and
method may transmit prompts to the user. It will be appreciated that the transmission of the notification or the
prompt to the user may be done through a web account 1245a, a mobile device 1245b or through the controller
1245c or a combination of the above without departing from the scope of the disclosure. At 1241, the system
may initiate a connection with a server and the controller before sending the prompt or notification. At 1250,
the system and method may receive the user response(s) to the prompt or notification and write the response(s)
to memory. The system and method may generate a new protocol reflecting the user responses to the query,
prompt or notification at 1260. At 1262, the user may be queried or asked to determine whether or not the user
is pleased or otherwise satisfied with the health of the landscape. If the user is satisfied, the system and method
may reduce the amount of water at 1264 provided to that specific zone or group of zones. At 1265, the system
and method may generate a first start time that may act as a calendar item to send a follow-up query or
notification to the user, for example a week later, to determine whether the user is pleased or otherwise satisfied
with the health of the landscape, and if so, the system may reduce the amount of water a second time. The
system and method may generate a calendar item to send a follow-up query or notification to the user, for
example a week later, to determine whether the user is pleased or otherwise satisfied with the health of the
landscape. If the user is satisfied, then the system may maintain the current duration for that zone.
[0089]       If at 1262, the user is not satisfied with the health of the landscape, whether initially or anytime
during the process of finding the right amount of water for each zone, then the system and method may
formulate or generate prompts for the trouble zone at 1266 to determine the extent of the problem. The system
and method may receive the user's response and may formulate a new protocol that adjusts the duration of the
zone to address the severity of the problem identified by the user. At 1267, the system and method may
generate a second start time that may act as a calendar item to send a follow-up query or notification to the user,
for example a week later, to determine whether the user is pleased or otherwise satisfied with the health of the
landscape. If not, the user will respond accordingly and the system and method may receive the user's response
and may formulate a new protocol that adjusts the duration of the zone to address the severity of the problem
identified by the user. If the user is satisfied with the current duration, then the system may maintain the current
duration for that zone. It will be appreciated that the interaction between the user and the system may operate
or function to provide the best quality landscape that the user is satisfied with the least amount of water
possible, thereby conserving water on a micro-level at each user.
[0090]       FIGS. 13-16 illustrate implementations of a system and method for optimizing irrigation in an
irrigation system having a controller connected to an irrigation server over a computer network. Illustrated in
FIGS. 13-16 are certain methods, systems, and computer program products that may be utilized for smart
watering purposes. The methods, systems, and computer program products may utilize up-to-date or current
weather data, interpretation of that weather data, and use of that interpreted weather data to send irrigation
                                                        14

protocols, including computer implemented instructions, to the controller. It will be appreciated that the
controller may be electronically and directly connected to a plumbing system, such as an irrigation sprinkler or
drip system, that may have at least one electronically actuated control valve for controlling the flow of water
through the plumbing system. The controller may be configured for sending actuation signals to the at least one
control valve thereby controlling water flow through the plumbing system in an efficient and elegant manner to
effectively conserve water while maintaining aesthetically pleasing or healthy landscapes.
[0091]        FIG. 13 is a schematic diagram of a system and method 1300 illustrating communication from a
cloud service or a network 1320 with a weather service 1310. The weather service 1310 may be a third party
service or may be provided by the same entity providing the cloud or network service 1320 without departing
from the scope of the disclosure. The weather service 1310 may comprise one or more databases 1312, 1314
containing weather information. The weather information may include current weather information and may be
for a specific location that corresponds with the location of the controller of the plumbing system. The weather
information may include data relating to current humidity, current temperature, current solar radiation, and/or
current wind speed. The weather information may also provide additional data without departing from the
scope of the disclosure.
[0092]        The cloud or network service 1320 may comprise an irrigation server 1322 and a protocol generator
1324. When data is obtained from the weather service 1310, the cloud or network service 1320 may interpret
the received weather data. The interpreted weather data may then be used to generate one or more irrigation
protocols 1326 using the protocol generator 1324. The irrigation protocol(s) 1326 may comprise instructions
for the controller 1330 relating to irrigation run times for at least one zone of the irrigation system. The
irrigation protocol(s) 1326 may be sent by the irrigation server 1322, including computer implemented
instructions, over the computer network to the controller 1330 for execution of the instructions by the controller
at 1332. It will be appreciated that the computer network may be in electronic communication with the
controller 1330 and the irrigation server 1322. The irrigation server 1322 may comprise processors and
memory for executing computing the irrigation protocol(s) 1326, including computer implemented instructions,
received from the irrigation server 1322 of the cloud or network service 1320. Once the irrigation protocol(s)
1326 have been executed by the controller 1330, a transcript of the irrigation or watering is sent to the irrigation
server 1322 and the cloud or network service 1320.
[0093]        Referring to FIG. 14, it will be appreciated that the optimization of the irrigation and plumbing
system is to provide the requisite water needed to maintain a healthy landscape and no more. Thus, the general
understanding is that the amount of water that is lost during evapotranspiration per zone must be replenished at
each irrigation start and run time. It will be appreciated that evapotranspiration is the amount of water lost from
the sum of transpiration and evaporation. The U.S. Geological Survey defines evapotranspiration as water lost
to the atmosphere from the ground surface, evaporation from the capillary fringe of the groundwater table, and
the transpiration of groundwater by plants whose roots tap the capillary fringe of the groundwater table.
Evapotranspiration may be defined as loss of water from the soil both by evaporation from the soil surface and
by transpiration from the leaves of the plants growing on it. It will be appreciated and understood that factors
that affect the rate of evapotranspiration include the amount of solar radiation, atmospheric vapor pressure,
temperature, wind, and soil moisture. Evapotranspiration accounts for most of the water lost from the soil
                                                       15

during the growth of a plant or crop. Accurately estimating evapotranspiration rates is an advantageous factor
in not only planning irrigation schemes, but also in formulating irrigation protocols to be executed by a
controller to efficiently use water resources.
[0094]        Illustrated in FIG. 14 is an example of grass 1410 and its root zone 1420. Also illustrated is an
example of the various soil types that may be present per zone, such as clay 1432, silt 1434, or sand 1436, etc.
It will be appreciated that the landscape may be considered healthy and water use and conservation may be
considered optimal, when the irrigation and plumbing system function or operate to replenish the water in the
root zone 1420 when water is present at about 50% in the root zone 1420. Thus, when water is present in the
root zone 1420 in an amount greater than about 50% then the duration of the watering for that zone is shortened.
Conversely, when water is present in the root zone 1420 in an amount less than about 50% then the duration of
the watering for that zone is increased. The objective is to replenish the soil with water in the root zone 1420 to
100% and no more to optimize and conserve the amount the water used to maintain a healthy landscape. It will
be appreciated that any amount of water over 100% saturation in the root zone 1420 leads to water runoff that is
not efficiently used. Thus, it will be appreciated that the ability to accurately determine the amount of water
present in the soil may be advantageous for optimizing irrigation in an irrigation system.
[0095]        Referring specifically to FIGS. 15 and 16, an implementation of a method and system for
optimizing irrigation in an irrigation system may comprise a plumbing system having an electronically actuated
control valve for controlling the flow of water through said plumbing system. The system may also comprise a
dedicated controller that may be electronically and directly connected to the control valve and configured for
sending actuation signals to the control valve, thereby controlling water flow through the plumbing system.
[0096]        In an implementation, it will be appreciated that the irrigation server may operate by sending a
query over the computer network to a database containing weather data at a predetermined interval at 1510. In
an implementation, the cloud or network service, via the irrigation server or otherwise, queries the database for
current humidity, temperature, solar radiation, and/or wind speed at 1512. At 1514, the irrigation server may
receive the queried weather data from the database and stores the weather data in computer memory.
[0097]        At 1516, a determination is made by the irrigation server and/or the protocol generator as to
whether or not information relating to solar radiation or other weather data has been received or provided as
part of the weather data in order to accurately determine and generate the evapotranspiration for that given zone
during the interval or period in question. If no such solar radiation or weather data has been provided, then at
1520 the cloud or network service, via the irrigation server or otherwise, determines or takes into consideration
the angle of earth at 1522, temperature at 1524, and/or the geographical region type, such as tropical wet,
tropical wet and dry, semiarid, arid, moderate, humid subtropical, marine coastal, humid continental etc. to
determine the amount of water needed to replenish the root zone at 1530.
[0098]        It will be appreciated that at 1530 the protocol generator may determine an amount of water needed
to replenish the root zone for a given irrigation zone, or a plurality of irrigation zones, to raise the amount of
water in the root zone back to or near 100% based on the weather data (illustrated best in FIG. 14) based on the
solar radiation data and/or other weather data. In an implementation, at 1532, the cloud or network service,
through the protocol generator or otherwise, may determine the evapotranspiration or the amount of water lost
for the irrigation zone as part of generating the irrigation protocol that is sent to the controller. The data relating
                                                        16

to the amount of water needed to replenish the root zone for the given irrigation zone back to or near 100% may
be stored in computer memory for later retrieval and use. In an implementation, the duration for running a
certain irrigation zone may be determined based on the amount of water lost due to evapotranspiration. If the
root zone is determined to be less than 50% saturated at the start or run time, then the duration may be
increased. If the root zone is determined to be greater than 50% saturated at start or run time, then the duration
may be decreased.
[0099]        At 1534 the weather data may be recorded in computer memory on the irrigation server or
otherwise for the specific interval in question. The weather data may include time, day, month and year for that
data packet. At 1536, the cloud or network service, whether through the protocol generator or otherwise, may
build a table of changes relating to the weather data based at least in part on weather data received during a
plurality of predetermined intervals. For example, the predetermined interval may be one every 15 minutes,
once per 30 minutes, once per 45 minutes, once per hour, or any other interval. The cloud or network service,
through the protocol generator or otherwise, may store the weather data received from each predetermined
interval and the table is built based on those changes. It will be appreciated that the data in the table may be
consulted and used when providing irrigation protocols to the controller.
[00100]       In an implementation, at 1540 the cloud or network service, through the irrigation server or
otherwise, may communicate with the controller and determine whether a start time for the controller to initiate
actuation of the irrigation system is within one hour. In an implementation, if the start time for the controller is
greater than one hour away from a current date and time then the weather updates may be provided or conveyed
to the table of changes at 1546. In an implementation, if the start time for the controller is one hour or less
away from a current date and time then weather updates may be provided or conveyed to the protocol generator
at 1542, where the irrigation protocol implements the data in the table relating to weather conditions over a
period of time since the last irrigation protocol was sent to the controller. The irrigation server may then send
the current irrigation protocol to the controller if the start time for the controller is one hour or less away from a
current date and time at 1544.
[00101]       In an implementation, the irrigation server may aggregate weather data from a single source or from
a plurality of sources. In an implementation, the system and method may comprise a user web account, wherein
the user web account is paired with the controller. In an implementation, the system may further comprise a
notice generator that generates notifications for a user regarding events within the system, wherein the irrigation
server transmits the notifications to the user prompting the user to enter data relating to the irrigation system
and/or one or more irrigation zones of the irrigation system. In an implementation, the irrigation server may
electronically communicate with the user through the web account located on a database and displayed using a
general purpose computer, through a mobile device, and/or through the controller to send the notifications to the
user.
[00102]       It will be appreciated that the cloud or network service may perform many of the calculations and
generate the irrigation protocols and other instructions that may be sent directly to the controller. Thus, it is the
cloud or network service that provides the processing via one or more servers of the data obtained from one or
more various aggregated weather sources or databases. In an implementation, the irrigation server may perform
various computer implemented steps to utilize the current weather data that is provided at a regular
                                                        17

predetermined interval, such as at one hour intervals, and generate the irrigation protocols that may be sent to
the controller for actuation of the irrigation or plumbing system.
[00103]      The irrigation server may electronically communicate with the controller. The irrigation server
may also send one or more irrigation protocols to the controller over the computer network where the irrigation
protocol is written into computer memory of the controller for execution by the controller. In an
implementation, the system and method may utilize a clock that may be configured for providing time stamp
data to events within the system. The one or more irrigation protocols may comprise time stamp data. Once the
controller has received the one or more irrigation protocols, the controller executes the irrigation protocols to
thereby actuate the irrigation or plumbing system.
[00104]      In an implementation, the system and method the irrigation server may determine a slope of the
ground, current temperature, and/or the geographical region type if there is no solar radiation data provided to
the protocol generator. In an implementation, the irrigation server determines the slope of the ground,
temperature, and/or the geographical region type prior to the protocol generator determining the amount of
water needed to replenish the root zone for the given irrigation zone.
[00105]      Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and/or
methodological acts, it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not
necessarily limited to the described features or acts described above. Rather, the described features and acts are
disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.
[00106]      The foregoing description has been presented for the purposes of illustration and description. It is
not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the disclosure to the precise form disclosed. Many modifications and
variations are possible in light of the above teaching. Further, it should be noted that any or all of the
aforementioned alternate implementations may be used in any combination desired to form additional hybrid
implementations of the disclosure.
[00107]      Further, although specific implementations of the disclosure have been described and illustrated,
the disclosure is not to be limited to the specific forms or arrangements of parts so described and illustrated.
The scope of the disclosure is to be defined by the claims appended hereto, any future claims submitted here
and in different applications, and their equivalents.
                                                       18

CLAIMS
What is claimed is:
        1.       A method for optimizing an environmental system having a controller connected to a server
        over a computer network comprising:
                 sending a query from the server over the computer network to a database containing
        environmental data at a predetermined interval;
                 receiving the queried environmental data from the database and storing the environmental data
        in computer memory of the server;
                 determining an amount of environmental change needed to return a zone to a predetermined
        condition, wherein the amount is based on the environmental data, and storing the data relating to
        environmental change needed for the given zone in computer memory of the server;
                 building a table of changes in environmental data based at least in part on environmental data
        received from a plurality of queries made at predetermined intervals;
                 generating a change protocol within the server;
                 conveying said change protocol from the server to the controller, such that the change protocol
        is written into computer memory of the controller that is in electronic communication with components
        of the environmental system;
                 querying the user for a subjective evaluation of a zone; and
                 receiving data comprising subjective information provided by the user in response to the query.
        2.       The method of claim 1, wherein the method comprises optimizing an irrigation system, wherein
        the environmental data relates to irrigation.
        3.       The method of claim 2, wherein optimizing the irrigation system further comprises:
                 sending the query from the server over the computer network to a database containing weather
        data at a predetermined interval;
                 receiving the queried weather data from the database and storing the weather data in computer
        memory of the server;
                 determining an amount of water needed to replenish a root zone for a given irrigation zone to
        raise the amount of water in the root zone, wherein the amount is based on the weather data, and storing
        the data relating to water needed to replenish the root zone for the given irrigation zone in computer
        memory of the server;
                 recording weather data for the predetermined interval in computer memory of the irrigation
        server;
                 building a table of changes in weather data based at least in part on weather data received
        during the plurality of predetermined intervals;
                 generating an irrigation protocol with the server; and
                                                      19

         conveying said irrigation protocol from the irrigation server to a controller, such that the
irrigation protocol is written into computer memory of the controller that is in electronic
communication with plumbing of the irrigation system.
4.       The method of claim 1, wherein the method further comprises aggregating data from a plurality
of sources.
5.       The method of claim 3, wherein the method further comprises pairing a user web account with
the controller; generating the irrigation protocol with the irrigation server; and conveying the irrigation
protocol to the controller, which in turn executes the irrigation protocol that provides a schedule of
irrigation events within the irrigation system.
6.       The method of claim 3, wherein the method further comprises sending notifications to a user
prompting the user to enter data relating to the irrigation system and/or one or more irrigation zones of
the irrigation system.
7.       The method of claim 6, wherein the irrigation server electronically communicates with a user
through a web account located on a database and displayed using a general purpose computer, through a
mobile device, and/or through the controller to send the notifications to the user.
8.       The method of claim 1, wherein method further comprises determining whether a start time for
the controller to initiate actuation of the system is within one hour.
9.       The method of claim 8, wherein the system is an irrigation system and wherein the method
further comprises conveying weather updates to the table of changes if the start time for the controller is
greater than one hour away from a current date and time.
10.      The method of claim 8, wherein the system is an irrigation system and wherein the method
further comprises conveying weather updates and the irrigation protocol to the controller if the start
time for the controller is one hour or less away from a current date and time.
11.      The method of claim 3, wherein the method of determining an amount of water needed to
replenish a root zone for a given irrigation zone includes determining an evapotranspiration for the
irrigation zone.
12.      The method of claim 3, wherein the method further comprises querying the database for current
humidity, temperature, solar radiation, and/or wind speed.
13.      The method of claim 1, wherein the predetermined interval is once per hour.
                                               20

14.      The method of claim 3, wherein the method further comprises determining whether there is
solar radiation data provided as part of the weather data.
15.      The method of claim 14, wherein determining the amount of water needed to replenish a root
zone for a given irrigation zone is based on raising the amount of water in the root zone such that it is
greater than seventy percent for an irrigation zone.
16.      The method of claim 3, wherein the method further comprises determining a slope of the
ground, current temperature, and/or the geographical region type if there is no solar radiation data.
17.      The method of claim 16, wherein determining the slope of the ground, temperature, and/or the
geographical region type occurs prior to determining the amount of water needed to replenish the root
zone for the given irrigation zone.
18.      The method of claim 3, wherein the method further comprises generating a transcript of a
duration of an actual irrigation run time for the given zone and sending the transcript to the irrigation
server over the computer network.
19.      A system for the optimization of an automated irrigation system comprising:
         an irrigation server comprising an irrigation protocol generator, and processors and memory for
executing computing instructions, wherein the irrigation server is in electronic communication with a
dedicated controller that controls a plumbing system having an electronically actuated control valve for
controlling the flow of water through said plumbing system and wherein the controller is electronically
and directly connected to said control valve and configured for sending actuation signals to the control
valve, thereby controlling water flow through the plumbing system;
         an irrigation protocol generated by the irrigation protocol generator and comprising instructions
for the controller relating to irrigation run times for at least one zone of the irrigation system; and
         a computer network that is in electronic communication with said controller and said irrigation
server;
         wherein the protocol generator builds a table of changes in weather data based at least in part
on weather data received during a plurality of predetermined intervals;
         wherein the irrigation server communicates with and sends the irrigation protocol to the
controller over the computer network where the irrigation protocol is written into computer memory of
the controller; and
         wherein the irrigation server sends a notification to a user requesting a subjective evaluation of
at least one zone of the irrigation system and incorporating the received subjective information
provided by the user into the irrigation protocol.
                                                21

20.      The system of claim 19, wherein the irrigation server sends a query over the computer network
to a database containing weather data at a predetermined interval, and receives the queried weather data
from the database and stores the weather data in computer memory; and
         wherein the protocol generator determines an amount of water needed to replenish a root zone
for a given irrigation zone to raise the amount of water in the root zone based on the weather data and
stores the data relating to water needed to replenish the root zone for the given irrigation zone in
computer memory.
21.      The system of claim 19, wherein the system further comprises a clock configured to provide
time stamp data to events within the system, and wherein the irrigation protocol comprises time stamp
data.
22.      The system of claim 19, wherein the controller executes the irrigation protocol to thereby
actuate the irrigation system.
23.      The system of claim 19, wherein the irrigation server aggregates weather data from a plurality
of sources.
24.      The system of claim 19, wherein the system comprises a user web account, wherein the user
web account is paired with the controller.
25.      The system of claim 19, wherein the system further comprises a notice generator that generates
notifications for a user regarding events within the system, wherein the irrigation server transmits the
notifications to the user prompting the user to enter data relating to the irrigation system and/or one or
more irrigation zones of the irrigation system.
26.      The system of claim 25, wherein the irrigation server electronically communicates with the user
through a web account located on a database and displayed using a general purpose computer, through a
mobile device, and/or through the controller to send the notifications to the user.
27.      The system of claim 19, wherein the irrigation server communicates with the controller and
determines whether a start time for said controller to initiate actuation of the irrigation system is within
one hour.
28.      The system of claim 27, wherein the system further comprises conveying weather updates to
the table of changes if the start time for the controller is greater than one hour away from a current date
and time.
                                               22

29.      The system of claim 27, wherein the system further comprises conveying weather updates and
the irrigation protocol to the controller if the start time for the controller is one hour or less away from a
current date and time.
30.      The system of claim 19, wherein the protocol generator determines an evapotranspiration for
the irrigation zone.
31.      The system of claim 19, wherein the irrigation server queries the database for current humidity,
temperature, solar radiation, and/or wind speed.
32.      The system of claim 19, wherein the predetermined interval is once per hour.
33.      The system of claim 19, wherein the protocol generator determines whether there is solar
radiation data provided as part of the weather data.
34.      The system of claim 20, wherein the protocol generator determines the amount of water needed
to replenish a root zone for a given irrigation zone is based on raising the amount of water in the root
zone such that it is greater than seventy percent for an irrigation zone.
36.      The system of claim 19, wherein the irrigation server uses a slope of the ground, current
temperature, and/or the geographical region type if there is no solar radiation data provided to the
protocol generator to determine the evapotranspiration for each zone based on user inputs.
37.      The system of claim 36, wherein the irrigation server uses the slope of the ground, current
temperature, and/or the geographical region type prior to the protocol generator determining the amount
of water needed to replenish the root zone for the given irrigation zone.
38.      The system of claim 19, wherein a transcript of a duration of an actual irrigation run time for the
given zone is generated and the transcript is sent to the irrigation server over the computer network.
                                               23

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
