                                                Abstract
A digital asset settlement method includes receiving (1401) from a first user an authorization for
a conditional transaction involving a digital right, which has been digitized on a distributed
ledger, matching (1413) the authorization for transaction from the first user with an authorization
for transaction from at least one other user, settling (1416) the transaction between at least the
first and other users if the conditional is met, and memorializing (1508) the settled transaction on
the distributed ledger.

DIGITAL ASSET INTERMEDIARY ELECTRONIC SETTLEMENT PLATFORM
CROSS-REFERENCE
[0001]      This application claims priority under 35 USC § 119 to U.S. Provisional Patent
Application No. 62/178,315, filed on April 5, 2015 in the United States Patent and Trademark
Office (USPTO), the contents of which are herein incorporated by reference in their entirety.
TECHNICAL FIELD
[0002]      The present disclosure relates to an electronic settlement platform for tracking and
settling digital assets, obligations, and transactions.
BACKGROUND
[0003]      Existing closed, centrally administered ledgers utilized for settling assets, obligations,
and transactions are considered opaque and error-prone. This makes oversight cumbersome,
requires many duplicative processes and ledgers, and allows the potential for fraud. The first and
currently largest alternative to the existing ledger architectures is represented by a distributed
digital ledger called Bitcoin, which uses a "blockchain" data structure. A fundamental principle
of Bitcoin's operation is that the system is set up as a peer-to-peer transaction mechanism that
utilizes public-private key cryptography, has no central intermediary or central repository, and
allows all participants in the network to hold and validate the integrity of a full copy of the ledger
in real time. The Bitcoin blockchain was designed in order to create a trustless native asset,
bitcoin, which could be exchanged with pseudonymous parties across the globe.
                                                    1

[0004]       Current platforms built to support digital assets on top of Bitcoin-like or blockchain
like systems are not structured to provide comprehensive protection to financial institutions as
may be required by law for many of their existing transaction businesses. These platforms may
not have contemplated the regulatory regime for financial institutions and financial transactions
in general. As a result, institutional investors have hesitated to enter the digital assets market and
have avoided the use of distributed ledgers for their existing businesses.
SUMMARY
[0005]       An exemplary embodiment digital asset settlement method includes receiving from a
first user an authorization for a conditional transaction involving a right of the first user over a
digital asset, which has been recorded on a distributed ledger; matching the authorization for
transaction from the first user with an authorization for transaction from at least one other user
involving at least one right of the at least one other user over at least one digital asset, which has
been recorded on the distributed ledger; settling the transaction between the first and at least one
other user if the conditional is met; and recording the settled transaction on the distributed ledger.
Optionally, at least one of the digital assets represents digitized ownership of a conventional
asset.
[0006]       The method may further include receiving from the first user an electronic
mechanism for redemption. Optionally, if the transaction does not settle because the condition is
not met, the electronic mechanism for redemption is invoked. Optionally, the electronic
mechanism for redemption permits the unilateral withdrawal of applicable assets, rights, funds,
or contracts, by a depositing user at a preset time in the future. Optionally, the electronic
mechanism for redemption comprises a pre-signed authorization for redemption for use in a
                                                    2

redeem transaction. Optionally, the electronic mechanism for redemption is automatically
invoked.
[0007]      An exemplary embodiment digital asset electronic settlement platform includes
nodes, a plurality of which have a copy of a distributed ledger stored thereon; an interface server
coupled in signal communication with one of the nodes; a client machine coupled in signal
communication with the interface server; a data server coupled in signal communication with the
machine; a persistence unit coupled in signal communication with the data server; a cache unit
coupled in signal communication with the data server; and a coordination unit coupled in signal
communication with the data server.
[0008]      Optionally, at least one of the persistence unit, cache unit, or coordination unit is
embodied in the data server. Optionally, at least one of the persistence unit, cache unit, or
coordination unit is embodied in another server. Optionally, the data server provides a link
between digital assets and conventional assets. Optionally, the distributed blockchain comprises
at least one unused transaction output from a transaction comprising at least one digital asset and
at least one conventional asset. Optionally, the digital asset comprises a digital contract.
Optionally, the client machine is configured to execute a redeem transaction based on
information from the data server, and to record the redeem transaction in the blockchain through
the interface server. Optionally, the data server is directly coupled in signal communication with
the interface server.
[0009]      The digital asset electronic settlement platform may further include a timestamp
server configured to hash a block of items to be time stamped and publish the timestamped hash.
[0010]      An exemplary embodiment program storage device tangibly embodies a program of
instructions executable by a processor to receive from a first user an authorization for a
                                                   3

conditional transaction involving a digital asset right, which has been digitized on a distributed
ledger, match the authorization for transaction from the first user with an authorization for
transaction from at least one other user, settle the transaction between at least the first and other
users if the conditional is met, and memorialize the settled transaction on the distributed ledger.
Optionally, at least one of the digital assets represents digitized ownership of a conventional
asset.
[0011]       The program storage device may further include a program instruction to receive
from the first user an electronic mechanism for redemption. Optionally, if the transaction does
not settle because the conditional is not met, the electronic mechanism for redemption is
invoked.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0012]       Illustrative, non-limiting exemplary embodiments may be more clearly understood
from the following detailed description, particularly when taken in conjunction with the
accompanying drawings, in which:
[0013]       Figure 1 is a flow diagram for a chain of ownership in which each digital asset payor
transfers a digital asset to each successive recipient, in turn, by digitally ratifying a record
including a hash of the previous transaction and the rights of the recipient;
[0014]       Figure 2 is a hybrid diagram for a digital asset timestamp server that takes a hash of a
block of items to be time stamped and widely publishes the hash;
[0015]       Figure 3 is a tree diagram for hierarchical interaction with settlement services of the
digital asset intermediary electronic settlement platform in accordance with an exemplary
embodiment of the present inventive concept;
                                                    4

[0016]      Figure 4 is a schematic diagram for a digital assets intermediary electronic settlement
user application in accordance with an exemplary embodiment of the present inventive concept;
[0017]      Figure 5 is a graphical diagram for a user interface of a digital asset intermediary
electronic settlement platform in accordance with an exemplary embodiment of the present
inventive concept;
[0018]      Figure 6 is a graphical sub-portion of Figure 5;
[0019]      Figure 7 is a graphical sub-portion of Figure 5;
[0020]      Figure 8 is a graphical sub-portion of Figure 5;
[0021]      Figure 9 is graphical sub-portion of Figure 5;
[0022]      Figure 10 is graphical sub-portion of Figure 5;
[0023]      Figure 11 is a dependency diagram showing a transaction dependency during a
funding process in accordance with an exemplary embodiment of the present inventive concept;
[0024]      Figure 12 is a sequence diagram showing a digital asset funding process in
accordance with an exemplary embodiment of the present inventive concept;
[0025]      Figure 13 is a sequence-diagram showing a redeem-refresh process in accordance
with an exemplary embodiment of the present inventive concept;
[0026]      Figure 14 is a state chart showing settlement states in accordance with an exemplary
embodiment of the present inventive concept;
[0027]      Figure 15 is a sequence diagram showing staging of unused transaction outputs
(utxos) for successful settlement processing in accordance with an exemplary embodiment of the
present inventive concept;
                                                  5

[0028]      Figure 16 is a sequence diagram showing a successfully matched contra digital
asset/conventional currency transaction process in accordance with an exemplary embodiment of
the present inventive concept;
[0029]      Figure 17 is a sequence diagram showing an expired settlement process in accordance
with an exemplary embodiment of the present inventive concept;
[0030]      Figure 18 is a sequence diagram showing a withdraw from digital assets intermediary
electronic settlement multi-party ratification application to digital assets intermediary electronic
settlement user applications process in accordance with an exemplary embodiment of the present
inventive concept;
[0031]      Figure 19 is a sequence diagram showing a digital assets intermediary electronic
settlement user's unilateral-redeem process in accordance with an exemplary embodiment of the
present inventive concept; and
[0032]      Figure 20 is a schematic diagram for a hardware architecture that can be used to
implement a digital asset intermediary electronic settlement platform in accordance with an
exemplary embodiment of the present inventive concept.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION
[0033]      The present inventive concept will be described more fully with reference to the
accompanying drawings, in which exemplary embodiments are shown. The present inventive
concept may, however, be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as
being limited to the embodiments set forth herein. Like reference numerals may refer to like
elements throughout this disclosure.
                                                  6

[0034]       The present inventive concept provides a digital asset settlement platform. An
exemplary embodiment digital asset electronic settlement platform includes nodes, some nodes
having a copy of a distributed blockchain and/or reference data stored thereon; interface servers
coupled to the nodes; client machines coupled to the interface servers; a data server coupled to
the client machines; a persistence unit coupled to the data server; a cache unit coupled to the data
server; and a coordination unit coupled to the data server.
[0035]       Without limitation, an exemplary embodiment of the present inventive concept
describes utilizing a "wallet", which is a key store application that may control and include a
store of private keys and their corresponding public keys. These keys enable the ratification,
here a signature, of a transaction, right or contract on a distributed ledger. Controlling the
private key represents control of the asset, right or contract that is held by a corresponding public
key.
[0036]       A digital asset electronic settlement platform in accordance with an exemplary
embodiment of the present inventive concept includes nodes, some of which maintain a full copy
of a distributed blockchain stored thereon; interface servers coupled to the nodes; client
machines coupled to the interface servers; a data server coupled to the client machines; a
persistence unit coupled to the data server; a cache unit coupled to the data server; and a
coordination unit coupled to the data server. Some nodes, such as signing servers, for example,
may optionally store only a partial copy of the distributed blockchain.
[0037]       As shown in Figure 1, a chain of ownership for a generic digital asset is indicated
generally by the reference numeral 100. In a first transaction 110, Owner 0 transfers ownership
of a digital asset to a next Owner 1 by applying her Owner 0's digital signature 116, based on her
private key, to a cryptographic hash 114 of the combination (e.g., concatenation, without
                                                    7

limitation) of the previous transaction's output combined with the public key 112 of the next
Owner 1. In a second transaction 120, Owner 1 transfers ownership of the same digital asset to a
next Owner 2 by applying his Owner l's digital signature 126, based on his Owner l's private
key 118, to a cryptographic hash 124 of the combination of the previous transaction 110's output
combined with the public key 122 of the next Owner 2. In a third transaction 130, Owner 2
transfers ownership of the same digital asset to a next Owner 3 by applying her Owner 2's digital
signature 136, based on her Owner 2's private key 128, to a cryptographic hash 134 of the
combination of the previous transaction 120's output combined with the public key 132 of the
next Owner 3.
[0038]      It shall be understood that the use of a public key or signature is merely a non
limiting exemplary embodiment for ease of description herein, where this private form may be
used for denoting that a corresponding entity has an ownership or disposition right over a digital
asset, which right may be exercised by signing with the corresponding public key. The present
inventive concept shall not be limited thereto, and may alternately use a more general notation
for defining rights in a broader or more flexible manner, such as, for example, specifying that for
a fixed duration, such as for the next 24 hours, entity A has the ownership or disposition right to
sign over a digital asset, and thereafter that entities B and C must both sign.
10039]      A cryptographic hash is a fixed-length 'fingerprint' of an arbitrarily-large amount of
data. The same cryptographic hash will always result from the same data, but modifying the data
by even one bit will significantly change the cryptographic hash. The cryptographic hash of a
combination (e.g., concatenation) of the transaction's output and public key of the next owner is
appended to the end of the chain of ownership. A recipient may verify the cryptographic hashes
and digital signatures to verify the chain of ownership.
                                                    8

[0040]      To accomplish this without a trusted third party, transactions are publicly broadcast
and a system is employed for participants to agree on a single history of the order. The recipient
desires proof that, at the time of each transaction, all properly functioning nodes of a plurality of
digital asset nodes agreed that it was received and verified as valid.
[0041]      Turning to Figure 2, one exemplary solution for providing such proof is to utilize a
timestamp server. The timestamp server implements a process 200 that takes a cryptographic
hash 215 of the combination (e.g., concatenation, without limitation) of a previous hash
combined with a block 210 including one or more items, here including item 110 that is the
transaction 110 of Figure 1, to be time stamped, and widely publishes the cryptographic hash.
Such timestamp shows that the data within the block 210, including recordation of the
transaction item 110, existed at the time the block 210 was formed in order to get into the
cryptographic hash 215. Once Owner 1 authorizes the transaction 120 of Figure 1, this
transaction item 120 may be included in a subsequent block 220, which is cryptographically
hashed in combination with the output of the previous hash 215. Thus, each timestamp includes
the previous timestamp in its hash to form a blockchain, with each timestamp reinforcing the
timestamp before it.
[0042]      The digital asset electronic settlement platform may include a timestamp server
configured to hash each block of items to be timestamped and publish the timestamped hash by
appending it in chronological order to the distributed ledger, such that the order of timestamped
blocks is the same in all copies of the distributed ledger maintained on different properly
functioning nodes. In a preferred embodiment, the items are transactions. Block timestamping
may be used alone or in conjunction with item or transaction timestamping.       In an alternate
embodiment, transaction timestamping may be used in lieu of block timestamping. When
                                                   9

transaction timestamping is used alone or in conjunction with block timestamping, the ordering
of transactions within a block may, but need not, be chronological.
[0043]      In exemplary embodiments of the present disclosure, such a blockchain is maintained
by a network of communicating nodes running a common network protocol. Transactions of the
form payor A transfers digital asset Y to recipient B are broadcast to the network. Network
nodes can validate these transactions, add the transactions to that node's copy of the ledger, and
then broadcast these ledger additions to other nodes.
[0044]      To independently verify the chain of ownership and particular digital asset, the
network nodes store a copy of the blockchain. Although various approaches may be employed in
different distributed blockchain networks, including proof-of-work, proof-of-stake, Practical
Byzantine Fault Tolerance (PBFT), and the like, a proof-of-work approach such as Bitcoin's
typically allows for a new block to be generated once per time interval, such as once
approximately every ten minutes in the Bitcoin network. Each new block incorporates a group
of accepted transactions, and is added to the blockchain, which is promptly published to
substantially all nodes. This allows such a distributed blockchain system to determine when a
particular digital asset has been transferred or used. Determining when a particular digital asset,
or portion thereof, has been used is necessary to prevent double usage or double-spending in an
environment with no central authority.
[0045]      The present inventive concept provides a digital asset settlement platform supporting
contra transactions as well as linkages between digital assets and conventional assets. In
particular, highly-regulated financial institutions and institutional investors are provided a
mechanism within the platform via which they may prudently enter digital asset markets while
complying with required standards of transparency, risk management, and regulation.
                                                   10

[0046]       In accordance with the principles of the present inventive concept, a digital asset
settlement platform, such as, for example, a digital assets intermediary settlement platform with
an application layer of trust, may be configured to provide settlement services for digital assets
which can be defined to include fungible assets, references to title for an asset, an obligation, a
credit, and/or an authorization, without limitation. Such a settlement platform may operate
electronically as a digital asset intermediary electronic settlement platform.
[0047]       A digital asset intermediary electronic settlement platform may provide a link
between digital assets, such as crypto-currencies, and other established asset classes, such as
conventional currencies, securities, and the like. Such a digital asset intermediary electronic
settlement platform supports a redemption transaction.
[0048]       For illustrative purposes, the present inventive concept is shown as applied to an
exemplary distributed, peer-to-peer transactional network known as Bitcoin. However, it shall
be understood that the principles of the present inventive concept may be implemented for any
distributed, peer-to-peer transaction network.
[0049]       To some degree, all transactions in the world operate on the basis of trust. For
example, when a customer walks into a coffee shop, the merchant and customer trust each other
to fulfill their sides of a transaction; the merchant will deliver the coffee and the customer will
deliver payment. In a more complex example, when an international business converts Euro
revenue into U.S. Dollars, middlemen intermediate the transaction to provide added levels of
security.
[0050]       Traditionally, the only way to scale trust was to concentrate activity into trusted, and
by extension often very large, third parties. Trusted third parties have positive and negative
externalities. On one hand, trusted third parties have tremendous standards of control and
                                                   11

visibility, but on the other hand, they also represent concentrated single points of failure. In the
modem world of cybercrime, this risk has become heightened. The question also arises as to
who scales trust across trusted third parties. This has fallen on governments or even larger
trusted third parties that specialize in these relationships. For the biggest transactions in the
world, layers of trusted third party and government interaction exist to enforce and settle
transactions. This is inefficient and may be increasingly difficult to secure.
[0051]       Distributed, peer-to-peer transactional networks are designed to do away with the
necessity of trusted third parties. The protocols of the distributed networks are designed to allow
counterparties to execute transactions directly; however, without middlemen agreeing to execute
transactions on behalf of their customers, transactions in a distributed, peer-to-peer transactional
network may lack controls. Such lack, in turn, may expose users to counterparty risk,
irreversible erroneous trades, and participants exceeding risk limits.
[0052]       Without an intermediary, a peer-to-peer transaction of any size can flow from any
member to any other member of the network. This means, for example, that a transaction with a
value of $1 billion has the same requirements and security to transact in a distributed network as
would a transaction for $0.000000001. While the underlying protocol of the distributed network
needs to be robust and secure for the largest transactions, it is also beneficial to provide a system
that scales or speeds even the smallest transactions in a network.
[0053]       The present inventive concept creates scale, speed, and security by introducing a layer
of trust on top of a distributed, peer-to-peer transactional network. The present inventive concept
allows trusted third parties to verify, ratify, and approve transactions with confidence and digital
efficiency.
                                                    12

[0054]        A distributed ledger can be viewed as a completely accessible filing system or
database, where 'completely' in this context means access to the database may be available, in its
entirety, to the participants in the network. Access to the information in the database may be
limited according to security and privacy requirements and enforced in the data structure itself.
It is critically important for the filing system to be free from any single user's unilateral ability to
alter the stored data. In order to accomplish this, many distributed, peer-to-peer transactional
networks assume that transactions take place in a truly intermediary-free environment. However,
this ignores the benefits to trusted intermediaries in a system.
[0055]        An exemplary embodiment platform of the present inventive concept adds a layer of
trust where users must be known to digital asset member entities and operate according to the
rules of their membership. Procedurally, the platform cannot unilaterally control the user's
assets. The platform may ensure that users are executing any "transaction", or ledger entry, as
intended and according to the rules set forth by digital asset members who provide them with
services. For example, in doing so, the platform provides financial institutions with tools to
verify digital asset transactions, including contra transactions containing at least one digital asset,
allowing them to settle quickly, efficiently, and securely.
[0056]        By using a distributed ledger, whether public, semi-public, or private, embodiments
of the present inventive concept provide the added benefit of having a transactional system that
shows 'transactions' in real time and provides the possibility to show transactions to any
regulator or appropriate governing body.
[0057]        In accordance with the principles of the present inventive concept, a digital asset
intermediary electronic settlement platform supports intermediary services for digital assets. A
digital asset intermediary electronic settlement platform offers an integrated approach between
                                                    13

digital assets and other established asset classes. For example, a digital asset electronic
settlement platform provides the missing link between digital assets and the highly-regulated
financial institutions and institutional investors that thus far have avoided entering the digital
assets market.
[0058]       The term 'digital asset' is used herein to include the digital embodiment of an
established asset class, obligation, contract, or explicit authorization. For example, the legally
binding document for a stock is a paper certificate and pursuant to the present inventive concept,
a digital token can be created that contains a digital form of that stock certificate. In addition,
exemplary embodiments of the digital asset intermediary electronic settlement platform of the
present inventive concept can be used as a replacement for conventional asset settlement
platforms and ledgers. Examples of such conventional asset settlement platforms and ledgers
include, but are not limited to, electronic assets such as, for example, electronic securities,
electronic contracts, and the like.
[0059]      Any conventional security can be digitized on a distributed ledger and made eligible
for inclusion in the digital asset intermediary electronic settlement platform as an electronic
security. Such encrypted digitized securities can thereby be augmented, validated and
transferred electronically from one or more qualified and known users to other users in real time.
Examples of such conventional securities include, but are not limited to, private and public stock,
private and public bonds, commercial paper, derivative securities (forwards, futures, options or
swaps), obligations, authorizations, contracts, or any other financial asset.
[0060]      Any contract can be digitized on a distributed ledger and made eligible for inclusion
in the digital asset intermediary electronic settlement platform as an electronic contract. Such an
encrypted digitized contract can thereby be validated and transferred electronically from one or
                                                   14

more qualified and known users to other users in real time. Examples of such contracts include,
but are not limited to, derivative contracts (forwards, futures, options or swaps), purchase or sale
agreements, loans, repo (sale and repurchase) agreements, reverse repo (purchase and resale)
agreements, wills, insurance policies, surety bonds, service agreements, contractual obligations,
or any other contractual arrangement.
[0061]      Examples of additional digital assets that can be digitized and made eligible for
inclusion in the digital asset intermediary electronic settlement platform, and can thereby be
validated and transferred electronically from one or more qualified and known users to other
users in real-time, include, but are not limited to, foreign exchange (digital or conventional),
mineral rights, air rights, sewage rights, mining rights, titles (car, house, and the like), mortgages,
reward points or airline miles, and the like.
[0062]      In an exemplary embodiment, any digital asset (such as, for example, but not limited
to, a quantity of bitcoin) may be associated with a unique identifier or right on a distributed
ledger which may, in some ledger implementations (e.g., those using unused transaction outputs
or "utxo"), be referred to as a token. The present inventive concept is not limited to exemplary
utxo implementations or tokens, and is compatible with alternate distributed ledger
implementations, such as, for example, Ethereum, without limitation. The combination of a
unique right or token as a proof of ownership and a hash of the digital asset data can be passed
through the present inventive concept and recorded on a public, semi-public or private
distributed ledger network. The digital asset intermediary electronic settlement platform of the
present inventive concept will help process digital asset exchanges for conventional currency or
corresponding established asset classes that are denominated in such currencies. Through a
digital asset intermediary electronic settlement platform of the present inventive concept,
                                                   15

members or regulators or both may have the ability to monitor and react in real time to
transactions taking place in the digital asset marketplace.
[0063]      An exemplary embodiment digital asset intermediary electronic settlement platform
of the present inventive concept helps fill a gap between newly created digital assets such as
bitcoin, which exist in a relatively unregulated marketplace with relatively limited oversight, and
established regulated financial institutions. The digital asset intermediary electronic settlement
platform extends to include new and established asset classes which have been digitized on a
distributed ledger. The electronic settlement system of the present inventive concept allows for
members to enforce behavior of its users while allowing the users to be the custodians of their
digital assets. The settlement system allows the recordation, tracking, and settlement of
transactions provided that the transactions adhere to pre-set limitations. Should the settlement
system not settle a transaction because pre-set limitations are not met, authorizations may be
used that have been pre-signed to permit the unilateral withdrawal of the applicable rights from
the settlement system at a preset and known time in the future by the user. This concept is
referred to as a 'redeem transaction'. The digital asset intermediary electronic settlement system
cannot unilaterally move rights, nor can it prevent users from exiting the system. This is
achieved by one of several alternative mechanisms for pre-forfeit of control over rights, the
simplest currently contemplated being that both the user and the settlement system pre-sign
transactions which become valid in a preset time in the future, and which return rights to
applications or wallets that are under the sole control of the respective users.
[0064]       The digital asset intermediary electronic settlement platform of the present inventive
concept helps provide financial institutions and their customers with certain benefits in the
digital assets marketplace. In particular, the digital asset intermediary electronic settlement
                                                   16

platform of the present inventive concept helps prevent fraudulent transactions, avoid
counterparty risk, verify rights and funds, and allows account oversight; this is enabled without
requiring that members hold or handle digital assets and without transferring title to such assets
to the settlement system.
[0065]       An exemplary embodiment digital asset intermediary electronic settlement platform
of the present inventive concept includes a process for onboarding a carefully selected subset of
participants. A trusted network of members (e.g., financial institutions) is established. When
utilizing the digital asset intermediary electronic settlement platform of the present inventive
concept, the risk of a single point of failure is avoided without exposing participants to the
necessity of dealing with completely unknown or anonymous counterparts. Settlement can be
limited to be available only with known users. Because settlement is achieved with custody of
digital assets remaining under control of the user, the custodian requirement of an exchange is
avoided, thus allowing the users to avail themselves of the price discovery function of an
exchange without exposing themselves to the risk of unauthorized loss of title to those assets.
Regulated members will be the custodians of conventional rights and funds, and users will be the
custodians of their own digital assets. This distributes the system across many custodians and
provides added layers of security.
[0066]       An exemplary embodiment of the digital asset intermediary electronic settlement
platform of the present inventive concept provides for an intermediary platform for digital assets.
Utilizing a digital asset intermediary electronic settlement platform allows multiple current
applications to use the platform and provides a foundation for accommodation of future as yet
unspecified and unknown future digital assets. This system allows for the atomic settlement of
digital assets for conventional assets or digital assets for other digital assets. In this context,
                                                    17

'atomic' means inherently linked in the sense that one leg of the transfer cannot occur without
the other. Any transaction that flows through the system can be audited for compliance,
reporting, valuation, risk management or other purposes. Digital assets, transactions,
obligations, and agreements can be tracked. Risk department monitoring and control tools can
be applied to digital assets. Back office monitoring tools and business logic can be imposed.
The electronic settlement system adds a layer of business logic between the participants and the
distributed ledgers. In this context, 'business logic' means conditions which must be satisfied to
meet the intended business criteria for the asset and/or transaction in question. An example
would be the imposition of a pre-agreed framework of limits. Digitization of business logic
offers the potential for significant economies of scale.
[0067]      Typical multi-signature or multi-party ratification schemes do not inherently impose
limits upon any of the individual authorizers in the scheme, whereas an exemplary embodiment
of the digital asset intermediary electronic settlement platform of the present inventive concept
allows for sharing of assets in an application or wallet with specific individual limits by private
key signature, for example. This key store application or 'wallet' architecture allows for
multiple users to share resources greater than the limit of any single participant, a necessary
requirement for institutions seeking to manage the activities of their authorized employees, both
individually and in the aggregate. The digital asset intermediary electronic settlement platform
of the present inventive concept can impose this same business logic for the settlement of any
contra-transaction between two assets in which at least one of the assets is a digital asset, for
example and can be extended to include many assets and parties in a single transaction.
[0068]      An exemplary embodiment of the digital asset intermediary electronic settlement
platform of the present inventive concept is a network of multi-signature key store applications
                                                   18

('wallets') pseudonymously known to each other. User wallets contain public keys that are
known to the network, but the private keys reside solely under the control of the user. The
present inventive concept contemplates that users will secure such private keys using any one of
a number of alternative frameworks. Digital asset intermediary electronic settlement platform
multi-signature wallets contain one or more unique private keys with the user and one or more
unique private keys with a digital asset intermediary electronic settlement platform server. Users
transfer digital assets to the control of a multi-signature wallet, in which the digital asset
intermediary electronic settlement platform server controls at least one private key, in order to
participate in the settlement system. Transactions in the system occur from multi-signature
wallets to multi-signature wallets within the closed network and require a ratification in the form
of an approval signature from the digital asset intermediary electronic settlement platform server.
The digital asset intermediary electronic settlement platform server cannot transfer control of
digital assets unilaterally because the digital asset is held in multi-signature wallets over which
the user has sufficient control to prevent a transfer without its authorization. Additionally, the
digital asset intermediary electronic settlement platform server cannot withhold, nor be used to
withhold, digital assets against a user's will. The digital asset intermediary electronic settlement
platform server pre-authorizes a 'redeem' transaction, which authorizes the redemption of digital
assets from the multi-signature wallet back to the user wallet after the passage of a specified
period of time, for example. After the specified period of time has passed, the user may
therefore unilaterally control her asset without further action required by the digital assets
intermediary electronic settlement platform.
[0069]      By utilizing a digital asset intermediary electronic settlement platform in accordance
with the principles of the present inventive concept, trusted third parties can continue to monitor
                                                    19

and exercise behavioral control of digital assets without having to be the legal custodian. This
allows users to truly control their assets, and trusted third parties to continue to enforce legal
behavior and provide settlement efficiencies. The digital asset intermediary electronic settlement
platform in accordance with the principles of the present inventive concept provides a closed
loop of known entities within a larger network. In order to participate, users must use the digital
asset intermediary electronic settlement platform and wallets, enter and exit the loop in
accordance with the procedure, and adhere to the behavioral rules of the system.
[0070]       Referring to Figure 3, a general, schematic overview of exemplary parties interacting
with the digital asset intermediary electronic settlement platform 310 of the present inventive
concept is provided. A group of members 312 is seen. Members 312 are in a position to
perform financial industry standard due diligence such as, for example, anti- money laundering
(AML) compliance with anti-bribery and corruption regulations, including Bank Secrecy Act
(BSA), Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA), and critical AML mandates like Know Your
Customer (KYC) and Customer Information Program (CIP).
[0071]       Members 312 are in a position to open and manage accounts, analyze and set limits,
and provide strategic counseling. Members 312 of the digital asset intermediary electronic
settlement platform manage implementations relating to conventional currency transfer, while
the digital asset intermediary electronic settlement platform serves as a facilitator for the transfer
of digital assets during a trade settlement. Members of the digital asset intermediary electronic
settlement platform 310 avoid counterparty risk, decoupling price discovery from the custody of
right and funds.
[0072]       Member 312 can utilize the digital asset intermediary electronic settlement platform
310 to onboard member's clients, and let these member's clients settle digital asset trades among
                                                   20

themselves while controlling risk without any direct custody of digital assets. While not
formally required to be, the members 312 may be financial institutions.
[0073]       Under the members are member's clients 314. Member's clients 314 have a desire to
settle transactions and manage risks. Again, while formally not required to be, typically the
member clients 314 will be clients of the members 312 such as, for example, a multinational
corporation which customarily utilizes various services provided by its members.
[0074]       A number of trading desk units 316 are deployed. The trading desk units 316 can be
set up to settle digital assets. Examples of trading desk units 316 can include treasury, corporate
risk-management, departmental risk-management, inter-currency risk-management, proprietary
trading groups, and the like. Each trading desk unit 316 can, but does not necessarily need to,
include a plurality of authorized traders 318.
[0075]       Users are supported by several hardware and software components that may include,
for example, a front end, a user key store application or 'wallet', and a digital asset intermediary
electronic settlement platform server. The front-end, user interface level, may include user
facing screens including system overview, dashboards, risk console, and log console. Dashboard
screens visualize what is happening at each stage. In addition, interactive screens let the
participant enter trades and see live results and/or notifications (for example, relating to the
invalidity of a trade).
[0076]       Referring to Figure 4, in one exemplary embodiment of the present inventive concept
a digital asset intermediary electronic settlement wallet 410 is provided. The digital asset
intermediary electronic settlement wallet 410 comprises a multi-signature user wallet 414 and a
multi-signature settlement wallet 416. In the multi-signature user wallet 414, only the user has
control of the private keys. The private keys are stored locally with the multi-signature user
                                                  21

wallet 414. The multi-signature settlement wallet 416 interacts with other digital wallets 412 in a
manner that is known in the art.
[0077]       In one exemplary embodiment of the present inventive concept, on the direction of
the user, the inventive concept validates and enables asset transactions between the multi
signature user wallet 414 and the multi-signature settlement wallet 416. The multi-signature user
wallet 416 comprises a user private key and a digital asset intermediary electronic settlement
platform private key. Private keys (except one) are stored locally with the multi-signature user
wallet 416. The intermediary private key is the last and mandatory signature on settlements.
The digital asset intermediary electronic settlement platform private key resides on the digital
asset intermediary electronic settlement platform server and is strictly conditioned on the user
member's limits and matching a contra-transaction.
[0078]       By utilizing a digital asset intermediary electronic settlement platform in accordance
with the principles of the present inventive concept, members can participate in live scenarios,
including a successful settlement, where the platform settles a valid transaction; an erroneous or
invalid transaction, known as a "bad" transaction; and member client onboarding, where a
member adds a new member client to the digital asset intermediary electronic settlement
platform to become a platform user. Transactions can be originated by various means, such as
for example either in the over-the-counter market (for example, by telephone) or on an exchange
or both. While a scenario is running, the member can inspect dashboards for the member, the
member client, and the member's risk management function, as well as digital asset intermediary
electronic settlement platform log screens for operations functions. In a successful over-the
counter transaction, the two participants sit at different computers and independently report trade
details to the digital asset intermediary electronic settlement platform server using a trade entry
                                                   22

tool. In a successful exchange-executed transaction, the exchange notifies the digital asset
intermediary electronic settlement system of exchange-originated transactions that have been
validated and executed.
[0079]      The following summarizes an exemplary settlement request process. Initially, trader
Ta opens the trade entry tool. Trader Ta initializes trade entry tool, and the dashboard recognizes
Trader Ta as active. The application informs Trader Ta's trade entry tool of current credit limits
for Trader Ta, as set in a risk console. Meanwhile, Trader Tb also opens the trade entry tool.
Trader Tb initializes trade entry tool, and the dashboard recognizes Trader Tb as active. The
application informs Trader Tb of current credit limits for Trader Tb, as set in the risk console.
[0080]      Trader Ta fills a ticket specifying asset, quantity, price, and counterparty; and
authorizes via a cryptographic signature. A new transaction number is assigned, funds for the
settlement are earmarked from Trader Ta and/or a Trader Ta member, and the dashboard
displays a Trader Ta ticket indicating the ticket as yet unfilled. A countdown timer starts,
counting down a trading time (for example, 15 minutes). The dashboard also displays the
Traders' credit limits. Meanwhile, Trader Tb also fills a ticket specifying asset, quantity, price,
and counterparty; and authorize/use/spend. Trader Tb submits the ticket for contra side of trade.
The Trader Tb ticket becomes valid, a positive visual appears such as, for example, the ticket
being greyed out, Trader Ta and Trader Tb tickets merge, the ticket pushed off to accepted trades
bin.
[0081]      The following summarizes an exemplary successful transaction settlement process. A
credit-limit ticker flashes and gets updated. A short amount of time (for example, 0.5 sec)
passes. Simultaneously, a signature visual flashes and becomes valid, indicating 2/2 or 3/3 or 4/4
(or any number of signatures where the settlement system signature is required) use/spend
                                                  23

signature and a conventional currency such as, for example, U.S. Dollar, pie-chart flashes and
updates, indicating that the system is instructing the member of Trader Tb to send conventional
currency to the member of Trader Ta. The market data feed is updated to include the price and
quantity details of the successful settlement. The successful settlement details are also sent
simultaneously via an Application-Programming Interface (API) to Trader Ta and Trader Tb's
members, allowing these members to submit appropriate regulatory documentation.
[0082]      A bad transaction scenario can result from, for example, a human error, a limit
reached, an attempt to defraud the system, potential bugs, and the like. Errors are reported on the
trader trade entry tool, risk dashboard, and member risk dashboard. The following summarizes
an exemplary bad transaction occurring due to an 'out of credit' scenario. Trader Ta tries to
submit, for example, a 1000 bitcoin trade with Trader Tb, who only has credit authorization for a
500 bitcoin trade. If the trade has originated over-the-counter, Trader Ta's trade entry tool
indicates a bad transaction by, for example, turning red and graying out the 'submit' button. The
trade entry tool title bar messages the problem, for example displaying "Trader Tb Does Not
Have Sufficient Credit to Complete This Trade." If the trade is attempted on an exchange, Trader
Tb's limits are known to and enforced by the exchange.
[0083]      The following summarizes an exemplary bad trade due to an 'above authorized clip
size' scenario. Trader Ta tries to submit, for example, a 1000 bitcoin trade with Trader Tb, while
Trader Ta is not allowed to trade more than, for example, 100 bitcoin at a time. Trader Ta's
trade entry tool indicates a bad transaction such as by, for example, turning red and graying out
the 'submit' button. The trade entry tool title bar messages the scenario such as, for example,
displaying "Trader Ta Has Exceeded Clip Limit Size". If the trade is attempted on exchange,
Trader Tb is prevented from executing orders that exceed 100 bitcoin at a time.
                                                  24

[0084]       The following summarizes an exemplary bad transaction due to an 'unauthorized
trader' scenario. An unauthorized user attempts to submit a trade at Trader Ta's trade entry tool.
To activate the 'Submit' button requires a user to provide a trader-specific passphrase. The
entered passphrase is incorrect. The trade entry tool indicates a bad transaction such as by, for
example, turning red, and greying out the 'submit' button. If the process is repeated a given
number of times such as, for example, three times, the trade entry tool is no longer valid and the
user's wallet will be assumed to be compromised. The digital asset intermediary electronic
settlement platform server initiates contact with the member client and member outside of the
system as a means to establish a safe withdrawal from the digital assets intermediary electronic
settlement platform, or other correction of the situation.
[0085]       The following summarizes an exemplary over-the-counter bad transaction due to an
'incorrect trade details' or 'wrong limit' scenario. Trader Ta submits trade for example 1000
bitcoin with Trader Tb; Trader Tb submits a trade for example 100 bitcoin with Trader Ta. The
matching engine waits a given interval (for example, 15 minutes) for both tickets to find a match.
The trader trade entry tool shows a pending queue of trades yet to be confirmed. If a trade in the
queue approaches the end of the interval, then the line item goes into a 'Critical Queue' that
shows unmatched trades that are about to expire. The system shows logs of unmatched trades,
including matched or expired trades. Trades being reported to the system for settlement from
exchanges have already been matched by the exchange. There are numerous additional
examples of potential bad transaction scenarios that the system can be designed to identify
[0086]       Figures 5-10 set forth exemplary graphical user interfaces which enable users to
interact with the digital asset intermediary electronic settlement platform of the present inventive
                                                  25

concept; these examples are only one of several alternatives that are contemplated by the current
inventive concept and are intended to be non-limiting.
[0087]       Referring to Figure 5, an exemplary graphical user interface screen shot of a digital
asset intermediary electronic settlement platform of the present inventive concept is illustrated.
In an embodiment, the screen is divided into a balance history section 512, a statistical data
section 514, a trades section 516, and a details section 518. Figure 6 shows a more detailed
depiction of the balance history section 512; Figure 7 shows a more detailed depiction of the
statistical data section 514; Figure 8 shows a more detailed depiction of the trades section 516;
and Figures 9 and 10 show more detailed depictions of the details section 518.
[0088]       Referring to Figure 6, the balance history section 512 includes a top conventional
currency balance line graph 612 of the members and a top digital asset balance line graph 614 of
the members. A member's tab 616, an institution's tab 618, a trading desk tab 620, and a trading
accounts tab 622 are provided. The members tab includes the member's names 624,
conventional currency balances 626, conventional currency credits 628, buy trades 630, and sell
trades 632. Likewise, the institutions tab 618 includes the members' clients' names,
conventional currency balances, conventional currency credits, buy trades, and sell trades. The
trading desk tab 620 includes the trading desk names, conventional currency balances,
conventional currency credits, buy trades, and sell trades. The trading accounts tab 622 includes
the trading account names, conventional currency balances, conventional currency credits, buy
trades, and sell trades.
[0089]       Referring to Figure 7, the statistical data section 514 includes a top conventional
currency balance pie graph 712 of the members and a top digital asset balance pie graph 714 of
the members. A top conventional currency credit chart 716 lists the top member's conventional
                                                    26

currency credit. A top digital asset balance chart 718 lists the top member's digital asset balance.
A top account balance value chart 721 lists the top member's account balance value. A top buy
volume chart 723 lists the top member's buy volume. A top sell volume chart 725 lists the top
member's sell volume. A top notional volume chart 727 lists the top member's notional volume.
A top trade volume chart 729 lists the top member's trade volume.
[0090]       Referring to Figure 8, the details section 518 further includes a pending trades chart
812 that details the trade ID, price, digital asset amount, conventional currency amount, the
digital asset seller, the digital asset buyer, the time created, and the trade status of pending trades.
A settled trades chart 814 details the trade ID, price, digital asset amount, conventional currency
amount, the digital asset seller, the digital asset buyer, the time created, and the trade status of
settled trades. An unsettled trades chart 816 details the trade ID, price, digital asset amount,
conventional currency amount, the digital asset seller, the digital asset buyer, the time created,
and the trade status of unsettled trades.
[0091]       Referring to Figure 9, the trades section 516 further includes a digital asset chart 912
that lists the hash, amount, fees, inputs, and outputs of a digital asset transaction. Referring to
Figure 10, a trade section 1012 identifies the trade ID, the state, the creation time, the price, the
digital asset amount, the conventional currency amount, the buyer, and the seller. An add digital
asset signature button 1014 is provided. An add trade section identifies the trading account
balances (both digital and established assets). As input fields, the trade section 1012 includes the
trade type (buy or sell digital assets), a digital asset amount drop-down menu, the digital asset
price in conventional currency denominations, and the counterparty. A sell digital assets button
1016 is provided.
                                                     27

[0092]       The digital asset intermediary electronic settlement platform server receives trades
from authenticated users, performs the trade validation, matching, and settlement, while
providing operators and members with the state of each settlement and the credits and balances
for each account. Figures 11-19 set forth detailed examples of digital asset intermediary
electronic settlement platform processes and states which enable the digital asset intermediary
electronic settlement platform of the present inventive concept. In the examples depicted in
Figures 11-19, the exemplary digital asset is bitcoin. The digital asset intermediary electronic
settlement platform processes include examples of a transaction dependency graph, a digital
asset funding process, a redeem refresh process, settlement states, preparing for successful
settlement process, successfully matched contra digital asset for conventional currency
transaction process, expired settlement process, withdraw from multi-signature wallets to user
wallets, and user sign redeem process.
[0093]       The following describes an exemplary embodiment of the process by which digital
assets are transferred to the control of multi-signature wallets. Digital assets rights transferred to
the multi-signature wallet will only be recognized as valid for the purpose of settlement if they
follow the correct process. If any digital assets rights are transferred to a public key in multi
signature wallets via any other means, the digital asset intermediary electronic settlement
platform server automatically authorizes a transaction to send digital assets from multi-signature
control back to user control. The digital asset intermediary electronic settlement platform server
also refuses to recognize digital asset rights transferred incorrectly as part of the available
balance in multi-signature wallets.
[0094]       Referring to Figure 11, a dependency-diagram showing an example of transaction
dependency during the transfer process is shown. Initially, a seller has rights which are, for the
                                                   28

purpose of demonstration, represented by the control of an unused transaction output, or utxo, for
a number of digital assets in a wallet (say, for example, 100), in which only the seller has control
of the private keys (user wallets) (1101). The user wallets generate a transaction (txl) for
transferring digital assets rights (for example, 100) from the user wallet to a multi-signature
wallet with input utxo0 and output utxol (1102).
[0095]      Referring to Figure 12, a sequence-diagram showing an exemplary bitcoin funding
process is shown. Again, the seller has the utxo for digital assets controlled by an application in
which only the seller has control of the private keys (user wallets) (1201), and the user
applications generate a transaction (tx1) for moving digital assets from user control to multi
signature control with input utxo0 and output utxol (1202).
[0096]      The user application hashes details of tx1 (transaction moving digital assets from user
control to multi-signature control) into a transaction id (txid(txl)) (1203). The user application
notifies the digital asset intermediary electronic settlement platform server of an impending
transfer to multi-signature control by sending txid(txl) (1204). The digital asset intermediary
electronic settlement platform server uses txid(txl) to generate and sign a redeem transaction
(txl.R) that will become valid in the future (for example, +24 hours), and the digital asset
intermediary electronic settlement platform server sends txl.R to the user wallet (1205). The
user wallet confirms txl.R will be a valid transaction in the future time frame (for example, 24
hours) (1206).
[0097]      Timelock transactions are transactions that do not become valid in the network until a
predetermined time in the future. Details of such transactions can be pre-signed and stored
locally by the user, to be broadcast to the network in the future, at which time such details will be
added to a block. The user wallet broadcasts redeem transactions directly to the blockchain to
                                                  29

avoid giving the digital asset intermediary electronic settlement platform server the opportunity
to intercept this message, further establishing that the electronic settlement system does not have
any ownership of user digital assets.
[0098]      In the dependency-graph showing the exemplary process of Figure 11, the seller user
application holds a preapproved redeeming transaction or 'redeem' (1103). Referring back to
Figure 12, the user application sends tx1 to the digital asset intermediary electronic settlement
platform server (1207). The digital asset intermediary electronic settlement platform server
checks that tx1 is a valid transaction and then broadcast this to blockchain (1208). After an
appropriate number of confirmations in the blockchain, the seller multi-signature application
contains an active balance of digital assets in the form of utxo 1 for the balance of the time frame
(for example, 24 hours) that can be used to settle contra-transactions (1209). If no settlements
take place within the time frame (for example, 24 hours), the redeem must be used or refreshed.
[0099]      Referring to Figure 13, a sequence-diagram showing an exemplary redeem refresh
process is shown. The redeem transaction txl.R becomes a valid transaction (1301). The seller
instructs the digital asset intermediary electronic settlement platform server to refresh funds
(1302). The digital asset intermediary electronic settlement platform server creates tx2 - in
which the input is utxol and the output is utxo2, authorizes tx2, and sends tx2 to the seller multi
signature application (1303). The seller multi-signature application authorizes tx2 (1304). The
seller multi-signature application generates a hash of tx2, and creates and sends txid(tx2) to the
digital asset intermediary electronic settlement platform server (1305).
[00100]     The digital asset intermediary electronic settlement platform server uses txid(tx2) to
generate and sign a redeem transaction (tx2.R) that will become valid in the future time period
(for example, +24 hours), and the digital asset intermediary electronic settlement platform server
                                                  30

sends tx2.R to the seller multi-signature application (1306). The seller multi-signature
application confirms tx2.R will be a valid transaction in the time period (for example, 24 hours)
(1307). The seller multi-signature application sends tx2 to the digital asset intermediary
electronic settlement platform server (1308). The digital asset intermediary electronic settlement
platform server checks that tx2 is a valid transaction and broadcasts this to blockchain (1309).
After an appropriate number of confirmations in the blockchain, seller multi-signature
application controls an active balance of digital assets rights in the form of utxo2 for the balance
of the time period (for example, 24 hours) that can be used to settle contra-transactions (1310).
[00101]      For any trade less than the total balance of the seller multi-signature control,
granularity of the balances must be introduced and new redeems must be issued. Any transaction
that uses an utxo as an input invalidates any other future ledger entries that would use that utxo
as an input. Therefore, new redeems must be generated to ensure the user can withdraw rights.
[00102]      Referring to Figure 14, a state-chart showing exemplary settlement states is shown.
The rights are split in the seller multi-signature wallet into two utxo units: one utxo unit will be
used to settle a potential transaction; the other utxo unit represents the remaining balance under
control of the application. A new settlement state is entered (1401). The electronic settlement
platform credit manager earmarks from the seller's balance and reserves rights for the impending
transaction (1402). If the fund earmarking is denied (1403), then a declined state is entered
(1405); if the rights are earmarked, then the seller settlement state becomes indicative (1404).
[00103]      Referring to Figure 15, an exemplary staging of unused transaction outputs ("utxos")
for successful settlement process is shown. It shall be understood that the present inventive
concept is not limited to exemplary utxo implementations, and is compatible with alternate
distributed ledger implementations, such as, for example, Ethereum, without limitation. Here,
                                                   31

the seller notifies the digital asset intermediary electronic settlement platform server via using
the trade entry tool of the indicative trade (1501). As is shown in Figure 10, toggle for buy / sell,
digital asset quantity (in the Figure 10 example, BTC Amount), Price, and Counterparty are
displayed. The seller reports quantity, price, and counterparty to the digital asset intermediary
electronic settlement platform server. In the exemplary rights state shown in Figure 14, the seller
multi-signature wallet is staged for settlement (1104).
[00104]      In Figure 15, the digital asset intermediary electronic settlement platform server
creates and authorizes tx2, in which the input is utxol and the outputs are utxo2.1 and utxo2.2
(1502). Both utxo2.1 and utxo2.2 destinations are to an address owned by the seller in the seller
multi-signature application. The seller multi-signature application authorizes tx2 (1503). The
seller multi-signature application generates hash of tx2, thus creating and sending txid(tx2) to the
digital asset intermediary electronic settlement platform server (1504). The digital asset
intermediary electronic settlement platform server uses txid(tx2) to generate and sign two redeem
transactions (collectively, tx2.R) that will become valid in the future time frame (for example,
+24 hours), and the digital asset intermediary electronic settlement platform server sends tx2.R
to the seller multi-signature wallet (1505). The seller multi-signature application confirms tx2.R
will be valid transactions in the time frame (for example, 24 hours) (1506). The seller multi
signature application sends tx2 to the digital asset intermediary electronic settlement platform
server (1507). The digital asset intermediary electronic settlement platform server checks that
tx2 is a valid transaction and broadcasts this to the blockchain (1508).
[00105]      The seller multi-signature application now controls the digital asset rights balance
(for example, 100) between utxo2.1 and utx2.2 (1509). In the exemplary rights state seen in
Figure 11, state (1105) of the utxos in the multi-signature wallet is seen. State (1107) refers to
                                                   32

the seller's valid redeems for utxo2.1 and utxo2.2 should no settlement occur after rights have
been earmarked. The digital asset intermediary electronic settlement platform server creates tx3
with input utxo2. 1, output utxo3, and destination buyer. In
[00106]      Figure 15, the digital asset intermediary electronic settlement platform server sends
tx3 to the seller multi-signature application (1510). The seller multi-signature application
authorizes and sends tx3 to the digital asset intermediary electronic settlement platform server
(1511).
[00107]      In the exemplary settlement states seen in Figure 14, if no message containing the
seller authorization is received, then cancel / expire occurs (1407), and the state goes to cancelled
(1412). The message containing the seller multi-signature application signature of tx3 commits
the seller to settle (1406). At this point, the settlement system is awaiting the buy side to report
the contra side of the trade. The settlement state changes to firm (1408). State (1409) is the
process of a buyer reporting a trade to the digital asset intermediary electronic settlement
platform trade entry tool which can be found in state (1408), but from the buyer's perspective.
The settlement system can remain in this settlement state for a period of time (for example, 15
minutes); after the settlement state, a firm state will become be "matched" (1410) or "expired"
(1411). If expired (1411), the state goes to cancelled (1412). If matched, the state goes to
matched (1413). Equally, the buy side of a settlement can occur first and then the matching
engine is awaiting the seller to undergo the process as described above.
[00108]      A buyer must have sufficient buying power and be acting according to the rules of the
buyer's member in order to be eligible to settle a transaction. Sufficient buying power is dictated
by the buyer's member and may represent some credit capacity issued by the member; however,
the member also must have sufficient conventional currency in its settlement system settlement
                                                    33

account in order to move conventional currency from the buyer member to the seller member.
Similarly, the seller must be acting according to seller's member rules and that member client
must have sufficient digital assets available to settle.
[00109]     Referring to Figure 16, a sequence-diagram shows an example of a successfully
matched contra digital asset/conventional currency transaction process. The buyer has
conventional currency credit with the buyer's member (1601). The buyer notifies the digital
asset intermediary electronic settlement platform server using the trade entry tool of the
indicative settlement. As is seen in Figure 7, toggle for buy / sell, digital asset quantity (in the
Figure 7 example, BTC Amount), Price, and Counterparty are displayed.
[00110]     In the exemplary settlement states shown in Figure 14, the digital asset credit
manager earmarks funds from the buyer's credit and reserves for the impending transaction
(1402). The buyer's reporting of the trade to the digital asset intermediary electronic settlement
platform commits the buyer to settle (1406). The buyer settlement state becomes firm (1408).
The digital asset intermediary electronic settlement platform matching engine confirms that the
seller firm offer and the buyer firm bid are matching contra-transactions (1410). The seller firm
state and the buyer firm state merge into a matched state (1413).
[00111]     Referring back to Figure 16, the digital asset intermediary electronic settlement
platform server authorizes tx3 with inputs utxo 2.1, destination buyer multi-signature application,
and output uxto3 (1602). This is also seen in Figure 15 (1512). The digital asset intermediary
electronic settlement platform server creates a hash of tx3, thus creating and sending txid(tx3) to
the buyer multi-signature application (1603). The digital asset intermediary electronic settlement
platform server sends a message to the member to transfer conventional currency from the
buying member's account to the selling member's account at the same moment that the digital
                                                  34

asset intermediary electronic settlement platform server broadcasts tx3 to the blockchain (1604).
Movement of rights and funds is subject to member controls, and the members are notified that
rights and funds have been requested to move. In the exemplary settlement states shown in
Figure 14, the matched state settles (1414) into a settled state (1416). A 'declined' state (1405)
shows that a settlement has been identified as a bad transaction and refused by the digital asset
intermediary electronic settlement platform and the attempted settlement does not advance
beyond the attempt to report to the system via the trade entry tool. The digital asset intermediary
electronic settlement platform cannot prevent the digital asset from moving if the transaction has
both signatures, but in the manual process state (1417) the member can freeze the conventional
currency from both sides of the transaction if the transaction comes under dispute for any reason.
[00112]      In the exemplary funds states shown in Figure 11, the buyer's multi-signature rights
are staged for settlement (1106). Back to Figure 16, the buyer multi-signature application now
contains utxo3 with tx3.R that contains an active settlement system settlement balance of a single
digital asset for the time frame (for example, 24 hours) (1605). The seller multi-signature
application now contains utxo2.2 with tx2.R that contains an active settlement system settlement
balance of digital assets (for example, 99) for the time frame (for example, 24 hours) (1606).
[00113]      Firm settlement states are only active for a specified period (for example, 15
minutes). In order to show that the digital asset intermediary electronic settlement platform has
forfeited its ability to settle a transaction after the settlement state has elapsed, the digital asset
intermediary electronic settlement platform creates a transaction to send digital assets directly to
the seller multi-signature application using the rights earmarked for the expired settlement. The
use of the rights represented by a utxo in a different transaction invalidates any future attempt to
                                                      35

reuse the rights in another transaction. After the specified period has lapsed, the settlement state
is changed to 'expired' (1411) in Figure 14.
[00114]      Referring to Figure 17, a sequence-diagram showing an exemplary expired settlement
process is shown. The digital asset intermediary electronic settlement platform server creates tx4
with input utxo2. 1, destination seller multi-signature application, output utxo4, and the digital
asset intermediary electronic settlement platform server authorizes and sends to the seller multi
signature application (1701). The seller multi-signature application authorizes tx4 (1702). The
seller multi-signature application creates a hash of tx4, thus creating and sending txid(tx4) to the
digital asset intermediary electronic settlement platform server (1703).
[00115]      The digital asset intermediary electronic settlement platform server uses txid(tx4) to
generate and sign a redeem transaction (tx4.R) that will become valid in the future (for example,
+24 hours), and the digital asset intermediary electronic settlement platform server sends tx4.R
to the seller multi-signature application (1704). The seller multi-signature application confirms
tx4.R will be a valid transaction in the specified period of time (for example, 24 hours) (1705).
The seller multi-signature application sends tx4 to the digital asset intermediary electronic
settlement platform server (1706). The digital asset intermediary electronic settlement platform
server checks that tx4 is a valid transaction and broadcasts this to blockchain (1707). The
settlement state is now 'canceled' (1412) in Figure 14. The seller multi-signature application
now controls a digital asset rights balance (for example, 100) between utxo4 and utx2.2, with
valid redeems tx2.R and tx4.R (1708).
[00116]     At any time, users can transfer digital assets rights from the settlement system. The
user can either request an immediate withdrawal or the user can unilaterally sign an active
redeem. Withdrawals and redeems can only transfer to an application controlled address already
                                                  36

known to and authorized by the digital asset intermediary electronic settlement platform servers.
This ensures the recipient of the digital asset rights leaving the network is the rightful owner of
the rights.
[00117]     Referring to Figure 18, a sequence-diagram showing an example of a withdraw from
a multi-signature application to a user application process is seen. The user multi-signature
application has active control over a balance of digital assets rights (for example, 100) in form of
utxol, with redeem txl.R that will activate in a time period (for example, 24 hours) (1801). The
multi-signature application notifies the digital asset intermediary electronic settlement platform
server of withdrawal via the trade entry tool (1802). The digital asset intermediary electronic
settlement platform server creates tx2 with input utxo 1, destination user application, and sends to
the multi-signature application (1803). The multi-signature application (1803) authorizes and
sends tx2 to the digital asset intermediary electronic settlement platform server (1804). The
digital asset intermediary electronic settlement platform server checks that tx2 is a valid
transaction and authorizes tx2 (1805). The digital asset intermediary electronic settlement
platform server broadcasts tx2 to the blockchain (1806). The user application now has control
over a balance of digital assets rights (for example, 100) (1807).
[00118]     Referring to Figure 19, a sequence-diagram shows an exemplary user unilateral
redeem process. The multi-signature application has control over an active balance of digital
assets rights (for example, 100) in the form of utxol with redeem txl.R that will activate in a
specified time period (for example, 24 hours) (1901). The specified period (for example, 24
hours) elapses without creating a new future valid redeem date and without settling a transaction
(1902). The multi-signature application authorizes txl.R and broadcasts this to the blockchain
(1903, 1103). In the exemplary funds states seen in Figure 11, seller's unilateral withdraw state
                                                   37

(1103) is one way to initiate a redeem, or the digital asset intermediary electronic settlement
platform has already committed to send the rights out of the digital asset intermediary electronic
settlement platform by authorizing a time-locked transaction, with the result that the seller can
'unilaterally' decide to withdraw at will. The user application now has control over a balance of
digital assets rights (for example, 100) (1904).
[00119]      Referring to Figure 20, an exemplary embodiment system that can be used to
implement the present inventive concept is indicated generally by the reference numeral 2000.
This example is only one of several alternatives that are contemplated by the current inventive
concept and is intended to be non-limiting. User access computers 2010 are shown having a web
browser-based user interface. The user access computers interface with a web server cluster
2020 and a data API cluster 2030. The user access computers may alternatively, depending on
the user's role, access a digital asset intermediary electronic settlement platform server 2040
residing locally within the user's infrastructure or one hosted by a third party, and associated
cluster 2042 of digital asset nodes 2044. The web server cluster serves HyperText Markup
Language (HTML) and JavaScript-based user interface via HyperText Transfer Protocol (HTTP)
over Transport Layer Security (TLS). The data API cluster interfaces with a coordination
service cluster 2050, cache service cluster 2060, persistence service cluster 2070; as well as a
digital asset interface server 2080, and associated cluster 2082 of digital asset nodes 2084. The
persistence service cluster of the persistence server 2070 stores key values and holds values on
disk for long term storage. The values stored in the persistence service cluster are immutable,
allowing the values to be cached by the caching service cluster. The coordination service cluster
of the coordination server 2050 contains mutable data, namely the mapping of names to root
keys in the persistence service. The digital asset interface clusters 2042 and 2082, and digital
                                                   38

asset intermediary electronic settlement platform servers 2040 and 2080, interact with the digital
asset peer to peer network and hold immutable private keys. The digital asset intermediary
electronic settlement platform servers may optionally connect to the user through a second factor
authentication means such as, but not limited to, Short Message Service (SMS), email or
dedicated hardware device.
[00120]     The interface between the user access computers and the web server cluster, the data
API cluster infrastructure and the digital asset intermediary electronic settlement platform
servers should include, but not be limited to: wide area network connectivity, local area network
connectivity, appropriate network switches and routers, electrical power, backup power, storage
area network hardware, server-class computing hardware, personal computers, tablets,
smartphones, and an operating system.
[00121]     The data API cluster can run, for example, on a cluster of servers using multiple
and/or multi-core processors, RAM, high-throughput network controllers, hot plug SSD and
SATA drives, and redundant power supplies, for example.
[00122]     While the inventive concept has been described by way of example with respect to
exemplary embodiments; other alternatives, modifications, and variations will be apparent to
those of ordinary skill in the pertinent art. Accordingly, the scope of the appended claims is
intended to include all such alternatives, modifications and variations on the exemplary
embodiments set forth herein, as well as equivalents thereof that fall within the scope and spirit
of the present disclosure.
                                                  39

What is claimed is:
1.      A digital asset settlement method comprising:
        receiving from a first user an authorization for a conditional transaction involving a right
of the first user over a digital asset, which has been recorded on a distributed ledger;
        matching the authorization for transaction from the first user with an authorization for
transaction from at least one other user involving at least one right of the at least one other user
over at least one digital asset, which has been recorded on the distributed ledger;
        settling the transaction between the first and at least one other user if the conditional is
met; and
        recording the settled transaction on the distributed ledger.
2.      The method of Claim 1 wherein at least one of the digital assets represents digitized
ownership of a conventional asset.
3.      The method of Claim 1, further comprising receiving from the first user an electronic
mechanism for redemption.
4.      The method of Claim 3 wherein, if the transaction does not settle because the conditional
is not met, the electronic mechanism for redemption is invoked.
                                                   40

5.      The method of Claim 2 wherein the electronic mechanism for redemption permits the
unilateral withdrawal of applicable assets, rights, funds, or contracts, by a depositing user at a
preset time in the future.
6.      The method of Claim 2 wherein the electronic mechanism for redemption comprises a
pre-signed authorization for redemption for use in a redeem transaction.
7.      The method of Claim 2 wherein the electronic mechanism for redemption is
automatically invoked.
8.      A digital asset electronic settlement platform comprising:
        at least one of a plurality of nodes, a plurality of which have a copy of a distributed
ledger stored thereon;
        at least one interface server coupled in signal communication with said at least one node;
        at least one client machine coupled in signal communication with said at least one
interface server;
        a data server coupled in signal communication with the at least one client machine;
        a persistence unit coupled in signal communication with the data server;
        a cache unit coupled in signal communication with the data server; and
        a coordination unit coupled in signal communication with the data server.
9.      The digital asset electronic settlement platform of Claim 8 wherein at least one of the
persistence unit, cache unit, or coordination unit is embodied in the data server.
                                                   41

10.     The digital asset electronic settlement platform of Claim 8 wherein at least one of the
persistence unit, cache unit, or coordination unit is embodied in another server.
11.     The digital asset electronic settlement platform of Claim 8 wherein the data server
provides a link between digital assets and conventional assets.
12.     The digital asset electronic settlement platform of Claim 11 wherein the distributed
blockchain comprises at least one unused transaction output from a transaction comprising at
least one digital asset and at least one conventional asset.
13.     The digital asset electronic settlement platform of Claim 12 wherein the at least one
digital asset comprises a digital contract.
14.     The digital asset electronic settlement platform of Claim 8 wherein the client machine is
configured to execute a redeem transaction based on information from the data server, and to
record the redeem transaction in the blockchain through the interface server.
15.     The digital asset electronic settlement platform of Claim 8 wherein the data server is
directly coupled in signal communication with at least one interface server.
16.     The digital asset electronic settlement platform of Claim 8, further comprising a
timestamp server configured to hash a block of items to be time stamped and publish the
timestamped hash.
                                                  42

17.     A program storage device tangibly embodying a program of instructions executable by a
processor to:
        receive from a first user an authorization for a conditional transaction involving a digital
asset right, which has been digitized on a distributed ledger;
        match the authorization for transaction from the first user with an authorization for
transaction from at least one other user;
        settle the transaction between at least the first and other users if the conditional is met;
and
        memorialize the settled transaction on the distributed ledger.
18.     The program storage device of Claim 17 wherein at least one of the digital assets
represents digitized ownership of a conventional asset.
19.     The program storage device of Claim 17, further comprising a program instruction to
receive from the first user an electronic mechanism for redemption.
20.     The program storage device of Claim 19 wherein, if the transaction does not settle
because the conditional is not met, the electronic mechanism for redemption is invoked.
                                                  43

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
