                                       Abstract
The Child Emergency label is a sticker that gets placed on the child's car seat, facing
the car door that contains vital emergency information for emergency services. The
label is titled 'CHILD I.C.E.' (In case of Emergency) and provides spaces for the
parent to complete the child's name, date of birth, parents names and contact numbers,
emergency contacts other than the parents (name and number) and medical
information such as allergies, current medication and the current doctor.

    Editorial Note
      <removed-apn>
There is one page of description only

Title: Child Emergency Labels
Field: Emergency Services
Background: Discussing with volunteer ambulance officers about a recent car accident
where a child was taken from a car wreck but no one knew any information or emergency
contact details for the child. The driver/parent was unconscious and was taken to a separate
hospital. It took 3 days before a family member could be contacted to advise the condition of
the child. Discussions with the ambulance officer revealed there are steps in place to assist
the elderly with emergency contact information especially where they are living alone, but
there is nothing in place easily accessible for emergency services for children in car
accidents.
Summary of Invention: The Child Emergency label is a sticker that gets placed on the
child's car seat, facing the car door, that contains vital emergency information for emergency
services. The label is titled 'CHILD I.C.E.' (In case of Emergency) and provides spaces for
the parent to complete the child's name, date of birth, parents names and contact numbers,
emergency contacts other than the parents (name and number) and medical information such
as allergies, current medication and the current doctor.
Description of Embodiments: The label is a plastic base material which can easily be
written on with permanent marker but not easily damaged by the child (eg water resistant).
The information (as mentioned above) is on a white background and outlined with a red
border and black capital letter writing. Each label is 7cm wide by 10cm high and is large
enough for parents to write clearly and for emergency services to easily access and take note
of in the event of an accident, but small enough to fit easily on the car seat without
obstruction of any information.

 Editorial Note
   <removed-apn>
There is one page of claims only

Claim:
The 'Child Emergency Label' provides an easily accessible solution to assist our Emergency
Services teams by displaying vital emergency information for a child in the event of an
accident where the driver or child is unable to communicate.

                  Editorial Note
<removed-date>
                    <removed-apn>
              There are two pages of drawings only
<removed-apn>

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
