Abstract
A power distribution system for controlling operation of loads of a vehicle or a towed
vehicle, the system including: a user interface adapted to be mounted in the vehicle or
the towed vehicle and adapted to be configured to control operation of a designated
one of the loads under normal operation mode; a controller adapted to be mounted in
the vehicle or the towing vehicle and adapted to be configured to control operation of
the loads via a plurality of channels connected to the loads, respectively; and an
override switch adapted to be mounted in the vehicle or the towing vehicle and
adapted to override the normal operation mode when said override switch ON.

                                              1
                 A power distribution system with override capability
Technical Field
[0001]      The present invention relates to a power distribution system for controlling
operation of loads of a vehicle or a towed vehicle with override capability. In
particular, but not exclusively, the present invention includes a controller adapted to
be mounted in a towed vehicle and adapted to be configured to control operation of
loads in the towed vehicle under normal operation mode, and having an override
switch adapted to be mounted in the towed vehicle and adapted to override the
normal operation mode when said override switch ON.
Background of Invention
[0002]       Modern vehicles generally have a power distribution system including one
or more Electronic Control Units (ECUs) for controlling electrical systems, including
vehicle accessories in the form of electrical loads, of a vehicle. Modern towed
vehicles and recreational vehicles, such as camper trailers and caravans, also have
many installed accessories, such as a fridge, in the form of electrical loads. These
electrical loads are user controlled and, in one example, are typically controlled with
different input buttons and rotary knobs in the towed or towing vehicle. These
different user input means, however, take up considerable space in a vehicle cabin or
console area, can be confusing to use for the user, and generally require extensive
wiring looms.
[0003]       In another example of a typical setup for a power distribution system for a
caravan or camper trailer, the installation is performed by a manufacturer of a towed
vehicle and is highly standardized with a central control panel. In this case, the
control panel has buttons and a display for the user to control operation of the
accessories. In both examples of typical setups for control of accessories for a
caravan or camper trailer, however, there are a number of components that may fail
which would hinder the user's ability to control the towed vehicle accessories. For
example, the input buttons, rotary knobs, display, printed circuit boards or indeed any
other component associated with providing user control of the accessories may fail.

                                             2
Further, damage may occur to the cables in the power distribution system preventing
the user from controlling the accessories.
Summary of Invention
[0004]      According to one aspect of the present invention, there is provided a power
distribution system for controlling operation of loads of a vehicle or a towed vehicle,
the system including: a user interface adapted to be mounted in the vehicle or the
towed vehicle and adapted to be configured to control operation of a designated one
of the loads under normal operation mode; a controller adapted to be mounted in the
vehicle or the towed vehicle and adapted to be configured to control operation of the
loads via a plurality of channels connected to the loads, respectively, wherein the
controller includes a processor adapted to receive inputs from the user interface
under normal operation mode; and an override switch adapted to be mounted in the
vehicle or the towed vehicle and adapted to override the normal operation mode so as
to disable control of the loads based on the inputs from the user interface when said
override switch ON.
[0005]      Preferably, the controller is adapted to be mounted in a towed vehicle and
adapted to be configured to control operation of loads in the towed vehicle. For
example, the towed vehicle is a caravan or camper trailer, and, as mentioned, the
loads are electrical loads in the form of vehicle accessories, such as a fridge and a
water pump. In the normal operation mode, the controller controls operation of the
loads by determining a state command for the loads based on inputs from the user
interface and outputs the state command for action by the loads. In an embodiment,
the state command includes ON and OFF commands to switch loads in the power
distribution system ON and OFF, respectively.
[0006]      With reference to the example, the user interface is a display with graphical
representations of the loads and multiple buttons adjacent the representations so that
a user can control the caravan or camper trailer loads connected to the controller via
the plurality of channels. Alternatively, the user interface is a touch screen and the
user presses graphical representations of the loads to control them. In another
example, the user interface is further connected to a wireless user interface, such as
a smartphone, which is adapted to wirelessly connect to the user interface or to the

                                              3
controller directly using Bluetooth or any other suitable communication means. In the
examples, the user interface includes graphical representations of the loads in the
form of icons indicative of the loads being controlled. In normal operation mode use,
the processor receives input from the user to control operation of the loads via the
graphical representation of the loads. This input may include controlling a graphical
representation of a master switch to switch more than one of the loads ON and OFF
or a graphical representation of a specific load switch to switch that specific load ON
and OFF.
[0007]       In an embodiment, the system further includes an override circuit
configured to reset the processor when said override switch ON. As mentioned, the
normal operation mode is overridden when the override switch is ON. In an example,
the processor includes an 1/O expander with reset input. The I/O expander is reset
when the override switch is ON which sets the drive pins of the I/O expander
connected to the channels to a high-impedance state. The high impedance state for
the channels disables control of the loads connected to the channels by the user
interface so as to override the normal operation mode.
[0008]       In an embodiment, the system further a plurality of override control
switches adapted to be mounted in the vehicle or the towing vehicle, wherein the
override control switches are adapted to control operation of designated ones of the
loads when said override switch ON via the plurality of channels connected to the
loads, respectively. Preferably, the controller includes the override switch and the
plurality of override control switches, and the controller is mounted in the towed
vehicle. For example, the override switch is a single DIP switch mounted to the
override circuit and the plurality of override control switches are an array of DIP
switches mounted to the override circuit, such as a 2 x 5 pole DIP switches.
[0009]       In an embodiment, each of the channels connected to the loads have a
switching device associated therewith, and the override control switches control
operation of said designated ones of the loads via the switching device, respectively.
For example, the switching device may be solid state MOSFETs or relay switches. In
this way, each of the loads in the power distribution system can be controlled
individually in an override mode by the override control switches.

                                                4
Brief Description of Drawings
[0010]      A preferred embodiment of the present invention will now be described with
reference to the accompanying drawings wherein:
[0011]      Figure 1 is a representation of a power distribution system for controlling
operation of loads of a vehicle or a towed vehicle according to an embodiment of the
present invention; and
[0012]      Figure 2 is a representation of a circuit for providing override capability of a
power distribution system according to an embodiment of the present invention.
Detailed Description
[0013]      Figure 1 shows an embodiment of a power distribution system 10 for
controlling operation of loads of a vehicle such as a recreation vehicle or a towed
vehicle such as a caravan (not shown), with override capability. In the embodiment,
the power distribution system 10 is for a towed vehicle, such as a caravan, and the
loads shown in the Figure include some of the typical caravan accessories of: an
awning light 11, fridge 13 and a water pump 5. Other typical loads of a caravan
include air compressors, cooking facilities, etc., but these are not shown to simplify
the representation.
[0014]      The system 10 includes a user interface 12 adapted to be mounted in the
towed vehicle. In the embodiment, a user interacts with the user interface 12 via user
switches to switch loads of the towed vehicle ON and OFF in normal operation mode.
For example, the user interface 12 displays graphical representations, such as icons,
of the loads adjacent buttons on the user interface 12 that are configured to
implement user switches to control these loads. In the embodiment, the user
interface has six dedicated buttons for controlling six different displayed loads on
page 1. If configured, the user can scroll to a second displayed page of different
loads and control these loads using the six buttons.
[0015]      In addition, or in the alternative, the user interacts with a wireless user
interface 32, which connects to the user interface 12 via Bluetooth or Wi-Fi. In this
embodiment, the wireless user interface 32 is a touch screen (e.g. smartphone) and

                                             5
the user interacts via graphical representations of the loads on the touch screen
display to control operation of the loads in normal operation mode.
[0016]      The power distribution system 10 includes a controller 14 adapted to be
configured to control operation of the loads via a plurality of channels 16 connected to
the loads in normal operation mode. In Figure 1, the controller 14 is mounted in the
towed vehicle and the channels 16 are wired between each of the loads and the
controller 14. Specifically, the awning light 11, fridge 13, and water pump 15 are
shown as being connected via separate channels 16 to the controller 14.
[0017]      The controller 14 further includes a memory 18 adapted to store
configuration instructions to control operation of the loads via the channels 16, and a
processor 20 adapted to determine a state command to control operation of the loads
based on the configuration instructions stored in the memory 18 and dynamic inputs
relating to the loads. These dynamic inputs are received by the processor 20 during
normal operating mode use of the power distribution system 10 from the user
interface 12 and the towing vehicle. The dynamic inputs include in its simplest form
load user switch ON and load user switch OFF. Further dynamic inputs will be
discussed below.
[0018]      The configuration instructions for the power distribution system 10 are first
stored in the memory 18 during installation of the system 10, and are generally
inputted by an installer of the system 10 using a dedicated tool. In another
embodiment, the user can interact with the user interface 12 to input configuration
instructions via menu buttons to store configuration instructions at a later time. The
configuration instructions include: load master switch control information; load user
switch control information; and load override control information for overriding loads
under normal operation mode conditions.
[0019]      To control the loads of the towed vehicle in normal operation mode, the
processor 20 implements software stored on the memory 18 to determine the state
commands for one or more loads and output these state commands to the selected
loads via the respective channels 16. As mentioned, the state commands include ON
and OFF commands to switch the connected loads ON and OFF.

                                             6
[0020]      The channels 16 also connect each of the loads to a power source such as
a battery 24 or a charger 26, and include at least one fuse 22 to protect the connected
load from voltage surges, etc. The controller 14 includes a fuse box containing these
fuses 22 for each of the connected loads, and the power distribution system 10 can
be installed by an installer on multiple makes and models of towed vehicles. For
example, the controller 14 can be installed on a towed vehicle by replacing the
existing fuse box on the towed vehicle.
[0021]      The user interface 12 is also adapted to be configured to implement a
master switch to control operation of selected ones of the loads simultaneously. For
example, the master switch is configured as a button of the user interface that is
configured to switch the awning light 11, fridge 13, and water pump 15 ON and OFF
simultaneously. In this example, the configuration instructions include load master
switch control enabled and load user switch control enabled for the awning light 11,
fridge 13, and water pump 15. The processor 20 receives dynamic inputs in the form
of the master switch ON or OFF, and the processor 20 overrides the previous user
switch determined state commands for the awning light 11, fridge 13, and water pump
15, to switch them all ON or OFF based on the state of the master switch.
[0022]      Also connected to the controller 14 to enable control of the loads are
further channels to receive dynamic inputs in the form of trigger signals from the
towing vehicle ignition 28 and or from any alternate trigger signal 30 such as the
towing vehicle braking signal. These further dynamic inputs are received by the
processor 20 and are processed by the processor 20 to determine the state command
of the loads to implement pre-configured override conditions for normal operation
mode. In this embodiment, the configuration instructions further include load override
control information for normal mode conditions in the form of load override control
enabled and load override control not enabled. These dynamic inputs can then be
tailored to suit the desired setup for the control of the loads. For example, if the
processor 20 receives a dynamic input in the form of vehicle ignition signal ON, the
processor 20 overrides the previous user switch determined state commands for the
awning light 11, fridge 13, and water pump 15, to switch the awning light 11 and the
water pump 15 OFF, but leave the fridge 13 ON based on the stored load override
control information. That is, in this example, the awning light 11 and water pump 15
have load override control enabled and the fridge 13 has load override control not

                                             7
enabled. In another example, the trigger signal includes a dedicated wired switch
such as a physical switch somewhere else in the towed vehicle for an additional point
of control or a towing vehicle reverse light signal (especially if additional reverse lights
are fitted as loads on the towed vehicle).
[0023]      In the embodiment shown in Figure 1, the controller 14 has an override
switch 42 that is adapted to override the normal operation mode when the override
switch 42 is ON. That is, when the override switch 42 is OFF, the controller 14
operates in the normal operation mode described above. And, when the override
switch 42 is ON, the normal operation mode is overridden such that control of the
loads based on the inputs from the user interface 12 is disabled.
[0024]      When the override switch 42 is ON, the controller 14 is in override mode,
and the controller 14 further includes a plurality of override control switches 44 for a
user to control operation of designated ones of the loads via the channels 16,
respectively. These override control switches 44 are each connected to switching
devices 46 (e.g. relay switches or MOSFETs) on each of the channels 16 to control
each of the loads connected thereto.
[0025]      As mentioned, if failure occurs to components of the system 10, normal
operation of the system 10 could be compromised so a user of the system 10 may
wish to manually override the normal operation mode by switching the override switch
42 ON so as to only manually control the loads. To override the normal operation
mode, the controller 14 includes an override circuit 41 configured to reset the
processor 20 when the override switch 42 is ON so that the processor 20 no longer
can communicate with the loads and control the loads based on the inputs from the
user interface 12.
[0026]      Figure 2 shows a circuit 40 for providing this override capability of the
controller 14 of the power distribution system 10, including the override circuit 41
having the override switch 42 and the override control switches 44. In this
embodiment, the override circuit 41 is configured to reset an I/O expander 21
component of the processor 20 when the override switch 42 is ON. The I/O expander
21 has a reset input which is reset when the override switch is ON. The reset of the
1/O expander 21 sets the drive pins of the 1/O expander 21 connected to each of the

                                               8
channels 16 to a high-impedance state. This high impedance state for the channels
16 disables control of the loads by the user interface 12 and thus overrides the normal
operation mode. Further, when the override switch 42 is ON, an LED 48 on the circuit
41 is illuminated so as to indicate to the user that the override switch 42 is ON and
normal operating mode is OFF.
[0027]       The override switch 42 and the override control switches 44 are shown in
the embodiment of Figure 2 as DIP switches in the override circuit 41. The override
switch 42 is a single DIP switch and the override control switches 44 are arranged in
a bank of 2 x 5 pole DIP switches. When the override switch 42 is ON and the normal
operating mode is overridden, a user wishing to then manually operate one of the
loads moves the appropriate one of the DIP switches 44 to the ON position. When
this DIP switch is in the ON position, a signal is sent to the connected switching
device 46 via the connected channel 16 and the load is switched ON.
[0028]       In an example of the system 10 in use, if one of the components, such as
the fridge 13, has failed, the user may wish for the fridge 13 to remain OFF and not to
be inadvertently turned ON via the user interface 12 but still wish to control other
loads. Here, the user can put the override switch 42 ON and disable normal
operation mode using the user interface 12. The controller 14 will now only accept
input from the override control switches 44 to control the loads, such as turning ON
the awning light 11 by moving the appropriate one of the DIP switches 44 to the ON
position. This action sends a signal to the switching device 46 to switch the awning
light 11 ON. In another example, the user interface 12 has failed and has "stuck on"
some of the loads, such as the water pump 15 and the awning light 11. Here, the
user can again put the override switch 42 ON and disable normal operation mode
using the user interface 12. The user can then manually control these loads using the
appropriate override control switches 44 in the same manner.
[0029]       A reference herein to a patent document or other matter which is given as
prior art is not to be taken as an admission that that document or matter was known
or that the information it contains was part of the common general knowledge as at
the priority date of any of the disclosure or claims herein. Such discussion of prior art
in this specification is included to explain the context of the present invention in terms
of the inventor's knowledge and experience.

                                             9
[0030]     Finally, it is to be understood that various alterations, modifications and/or
additions may be introduced into the constructions and arrangements of parts
previously described without departing from the ambit of the invention.

                                            10
Claims
1.      A power distribution system for controlling operation of loads of a vehicle or a
towed vehicle, the system including:
        a user interface adapted to be mounted in the vehicle or the towed vehicle and
adapted to be configured to control operation of a designated one of the loads under
normal operation mode;
        a controller adapted to be mounted in the vehicle or the towed vehicle and
adapted to be configured to control operation of the loads via a plurality of channels
connected to the loads, respectively, wherein the controller includes a processor
adapted to receive inputs from the user interface under normal operation mode; and
        an override switch adapted to be mounted in the vehicle or the towed vehicle
and adapted to override the normal operation mode so as to disable control of the
loads based on the inputs from the user interface when said override switch ON.
2.      A power distribution system as claimed in claim 1, further including an override
circuit configured to reset the processor when said override switch ON
3.      A power distribution system as claimed in claim 1 or 2, further including a
plurality of override control switches adapted to be mounted in the vehicle or the
towing vehicle, wherein the override control switches are adapted to control operation
of designated ones of the loads when said override switch ON via the plurality of
channels connected to the loads, respectively.
4.      A power distribution system as claimed in claim 3, wherein each of the
channels connected to the loads have a switching device associated therewith, and
the override control switches control operation of said designated ones of the loads
via the switching device, respectively.
5.      A power distribution system as claimed in claim 3 or 4, wherein the controller
includes the override switch and the plurality of override control switches.

              10                                                            44
                              Memory    Processor   46
                                                    22    46         46
                        14        18           20          22          22
                                                         42
                                                    16    16          16
         32
                                               11
                                                                                      Figure 1
                                  28
1/2                                                                  15
                                   30
                   12
                                                                                 24
                                          13
                                                                26
      <removed-date>            <removed-apn>

                             2/2
<removed-date>
                   40
                        21
<removed-apn>
              48
                                             41
                                   42
                                        44
                                        44
                        Figure 2

