ABSTRACT
A device that converts wave energy to electrical or chemical energy includes a buoy adapted
to float on a water surface, a venturi tube, and a rigid or flexible means of connecting the buoy
and the venturi tube. The venturi tube defines a lumen through which water flows downwardly
when the buoy moves upwardly and upwardly when the buoy moves downwardly. A
constriction is formed in the lumen to create a venturi effect for water flowing upwardly and
downwardly through the lumen. A turbine is positioned in the lumen at the constriction where
water flow is at a maximum rate. The turbine is connected to a generator so that the venturi
effect is harnessed to generate power. Multiple embodiments are included.

                                                - 1
WAVE ENERGY CONVERSION APPARATUS
BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
1. Field of the Invention
[0001]      This invention relates, generally, to wave energy conversion devices that convert
abundant natural energy present in oceans and other bodies of water into electrical or
chemical energy such as the creation of hydrogen from water through electrolysis.
2. Description of the Prior Art
[0002]     Any discussion of the prior art throughout the specification should in no way be
considered as an admission that such prior art is widely known or forms part of common
general knowledge in the field.
[0003]     Water turbines have been used to extract useful energy from moving water, or water
under pressure, for thousands of years. Many different types of water turbines have been
invented and used in the past to extract energy from water under a variety of circumstances,
and characterized by a variety of characteristics, with optimal efficiencies, e.g., Francis
turbines, Pelton turbines, Kaplan turbines, etc.
[0004]     The design of water turbines is a mature discipline. Most modern turbines convert
the kinetic or potential energy of water into rotary motion which can be used to create
electricity with efficiencies that exceed 90%. It is relatively easy to find an existing water
turbine design that will optimally harvest the kinetic or potential energy available in almost any
river or dam.
[0005]      However, attempts to extract energy from waves moving across the surface of an
ocean or sea are relatively new. Some designs have been proposed in the literature, and
described in prior patents. Most are constrained to use in relatively shallow ocean waters
where they may be anchored in some manner to the ocean floor. Very few are capable of
operating in the deepest parts of the ocean, without benefit of a direct connection to the ocean
floor.
[0006]      Over the years, many devices designed to convert the kinetic and potential energy of
ocean waves into electricity, or some other usable form of energy, have been built, patented
and proposed. There are many good reasons to engage in such research and development
efforts. Ocean waves represent a renewable energy source whose harvesting would not

                                                 -2
degrade the environment and ecology of the earth. Ocean waves also represent a very
concentrated energy source, offering the potential for the harvesting of large amounts of
energy from relatively small devices.
[0007]     There are many potential benefits to developing and using such devices. Replacing
the burning of fossil fuels with renewable sources of energy will reduce levels of C02 entering
the atmosphere, and it will reduce the levels of other pollutants in the air such as various sulfur
compounds, nitrogen compounds, particulates, etc. Fossil fuels will eventually be exhausted
but renewable sources of energy will never be exhausted.
[0008]     Waves traversing the surface of the ocean represent a repository of a large fraction
of the total energy imparted to the earth by the sun. The sun heats the land and the seas and
much of this heat energy passes into the atmosphere. Differential heating of the atmosphere
across the surface of the earth, in conjunction with the rotation of the earth, causes the
atmosphere to move across the surface of the Earth, sometimes at relatively high speeds.
[0009]     When the atmosphere moves over the surface of the earth's lakes and oceans, it
imparts some of its kinetic energy to the waters at the surface of those lakes and oceans,
thereby creating waves on the surfaces of said bodies of water. The amplitude of those waves
increases as long as the wind blows parallel to the directions in which the waves are
propagating. The uninterrupted distance over which the wind blows in a direction parallel to a
wave's propagation, imparting increasing amounts of energy to that wave, is called the "fetch"
of the wave.
[0010]     Typical ocean wind waves range from three-tenths of a meter (0.3 m) to five meters
(5.0 m) in height. At higher latitudes, ten meter (10.0 m) waves are not uncommon.
[0011]     The prior art includes a type of wave-energy device capable of operating without an
anchor. It includes a unidirectional or bi-directional propeller suspended from a buoy by a shaft
or cable. As the buoy moves up and down in response to passing waves, the propeller is
moved up and down through the relatively still waters below the surface. This motion of the
propeller through relatively still waters compels the propeller to spin. The propeller spins in a
constant direction if the propeller is bi-directional but its direction of rotation reverses if the
propeller is unidirectional. Such a device does not generate much power.

                                                  -3
[0012]      Even though the force driving the water back and forth through a suspended turbine
would be great, the speed of the water's movement is relatively slow. When driven by waves
with a height of 5 meters and a period of 8 seconds, the maximum speed of a suspended
turbine relative to the water would be two meters per second (2 m/s). At this speed, it would be
difficult to extract a significant amount of energy from the flowing water with a simple turbine
because the amount of power that can be extracted from a flowing stream of water by a turbine
is proportional to the cube of its velocity. In other words,
Power= k A V3
[0013]      Where "k" is a constant dependent upon the efficiency of a particular turbine's design
and implementation, "A" is the cross-sectional area of the stream of water from which power is
extracted, and "v" is the velocity of the water.
[0014]      Since ocean waves rise and fall with a relatively slow speed (the maximum of which
is generally only one or two meters per second), it is difficult to extract much energy from the
water constrained to flow through a propeller.
[0015]      However, if the speed of the water constrained to flow through a propeller could be
increased, then the power that could be extracted could be increased exponentially. For
example, if the speed of the water flowing through the propeller could be increased from a
maximum of two (2) to eight (8) meters per second (i.e., a four-fold increase in the water's
speed), then the amount of power which could be extracted from the flowing water would
increase by a factor of 4 x 4 x 4 = 64, i.e., by a factor of four (4) cubed. The power generated
by the turbine could be increased by a factor of 64 by quadrupling the speed of water
therethrough.
[0016]      The following comments about the attributes of surface water waves pertain to those
water waves classified as "deep water waves." Deep water waves move across the surface of
a body of water whose depth equals or exceeds one-half of the wavelength of the waves.
Furthermore, the following discussion pertains primarily to those deep-water waves classified
as "swells." Swells are water waves having wavelengths varying from about forty (40) to four
hundred (400) meters.

                                                -4
[0017]     The "wavelength" of a deep-water wave is the distance over which the waveform
repeats itself, i.e., from wave crest to wave crest. The height to which the wave crest is raised
above the corresponding wave trough is the wave height.
[0018]     Water molecules and other particles contributing to the propagation of deep-water
waves have circular as distinguished from elliptical orbits. The radii of the orbits decrease
exponentially with increasing depth. The radii become vanishingly small as the depth
approaches one-half the wavelength of the waves. This special depth is called the "wave
base." A deep-water wave does not move the water located below the wave base to any
significant degree. The water below this depth and any objects floating in it are substantially
stationary, even as waves move across the surface overhead.
[0019]     The depth that defines the wave base for any particular wave or set of waves
depends on the wavelength of that wave or set of waves. Waves with longer wavelengths
affect the motions of water molecules at greater depths than waves with shorter wavelengths.
[0020]     The motion of deep water waves is described by:
ax(x,y,t) = rekysin(Ot-kx)+x
ay(x,y,t) = rekycos(Ot-kx)
[0021]      Notice that in this model every water particle moves in a circular motion. The circle is
centered at the water's resting position and has radius of re^ where r is the amplitude of the
surface wave and -y is the depth below the surface. The radii of these circles decrease
exponentially as the depth increases. Thus, even in stormy seas the water below the surface
will be quite still.
[0022]     The power generated by flowing water varies with the cube of the water's speed. The
following excerpt explains this:
[0023]     The instantaneous power density of a flowing incident on an underwater turbine is
given by the following equation:
    P                    aI  p
   .A;i       -       (watts per square meter)

                                               -5
where A is the cross-sectional area of flow intercepted by the device, i.e., the area swept by
the turbine rotor (in square meters), D is the water density in kilograms per cubic meter (1.0
kg/m 3 for freshwater and 1.025 kg/m 3 for seawater), and U is the current speed in meters per
second. For tidal currents, U varies with time in a predictable manner as described previously,
and also depends on depth beneath the water surface and position in the channel, as will be
described later.
[0024]     Power density varies with the cube of current velocity. Accordingly, it increases
rapidly with current speed as shown in the graph of FIG. 23 which shows incident power
density as a function of current speed:
        "EPRI: REV 3: Methodology for Estimating Tidal Current Energy Resources and Power
        Production by Tidal In-Stream Energy Conversion (TISEC) Devices"
        Project: EPRI North American Tidal In Stream Power Feasibility Demonstration Project
        Phase: 1 - Project Definition Study
        Report: EPRI - TP - 001 NA Rev 3
        Authors: George Hagerman and Brian Polagye
        Coauthors: Roger Bedard and Mirko Previsic
        Date: September 29, 2006
        see page 8 (11th page in PDF file):
        http://www.epri.com/oceanenerqv/attachments/streamenerqy/reports/TP-      001  REV 3
        BP 091306.pdf
[0025]     Deep-water waves move the water, and any objects floating in it, in circular orbits.
However, the radii of those orbits decrease to zero as the depth of the water reaches and
exceeds the "wave base." In other words, deep water waves do not significantly affect the
location or movement of the water located at depths exceeding the wave base.
[0026]     This means that when deep-water waves move across the surface of a body of
water, those waves create a relative motion between the water at the surface of the body of
water; and the water which is at least as deep as the wave base. While the water at the
surface is moving in relatively large circular orbits in response to the passage of surface
waves, the water below the wave base is not moving at all.
[0027]     The two primary embodiments of this invention, i.e., the venturi-pinwheel and sea
anchor turbines, exploit this differential movement between the waters at the surface, and in
the depths, which is induced by the passage of deep-water waves across the surface of a body
of water. This has advantages over other known ocean-stimulated energy systems.

                                                 -6
[0028]      The known tidal flow turbines are large, complex and expensive. Their deployment is
difficult. Moreover, large deployments are not possible, i.e., there are a limited number of
locations where these devices can operate. They do not generate energy continuously
because their energy source is available only during high tide or when tides are changing.
[0029]      Wave-energy devices located on the shore derive their energy from breaking waves.
[0030]      However, they are aesthetically undesirable and they occupy valuable waterfront real
estate. Large deployments are not possible because there are a limited number of locations
where these devices can operate. They tend to have a negative impact on the shoreline
ecosystem and they do not generate energy continuously.
[0031]      Wave-energy devices that operate near a shore in relatively shallow water tend to be
complex, high-maintenance and expensive. These devices are also aesthetically undesirable
as they are usually visible from the shore. They can also disrupt local shipping. There are a
limited number of locations where these devices can operate, and large deployments are not
practical.
[0032]      Wave-energy devices that operate off shore in relatively deep waters and are
anchored or rest upon the ocean floor are complex, expensive to build and expensive to
maintain. Prior art wave-energy devices that float in the sea are also complex, expensive to
build, and expensive to maintain.
[0033]      The devices disclosed herein are relatively simple, inexpensive to build and
maintain, and capable of producing large amounts of energy.
[0034]      "The venturi effect is an example of Bernoulli's principle, in the case of fluid flow
through a tube or pipe with a constriction in it. The fluid velocity must increase through the
constriction to satisfy the equation of continuity... " http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Venturieffect
[0035]      The continuity equation states that the fluid "mass flow rate" -     the amount of fluid
traveling through a tube per unit time   -  must be the same at any cross section of the tube or
else there is an accumulation of mass     -  "mass creation" -     and the steady flow assumption is
violated.
[0036]      Simply stated:

                                                -7
         (Mass rate)i = (Mass rate)2
         Where
         Mass rate = Density x Area x Velocity This equation reduces to
         p1AV   1 = p2 A 2 V 2
         Since the fluid is assumed to be incompressible, p is a constant and equation [00050]
         reduces to A1V1 = A2V2
[0037]      This is the simple continuity equation for inviscid, incompressible, steady, one
dimensional flow with no leaks. If a flow is viscous, the statement is still valid as long as
average values of V1 and V2 across the cross section are used.
[0038]      By rearranging equation [00052], the following is obtained:
         V2  = (A1/A2 )V1
         http://www.centennialofflight.gov/essay/Theories-ofFlight/Conservation/TH8.htm
[0039]      Venturi tubes increase the speed of water by converting some of its "pressure"
energy into directed kinetic energy. The magnitude by which the speed of water moving
through a venturi tube is increased is equal to the magnitude by which the cross-sectional area
of the channel through which the water must flow is decreased. For example, if the narrow,
middle-portion of a venturi tube's channel (i.e. the "throat" of the venturi tube) has a cross
sectional area of only one-fourth that of the venturi tube's inlet, or "mouth," then the speed of
the water flowing through the throat will be four (4) times greater than the speed of the water
entering the venturi tube. The cross-sectional area of a circular channel is proportional to the
square of its diameter. Accordingly, to increase the speed of the water flowing through the
throat of a venturi tube, as compared to the speed of the water entering the tube, by a factor of
four; it is only necessary to create a venturi tube with a throat possessing a channel diameter
of one-half the diameter of the mouth of the venturi tube.
SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
[0040]      The long-standing but heretofore unfulfilled need for an improved device for
harnessing the energy of waves is now met by a new, useful, and non-obvious invention. The
preferred embodiment of this invention is intended to operate while floating in the deep sea.

                                                  -8
[0041]      Unlike wave-energy devices that extract energy from tidal currents or changes in sea
level, and those that operate on the shoreline, or in the shallower waters near shore, deep-sea
wave-energy devices may be deployed on a massive scale because so much of the earth's
surface is covered by the deep sea. This is an important advantage for any alternative energy
device that hopes to significantly reduce the world's reliance on fossil fuels. Unlike the deep
sea wave-energy devices of prior art, this invention is highly efficient, simple, low-maintenance
and inexpensive.
[0042]      One embodiment provides a wave energy conversion apparatus, comprising: a
flotation device adapted to float on a surface of a body of water; the flotation device being
selected from the group consisting of ship, boat and buoy; a Venturi              tube having a water
channel including an upper mouth, a lower mouth and a constricted region between the upper
and lower mouths; at least one flexible connector operatively connecting the Venturi tube to
the flotation device such that when the apparatus is in position in the body of water, the Venturi
tube is positioned below the flotation device and a distance below the surface of the body of
water, and water flows downwardly in the channel and through the constricted region when the
apparatus moves upwardly by wave action in the body of water and water flows upwardly in
the channel and through the constricted region when the apparatus moves downwardly by
wave action in the body of water; the at least one flexible connector allowing a longitudinal axis
of the Venturi tube to move relative to a longitudinal axis of the flotation device; a turbine in
the channel and driven by water flowing in the channel; a generator to which the turbine is
operatively connected and configured such that when the apparatus is in position in the body
of water, the generator is positioned below the flotation device and a distance below the
surface of the body of water; and the Venturi tube being connected directly to the at least one
flexible connector.
[0043]      One embodiment provides a wave energy conversion apparatus, comprising: a
flotation device adapted to float on a surface of a body of water; the flotation device being
selected from the group consisting of ship, boat and buoy; a power assembly including: (1) a
Venturi tube having a water channel including an upper mouth, a lower mouth and a
constricted region between the upper and lower mouths; (2) a turbine in the channel and
driven by water flowing in the channel; and (3) a generator operatively connected to the turbine
and connected to the Venturi tube; at least one flexible connector connecting the power
assembly to the flotation device such that: (a) a longitudinal axis of the Venturi tube can move
relative to a longitudinal axis of the flotation device; (b) a rotational axis of the generator can
move relative to a longitudinal axis of the flotation device; and (c) when the apparatus is in

                                                 -9
position in the body of water, the power assembly is positioned below the flotation device and
a distance below the surface of the body of water, and water flows downwardly in the channel
and through the constricted region when the apparatus moves upwardly by wave action in the
body of water and water flows upwardly in the channel and through the constricted region
when the apparatus moves downwardly by wave action in the body of water; the generator,
when the apparatus is in position in the body of water, is configured to be positioned below the
flotation device and a distance below the surface of the body of water; and the Venturi tube
being connected directly to the at least one flexible connector.
[0044]     Various embodiments provide full advantages found within the full family of wave
energy devices, while possessing none of the limitations. These and other important objects,
advantages, and features of the invention will become clear as this description proceeds.
[0045]     The invention, at least in some embodiments, accordingly comprises the features of
construction, combination of elements, and arrangement of parts that will be exemplified in the
description set forth hereinafter and the scope of the invention will be indicated in the claims.
[0046]     It is an object of the present invention to overcome or ameliorate at least one of the
disadvantages of the prior art, or to provide a useful alternative.
[0047]     Unless the context clearly requires otherwise, throughout the description and the
claims, the words "comprise", "comprising", and the like are to be construed in an inclusive
sense as opposed to an exclusive or exhaustive sense; that is to say, in the sense of
"including, but not limited to".
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0048]     For a fuller understanding of the nature and objects of the invention, reference
should be made to the following detailed description, taken in connection with the
accompanying drawings, in which:
[0049]     FIG. 1 is an illustration of the natural phenomenon by which the circular motions of
water molecules characteristic of surface water waves quickly and exponentially diminish in
diameter with increasing depth;
[0050]     FIG. 2A diagrammatically depicts a prior art wave-energy device that exploits the
diminution of wave motion with depth;

                                                 -10
[0051]      FIG. 2B diagrammatically depicts a prior art propeller that rotates responsive to a
rising column of water;
[0052]      FIG. 2C is a diagram depicting a venturi turbine that forms a part of the preferred
embodiment of this invention;
[0053]      FIG. 3 diagrammatically depicts in side elevation a turbine design suitable for use in
a venturi pinwheel wave energy device that converts energy in a bi-directional, oscillating
vertical flow of water into a uni-directional rotational energy within the turbine's axle;
[0054]      FIG. 4 is a side elevational illustration of the movement of a venturi pinwheel wave
energy device in response to a passing wave;
[0055]      FIG. 5A is a side elevational diagram depicting motion of the novel venturi-pinwheel
turbine through its surrounding waters;
[0056]      FIG. 5B is a side elevational diagram depicting the equivalent relative motion of
water through the novel venturi-pinwheel turbine;
[0057]      FIG. 6A is a side elevational view of one embodiment of the venturi pinwheel wave
energy device;
[0058]      FIG. 6B is a longitudinal sectional view of the embodiment of FIG. 6A;
[0059]      FIG. 7A is a side elevational view of the preferred embodiment of the venturi
pinwheel wave energy device having an elongated turbine housing;
[0060]      FIG. 7B is a longitudinal sectional view of the structure depicted in FIG. 7A;
[0061]      FIG. 7C is a side elevational view of the preferred embodiment of the venturi wave
energy device;
[0062]      FIG. 7D is a longitudinal sectional view of the embodiment of FIG. 7C;
[0063]      FIG. 8A is a side elevational view of a third embodiment of the novel venturi
pinwheel wave energy device illustrating the use of optional "swirl" and "counter-rotation"
inducing members;

                                                - 11
[0064]     FIG. 8B is a longitudinal sectional view of the embodiment of FIG. 8A;
[0065]     FIG. 9 is a side elevational diagrammatic depiction of a fourth embodiment that
includes movable vanes positioned upstream and downstream of a central turbine having bi
directional blades;
[0066]     FIG. 10 is a side elevational diagrammatic depiction of a fifth embodiment of the
novel venturi pinwheel wave energy device having a turbine that rotates about an axis
perpendicular to the flow of water through the venturi turbine;
[0067]     FIG. 11 is a perspective view of the embodiment of FIG. 10, but with said
embodiment modified to have a rectangular housing;
[0068]     FIG. 12 is a plan view of the embodiment of FIG. 11;
[0069]     FIG. 13 is a side elevational diagrammatic depiction of a portable embodiment of the
invention;
[0070]     FIG. 14 is a side elevational diagrammatic depiction of the embodiment of FIG. 13
when stored in a canister;
[0071]     FIG. 15 is a side elevational diagrammatic depiction of the embodiment of FIGs. 13
and 14 when in use to provide power to a small buoy;
[0072]     FIG. 16A is a perspective view of another embodiment of the novel venturi turbine;
[0073]     FIG. 16B is a sectional view taken along line 16B-16B in FIG. 16A;
[0074]     FIG. 17A is a side elevational diagrammatic depiction of water flowing in a first
direction relative to the water wheel of FIGs. 16A and 16B;
[0075]     FIG. 17B is a side elevational diagrammatic depiction of water flowing in a second
direction relative to the water wheel of FIGs. 16A and 16B;
[0076]     FIG. 18 depicts another turbine design suitable for use in a venturi wave energy
device;

                                                - 12
[0077]     FIG. 19 depicts the movement of a sea-anchor wave energy device in response to a
passing wave. Note the minimal vertical motion of the underwater platform, and the relatively
great vertical motion of the cable (connecting the float to the counterweight) through the
platform (thus rotating the capstan attached to the platform).
[0078]     Fig. 20 is a perspective view of a sea-anchor wave energy conversion device;
[0079]     FIG. 21 is an enlarged view of the sea-anchor disk and attached capstan of the sea
anchor wave energy device illustrated in FIG. 20; and
[0080]     FIG. 22 is a perspective view of the preferred embodiment of the sea-anchor wave
energy conversion device.
[0081]     FIG. 23 is a graph showing the relationship of incident power density as a function of
current speed.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENT
[0082]     FIG. 1 illustrates properties of deep-water swells that are particularly relevant to the
invention disclosed herein. The wavelength 10 of a deep-water wave is the distance over
which the waveform repeats itself, i.e., from wave crest to wave crest. The height to which the
wave crest is raised above the corresponding wave troughs is the wave height or amplitude
and is denoted 12.
[0083]     Water molecules and other particles contributing to the propagation of deep-water
waves have circular, as distinguished from elliptical, orbits 14. The radii of such orbits
decrease exponentially with increasing depth as indicated by the reference numeral 16. The
radii become vanishingly small as the depth approaches one-half the wavelength of the waves.
This special depth is called the wave base 18. A deep-water wave does not move the water
located below the wave base to any significant degree. The water below this depth, and any
objects floating in it are substantially stationary even when waves move across the surface.
Waves, of course, do not really move across the surface of water; individual molecules of
water are lifted momentarily by a pulse of energy and such individual molecules fall as soon as
the energy passes. The result is an apparent traveling of a wave across a surface. A first
embodiment of this invention is a venturi-pinwheel turbine.

                                                -13
[0084]      A pinwheel is a child's toy including a wind-rotatable propeller mounted on a stick.
Relative motion between the propeller and ambient air effects rotation of the propeller about its
axis of rotation. Thus, a child can effect rotation by moving the propeller if the wind is not
blowing, or by holding the stick still and causing the propeller to face the wind if the wind is
blowing. Likewise, the venturi-pinwheel turbine incorporates a water turbine that is moved up
and down through a body of stationary water or which remains stationary while water is
displaced relative to it.
[0085]      One novel aspect of this invention is that it uses a venturi tube, or similar device, to
amplify the speed of water which may be induced to travel through a turbine suspended
beneath the ocean surface from a buoy. Another novel aspect of this invention is that it can
use either a solid (rigid) or a flexible means to suspend the venturi tube, or similar device, from
the buoy. FIG. 2A depicts a prior art wave-energy device intended to exploit the diminution of
wave motion with depth. It includes propeller blades 20 mounted to a hub 22. Shaft 24
interconnects hub 22 to buoy 26 that houses a turbine and generator, not depicted. The turbine
rotates conjointly with shaft 24. As buoy 26 floats on the surface 28 of a body of water, the
rising and falling of the buoy causes propeller blades 20 and hence shaft 24, the turbine, and
the generator to rotate, thereby generating electricity.
[0086]      FIG. 2B depicts a simple suspended propeller 20 such as the type depicted in FIG.
2A, i.e., the type disclosed in some prior art wave-energy conversion devices. Propeller 20 has
diameter D and encounters a flow of water having velocity V. Some of the kinetic energy of the
water is transformed into rotational kinetic energy P exerted by propeller shaft 24.
[0087]      FIG. 2C depicts a novel wave-energy conversion structure 30 that forms a part of the
preferred embodiment of this invention. Constrictions 30a, 30b reduce the diameter D of lumen
31 of venturi tube 30 to a smaller diameter D2. In this embodiment, the prior art propeller
system of FIG. 2B is deployed in venturi tube 30 where the constriction is greatest and where
the velocity of the water flowing therethrough is highest. The primary disclosure of this
invention is the harnessing of the venturi effect to substantially increase the efficiency of a
wave energy device; the type of propeller/turbine placed in the constriction is not critical to the
invention. The velocity of water at arrow V is substantially less than the velocity of the water at
arrow V2. The prior art includes no disclosure of a propeller/turbine positioned in the
constricted part of a venturi tube.

                                                  - 14
[0088]      Prior art turbine 32 of FIG. 3 enables the energy in a bi-directional and oscillating
vertical flow of water to be converted into a uni-directional rotational energy within axle 34. This
type of bidirectional turbine is suitable for use within a venturi-pinwheel wave-energy device.
FIG. 3 illustrates how a change in direction of water flow through the blades of the propeller
does not result in a change in rotation direction of the shaft attached to such blades. The
direction of the turbine's rotation remains the same whether the water flows from top-to-bottom,
or from bottom-to-top.
[0089]      More particularly, as indicated by directional arrows 36a, 36b, axle 34 rotates in the
same direction independently of the direction of flow of water therethrough as indicated by
confronting arrows 38a, 38b. Note that blades 35a at the top of the turbine are angled for
maximum rotation caused by water flowing downwardly, blades 35b at the bottom are angled
for maximum rotation caused by water flowing upwardly, that blades 35c in the middle are
angled for flow in either direction, and that the intermediate top and bottom blades 35d, 35e,
respectively, are not as steeply angled as the top and bottom blades.
[0090]      Instead of a simple propeller of diameter D, a propeller of smaller diameter D2 may
be used in a venturi tube having an inlet of the same diameter. The constricted throat of the
venturi tube causes water flowing therethrough at speed V to be accelerated to speed V2. If
the venturi tube illustrated in FIG. 2C were part of a closed water circuit, i.e. if each end of the
venturi tube in FIG. 2C were attached to a pipe such that the water in the pipe were compelled
to flow through the venturi tube and could not flow around it, then V2 would equal the following:
            V2 = [(DD2/4)/(DD22/4)] V = (D2/D22) V
[0091]      However, since the venturi tube in FIG. 2C does permit water to flow around it, as
well as through it, V2 equals the following:
        V2 = f(V) [(DD 2 /4)/(DD22 /4)] V = f(V) (D2/D22) V
[0092]      where "f(V)" is a characteristic function of the venturi tube.
[0093]      The power generated by the propeller within the venturi tube depicted in FIG. 2C is
equal to the following:
         Power (P2) = h A2 (f(V) V2) 3 = h (D D22/4) [f(V) (D2 / D22 ) V] 3 = f(V) 3 h (D D6)/(4 D24 ) V 3
[0094]      The power generated by the simple propeller depicted in FIG. 2B is determined as
follows:

                                                 -15
         Power (P) = k A2 V 3 = k (D D2/4) V 3 = k (D D2 /4) V 3
[0095]     The increase in power obtained by using a venturi tube to accelerate the water
flowing through the propeller, i.e., the ratio of P2 to P, is determined as follows:
         P2/P = Power (P2) = f(V) 3 h (D D6)/(4 D24) V 3
                Power (P) = k (D D2/4) V 3
[0096]     Assuming that the efficiencies of the two turbines "k" and "h" are roughly equal, then
these factors cancel each other out, and:
         P2/P = 0.125 D4/D24
[0097]     Assuming, for example, that D = 2 meters, D2 = 1/2 meter, and f(V) = 0.5, a venturi
tube/turbine hybrid generates 0.125 (24 / 0.54) = 32 times as much power as a simple propeller
if both are moved through water at the same speed.
[0098]     Where the difference in propeller diameter is even greater, such as D = 2 meters,
and D2 = 1/4 meter, then the power extracted from the water by the venturi tube hybrid method
is 0.125 (24/0.254) = 512 times as great as that extracted by the simple propeller.
[0099]     The venturi tube can be made out of low-cost materials such as concrete. The
expensive, machined component, i.e., the propeller/turbine assembly, is much smaller in the
venturi tube/hybrid design than in prior art inventions, such as that depicted in FIG. 2A.
Therefore, as well as extracting much more power from the waves, the venturi-pinwheel wave
energy device is much less expensive to manufacture than the devices of the prior art.
[00100]    As used herein, the limitation "venturi tube" includes the use of any shell, tube
surface, or other means, or combination thereof, that has the effect of increasing the rate at
which water flows through a turbine, after having first been induced to flow by means of a
motion coupled to the rising and falling of waves that are moving across the surface of a body
of water in proximity to the venturi tube.
[00101]    Any type of hydroelectric turbine adapted to operate efficiently in a river or stream
could be adapted to operate efficiently within the lumen of the novel venturi tube.
[00102]    If a uni-directional propeller/turbine is employed, it will oscillate, i.e., change
direction, in response to the changes in direction of the water flowing through the venturi tube.
Such an oscillating rotation of a long shaft or cable results in large losses of energy due to

                                                -16
internal twisting and spring actions within the shaft or cable. Accordingly, when a uni
directional propeller is employed, it is advantageous to convert the rotations of such a propeller
into electrical energy in close proximity to the propeller/turbine, perhaps within or near the
venturi tube itself.
[00103]    If a bi-directional propeller/turbine is employed, it will rotate in the same direction
even as the water flow changes direction within the lumen of the venturi tube. This facilitates
the transfer of such rotational motion from the turbine to the buoy above. Due to the corrosive
nature of sea water, and the desirability of reduced maintenance, it is beneficial to transmit the
rotational kinetic energy produced by such a bi-directional turbine to the buoy, where it can be
converted to electrical power by a generator protected from sea water.
[00104]    FIG. 4 illustrates the principle by which the preferred embodiment of this invention
translates the circular up-and-down motion characteristic of deep-water waves traveling across
the surface of a body of water into a corresponding up-and-down motion of a venturi
pinwheel's underwater turbine, i.e., the venturi tube located far below the surface.
[00105]    Buoyant flotation module or buoy 26 follows a circular up-and-down orbit 14 at the
surface 28 of a body of water in response to the passage of deep-water waves across said
surface. Buoy 26 constrains venturi tube 30 suspended beneath it by solid (rigid) struts,
cables, or some other form of attachment, 25 to duplicate its vertical motion. A weight, not
shown, may be suspended beneath each venturi tube 30 by solid (rigid) struts, cables, or by
some other means, if the weight of the venturi tube is not adequate to restore it sufficiently
quickly to its original depth. Said optional weight facilitates the downward, restorative
movements of the venturi tube.
[00106]    In the preferred embodiment, the up-and-down movements of each venturi tube 30
occurs at a depth where the water is relatively unaffected by the waves that move across the
surface of the water, i.e., near or below wave base 18, and is therefore relatively motionless.
The tube's up-and-down motion through the relatively still water near or below the wave base
is equivalent to the tube being suspended at a stationary position within a stream of water
having a reciprocating direction of flow.
[00107]    The extent 40 of the venturi tube's vertical oscillation relative to the still water that
surrounds it is equal to the height 12 of the deep-water waves responsible for the motion of

                                                -17
flotation module 26, less the magnitude of any residual wave motion should the tube's
minimum depth not equal or exceed wave base 18.
[00108]    If the depth of venturi tube 30 beneath buoy 26 does not reach or exceed the depth
defined as wave base 18, then the venturi tube will still experience a net relative vertical
movement in relation to its surrounding water as it is displaced up and down by buoy 26.
[00109]    The water molecules at the surface of the water follow circular orbits whose radii are
equal to the full amplitude of the deep-water waves moving them. The circular orbits induced
by the wave in the water molecules located below the surface become progressively and
exponentially smaller as the depth increases. Therefore, regardless of the depth at which the
venturi tube is suspended, as long as it is suspended below the surface, the circular orbit
through which it is dragged by flotation module 26 will be greater than the circular orbits of the
water molecules surrounding said venturi tube.
[00110]    Because the radius of the venturi tube's elliptical orbit always exceeds the radii of the
circular orbits of the water molecules surrounding it, there is a net relative up-and-down motion
between the venturi tube and its surrounding water. The magnitude of the relative up-and
down motion of the venturi tube with respect to its surrounding waters is greatest when the
venturi tube is suspended below wave base 18, where the surrounding water is still. At such
depth, the magnitude of the venturi tube's relative up-and-down motion is equal to the full
height of the surface waves. Such magnitude is non-zero and non-trivial at any depth
representing a non-trivial portion of the distance from the surface to the wave base. This is true
because the radii of the circular orbits of the water molecules below the surface decrease
exponentially, not linearly, with increasing depth.
[00111]    See http://hyperphysics.phy-astr.gsu.edu/hbase/waves/watwav2.html
[00112]    See             also            "deep             water             waves"              at
http://users.dickinson.edu/-richesod/waves/applets.htm. Novel flotation module 26, like any
buoy, ship or other floating object, rises and falls on the passing waves. The rising flotation
module pulls the attached venturi tube with it. As the flotation module or buoy falls along the
trailing edge of a wave that is passing, the attached venturi tube is no longer supported. Thus it
sinks under the influence of gravity due to its mass and the mass of any attached
supplemental weight.

                                                 -18
[00113]     Surface waves are associated with cycles of circular motions on the part of water
molecules at the surface. At the surface, the radii of these circular motions are equal to the
amplitude of the surface waves themselves. However, at increasing depths, the radii of the
circular motions that characterize the movements of the water molecules quickly, and
exponentially, diminish.
[00114]     The amplitude of the tube's vertical movements matches the amplitude of the
flotation module driving those movements. However, because the venturi tube's depth places it
in the midst of water which is either not matching the circular movements characteristic of the
waters above, or is matching those movements but at a greatly reduced scale, the tube's
movements do not match those of the water molecules surrounding it. Thus, as depicted in
FIG. 5A, with respect to the relatively stationary water below the surface, venturi tube 30 is
pulled and dropped through said water. As depicted in FIG. 5B, relative to tube 30, the water
surrounding said tube rises and falls through the tube. To move up and down, water must flow
through the lumen of the venturi tube.
[00115]     In the preferred embodiment of this invention, a kinetic turbine/propeller is positioned
within the narrowest part of the venturi tube, as mentioned above in connection with FIG. 2C. It
uses the reciprocating water motion to turn the turbine rotor. Any kind of water-operated
turbine can be used within the scope of this invention.
[00116]     The rotational mechanical energy generated by the turbine is, in the preferred
embodiment of this invention, transmitted to buoy 26 where a generator or alternator converts
it to useful electrical energy.
[00117]     FIGs. 6A and 6B illustrate one embodiment of this invention. FIG. 6B is a cross
sectional view of the venturi pinwheel turbine assembly. The lumen of venturi tube 30 is
denoted 31 as aforesaid. The outer wall of venturi tube 30 is slightly convex.
[00118]     The venturi pinwheel turbine operates in a body of water. It responds to waves
moving across the surface of that body of water by rising and falling in synchrony with the
rising and falling of the waves.
[00119]     Venturi tube 30 may be suspended by flexible but non-stretchable cables 25 beneath
flotation module 26. However, the preferred embodiment disclosed in FIGs. 7C and 7D utilizes
solid (rigid) struts for this purpose. If cables are used, then the venturi tube's distance beneath

                                                 -19
buoy 26 is held constant, and tension is maintained in cables 25 by the weight of tube 30 and
of any optional attached supplemental weight suspended beneath it.
[00120]    The venturi tube's efficiency is maximized by suspending it below, or at least as near
as possible to, the wave base characteristic of the longest wavelength of waves for which
energy conversion is desired. This preferred depth would typically range from twenty (20) to
one hundred (100) meters. FIGs. 6A and 6B are not drawn to scale.
[00121]    As venturi tube 30 rises, water flows through lumen 31 from top-to-bottom. As venturi
tube 30 sinks, water flows through lumen 31 in the opposite direction. As the water flows
through the lumen, its rate of axial flow (i.e. its speed) increases as the cross-sectional area of
the lumen is reduced (within a certain range of lumen diameters). For example, as the cross
sectional area of the lumen is halved, the speed of the water flow is approximately doubled.
[00122]    The type of turbine most suitable for use within a venturi tube is the family of turbines
known as free flow or kinetic turbines. Simple propeller 20 is indicated in FIG. 6B for
convenience. To avoid confusion, it should be understood that venturi tube 30 refers to a
housing whereas turbine 20 refers to a propeller, impeller, or other water-rotated device
mounted in the constriction created in lumen 31 of tube 30.
[00123]    As water is constrained to flow through lumen 31 , the turbine's blades must rotate.
The blades are joined to hub 22 (see FIG. 2B) and said hub rotates conjointly with turbine
central shaft 24. If the turbine blades are bi-directional, shaft 24 rotates in the same direction
regardless of whether water is entering tube 30 from the top or bottom. Only the angular speed
of rotation varies as the tube moves up and down through the water. The angular direction of
rotation does not vary.
[00124]    As venturi tube 30 rises and falls in the water beneath the surface, water enters the
tube alternately from the top and bottom, and compels turbine 20 to spin. Turbine shaft 24 is
connected by connector 42a to a solid shaft, or a flexible but non-stretchable cable, or some
other means of transmitting rotational mechanical energy 44, and said shaft, flexible cable, or
other connector, is connected by connector 42b to central shaft 24a of buoy 26 which central
shaft is connected to generator 46 or some other energy conversion device.
[00125]    Accordingly, rotation of turbine/propeller 20 causes rotation of central shaft 24, shaft,
cable, or other connector 44, buoy shaft 24a and hence generator 46.

                                                - 20
[00126]    In this manner, some of the energy of the deep-water waves which compel buoy 26
and its attached venturi tube 30 to rise is converted to mechanical energy. The potential
energy of venturi tube 30 increases with its height. Some of the tube's potential energy that
remains after a wave has passed is converted into additional mechanical energy as buoy 26
and its attached venturi tube 30 fall and again cause the rotation of turbine/propeller 20, central
shaft 24, shaft, cable, or other means 44, buoy shaft 24a and generator 46. All or most of the
mechanical energy created during the rising and falling of venturi tube 30 is available for
conversion into electrical energy.
[00127]    The angle a defining the venturi tube's lumen is indicated in FIG. 6B. The scope of
this invention includes the use of venturi tubes of any angularity, as well as to traditional
conical venturi tubes, or any other form or guide capable of accelerating water in a manner
consistent with the "venturi effect." To adapt to differing wave conditions and environments,
this invention can utilize venturi tubes with conical lumens that are broad and relatively flat, or
conical lumens that are narrow and relatively long. The scope of this invention includes the use
of venturi tubes of all shapes, radial angularities, and sizes.
[00128]    When buoy 26 and venturi tube 30 are vertically spaced apart from one another by a
maximum distance and said venturi tube is neither rising nor falling, venturi tube 30 is in a
position of repose. When a wave raises buoy 26, attached solid strut 44 lifts the attached
venturi tube 30, thereby generating electricity. Alternately, if cables are employed, then tension
in cable 44 increases and venturi tube 30 is lifted, thereby generating electricity. As the buoy
falls after the passage of a wave, venturi tube 30 sinks back to its position of repose,
generating electricity as it sinks. The venturi tube/shaft 30 or cable 44 assembly (including any
supplemental weight) has a specific gravity sufficient to cause it to sink in sea water.
[00129]    The preferred embodiment of this invention includes solid (rigid) struts to connect a
venturi tube to a buoy from which it is suspended. However, rigidly connecting the buoy to a
tube submerged to a depth of twenty to one hundred meters (20-100 m) may result in some
strain of the rigid connectors. Such struts must therefore be capable of sustaining sufficient
strain so that they may function in rough seas without failure or deformation. The use of flexible
cables to connect the buoy to the submerged venturi tube may offer a simpler and less
expensive alternative in some cases.
[00130]    Buoy 26 moves in approximately circular vertical motions at the surface. Being
connected to the buoy, the submerged venturi tube must move in synchrony with the buoy.

                                                 - 21
However, because of the drag induced by the venturi tube when a force compels it to move in
a horizontal direction, i.e., parallel with the mean level of the surface, the venturi tube is unable
to match the buoy's unfettered horizontal components of movement. Therefore, while the buoy
moves in vertical circular motions at the surface, the motions of the submerged venturi tube
follow an elliptical path in which the long axis of the ellipse is vertically oriented. The
embodiment of the venturi tube depicted in FIGs. 6A and 6B has a slightly convex outer
cylindrical wall. Such rounding may help to minimize turbulence as the venturi tube moves
through the water.
[00131]    FIGs. 7A and 7B depict the preferred embodiment of the invention. This embodiment
employs a structural feature that increases the efficiency of power extraction from the water
induced to flow through a venturi tube. The cylindrical wall of venturi tube 30 is extended at the
top and bottom of the tube illustrated in FIGs. 6A and 6B so that the constricted lumen 31 of
venturi tube 30 is positioned further from the opposite ends of said venturi tube. In other words,
the constriction in the lumen is spaced away from opposite ends of venturi tube 30 so that a
substantial length of said lumen on opposite ends of said constriction is not constricted.
[00132]    This improves the efficiency of the turbine by reducing the amount of water that flows
around the outer wall of the venturi turbine instead of flowing through its lumen and the turbine
therein.
[00133]    More particularly, venturi tube 30 is extended in a longitudinal direction away from
the constriction. Extension 30c extends upwardly from the upper mouth of venturi tube 30.
Extension 30d extends downwardly from the lower mouth of the venturi tube. This may
improve the performance of the venturi tube by reducing the amount of water which "leaks" out
of the venturi tube by traveling over the outer sidewall instead of through lumen 31 of venturi
tube 30.
[00134]    FIG. 7C is a perspective view of the preferred embodiment of the venturi wave
energy device and FIG. 7D is a longitudinal sectional view thereof.
[00135]    Venturi tube 30 is housed within and secured to outer cylindrical casing 29. Rigid
struts 27 maintain a fixed distance between buoy 26 and said casing 29 and hence said venturi
tube.

                                                - 22
[00136]    Turbine 20 may be any preselected type of turbine. Turbine 20 effects rotation of rod
44 so that generator 46 generates electricity. Reference numeral 46 may also indicate a
different type of transducer.
[00137]    The rigid interconnection of buoy 26 and venturi tube 30 and its related assembly
translates all buoy motion to said venturi tube and assembly.
[00138]    The embodiment of FIGs. 8A and 8B adds vanes 48 to impart an initial swirling
motion to water entering venturi tube 30. As best depicted in FIG. 8B, a set of vanes 48 is
positioned at each end or inlet of venturi tube 30 so that individual water molecules flowing
through lumen 31 will follow a helical or swirling path. As the swirling water flows through
lumen 31 , and as the speed of the water increases, the water's rate of rotation also increases
as a result of the conservation of angular momentum.
[00139]    Vanes 48 at each mouth of lumen 31 are oriented to induce the same direction of
rotation in the water regardless of the axial direction in which the water is flowing. In other
words, regardless of whether the water is flowing through the lumen from top-to-bottom or
bottom-to-top, the vanes induce the water to swirl in the same direction around central shaft
24.
[00140]    The addition of radial flow to the axial flow of water through lumen 31 allows the
water to strike the blades of some kinds of turbines at a more advantageous angle of attack,
causing the water to impart more of its kinetic energy to the turbine than if the water's flow
lacked a significant radial component.
[00141]     However, the inlet vanes impart a small rotation to venturi tube 30 itself, as
distinguished from turbine 20. This rotation of venturi tube 30 as a whole might cause
corresponding rotation of the attached buoy. Such rotation might cause difficulties within a
network of linked venturi-pinwheel wave-energy devices. However, such rotation may be
suppressed or inhibited through the inclusion of vertical wings 50 that extend radially outwardly
from venturi tube 30, or from other such devices that convert some of the vertical kinetic
energy of venturi tube 30 into rotational kinetic energy imparted to venturi tube 30 as a whole.
[00142]    The radial lift provided by vertical wings 50 is adjusted to approximately cancel any
remaining net radial forces imparted to venturi tube 30.

                                                - 23
[00143]    FIG. 9 depicts another optional structure for increasing the efficiency of power
extraction from the water induced to flow through venturi tube 30.
[00144]    Instead of inducing a swirling motion in the water as it enters the mouth or inlet of the
venturi tube, a set of radially-oriented, bi-directional vanes 52a, 52b is positioned immediately
above and below propeller-type turbine 20. If water is flowing through lumen 31 in a top-to
bottom direction, vanes 52a are pre-turbine vanes and they induce a more favorable angle of
attack in the water's flow immediately before the water encounters propeller/turbine 20. In
reaction to water flowing from top-to-bottom, vanes 52a assume an orientation in which they
impart the desired radial component to the flow of water when the water is flowing toward
turbine 20.
[00145]    However, when the water is flowing away from the turbine, post-turbine vanes 52b
assume a neutral orientation in which they passively conform to the water's inherent flow and
avoid altering the post-turbine pattern of flow. The vanes perform in an opposite way when
water flows through lumen 31 in a bottom-to-top direction.
[00146]    Vanes 52a, 52b also impart a small rotation to venturi turbine 30 as a whole. The
rotation is corrected by radial wings 50, or other such devices, as in the embodiment of FIGs.
8A and 8B.
[00147]    FIG.   10 depicts a perpendicular-axis turbine 20a. Perpendicular-axis turbines
respond to fluid flowing in any direction normal to their axes. This type of turbine therefore
extracts energy from the water flowing through lumen 31 of venturi tube 30 regardless of the
vertical direction of the water's travel. Water entering either mouth of lumen 31 induces the
same rotational motion in perpendicular-axis turbine 20a. Such a turbine can be attached
directly to an alternator or generator 46 by a shaft or the turbine's rotational energy can be
transmitted by any combination of solid (rigid) or flexible shafts to buoy 26.
[00148]    If an alternator or generator 46 is located within the sidewalls of venturi tube 30 as
depicted in FIG. 10, the electrical energy generated in response to the rotation of said
perpendicular-axis turbine 20a is transmitted to the surface via one or more electrical
conductors. Such conductors extend along one or more of the cables 24 supporting venturi
tube 30 beneath buoy 26.
[00149]    Access panel 54 performs the function its name expresses.

                                                - 24
[00150]      FIG. 11 is a perspective view of a venturi tube 30 similar to the one depicted in FIG.
10.
[00151]      However, the venturi tube 30 depicted in FIG. 1 1 has a rectangular symmetry, as
distinguished from the radial symmetry of turbine 20 depicted in FIG. 10.
[00152]     When it is preferred that the portion of the venturi tube where a perpendicular-axis
turbine is located be rectangular in cross-section, the interior of the venturi tube may also be
rectangular.
[00153]      FIG. 12 is a plan view of a rectangular venturi turbine housing 31. This drawing
illustrates the importance of having perpendicular-axis turbine 20a positioned within a
rectangular channel to maximize the flow of water through the turbine, as distinguished from
around the turbine.
[00154]     The rectangular channel, or lumen, is defined by sidewalls 30a, 30b, 30e, and 30f.
[00155]     The design of the preferred embodiment of the venturi-pinwheel wave-energy device
can be modified in a number of ways to accommodate its use with small buoys or devices
where it may serve as a power source for the buoy. FIGs. 13-15 depict the preferred
embodiment of such a portable version of the venturi-pinwheel wave-energy device.
[00156]      In this portable embodiment, venturi tube 30 is replaced by either a flexible or rigid
venturi shroud 33, having a conical shape much like that of an inverted lamp shade or parasol.
In order to facilitate storage and deployment, the venturi turbine may be made sufficiently small
to fit within the body of a canister 55 (FIG. 14) where it may be stored prior to deployment, as
best understood in connection with said FIG. 14.
[00157]     Venturi shroud 33 may be rigid or have a collapsible structure. If the shroud is made
collapsible, then rigid frame members or ribs 56 and flexible fabric 58 may be included to
enable the structure to fold like an umbrella. Shroud 33 may remain in a collapsed
configuration until after deployment and separation from storage canister 55.
[00158]      Instead of a large intrinsic weight, or an attached supplemental weight, venturi
shroud 33 could reset its position, i.e., sink as the buoy's height lessens following the passage
of a wave, by allowing shroud 33 to collapse like an umbrella in its closed configuration. In this

                                                 - 25
embodiment, Shroud 33 can then re-inflate passively as buoy 26 rises and water flows back
into shroud 33, like an umbrella being opened.
[00159]   The preferred embodiment of the full-sized venturi-pinwheel wave-energy device
transmits its rotary energy to the surface through mechanical shaft or cable 57 that is attached
to the central shaft of the turbine. The mechanical rotational energy is converted into electrical
energy with a generator mounted above the water line. To adapt this technology to small,
portable devices, a small water-proof generator is located near the turbine and shares a
common axle 24a with it.
[00160]   The resulting power is transmitted to buoy 26 through primary electrical cable 44
which may also support the venturi shroud assembly as it hangs beneath buoy 26. The
preferred embodiment of a portable version of the venturi-pinwheel device includes central
rigid support 57 securing cable assembly 44 to the turbine assembly. Central rigid support 57
maintains the vertical alignment of venturi shroud 33 and turbine 20b as the venturi shroud is
pulled toward the surface by buoy 26. The upward force provided by the buoy acts on the
upper end of rigid support 57, and the drag induced by the unfurled venturi shroud 33 acts on
the lower end of support 57. For the same reason that a wind vane orients itself to point into
the wind, the central rigid support, and its attached venturi shroud, are compelled to point
toward the buoy.
[00161]   Without this central rigid support, the orientation of the venturi shroud would be
unstable, i.e., under the influence of water moving past it as it rises, the shroud would tend to
turn sideways and a collapsible shroud would tend to partially collapse.
[00162]   Because of its small size, solid turbine blade 20b (FIGs. 13 and 14) is advantageous,
instead of an articulating bi-directional turbine. Venturi shroud 33 funnels water into the turbine,
increasing the water's speed, while the buoy and turbine are rising. The preferred embodiment
of the full-sized venturi-pinwheel wave-energy device has a bi-directional venturi shroud
allowing it to generate power when falling as well as rising. These adaptations allow the
portable embodiment of the turbine to extract a significant amount of power from the seawater
only while the buoy and turbine are rising.
[00163]   It is also possible to construct a "miniaturized" version of the preferred embodiment
of this device, i.e., a bi-directional venturi tube incorporating a bi-directional turbine. Such a
device could utilize a local water-proof generator or a shaft transmitting rotational energy to a

                                                 - 26
buoy at the surface of the water. For some applications this intermediate design may be
advantageous. The scope of this patent includes all variations in the sizes of the devices
disclosed.
[00164]    The preferred embodiment of a portable version of the venturi-pinwheel device,
which incorporates a collapsible venturi shroud, also contains rigid collar 60 serving as the
base for the collapsible venturi shroud 33 to constrain its alignment. Propeller/turbine 20b is
positioned concentrically with rigid collar 60 because the lumen of rigid collar 60 is the
narrowest part of the lumen created by shroud 33. Rigid frame members 56 have a first end
pivotally secured to rigid collar 60 in circumferentially spaced relation to one another.
[00165]    FIG. 14 illustrates the configuration of the portable embodiment depicted in FIG. 13
when it is incorporates a collapsible venturi shroud and is stored within canister 55. Rigid
frame members 56 of venturi shroud 33 pivot toward rigid central support 57 of the device, and
venturi shroud fabric 58 collapses like a retracted umbrella. Such a stored device may slide out
of storage canister 55 following the removal of optional canister lid 62.
[00166]    FIG. 15 depicts the portable embodiment of FIGs. 13 and 14 with small buoy 26a.
This embodiment has utility in connection with a life raft. When the assembly of FIGs. 13 and
14 is connected to buoy 26a by cable 44, the rising and falling of the portable venturi shroud
generates electrical power. A life raft itself could serve as the buoy. A relatively small, portable
embodiment     of the inventive device could generate about one hundred (100) watts
continuously. This portable embodiment has utility in providing electrical power to distress
beacons, locator devices, water distillation equipment, and the like.
[00167]    FIGs. 16A and 16B depict one of many possible embodiments of the novel venturi
pinwheel wave-energy device that are within the scope of this disclosure. FIG. 16B is a cross
sectional view of housing 68 taken along line 16B-16B in FIG. 16A.
[00168]    Water wheel 64 is mounted for rotation about axle 65 in housing 68 that includes two
substantially parallel vertical walls 66a, 66b. Housing 68 has two compartments that are in fluid
communication with one another. The first compartment is defined by sidewall 66a, front wall
68a, and back wall 68b. Front and back walls 68a, 68b converge toward one another from top
to bottom, creating a venturi effect at the bottom of said first compartment. The second
compartment is defined by side wall 66b, front wall 70a and back wall 70b. Front and back

                                                 - 27
walls 70a, 70b diverge from one another from top to bottom, creating a venturi effect at the top
of said compartment.
[00169]     Axle 65 of water wheel 64 is positioned in the center of housing 68 so that half of
said water wheel is in the first compartment and half is in the second compartment.
[00170]     As illustrated in FIG. 17A, the left compartment receives water entering from the top
and accelerates it as it moves toward the bottom, due to the decreasing cross-sectional area of
said compartment, as indicated by the large straight arrow. Conversely, any water entering the
right compartment from the top decelerates as it flows through said compartment's increasing
top-to-bottom cross-sectional area, as indicated by the small straight arrow to the right of said
large straight arrow.
[00171]     This imbalance in water speed as water enters from the top, in the left and right
compartments of housing 68, causes an unequal impetus to water wheel 64, causing it to spin
about its axis 65 in the direction indicated by directional arrow 67 in FIG. 17A so as to best
accommodate the flow of water in the left compartment of said housing 68.
[00172]     The opposite effect is observed when water enters housing 68 from the bottom as
depicted in FIG. 17b. The water in the right compartment of housing 68 is accelerated as
indicated by the large straight arrow and the water in the left compartment is decelerated as
indicated by the small straight arrow. This imbalance in the speed of the water traversing the
left and right halves of the device results in a rotation of water wheel 65 in the same direction
as when the water enters from the top.
[00173]     FIG. 18 depicts another type of water turbine, denoted 72 as a whole, having utility
with this invention, especially with respect to the embodiment illustrated in FIGs. 10, 1 1 and
12. This type of water wheel rotates in the same direction regardless of the direction of water
flow, i.e., within a plane normal to the axis of the water wheel's rotation, which accounts for any
up and down water flow. More particularly, blades 74 on the front of drum 76 as drawn capture
upward flowing water and cause rotation of drum 76 about axle 80 in the rotational direction
indicated by directional arrow 78. Blades 74 on the back of the drum as drawn capture
downward-flowing water and rotate drum 76 in the same direction 78. It should be understood
that drum 76 is positioned in the constricted throat of a venturi tube as taught by this invention.

                                               - 28
[00174]    FIG. 20 depicts an alternative embodiment of the invention, denoted 90 as a whole,
that uses a sea-anchor instead of a venturi tube. FIG. 20 illustrates the principle by which the
sea-anchor embodiment translates the circular up-and-down motion characteristic of deep
water waves traveling across the surface of a body of water into a corresponding up-and-down
motion of a cable whose movements cause an attached capstan to rotate, which in turns
causes the rotation of an underwater turbine located far below the surface. The capstan
rotates when its attached cable rises or falls since the platform to which it is attached is unable
to match the cable's movements due to induced drag.
[00175]    Buoyant flotation module or buoy 26 follows a circular up-and-down orbit 14 at the
surface of a body of water 28 in response to the passage of deep-water waves across the
surface of said body of water. The buoy constrains counterweight 92 and cable 44 suspended
beneath it to duplicate its vertical movements.
[00176]    More particularly, buoy 26 and counter-weight 92 are directly connected to one
another by cable 44.
[00177]    As illustrated in FIG. 21, flat platform 94 is centrally apertured as at 94a and is
indirectly attached to cable 44. The movements of platform 94 are constrained in such a way
so as to limit those movements to vertical risings and failings wherein the central axis of the
platform, normal to its surface, remains coaxial with the central axis of the cable. One method
which may be used to achieve this is through the use of brace members, said brace members
including a first pair of braces 96 positioned on a top side of platform 94 and a second pair of
braces 98 positioned on a bottom side of said platform. Upper brace members 96 have a first
end secured to sleeve 96a and a second end secured to a top wall of said platform. Lower
brace members 98 have a first end secured to sleeve 98a and a second end secured to a
bottom wall of said platform.
[00178]    Cable 44 extends through the respective lumens of sleeves 96a, 98a, and also
through central aperture 94a of platform 94. In this way, platform 94 is free to travel up and
down the length of cable 44. Due to the tension maintained in cable 44 by the buoyancy of
buoy 26, and the weight of counter-weight 92, platform 94 cannot deviate far from a coaxial
orientation with the common longitudinal axis of buoy 26 and counter-weight 92.

                                               - 29
[00179]    The vertical movements of platform 94 are further limited by a pair of stops 100a,
100b secured to cable 44 above and below said platform, respectively. The diameter of each
stop exceeds the diameter of the respective lumens of sleeves 96a, 98a.
[00180]    Platform 94 is substantially neutrally buoyant. Therefore, its inertial mass is
approximately equal to the mass of the sea water that it displaces, and should be substantial.
The mass of the platform will thus exhibit significant acceleration only when acted upon by a
substantial force.
[00181]    FIG. 21 is an enlarged view of platform 94. Cable 44 does not simply pass through
central aperture 94a as implied above; instead it is wound around capstan 102 that is mounted
in said central aperture for rotation about its horizontal axis. Capstan 102 is constrained to
rotate as cable 44 moves relative to platform 94, i.e., cable 44 cannot move vertically relative
to 94 platform without rotating capstan 102. Generator 46 is coupled to capstan 102 so that
rotation of the capstan results in the generation of electrical energy. Alternately, rotation of the
capstan is used to turn a cable that connects the capstan directly or indirectly to a generator or
alternator in buoy 26.
[00182]    This device extracts energy from ocean waves because platform 94 is held at a
depth near or greater than wave base 18. Upward and downward movements of cable 44,
induced by the rising of buoy 26 and the sinking of counter-weight 92, in response to passing
waves, are not matched by equal vertical oscillations of platform 94. As cable 44 rises or falls,
the force pulling on the cable is applied to the platform, which is urged to rise or fall with it.
However, the platform's mass, and corresponding inertia, limits the ability of the cable's force
to move it.
[00183]    Any resulting motion induced in the platform, in the relatively motionless waters
surrounding it, is countered by the substantial drag resulting from that motion.
[00184]    The combination of the platform's inertia, and the substantial drag which counters
any movement of the platform through the water, effectively limits its ability to move in
synchrony with the rising and falling movements of the attached cable.
[00185]    Since the platform is unable to match the movements of the cable, the only
remaining way the cable may fully rise or fall is for the capstan, about which it is wound, to
rotate.

                                                - 30
[00186]    The platform's inertia, along with any induced drag, prevents it from changing its
position appreciably. Therefore, most of the force on the cable is applied to the rotation of
capstan 102 and generator 46.
[00187]    If a generator is mounted to the platform for conjoint rotation with the shaft of the
capstan, an electrical cable connecting the generator to the buoy can be secured to the outer
edge of the platform, and from there connected directly to the buoy above. However, small
floats should be secured to the electrical cable to prevent it from sagging so that it does not
become entangled with the capstan.
[00188]    The platform is substantially neutrally buoyant. Its operational depth at or near the
wave base is achieved and maintained as a result of the platform's interactions with the stops
attached to cable 44. If the platform is above its intended minimum depth, then the weight of
counterweight 92 is not offset by the upward pull of buoy 26. Thus counterweight 92 and cable
44 descend until upper stop 100a abuts upper sleeve 96a. At this point, the counterweight's
pull continues unabated until the platform has reached a sufficient depth.
[00189]    If the platform descends below a preselected maximum depth, buoy 26 will be
submerged some or all of the time. While submerged, the upward pull of the buoy, less the
counteracting downward pull of counterweight 92, is applied to platform 94 when lower stop
100b abuts lower sleeve 98a. The platform will rise until this condition is remedied.
[00190]    Preferably, the maximum buoyancy of buoy 26 exceeds twice the combined weight
of the venturi device and counterweight 92. However, empirical studies may demonstrate that
a different buoyancy is preferable.
[00191]    Platform 94 is driven to move up-and-down with cable 44 but it is unable to do so to
a significant degree due to the platform's inertia, and the drag that counters any movement.
The platform's drag increases in proportion to the square of the vertical speed of the platform.
[00192]    Platform movement stops when the magnitude of its drag matches the cable's
vertical force. The upward or downward speed of the platform never reaches zero as long as
there is a net upward or downward force on the cable. However, the terminal velocity of the
platform is very low; the cable's velocity will therefore exceed that of the platform during most
of the wave cycle.

                                                 - 31
[00193]    The net amplitude of the cable's movement, relative to the platform, is equal to the
amplitude 12 of the waves less the amplitude 13 of the platform's oscillations, as indicated in
FIG. 19. When cable 44 is moving relative to platform 94, all of the cable's force is directed at
the rotation of capstan 102 about which it is wound, and which is firmly attached to the
platform. Thus, during most of the wave cycle, most of the cable's vertical force is translated
into an equivalent torque within the capstan, compelling the capstan to rotate about its axis,
thus driving rotation of generator 46.
[00194]    The platform's drag is increased, thus increasing the efficiency of wave-energy
conversion, if it is equipped with a cylindrical wall, top and bottom.
[00195]    FIG. 22 illustrates the preferred embodiment of the novel sea-anchor. Cylindrical wall
104 is mounted about the periphery of platform 94, i.e., in ensleeving relation to said platform,
so that said platform is positioned mid-length of the lumen of said cylindrical wall, i.e., so that
the extent of cylindrical wall 104 that extends above the plane of said platform is substantially
equal to the extent of said cylindrical wall that extends below the plane of said platform.
Cylindrical wall 104 substantially increases the coefficient of drag of platform 94, thus reducing
the extent of its movement in response to the movements of buoy 26 and counterweight 92.
[00196]    It will thus be seen that the objects set forth above, and those made apparent from
the foregoing description, are efficiently attained. Since certain changes may be made in the
above construction without departing from the scope of the invention, it is intended that all
matters contained in the foregoing description or shown in the accompanying drawings shall
be interpreted as illustrative and not in a limiting sense.
[00197]    It is also to be understood that the following claims are intended to cover all of the
generic and specific features of the invention herein described, and all statements of the scope
of the invention that, as a matter of language, might be said to fall therebetween.

                                                 - 32
CLAIMS:
1.         A wave energy conversion apparatus, comprising:
         a flotation device adapted to float on a surface of a body of water; the flotation device
being selected from the group consisting of ship, boat and buoy;
         a Venturi tube having a water channel including an upper mouth, a lower mouth and a
constricted region between the upper and lower mouths;
         at least one flexible connector operatively connecting the Venturi tube to the flotation
device such that when the apparatus is in position in the body of water, the Venturi tube is
positioned below the flotation device and a distance below the surface of the body of water,
and water flows downwardly in the channel and through the constricted region when the
apparatus moves upwardly by wave action in the body of water and water flows upwardly in
the channel and through the constricted region when the apparatus moves downwardly by
wave action in the body of water;
         the at least one flexible connector allowing a longitudinal axis of the Venturi tube to
move relative to a longitudinal axis of the flotation device;
         a turbine in the channel and driven by water flowing in the channel;
         a generator to which the turbine is operatively connected and configured such that
when the apparatus is in position in the body of water, the generator is positioned below the
flotation device and a distance below the surface of the body of water; and
         the Venturi tube being connected directly to the at least one flexible connector.
2.        The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the generator is at the Venturi tube.
3.        The apparatus of claim 1 or claim 2 further comprising an electrical conductor
configured to transmit electrical energy from the generator to the flotation device.
4.        The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the generator is operatively connected to the turbine
by a shaft.
5.        The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the turbine is positioned in the constricted region.
6.        The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the apparatus is configured such that the flotation
device and the Venturi tube are separated by 20 to 100 meters when the apparatus is in
position in the body of water.

                                                 - 33
7.        The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the constricted region is within a cylindrical portion of
the Venturi tube.
8.        The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the at least one flexible connector is configured to
allow the Venturi tube to be moved upwardly towards the flotation device.
9.        The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the at least one flexible connector includes at least
one cable.
10.       The apparatus of claim 9 wherein the at least one cable is non-stretchable.
11.       The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the at least one flexible connector includes a
plurality of cables.
12.       The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the at least one flexible connector includes at least
one strut.
13.       The apparatus of claim 1 wherein a cross-sectional area of the constricted region is
less than one-half of that of one of the upper or lower mouths.
14.       A wave energy conversion apparatus, comprising:
         a flotation device adapted to float on a surface of a body of water; the flotation device
being selected from the group consisting of ship, boat and buoy;
         a power assembly including: (1) a Venturi tube having a water channel including an
upper mouth, a lower mouth and a constricted region between the upper and lower mouths; (2)
a turbine in the channel and driven by water flowing in the channel; and (3) a generator
operatively connected to the turbine and connected to the Venturi tube;
         at least one flexible connector connecting the power assembly to the flotation device
such that: (a) a longitudinal axis of the Venturi tube can move relative to a longitudinal axis of
the flotation device; (b) a rotational axis of the generator can move relative to a longitudinal
axis of the flotation device; and (c) when the apparatus is in position in the body of water, the
power assembly is positioned below the flotation device and a distance below the surface of
the body of water, and water flows downwardly in the channel and through the constricted
region when the apparatus moves upwardly by wave action in the body of water and water
flows upwardly in the channel and through the constricted region when the apparatus moves
downwardly by wave action in the body of water;

                                               - 34
        the generator, when the apparatus is in position in the body of water, is configured to
be positioned below the flotation device and a distance below the surface of the body of water;
and
        the Venturi tube being connected directly to the at least one flexible connector.
15.      The apparatus of claim 14 further comprising an electrical conductor configured to
transmit electrical energy from the generator to the flotation device.
16.      The apparatus of claim 14 wherein the generator is operatively connected to the
turbine by a shaft.
17.       The apparatus of claim 14 wherein the turbine is positioned in the constricted region.
18.      The apparatus of claim 14 wherein the flotation device is a buoy.
19.      The apparatus of claim 14 wherein the apparatus is configured such that the flotation
device and the Venturi tube are separated by 20 to 100 meters when the apparatus is in
position in the body of water.
20.      The apparatus of claim 14 wherein the body of water has a wave base and the
apparatus is configured such that when the apparatus is in position in the body of water the
Venturi tube is positioned below the wave base.
21.      The apparatus of claim 14 wherein the constricted region is within a cylindrical portion
of the Venturi tube.
22.        The apparatus of claim 14 wherein, when the apparatus is in position in the body of
water, the at least one flexible connector is configured to allow the power assembly to be
moved upwardly towards the flotation device.
23.      The apparatus of claim 14 wherein the at least one flexible connector includes at least
one cable.
24.      The apparatus of claim 23 wherein the at least one cable is non-stretchable.

                                               - 35
25.      The apparatus of claim 14 wherein the at least one flexible connector includes a
plurality of cables.
26.      The apparatus of claim 14 wherein the at least one flexible connector includes at least
one strut.
27.      The apparatus of claim 14 wherein a cross-sectional area of the constricted region is
less than one-half of that of one of the upper or lower mouths.

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           1/23

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           2/23

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           3/23

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           4/23

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           5/23

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           6/23

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           7/23

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           8/23

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           9/23

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           10/23

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           11/23

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           12/23

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           13/23

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           14/23

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           15/23

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           16/23

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           17/23

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           18/23

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           19/23

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           20/23

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           21/23

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           22/23

                              23/23
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
                                      <U+271D>
                                      <U+2702>
                                      <U+2701>
                                      <U+2706>
                                      <U+2706>
                                          <U+2718>
                                      <U+2702>
                                          <U+270D>
                                      <U+2701>
                                          <U+2715>
                                      <U+260E>
                                              <U+2723>
                                          <U+261B>
                                          <U+2712>
                                                   FIG. 23
                                          <U+2711>
                                          <U+270F>
                                          <U+270E>
                                              <U+2722>
                                          <U+271F>
                                              <U+271C>
                                      <U+260E>
                                          <U+2721>
                                                  (Prior Art)
                                              <U+271B>
                                          <U+270F>
                                          <U+270C>
                                          <U+2721>
                                          <U+261B>
                                          <U+261B>
                                              <U+271A>
                                      <U+2702>
                                      <U+2701>
                                              <U+2719>
                                      <U+2704>
                                      <U+2704>
                                      <U+2702>
                                      <U+2701>
                          <U+2718>
                  <U+2711>
                      <U+2717>
              <U+261B>
                  <U+270F>
                  <U+270E>
              <U+2721>
                          <U+2716>
                  <U+270D>
                          <U+2715>
              <U+2720>
                  <U+270C>
              <U+271F>
                  <U+2721>
                          <U+2714>
              <U+271E>
                          <U+2713>
                  <U+261E>
                          <U+2712>

