CYCLODEXTRIN AND ANTIBODY-DRUG CONJUGATE
FORMULATIONS
ABSTRACT
Disclosed are formulations, including both liquid and lyophilized formulations, comprising a
benzodiazepine antibody-drug conjugate (ADC) and a cyclodextrin. Also disclosed are methods
of purifying mixtures comprising benzodiazepine antibody-drug conjugates and process drug
related impurities.

                                                 1
     CYCLODEXTRIN AND ANTIBODY-DRUG CONJUGATE FORMULATIONS
[0001] This application is a divisional of Australian Patent Application No. 2014248640
(national phase of PCT/US2014/024466) filed 12 March 2014, claiming the benefit of U.S.
Provisional App. No. 61/780,185 filed March 13, 2013 and U.S. Provisional App. No.
61/782,231 filed March 14, 2013, each of which is incorporated by reference in its entirety
for all purposes.
                                         BACKGROUND
[0002] Antibody-drug conjugates (ADCs) can provide an effective means of delivering a
drug to a targeted site in a tissue or organism. Recognition of a target such as a tumor by the
antibody minimizes exposure of non-target tissues to toxic chemotherapeutic agents and
limits adverse effects associated with the toxicity of "free" drugs (i.e., unbound to a carrier
such as an antibody). ADCs can be prepared by a number of techniques. Prior to
administration to a human or other subject, the conjugate is purified to remove free drugs and
other impurities.
[0003] Due to the very high potency of benzodiazepine containing drugs, the removal of drug
related impurities from a mixture comprising benzodiazepine ADCs and benzodiazepine
drug-related impurities needs to be highly effective. The present invention addresses this and
other needs.
                         BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE FIGURES
[0004] Figure 1 provides a graph showing the percent high molecular weight (%HMW)
species present in various h2H12-1 formulations stored at 25'C. % HMW is determined at
time points 0, 7 days, and 14 days.
[0005] Figure 2 provides a graph showing the percent high molecular weight (%HMW)
species present in various h1F6-1 formulations stored at 25'C. % HMW is determined at time
points 0, 7 days, and 14 days.
(14409939 1):GGG

[0006]   Figure 3 provides a graph showing the percent high molecular weight (%HMW)
species present in various h2H12-3 formulations stored at 40'C. % HMW is determined at
time points 0, 3 days, and 7 days.
[0007]   Figure 4 provides a graph showing the percent high molecular weight (%HMW)
species present in various h1F6-3 formulations stored at 40'C. % HMW is determined at
time points 0, 3 days, and 7 days.
[0008]   Figure 5 provides a graph showing the percent high molecular weight (%HMW)
species present in various h2H12-2 formulations stored at 40'C. % HMW is determined at
time points 0, 3 days, and 7 days.
[0009]   Figure 6 provides a graph showing the percent high molecular weight (%HMW)
species present in various h1F6-2 formulations stored at 40'C. % HMW is determined at
time points 0, 3 days, and 7 days.
[0010]   Figure 7 provides a graph showing the percent acidic species present in various
h2H12-1 formulations stored at 25'C. Percent acidic species is determined at time points 0, 7
days, and 14 days.
[0011]   Figure 8 provides a graph showing the percent acidic species present in various
h21F6-1 formulations stored at 25'C. Percent acidic species is determined at time points 0, 7
days, and 14 days.
[0012]   Figure 9 provides a graph showing the percent acidic species present in various
h2H12-3 formulations stored at 40'C. Percent acidic species is determined at time points 0, 3
days, and 7 days.
[0013]   Figure 10 provides a graph showing the percent acidic species present in various
h1F6-3 formulations stored at 40'C. Percent acidic species is determined at time points 0, 3
days, and 7 days.
[0014]   Figure 11 provides a graph showing the percent acidic species present in various
h2H12-2 formulations stored at 40'C. Percent acidic species is determined at time points 0, 3
days, and 7 days.
[0015]   Figure 12 provides a graph showing the percent acidic species present in various
h21F6-2 formulations stored at 40'C. Percent acidic species is determined at time points 0, 3
days, and 7 days.
                                              2

[0016]    Figure 13 provides a graph showing the percent high molecular weight (%HMW)
species present in various h1F6-1 formulations stored at 25'C. % HMW is determined at
time points 0 and 7 days.
[0017]    Figure 14 provides a graph showing the concentration of hydroxypropyl beta
cyclodextrin during a diafiltration process. Diafiltration buffer contained 3 % w/v
cylodextrin. Data shows that membrane is permeable to cyclodextrin.
[0018]    Figure 15 provides a graph showing the clearance of quenched drug-linker from a
quenched conjugation reaction mixture while maintaining a concentration of 10% w/v
cyclodextrin (diamonds) or 3% w/v cyclodextrin (squares)
[0019]    Figure 16 provides a graph showing the clearance of quenched drug-linker from a
quenched conjugation reaction mixture while maintaining a concentration of 3 % w/v
cyclodextrin.
[0020]    Figure 17 provides a graph showing the clearance of quenched drug-linker from a
quenched conjugation reaction mixture while maintaining a concentration of 3 % w/v
cyclodextrin.
[0021]    Figure 18 provides a graph showing the clearance of quenched drug-linker from a
quenched conjugation reaction mixture while maintaining a concentration of 3 % w/v
cyclodextrin.
General
[0022]    The present invention is based, in part, on the finding that that removal of
benzodiazepine drug-related impurities from a mixture comprising benzodiazepine ADCs and
benzodiazepine drug-related impurities (also referred to herein as an ADC mixture) is
inefficient due to the nature of benzodiazepine drugs, and the discovery that the addition of
cyclodextrin to the mixture enables the efficient clearance of benzodiazepine drug-related
impurities. The present inventors have found, inter alia, that the addition of cyclodextrin to a
mixture comprising benzodiazepine ADCs and benzodiazepine drug-related impurities prior
                                                3

to performing tangential flow filtration enables the efficient clearance of benzodiazepine
drug-related impurities.
[0023]     The present invention is also based, in part, on the discovery that cyclodextrin
containing formulations of benzodiazepine ADCs exhibit superior stability as compared to
formulations not containing cyclodextrin. Improved stability can be demonstrated, for
example, by one or more of the following: (i) reduction of the rate and extent of aggregation,
(ii) reduction of growth of acidic species and (iii) reduction of the chemical degradation of
the drug.
Summary
[0024]     Provided herein are methods for removing benzodiazepine drug-related impurities
from mixtures comprising benzodiazepine ADCS and benzodiazepine drug-related impurities
by tangential flow filtration with cyclodextrin.     The methods comprise subjecting a mixture
comprising benzodizepine ADCs and benzodiazepine drug-related impurities to tangential
flow filtration. The use of cyclodextrin during filtration aids in the separation process.
Accordingly, provided herein are methods for removing benzodiazepine drug-related
impurities from a mixture comprising benzodizepine ADCs and benzodiazepine drug-related
impurities comprising comprising subjecting a mixture comprising benzodizepine ADCs and
benzodiazepine drug-related impurities to tangential flow filtration wherein cyclodextrin is
used to aid in the purification process. In preferred aspects, cyclodextrin is added in an
amount sufficient to substantially maintain the solubility of the components in the ADC
mixture and prevent aggregation. The cyclodextrin can be, for example, present in the
mixture at the start of the tangential flow filtration process or, alternatively, first added to the
mixture after initation of the tangential flow filtration (preferably prior to any substantial
removal of impurities). In some aspects, the methods comprise subjecting a mixture
comprising benzodizepine ADCs and benzodiazepine drug-related impurities to tangential
flow filtration while maintaining a concentration of at least about 1 % w/v cylodextrin, at
least about 2 % w/v cylodextrin, or at least about 3 % w/v cyclodextrin in the mixture. The
present invention also provides methods comprising providing a mixture comprising
benzodizepine ADCs, benzodiazepine drug-related impurities, and cyclodextrin wherein the
cyclodextrin is present at a concentration of at least about 1 %w/v and subjecting the mixture
to tangential flow filtration while maintaining the concentration of at least about 1 %w/v
                                                  4

cylodextrin in the mixture; methods comprising providing a mixture comprising
benzodizepine ADCs, benzodiazepine drug-related impurities, and cyclodextrin wherein the
cyclodextrin is present at a concentration of at least about 2 % w/v and subjecting the mixture
to tangential flow filtration while maintaining the concentration of at least about 2 % w/v
cylodextrin in the mixture; and methods comprising providing a mixture comprising
benzodizepine ADCs, benzodiazepine drug-related impurities, and cyclodextrin wherein the
cyclodextrin is present at a concentration of at least about 3 % w/v and subjecting the mixture
to tangential flow filtration while maintaining the concentration of at least about 3 % w/v
cylodextrin in the mixture.
[0025]     The tangential flow filtration can be, for example, contant volume diafiltration or
discontinuous diafiltration. The tangential flow filtration device can comprise, for example, a
pump, a filtration holder having an inlet, a filtrate outlet, a retentate outlet, an ultrafiltration
membrane having a pore size of about 50 Kd or smaller that separates the filtration holder
into an upstream compartment and a downstream compartment such that all filtrate must
enter the inlet and pass through the ultrafiltration membrane before exiting the filtration
holder through the filtrate outlet, a sample reservoir for holding the conjugation reaction
mixture, and a buffer reservoir in fluid communication with the sample reservoir. In
preferred aspects, the buffer reservoir comrpises at least about 1 % w/v cyclodextrin, at least
about 2 % w/v cyclodextrin, or at least about 3 % w/v cyclodextrin. The ultrafiltration
membrane can have a range of pore sizes including, for example, a pore size of about 30 Kd.
The ultrafilatration membrane can be made of many materials, including regenerated
cellulose.
[0026]     The mixture to be purified by tangential flow filtration can be a conjugation reaction
mixture, including any of the conjugation reaction mixtures described herein. The
benzodiazepine drug-related impurity can be any of the impurities described herein. The
benzodizepine drug-related impurity can be quenched or unquenched.            For example, the
methods can comprise the steps of contacting an antibody or antibody-linker with a
benzodizepine drug-linker under conditions sufficient to form a conjugation reaction mixture
comprising benzodiazepine ADCs. Optionally, the conjugation reaction mixture can be
contacted with a quenching agent to form a quenched conjugation reaction mixture. The
unquenched or quenched conjugation mixture is subjected to tangential flow filtration as
described herein. Alternatively, the methods can comprise the steps of contacting an
antibody or antibody-linker with a free drug under conditions sufficient to form a conjugation
                                                  5

reaction mixture comprising benzodiazepine ADCs. Optionally, the conjugation reaction
mixture can be contacted with a quenching agent to form a quenched conjugation reaction
mixture.    The unquenched or quenched conjugation mixture is subjected to tangential flow
filtration as described herein. The benzodizepine drug-related impurity can be, for example,
a quenched or unquenched drug-linker or a quenched or unquenched drug. The methods of
the present invention are effective at removing benzodizepine drug-related impurities.
Preferably, the benzodizepine drug-related impurities are reduced to a level of about 1 pM or
less, 0.5 pM or less, 0.1 pM or less, or 0.05 pM or less
[0027]     Beta and gamma cyclodextrins, including chemically modified beta and gamma
cyclodextrins, are particularly effective for use in the present invention.  The cyclodextrin
can be, for example, a hydroxypropyl beta cyclodextrin or sulfobutylether beta cyclodextrin.
In some aspects, when the cyclodextrin is a gamma cyclodextrin, the cyclodextrin is
maintained at a concentration of at least about 1% w/v during tangential flow filtration and
when the cyclodextrin is a beta cyclodextrin, the cyclodextrin is maintained at a concentration
of at least about 2% w/v or at least about 3 % w/v during tangential flow filtration.
[0028]     Also provided herein are pharmaceutical formulations comprising a benzodiazepine
ADC and cyclodextrin at a concentration of from about 3 % w/v to about 30 % w/v,
preferably a concentration of from about 5 % w/v or 6 % w/v to about 30 % w/v or from
about 6 % w/v to about 10 % w/v. The formulations can be aqueous or non-aqueous form.
The formulations can comprise additional excipients such as a lyoprotectant (preferably a
sugar, such as, sucrose). They lyoprotectant can be at any concentration effective to act as
such, for example, at from about 4% to about 8% (w/v), preferably about 6% (w/v). The pH
of the formulation is a physiologically suitable pH. Exemplary pH values are from about 6.0
to about 8.0 or from about 6.5 to 7.5, or from about 7 to 7.5. The formulations typically
comprise a buffering agent. The buffering agent can be selected from a wide variety of
buffering agents including Tris, acetate, histidine, citrate, phosphate, and succinate. Tris, for
example can be present at a concentration of about 20 mM. The concentration of
benzodiazepine ADC in the formulation can vary widely. In preferred aspects, the ADC is
present at a concentration of from about 0.5 mg/ml to about 30 mg/ml, from about 0.5 mg/ml
to about 10 mg/ml, from about 1 mg/ml to about 10 mg/ml, from about 2 mg/ml to about 10
mg/ml, from about 2 mg/ml to about 5 mg/ml, preferably at about 3 mg/ml. Beta and
gamma cyclodextrins are particularly effective for use in the formulations, including
                                                 6

chemically modified beta and gamma cyclodextrins.        The cyclodextrin can be, for example,
a hydroxypropyl beta cyclodextrin or sulfobutylether beta cyclodextrin.
[0029]    Provided herein are pharmaceutical formulations comprising a PBD ADC wherein
the concentration of ADC is from about 2 mg/ml to about 5 mg/mol; hydroxypropyl
cyclodextrin at a concentration of from about 5 % w/v to about 10 % w/v; a sugar at a
concentration of about 4 % to about 8 %; and at least one buffering agent;wherein the
formulation is in an aqueous solution and the concentration of that at least one buffering
agent is effective to maintain a physiologically suitable pH (e.g., about 6 to about 8, more
preferably about 7 to about 8 or about 7 to about 7.5).
[0030]    Provided herein are pharmaceutical formulations comprising a PBD ADC wherein
the concentration of ADC is about 3 mg/ml; hydroxypropyl cyclodextrin is at a concentration
of about 6 %; sucrose is at a concentration of about 6%, Tris at a concentration of about 20
mM, and wherein the pH of the formulation is about 7 to about 7.5 (e.g., about 7.3)
[0031]    In the methods and formulations provided herein the ADC can have any of the
formulas described herein. The ADC can be, for example, a PBD ADC.           For example, the
ADC can have the formula:
                                               H,  -.. N     O         O         N_   H
Ab
                                                  N          OMe     MeO            N
        0            O            O
      N                N                               O                        O
                       N            N                                                          OMe
   O                   H   O        H
                                                                                                  P
or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof; wherein Ab is a monoclonal antibody and p
represents the average number of drug-linker molecules per antibody and is about 2. In other
aspects, the ADC can comprise a monoclonal antibody conjugated to an
indolinobenzodiazepine dimer, or a monoclonal antibody conjugated to an
oxazolidinobenzodiazepine dimer. In the methods and formulation described herein, the
antibody can be any antibody, including any monoclonal antibody, including the humanized
2H12 or 1F6 antibodies described herein.     Conjugation of the antibody to the drug-linker
can be by any of the methods known in the art, including conjugation via a sulfur atom of an
introduced cysteine residue
                                                7

[0032]    Also provided herein are methods for preparing a stabilized, lyophilized antibody
drug conjugate formulation. The methods can comprise providing an aqueous formulation as
described herein; and lyophilizing the aqueous solution to form the lyophilized antibody-drug
conjugate formulation. Provided herein are also the stabilized, lyophilized antibody-drug
conjugate formulations so prepared.
[0033]    Also provided herein are methods for preventing the chemical degradation and
fragmentation of a benzodiapine drug-linker attached to an antibody. The methods can
comrpise formulating a benzodiapine drug-linker attached to an antibody with at least about
6 % w/v gamma cyclodextrin or chemically modified beta cyclodextrin as decribed in any of
the embodiments provided herein.
Definitions
[0034]    Unless defined otherwise, all technical and scientific terms used herein have the
same meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art pertinent to the
methods and compositions described. As used herein, the following terms and phrases have
the meanings ascribed to them unless specified otherwise.
[0035]    The term "heterocycle," as used herein refers to a monocyclic, bicyclic, or
polycyclic ring system having from 3 to 14 ring atoms (also referred to as ring members)
wherein at least one ring atom in at least one ring is a heteroatom selected from N, 0, P, or S
(and all combinations and subcombinations of ranges and specific numbers of carbon atoms
and heteroatoms therein). The heterocycle can have from 1 to 4 ring heteroatoms
independently selected from N, 0, P, or S. One or more N, C, or S atoms in a heterocycle
can be oxidized. A monocylic heterocycle preferably has 3 to 7 ring members (e.g., 2 to 6
carbon atoms and 1 to 3 heteroatoms independently selected from N, 0, P, or S), and a
bicyclic heterocycle preferably has 5 to 10 ring members (e.g., 4 to 9 carbon atoms and 1 to 3
heteroatoms independently selected from N, 0, P, or S). The ring that includes the
heteroatom can be aromatic or non-aromatic.
[0036]    The term "carbocycle," as used herein refers to a saturated or unsaturated non
aromatic monocyclic, bicyclic, or polycyclic ring system having from 3 to 14 ring atoms (and
all combinations and subcombinations of ranges and specific numbers of carbon atoms
therein) wherein all of the ring atoms are carbon atoms. Monocyclic carbocycles preferably
have 3 to 6 ring atoms, still more preferably 5 or 6 ring atoms. Carbocyles preferably have 3
to 8 carbon ring atoms.
                                                 8

[0037]     The phrase "pharmaceutically acceptable salt," as used herein, refers to
pharmaceutically acceptable organic or inorganic salts of a compound. The compound can
contain at least one amino group, and accordingly acid addition salts can be formed with the
amino group. Exemplary salts include, but are not limited to, sulfate, trifluoroacetate, citrate,
acetate, oxalate, chloride, bromide, iodide, nitrate, bisulfate, phosphate, acid phosphate,
isonicotinate, lactate, salicylate, acid citrate, tartrate, oleate, tannate, pantothenate, bitartrate,
ascorbate, succinate, maleate, gentisinate, fumarate, gluconate, glucuronate, saccharate,
formate, benzoate, glutamate, methanesulfonate, ethanesulfonate, benzenesulfonate,
p-toluenesulfonate, and pamoate (i.e., 1,1'-methylene-bis -(2-hydroxy-3- naphthoate)) salts.
A pharmaceutically acceptable salt may involve the inclusion of another molecule such as an
acetate ion, a succinate ion or other counterion. The counterion may be any organic or
inorganic moiety that stabilizes the charge on the parent compound. Furthermore, a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt may have more than one charged atom in its structure.
Instances where multiple charged atoms are part of the pharmaceutically acceptable salt can
have multiple counter ions. Hence, a pharmaceutically acceptable salt can have one or more
charged atoms and/or one or more counterion.
[0038]     A "polypeptide" or "polypeptide chain" is a polymer of amino acid residues joined
by peptide bonds, whether produced naturally or synthetically. Polypeptides of less than
about 10 amino acid residues are commonly referred to as "peptides."
[0039]     A "protein" is a macromolecule comprising one or more polypeptide chains. A
protein may also comprise non-peptidic components, such as carbohydrate groups.
Carbohydrates and other non-peptidic substituents may be added to a protein by the cell in
which the protein is produced, and will vary with the type of cell. Proteins are defined
herein in terms of their amino acid backbone structures; substituents such as carbohydrate
groups are generally not specified, but may be present nonetheless.
[0040]     The terms "amino-terminal" and "carboxyl-terminal" are used herein to denote
positions within polypeptides. Where the context allows, these terms are used with reference
to a particular sequence or portion of a polypeptide to denote proximity or relative position.
For example, a certain sequence positioned carboxyl-terminal to a reference sequence within
a polypeptide is located proximal to the carboxyl terminus of the reference sequence, but is
not necessarily at the carboxyl terminus of the complete polypeptide.
                                                    9

[0041]    The term "antibody" is used herein to denote immunoglobulin proteins produced by
the body in response to the presence of an antigen and that bind to the antigen, as well as
antigen-binding fragments and engineered variants thereof. Hence, the term "antibody"
includes, for example, intact monoclonal antibodies comprising full-lengh immunoglobulin
heavy and light chains (e.g., antibodies produced using hybridoma technology) and antigen
binding antibody fragments, such as F(ab') 2 and Fab fragments. Genetically engineered
intact antibodies and fragments, such as chimeric antibodies, humanized antibodies, single
chain Fv fragments, single-chain antibodies, diabodies, minibodies, linear antibodies,
multivalent or multispecific (e.g., bispecific) hybrid antibodies, and the like are also included.
Thus, the term "antibody" is used expansively to include any protein that comprises an
antigen-binding site of an antibody and is capable of specifically binding to its antigen.
[0042]    The term "genetically engineered antibodies" means antibodies wherein the amino
acid sequence has been varied from that of a native antibody. Because of the relevance of
recombinant DNA techniques in the generation of antibodies, one need not be confined to the
sequences of amino acids found in natural antibodies; antibodies can be redesigned to obtain
desired characteristics. The possible variations are many and range from the changing of just
one or a few amino acids to the complete redesign of, for example, the variable or constant
region. Changes in the constant region will, in general, be made in order to improve or alter
characteristics such as, e.g., complement fixation, interaction with cells, and other effector
functions. Typically, changes in the variable region will be made in order to improve the
antigen-binding characteristics, improve variable region stability, or reduce the risk of
immunogenicity.
[0043]    An "antigen-binding site of an antibody" is that portion of an antibody that is
sufficient to bind to its antigen. The minimum such region is typically a variable domain or a
genetically engineered variant thereof. Single-domain binding sites can be generated from
camelid antibodies (see Muyldermans and Lauwereys, J. Mol. Recog. 12:131-140, 1999;
Nguyen et al., EMBO J. 19:921-930, 2000) or from VH domains of other species to produce
single-domain antibodies ("dAbs"; see Ward et al., Nature 341:544-546, 1989; US Patent No.
6,248,516 to Winter et al.). In certain variations, an antigen-binding site is a polypeptide
region having only 2 complementarity determining regions (CDRs) of a naturally or non
naturally (e.g., mutagenized) occurring heavy chain variable domain or light chain variable
domain, or combination thereof (see, e.g., Pessi et al., Nature 362:367-369, 1993; Qiu et al.,
Nature Biotechnol. 25:921-929, 2007). More commonly, an antigen-binding site of an
                                                 10

antibody comprises both a heavy chain variable (VH) domain and a light chain variable (VL)
domain that bind to a common epitope. Within the context of the present invention, an
antibody may include one or more components in addition to an antigen-binding site, such as,
for example, a second antigen-binding site of an antibody (which may bind to the same or a
different epitope or to the same or a different antigen), a peptide linker, an immunoglobulin
constant region, an immunoglobulin hinge, an amphipathic helix (see Pack and Pluckthun,
Biochem. 31:1579-1584, 1992), a non-peptide linker, an oligonucleotide (see Chaudri et al.,
FEBS Letters 450:23-26, 1999), a cytostatic or cytotoxic drug, and the like, and may be a
monomeric or multimeric protein. Examples of molecules comprising an antigen-binding site
of an antibody are known in the art and include, for example, Fv, single-chain Fv (scFv), Fab,
Fab', F(ab') 2 , F(ab)c, diabodies, dAbs, minibodies, nanobodies, Fab-scFv fusions, bispecific
(scFv) 4-IgG, and bispecific (scFv) 2-Fab. (See, e.g., Hu et al., CancerRes. 56:3055-3061,
1996; Atwell et al., Molecular Immunology 33:1301-1312, 1996; Carter and Merchant, Curr.
Opin. Biotechnol. 8:449-454, 1997; Zuo et al., Protein Engineering 13:361-367, 2000; and
Lu et al., J. Immunol. Methods 267:213-226, 2002.)
[0044]     As used herein, the term "immunoglobulin" refers to a protein consisting of one or
more polypeptides substantially encoded by immunoglobulin gene(s). One form of
immunoglobulin constitutes the basic structural unit of native (i.e., natural) antibodies in
vertebrates. This form is a tetramer and consists of two identical pairs of immunoglobulin
chains, each pair having one light chain and one heavy chain. In each pair, the light and
heavy chain variable regions (VL and VH) are together primarily responsible for binding to
an antigen, and the constant regions are primarily responsible for the antibody effector
functions. Five classes of immunoglobulin protein (JgG, IgA, IgM, IgD, and IgE) have been
identified in higher vertebrates. IgG comprises the major class; it normally exists as the
second most abundant protein found in plasma. In humans, IgG consists of four subclasses,
designated IgGI, IgG2, IgG3, and IgG4. The heavy chain constant regions of the IgG class
are identified with the Greek symbol y. For example, immunoglobulins of the IgGI subclass
contain a y1 heavy chain constant region. Each immunoglobulin heavy chain possesses a
constant region that consists of constant region protein domains (CHI, hinge, CH2, and CH3;
IgG3 also contains a CH4 domain) that are essentially invariant for a given subclass in a
species. DNA sequences encoding human and non-human immunoglobulin chains are
known in the art. (See, e.g., Ellison et al., DNA 1:11-18, 1981; Ellison et al., Nucleic Acids
Res. 10:4071-4079, 1982; Kenten et al., Proc.Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 79:6661-6665, 1982;
                                                11

Seno et al., Nuc. Acids Res. 11:719-726, 1983; Riechmann et al., Nature 332:323-327, 1988;
Amster et al., Nuc. Acids Res. 8:2055-2065, 1980; Rusconi and Kohler, Nature 314:330-334,
1985; Boss et al., Nuc. Acids Res. 12:3791-3806, 1984; Bothwell et al., Nature 298:380-382,
1982; van der Loo et al., Immunogenetics 42:333-341, 1995; Karlin et al., J.Mol. Evol.
22:195-208, 1985; Kindsvogel et al., DNA 1:335-343, 1982; Breiner et al., Gene 18:165-174,
1982; Kondo et al., Eur. J. Immunol. 23:245-249, 1993; and GenBank Accession No.
J00228.) For a review of immunoglobulin structure and function, see Putnam, The Plasma
Proteins,Vol V, Academic Press, Inc., 49-140, 1987; and Padlan, Mol. Immunol. 31:169-217,
1994. The term "immunoglobulin" is used herein for its common meaning, denoting an
intact antibody, its component chains, or fragments of chains, depending on the context.
[0045]    Full-length immunoglobulin "light chains" (about 25 Kd or 214 amino acids) are
encoded by a variable region gene at the amino-terminus (encoding about 110 amino acids)
and a by a kappa or lambda constant region gene at the carboxyl-terminus. Full-length
immunoglobulin "heavy chains" (about 50 Kd or 446 amino acids) are encoded by a variable
region gene (encoding about 116 amino acids) and a gamma, mu, alpha, delta, or epsilon
constant region gene (encoding about 330 amino acids), the latter defining the antibody's
isotype as IgG, IgM, IgA, IgD, or IgE, respectively. Within light and heavy chains, the
variable and constant regions are joined by a "J" region of about 12 or more amino acids,
with the heavy chain also including a "D" region of about 10 more amino acids. (See
generally Fundamental Immunology (Paul, ed., Raven Press, N.Y., 2nd ed. 1989), Ch. 7).
[0046]    An immunoglobulin light or heavy chain variable region (also referred to herein as a
"light chain variable domain" ("VL domain") or "heavy chain variable domain" ("VH
domain"), respectively) consists of a "framework" region interrupted by three hypervariable
regions, also called "complementarity determining regions" or "CDRs." The framework
regions serve to align the CDRs for specific binding to an epitope of an antigen. Thus, the
term "hypervariable region" or "CDR" refers to the amino acid residues of an antibody that
are primarily responsible for antigen binding. From amino-terminus to carboxyl-terminus,
both VL and VH domains comprise the following framework (FR) and CDR regions: FRI,
CDRI, FR2, CDR2, FR3, CDR3, FR4. The assignment of amino acids to each domain is in
accordance with the definitions of Kabat, Sequences of Proteinsof ImmunologicalInterest
(National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD, 1987 and 1991), or Chothia & Lesk, J.Mol.
Biol. 196:901-917, 1987; Chothia et al., Nature 342:878-883, 1989. Kabat also provides a
widely used numbering convention (Kabat numbering) in which corresponding residues
                                               12

between different heavy chains or between different light chains are assigned the same
number. CDRs 1, 2, and 3 of a VL domain are also referred to herein, respectively, as CDR
LI, CDR-L2, and CDR-L3; CDRs 1, 2, and 3 of a VH domain are also referred to herein,
respectively, as CDR-H1, CDR-H2, and CDR-H3.
[0047]    Unless the context dictates otherwise, the term "monoclonal antibody" as used
herein is not limited to antibodies produced through hybridoma technology. The term
"monoclonal antibody" refers to an antibody that is derived from a single clone, including
any eukaryotic, prokaryotic, or phage clone, and not the method by which it is produced.
[0048]    The term "chimeric antibody" refers to an antibody having variable domains derived
from a first species and constant regions derived from a second species. Chimeric
immunoglobulins or antibodies can be constructed, for example by genetic engineering, from
immunoglobulin gene segments belonging to different species. The term "humanized
antibody," as defined infra, is not intended to encompass chimeric antibodies. Although
humanized antibodies are chimeric in their construction (i.e., comprise regions from more
than one species of protein), they include additional features (i.e., variable regions comprising
donor CDR residues and acceptor framework residues) not found in chimeric
immunoglobulins or antibodies, as defined herein.
[0049]    The term "humanized VH domain" or "humanized VL domain" refers to an
immunoglobulin VH or VL domain comprising some or all CDRs entirely or substantially
from a non-human donor immunoglobulin (e.g., a mouse or rat) and variable region
framework sequences entirely or substantially from human immunoglobulin sequences. The
non-human immunoglobulin providing the CDRs is called the "donor" and the human
immunoglobulin providing the framework is called the "acceptor." In some instances,
humanized antibodies may retain non-human residues within the human variable domain
framework regions to enhance proper binding characteristics (e.g., mutations in the
frameworks may be required to preserve binding affinity when an antibody is humanized).
[0050]    A "humanized antibody" is an antibody comprising one or both of a humanized VH
domain and a humanized VL domain. Immunoglobulin constant region(s) need not be
present, but if they are, they are entirely or substantially from human immunoglobulin
constant regions.
[0051]    A CDR in a humanized antibody is "substantially from" a corresponding CDR in a
non-human antibody when at least 60%, at least 85%, at least 90%, at least 95% or 100% of
                                                  13

corresponding residues (as defined by Kabat) are identical between the respective CDRs. In
particular variations of a humanized VH or VL domain in which CDRs are substantially from
a non-human immunoglobulin, the CDRs of the humanized VH or VL domain have no more
than six (e.g., no more than five, no more than four, no more than three, no more than two, or
nor more than one) amino acid substitutions across all three CDRs relative to the
corresponding non-human VH or VL CDRs. The variable region framework sequences of an
antibody VH or VL domain or, if present, a sequence of an immunoglobulin constant region,
are "substantially from" a human VH or VL framework sequence or human constant region,
respectively, when at least 85%, at least 90%, at least 95%, or 100% of corresponding
residues defined by Kabat are identical. Hence, all parts of a humanized antibody, except
possibly the CDRs, are entirely or substantially from corresponding parts of natural human
immunoglobulin sequences.
[0052]     Specific binding of an antibody to its target antigen means an affinity of at least 106,
10 , 108, 109 , or 1010 M-1. Specific binding is detectably higher in magnitude and
   7
distinguishable from non-specific binding occurring to at least one unrelated target. Specific
binding can be the result of formation of bonds between particular functional groups or
particular spatial fit (e.g., lock and key type) whereas nonspecific binding is usually the result
of van der Waals forces. Specific binding does not, however, necessarily imply that a
monoclonal antibody binds one and only one target.
[0053]     With regard to proteins as described herein, reference to amino acid residues
corresponding to those specified by SEQ ID NO includes post-translational modifications of
such residues.
[0054]     The term "stabilized," in the context of antibody-drug conjugate formulations as
described herein, refers to a formulation in which the antibody-drug conjugate therein
essentially retains its physical and chemical identity and integrity upon storage. Various
analytical techniques for measuring protein stability are available in the art (see, e.g., Peptide
and Protein Drug Delivery, 247-301 (Vincent Lee Ed., Marcel Dekker, Inc., New York,
N.Y., Pubs. 1991) and Jones, Adv. Drug Delivery Rev. 10:29-90, 1993). Exemplary
techniques for measuring protein stability are also described herein (see Examples, infra).
Stability can be measured at a selected temperature for a selected time period. For rapid
testing, the formulation may be kept at a higher or "accelerated" temperature, for example,
40'C for 1 week to 1 month or more at which time stability is measured. In exemplary
                                                  14

embodiments, the formulation is refractory to the formation of by-products of the component
antibody protein, for example, high molecular weight aggregation products, low molecular
weight degradation or fragmentation products, acidic species, chemical degradants, or
mixtures thereof. The term "stability" refers to the length of time over which a molecular
species such as an antibody retains its original chemical identity, for example, primary,
secondary, and/or tertiary structure.
[0055]    The term "by-product" includes undesired products, which detract or diminish the
proportion of therapeutic antibody-drug conjugate in a given formulation. Typical by
products include aggregates of the antibody-drug conjugate, fragments of the antibody-drug
conjugate (for example, produced by degradation of the antibody protein by deamidation or
hydrolysis or chemical degradation and fragmentation of the drug-linker), acidic variants of
the antibody-drug conjugate, or mixtures thereof.
[0056]    An antibody-drug conjugate (ADC) is an antibody conjugated to a cytotoxic drug
typically via a linker. The linker may comprise a cleavable unit or may be non-cleavable.
Cleavable units include, for example, disulfide containing linkers that are cleavable through
disulfide exchange, acid-labile linkers that are cleavable at acidic pH, and linkers that are
cleavable by hydrolases (e.g., glycosyl hydrolases such as glucuronidases), esterases, and
peptidases (e.g., peptide linkers and glucuronide linkers). Non-cleavable linkers are believed
to release drug via a proteolytic antibody degradation mechanism.
[0057]    The term "high molecular weight aggregates" includes aggregates of the antibody
drug conjugate (ADC), as well as aggregates comprising fragments of the ADC (for example,
produced by degradation of the polypeptide by, for example, hydrolysis) and aggregates
comprising a mixtures of the ADC and such fragments. The presence of high molecular
weight aggregates may be determined by, e.g., size-exclusion chromatography (SEC).
Typically, high molecular weight aggregates are complexes which have a molecular weight
which is greater than the therapeutic monomer ADC. In the case of an ADC in which the
antibody component is a tetramer consisting of two identical pairs of immunoglobulin chains,
each pair having one light chain and one heavy chain (e.g., of the IgG isotype), such
aggregates are greater than about 150 kD. In the case, however, of an ADC in which the
antibody component has a molecular weight greater than or less than that of a typical
monospecific, tetrameric antibody protein consisting of two immunoglobulin light chains and
                                                15

two immunoglobulin heavy chains (e.g., single-chain antibodies or bispecific antibodies), the
size of such aggregates can vary accordingly.
[0058]     The term "low molecular weight degradation product" includes, for example,
fragments of the antibody-drug conjugate (ADC) such as, for example, fragments brought
about by deamidation or hydrolysis. The presence of low molecular weight degradation
products may be determined by, e.g., size-exclusion chromatography (SEC). Typically, low
molecular weight degradation products have a molecular weight that is less than the
therapeutic monomer ADC. In the case of an ADC in which the antibody component is a
tetramer consisting of two identical pairs of immunoglobulin chains, each pair having one
light chain and one heavy chain (e.g., of the IgG isotype), such degradation products are less
than about 150 kD. In the case, however, of an ADC in which the antibody component has a
molecular weight greater than or less than that of a typical monospecific, tetrameric antibody
protein consisting of two immunoglobulin light chains and two immunoglobulin heavy chains
(e.g., single-chain antibodies or bispecific antibodies), the size of such degradation products
can vary accordingly.
[0059]     An "acidic variant" of an antibody-drug conjugate (ADC) of interest is an ADC
variant that is more acidic than the experimental PI of the ADC. The presence of acid
variants may be determined by, e.g., cation exchange chromatography or imaging capillary
IEF (icIEF). An example of an acidic variant is a deamidated variant. Deamidated variants
of a protein molecule are those in which one or more neutral amide side chain(s) have been
converted to a residue with an overall acidic character (e.g., one or more asparagine
residue(s) of the original polypeptide have been converted to aspartate).
[0060]     The term "diluent" as used herein refers to a solution suitable for altering or
achieving an exemplary or appropriate concentration or concentrations as described herein.
[0061]     The term "container" refers to something into which an object or liquid can be
placed or contained, e.g., for storage (for example, a holder, receptacle, vessel, or the like).
[0062]     The term "administration route" includes art-recognized administration routes for
delivering a therapeutic protein such as, for example, parenterally, intravenously,
intramuscularly, or subcutaneously. For administration of an ADC for the treatment of
cancer, administration into the systemic circulation by intravenous or subcutaneous
administration may be desired. For treatment of a cancer characterized by a solid tumor,
administration can be localized directly into the tumor, if so desired.
                                                 16

[0063]    The term "treatment" refers to the administration of a therapeutic agent to a patient,
who has a disease with the purpose to cure, heal, alleviate, delay, relieve, alter, remedy,
ameliorate, improve or affect the disease.
[0064]    The term "patient" includes human and other mammalian subjects that receive
either prophylactic or therapeutic treatment.
[0065]    The term "effective amount," "effective dose," or "effective dosage" refers to an
amount that is sufficient to achieve or at least partially achieve the desired effect, e.g.,
sufficient to inhibit the occurrence or ameliorate one or more symptoms of a disease or
disorder. An effective amount of a pharmaceutical composition is administered in an
"effective regime." The term "effective regime" refers to a combination of amount of the
composition being administered and dosage frequency adequate to accomplish prophylactic
or therapeutic treatment of the disease or disorder.
[0066]    The term "dosage unit form" (or "unit dosage form") as used herein refers to a
physically discrete unit suitable as unitary dosages for a patient to be treated, each unit
containing a predetermined quantity of active compound (an ADC in accordance with the
present invention) calculated to produce the desired therapeutic effect in association with the
required pharmaceutical carrier, diluent, or excipient. The specification for the dosage unit
forms of the invention are dictated by and directly dependent on the unique characteristics of
the active compound and the particular therapeutic effect to be achieved, and the limitations
inherent in the art of compounding such an active compound for the treatment of patients.
[0067]    Actual dosage levels of an an ADC in a formulation of the present invention may be
varied so as to obtain an amount of the ADC that is effective to achieve a desired therapeutic
response for a particular patient, composition, and mode of administration, without being
toxic to the patient. The selected dosage level will depend upon a variety of pharmacokinetic
factors including the activity of the particular compositions of the present invention
employed, the route of administration, the time of administration, the rate of excretion of the
particular compound being employed, the duration of the treatment, other drugs, compounds
and/or materials used in combination with the particular compositions employed, the age,
sex, weight, condition, general health and prior medical history of the patient being treated,
and like factors well-known in the medical arts.
[0068]    A "cytotoxic effect" refers to the depletion, elimination and/or the killing of a target
cell. A "cytotoxic agent" refers to an agent that has a cytotoxic effect on a cell.
                                                 17

[0069]     A "cytostatic effect" refers to the inhibition of cell proliferation. A "cytostatic
agent" refers to an agent that has a cytostatic effect on a cell, thereby inhibiting the growth
and/or expansion of a specific subset of cells.
[0070]     Two amino acid sequences have "100% amino acid sequence identity" if the amino
acid residues of the two amino acid sequences are the same when aligned for maximal
correspondence. Sequence comparisons can be performed using standard software programs
such as those included in the LASERGENE bioinformatics computing suite, which is
produced by DNASTAR (Madison, Wisconsin). Other methods for comparing two
nucleotide or amino acid sequences by determining optimal alignment are well-known to
those of skill in the art. (See, e.g., Peruski and Peruski, The Internet and the New Biology:
Toolsfor Genomic and MolecularResearch (ASM Press, Inc. 1997); Wu et al. (eds.),
"Information Superhighway and Computer Databases of Nucleic Acids and Proteins," in
Methods in Gene Biotechnology 123-151 (CRC Press, Inc. 1997); Bishop (ed.), Guide to
Human Genome Computing (2nd ed., Academic Press, Inc. 1998).) Two amino acid
sequences are considered to have "substantial sequence identity" if the two sequences have at
least 80%, at least 85%, at least 90%, or at least 95% sequence identity relative to each other.
[0071]     Percentage sequence identities are determined with antibody sequences maximally
aligned by the Kabat numbering convention. After alignment, if a subject antibody region
(e.g., the entire variable domain of a heavy or light chain) is being compared with the same
region of a reference antibody, the percentage sequence identity between the subject and
reference antibody regions is the number of positions occupied by the same amino acid in
both the subject and reference antibody region divided by the total number of aligned
positions of the two regions, with gaps not counted, multiplied by 100 to convert to
percentage.
[0072]     The term "pharmaceutical formulation" refers to a preparation which is in such form
as to permit the biological activity of the active ingredient to be effective (when administered
to a subject), and which contains no additional components which are unacceptably toxic to a
subject to which the formulation would be administered. Such formulations are sterile.
[0073]     Compositions or methods "comprising" one or more recited elements may include
other elements not specifically recited.
[0074]     Reference to a numerical range herein (e.g., "X to Y" or "from X to Y") includes
the endpoints defining the range and all values falling within the range.
                                                  18

[0075]    Unless otherwise apparent from the context, when a value is expressed as "about" X
or "approximately" X, the stated value of X will be understood to be accurate to ±10%.
DESCRIPTION OF ILLUSTRATIVE EMBODIMENTS
Benzodiazepine Antibody-Drug Conjugates
[0076]    A benzodiazepine antibody-drug conjugate refers to an antibody conjugated to a
benzodiazepine dimer typically, although not necessarily, via a linker. A benzodiazepine
drug-linker refers to a benzodiazepine dimer attached to a linker.   The linker component of
the benzodiazepine drug-linker will typically have a reactive group for attachment to the
antibody. A benzodiazepine compound has at its core a benzene ring fused to a diazepine
ring. Exemplary ring structures for the benzene ring fused to a diazepine ring are as follows:
 3,4-dihydro-1H-benzo[e][1,4]diazepin-5(2H)-one        3H-benzo[e][1,4]diazepin-5(4H)-one
                              H
                              N                                           N
                                    NH                                          NH
                                       0                                0
Benzodiazepine compounds differ in the number, type and position of substituents on both
rings and in the degree of saturation of the diazepine ring. They also differ in the number of
additional rings fused to the benzene and / or diazepine ring. Included within the definition
of benzodiazepine compounds are those in which the benzene or diazepine ring is fused to
one or more aromatic or non-aromatic carbocyclic or heterocylic rings. A benzodiazepine
dimer is a compound that has been formed by joining two benzodiazepine units together, via
a tether.
[0077]    The antibody component of the benzodiazepine antibody-drug conjugate can be
conjugated to one or more benzodiazepine drug-linkers e.g., 1 to 20 drug-linkers. In some
aspects, the antibody component of the benzodiazepine antibody-drug conjugate will be
conjugated to 1, 2, 3, or 4 drug-linkers.   Conjugation can be via different positions on the
                                                19

antibody. In some aspects, conjugation will be via a sulfur atom of a cyteine residue. In
some aspects the cysteine residue is a cysteine residue of the interchain disulfides of the
antibody. In other aspects, the cysteine residue is engineered into the antibody. In some
aspects, the cysteine residue is engineered into the antibody at position 239 (human IgG1) as
determined by the EU index (Kabat, Sequences of Proteins of Immunological Interest
(National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD, 1987 and 1991)). In some aspects, there will
be an average 2 drug-linkers per antibody in a benzodiazepine ADC mixture or formulation.
and the drug-linkers will be conjugated to a cysteine residue introduced into the antibody at
postiion 239 (human IgG1) as determined by the EU index (Kabat, Sequences of Proteinsof
Immunological Interest (National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD, 1987 and 1991)).
[0078]    In one aspect, the benzodiazepine dimer is a pyrrolobenzodiazepine (PBD) dimer.
PBDs are of the general structure:
                                                10
                                         911
                                    8                   H
                                        A        B 11a
                                   7                 N CI
                                         6    6              2
                                               0       3
PBDs differ in the number, type and position of substituents, in both their aromatic A rings
and pyrrolo C rings, and in the degree of saturation of the C ring. In the B-ring there is either
an imine (N=C), a carbinolamine(NH-CH(OH)), or a carbinolamine ether (NH-CH(OR)) at
the N10-C 11 position, which is the electrophilic centre responsible for alkylating DNA. All
of the known natural products have an (S)-configuration at the chiral C1Ia position which
provides them with a right-handed twist when viewed from the C ring towards the A ring.
This gives them the appropriate three-dimensional shape for isohelicity with the minor
groove of B-form DNA, leading to a snug fit at the binding site. The ability of PBDs to form
an adduct in the minor groove enables them to interfere with DNA processing, hence their
use as antitumour agents. The biological activity of these molecules can be potentiated by,
for example, joining two PBD units together (e.g., through C8/C'-hydroxyl functionalities via
a flexible alkylene linker). The PBD dimers are thought to form sequence-selective DNA
lesions such as the palindromic 5'-Pu-GATC-Py-3' interstrand cross-link which is thought to
be mainly responsible for their biological activity.
[0079]    Exemplary PBD dimers to be used as conjugates are as follows:
                                                20

                H    -N        0--       oN_          H
                                       MeO          N~
                ~N             OMe
         D
   MeO                 0       PBD Dimerl      0              NH 2
              H  _N         0
               _CNOMe                    Me0         N
MeO                0          PBD Dimer 2         0              NH2
      H   _N                            NH
                                        N-~0
  s     N           OMe    Me0            N
               0    PBD Dimer          0~              NH 2
             ~ N              OMe   MeO           N
                     0         PBD Dimer 4   0              y   NH2
 MeO -
             H N                               N-    H
          s  N           OMe          Me0         N
       \ I      0               PBD Dimer 5   0               NH
                                   21

               HN                                     N-     H
           SN-              OMe           MeO~            N
                  0            PBD Dimer 6           0NH
                H N                                   N-      H
                           OMe
                          HoN             MeON
  MO0                               PBD Dimer 7       0     ~             NH2
                  [t   N                                      N- H
                          NI~'      Me          MeO             N
          I2'-'          0            PBD Dimer 8            0              00H 3
                   H N                               N_     H
                    N       HOMe         MeO            N~
        1              0            PBD Dimer 9     0              " O
                                                                     O
  H2N
                       N        ,,,               j     N-     H
                     N-OMe                 MeO              N~
                     0         PBD Dimerl10            0                O
H2N                                                                     O
                H  N                                   N-H
                N-          OMe           MeO              N
    H 2 N0                           PBD Dimerl11     0          ~     0 2
                                      22

                 H    N                               _    H
                       NOMe               MeO          N
                                   PBD Dimerl12
 H2 NC    -C                                                        0 20H 3
                    H     N     0,,--0N                 H
                       N-      OMe MeO                N~
                            0     PBD Dimer3      0           I~0   2  H
     H2 N                                                         C2H
                   H     N     0-                      NH
                      N-     0Me            Me0           N
H2N, _                    0         PBD Dimer 14     0            Z    02 H
                      H                                N-    H
                     N-        OMe          Me0           N
HN                        0          PBD Dimerl15     0
                   H    N                           NH
                                                   N-~0
                         N0     Me      MeO           N
               I0             PBD Dimerl16        0Oe
             NH
                                                                        ~or
                                       23

                                              H -N                                      N-   H
                                                 N            OMe          MeO             N
                                                     0                                 0
                                  O      '                       PBDDimer17                     / NH 2
or a salt thereof (e.g., pharmaceutically acceptable salt).
[0080]     The PBD dimer can be linked to the antibody at any position suitable for
conjugation to a linker. For example, in some embodiments, the PBD dimer will have a
substituent at the C2 position (e.g., a primary or secondary amine) that provides an anchor for
linking the compound to the antibody. The C2 position is marked by an arrow in the
exemplary structures shown above. In alternative embodiments, the N1O position of the
PBD dimer will provide the anchor for linking the compound to the antibody.
[0081]     In another aspect, the benzodiazepine dimer is an indolinobenzodiazepine dimer or
an oxazolidinobenzodiazepine dimer. Indolinobenzodiazepines (IBDs) and
oxazolidinobenzodiazepines (OBDs) are of the general structure:
                                                24

                                          N__ _
                                A           B
                                                 N    C
                                         0
                                                          D
                              A           B
                                                      C        D
                                       O                            ,and
                                                    NC
                                       A           B
                                                        N        OI
                                                  ""r
                                                0
[0082] Indolinobenzodiazepines and oxazolidinobenzodiazepines differ in the number, type
and position of substituents in their rings. As with the PBDs, two indolinobenzodiazepines
or two oxazolidinobenzodiazepines units can be joined together to form dimers, e.g., through
ether functionalities between the A rings of two monomeric units. As with the PBDs, an
indolinobenzodiazepine dimer or oxazolidinobenzodiazepine dimer can be linked to an
antibody at any position suitable for conjugation to a linker.
[0083] A benzodiazepine ADC that comprises a PBD dimer as the drug component can also
be referred to as a PBD ADC.      Similarly, a benzodiazepine ADC that comprises an
indolinobenzodiazepine dimer as the drug component can be referred to as an IBD ADC and
an ADC that comprises an oxazolidinobenzodiazepine dimer as the drug component can be
referred as an OBD ADC. Typically benzodiazepine ADCs, including PBD ADCs, IBD
ADCs and OBD ADCs, comprise a linker between the benzodiazepine drug and the antibody.
The linker may comprise a cleavable unit (e.g., an amino acid or a contiguous sequence of
amino acids that is a target substrate for an enzyme) or a non-cleavable linker (e.g., linker
released by degradation of the antibody). The linker may further comprise a maleimide
                                                 25

group for linkage to the antibody, e.g., maleimidocaproyl. The linker may comprise an
alternative group for linkage to an antibody, including for example, a N-hydroxyusccinimidyl
ester or a labile disulfide, including, for example, a thiopyridyl disulfide. PBD dimers, IBD
dimers, OBD dimers, linkers, and conjugates thereof are known in the art. See for example,
WO 2010/091150, WO 2012/112708 , WO 2012/128868, WO 2011/023883, and WO
2009/016516.
[0084] An exemplary linker for linkage of the antibody to the benzodiazepine dimer,
including any of those described herein, is as follows wherein the wavy line indicates the site
of attachment to the drug and the antibody is linked via the maleimide group.
                                0
                           ON      NN                 O
                           0                    H     0
[0085] Exemplary PBD-based antibody-drug conjugates include antibody-drug conjugates as
shown below:
                                                H,   -N                          N-   H
Ab
                                            N   ,  N           OMe    MeO           N
        A   b                       O
                         N            N                                        OOMe
   o                     H   O        H
                                                                                                P
or a salt thereof (e.g., pharmaceutically acceptable salt), wherein Ab is an antibody (e.g.,
monoclonal antibody) and drug-loading is represented by p, the number of drug-linker
molecules per antibody. Depending on the context, p can represent the average number of
drug-linker molecules per antibody, also referred to the average drug loading. P ranges from
1 to 20 and is preferably from 1 to 8. In some aspects, when p represents the average drug
loading, p ranges from about 2 to about 5. In some aspects, p is about 2, about 3, about 4, or
about 5. In some aspects, the antibody is conjugated to the drug linker via a sulfur atom of a
cyteine residue. In some aspects the cysteine residue is a cysteine residue of the interchain
disulfides of the antibody. In other aspects the cysteine residue is engineered into the
antibody. In some aspects, the cysteine residue is engineered into the antibody at position
239 (IgGI) as determined by the EU index (Kabat, Sequences of Proteinsof Immunological
                                                26

Interest (National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD, 1987 and 1991)). In some such
aspects, p is about 2. Methods of making such ADCs are known in the art (see, for example,
International Publication No. W02011/130613).
Conjugation Reaction
[0086] The present invention is directed, inter alia, to methods for the removal of
benzodiazepine drug- related impurities from a mixture comprising benzodiazepine ADCs
and benzodiazepine-related impurities. A benzodiazepine drug-related impurity is any drug
related impurity arising from the conjugation reaction of an antibody to a benzodiazepine
dimer or benzodiazepine drug-linker. Benzodiazepine drug-related impurities can include,
for example, benzodiazepine dimer free drugs, benzodiazepine drug-linkers, quenched
benzodiazepine drug-linkers, or benzodiazepine drug-linker degradation products.
Benzodiazepine drug-related impurities are not benzodiazepine drugs conjugated to
antibodies or drug-linkers conjugated to antibodies.
[0087] In some aspects of the present invention, an antibody is contacted with a
benzodiazepine drug-linker under conditions sufficient to form a mixture comprising
benzodiazepine ADCs and benzodiazepine drug-related impurities (also referred to herein as
a conjugation reaction mixture). In other aspects, an antibody-linker (antibody conjugated to
a linker) is contacted with a benzodiazepine free drug under conditons sufficient to form a
mixture comprising benzodiazepine ADCs and benzodiazepine drug-related impurities (also
referred to herein as a conjugation reaction mixture). In other aspects, an antibody-linker is
contacted with a benzodiazepine drug-linker under conditions sufficient to form a mixture
comprising benzodiazepine ADCs and benzodiazepine drug-related impurities (also referred
to herein as a conjugation reaction mixture). General methods of conjugating antibodies to
linkers or drug-linkers are known in the art and are not described herein in detail. In some
aspects, conjugation will be to the antibody's lysine residues. In other aspects, conjugation
will be to a native or engineered cysteine present on the antibody (e.g., cysteine of an inter
chain disulfide or cysteine residue introduced into the heavy or light chain of the antibody).
In some aspects, the conjugation will be to an engineered cysteine present on the antibody,
the antibody will be reduced prior to contact with the benzodiazepine drug-linker, the
antibody will be partially re-oxidized (i.e., re-oxidized as to the inter-chain disulfides but not
as to the introduced cysteine) and the benzodiazepine drug-linker will be conjugated to the
                                                 27

engineered cysteine on the partially re-oxidized antibody. In some such aspects, the
engineered cysteine will be at position 239 (IgGi, EU index numbering as set forth in Kabat).
[0088] One of skill in the art will appreciate that the conditions used for conjugating the
antibody or antibody-linker to the drug or drug-linker will depend, in part, on the identity of
the drug and linker. In general, conjugation reactions are conducted at a temperature of from
about 00 C to about 40'C. In some embodiments, the conjugation reaction is conducted at
about 40 C. In some embodiments, the conjugation reaction is conducted at about 250 C. In
some embodiments, the conjugation reaction is conducted at about 37 0 C. The conjugation
reactions can be conducted for any suitable length of time. In general, the conjugation
reaction mixtures are incubated under suitable conditions for anywhere between a few
minutes and several hours. The reactions can be conducted, for example, for about 1 minute,
or about 5 minutes, or about 30 minutes, or about 1        hours, or about 4 hours, or about 12
hours, or about 24 hours.    In general, conjugation reaction mixtures are formed with a pH
ranging from about 6 to about 9 or from about 7 to about 8. Various buffering agents can be
used to maintain a particular pH. Examples of suitable buffering agents include, but are not
limited to, 2-(N-morpholino)ethanesulfonic acid (MES), 2-[4-(2-hydroxyethyl)piperazin-1
yl]ethanesulfonic acid (HEPES), 3-morpholinopropane-1-sulfonic acid (MOPS), 2-amino-2
hydroxymethyl-propane-1,3-diol (TRIS), sodium citrate, sodium acetate, and sodium borate.
Cosolvents (e.g., dimethyl acetamide, propylene glycol, dimethylsulfoxide,
dimethylformamide, ethanol, methanol, tetrahydrofuran, acetone, and acetic acid), salts (e.g.,
NaCl, KCl, CaCl 2, and salts of Mn2+and Mg 2+), chelators (e.g., ethylene glycol-bis(2
aminoethylether)-N,N,N',N'-tetraacetic acid (EGTA), 2-({2-[Bis(carboxymethyl)amino]ethyl            I
(carboxymethyl)amino)acetic acid (EDTA), and 1,2-bis(o-aminophenoxy)ethane-N,N,N,N
tetraacetic acid (BAPTA)) can also be included as necessary. Buffers, cosolvents, salts, and
chelators can be used at any suitable concentration, which can be readily determined by one
of skill in the art. In general, buffers, cosolvents, salts, and chelators are included in reaction
mixtures at concentrations ranging from about 1 pM to about 1 M or even higher (e.g., 0-50%
v/v depending on the co-solvent). Any suitable amount of benzodiazepine drug or drug
linker can be used for conjugation.
[0089] In some aspects, following the conjugation reaction (e.g., conjugation of the antibody
to the drug-linker), and prior to tangential flow filtration, excess benzodiazepine drug-related
impurities will be made unreactive by using a quenching agent. A quenching agent is a
                                                 28

reagent, other than an antibody, that is capable of abolishing the reactivity of a reactive
moiety by covalently binding to the reactive moiety. One of skill in the art will appreciate
that the quenching agent will be chosen based on the nature of the drug or linker. For
example, a thiol-containing agent such as such as B-mercapto ethanol or N-acetylcysteine can
be used to quench excess drug-linker compound containing a maleimido group or another
thiol reactive group. An amine such as glycine can be used to quench excess linker-drug
compound containing an N-hydroxysuccinimidyl ester. Typically, the quenching agent is
used in excess with respect to the antibody and the drug-linker.
[0090] In some aspects, the benzodiazepine drug-related impurity will be a quenched
benzodiazepine drug-linker. A quenched conjugation reaction mixture refers to a reaction
mixture following the conjugation reaction (e.g., conjugation of the antibody to the drug
linker, the antibody-linker to the drug-linker, or the antibody-linker to the drug), introduction
of the quenching agent, and quenching of benzodiazepine drug-related impurities. Typically,
the term quenched conjugation reaction mixture refers to the mixture prior to any purification
steps.
[0091] The benzodiazepine dimers of the present invention are hydrophobic in nature.         The
present inventors have surprisingly discovered that highly hydrophobic benzodiazepine drug
related impurities can be difficult to remove from ADC mixtures even in instances wherein
the benzodiazepine drug-related impurity and ADC are solubilized in the ADC mixture. The
present inventions have discovered that benzodiazepine drug-related impurities having a
SlogP value of less than 7.50 are easier to remove from an ADC mixture using the present
methods than benzodiazepine drug-related impurities having a SlogP value of greater than
7.50.    Accordingly, in preferred embodiments, the benzodiazepine drug-related impurity
will have a SlogP value of no more than 7.50, more preferably a SlogP value of no more than
7.0, even more preferably a SlogP value of no more than 6.5 or 6.0, or even 5.8.
[0092] The present inventors have further discovered that quenching agents can be used to
lower the hydrophobicity of the benzodiazepine drug-related impurities thereby aiding in the
purification efforts. By selecting quenching agents that act to reduce the hydrophobicity of
the compound to which they bind, the clearance of the benzodiazepine drug-related impurity
from the ADC mixture can be improved. Accordingly, particularly preferred quenching
agents are those that, when bound to the compound to be quenched, act to reduce the
hydrophobicity of the resultant compound.       For example, a particulary preferrred quenching
                                                29

agent will reduce the hydrophobocity of the benzodiazepine drug-related impurity (e.g., drug
or drug-linker) to which it is attached.   In some preferred aspects, the quenched
benzodiazepine drug-related impurity will have a SlogP value of no more than 7.50, more
preferably a SlogP value of no more than 7.0, even more preferably a SlogP value of no more
than 6.5 or 6.0, or even 5.8. In some such aspects, the unquenched benzodiazepine drug
related impurity had a higher SlogP value than the quenched benzodiazepine drug-related
impurity.
[0093] SlogP is a measure of hydrophobicity. SlogP is defined as the log of the
octanol/water partition coefficient (including implicit hydrogens) and can be calculated using
the program MOE from the Chemical Computing group (SlogP values calculated using
Wildman, S.A., Crippen, G.M.; Prediction of Physiochemical Parameters by Atomic
Contributions; J. Chem. Inf Comput. Sci. 39 No. 5 (1999) 868-873).
[0094] Quenching agents that act to reduce the hydrophobicity of the compound to which
they bind include charged quenching agents as well as uncharged quenching agents that are
nevertheless hydrophilic. Hydrophilic quenching agents include thiol-sugars such as thiol
glucose and PEGylated quenching agents such as PEGylated thiols.
[0095] As an example of a PBD drug-linker synthesis, WO 2011/130613 describes a method
of synthesizing a PBD drug-linker followed by conjugating the PBD drug-linker to an
antibody. Briefly, antibodies in PBS containing 50 mM sodium borate at pH 7.4 are reduced
with tris(carboxyethyl)phosphine hydrochloride (TCEP) at 37 'C.       Antibody inter-chain
disulfides are reformed by oxidation with dehydroascorbic acid, leaving the engineered
cysteines in the thiol form available for alkylation with drug linker. The reduced antibody is
then alkylated with  - 1.5 equivalents of maleimide drug-linker per antibody thiol, in the
presence of sufficient co-solvent to solubilize the drug-linker. After about 90 min, the
reaction is quenched by the addition of about 3 equivalents of N-acetyl cysteine relative to
the drug-linker.
[0096] Regardless of the conjugation methods used, benzodiazepine drug-related impurities
will be present in the mixture. Generally, but not always, benzodiazepine drug-related
impurities will be present in the mixture at levels of about 10 to 100 pM. In some aspects,
the benzodiazepine drug-related impurity will be a quenched or unquenched drug-linker, e.g.,
N-acetyl cysteine quenched drug-linker. In other aspects, the benzodiazepine drug-related
                                                30

impurity will be a quenched or unquenched free benzodiazepine drug (i.e., drug not attached
to a linker or antibody). In other aspects, the benzodiazepine drug-related impurity will be a
benzodiazepine drug-linker degradation product, such as, for example, an oxidized or
hydrolyzed derivative of the drug-linker.
Tangential Flow Filtration (TFF)
[0097] Typically following the conjugation reaction and optional quenching, the mixture
comprising benzodiazepine ADCs and benzodiazepine drug-related impurities is subjected to
tangential flow filtration (TFF). The present inventors have found that, in order to effectively
remove drug-related impurities from a mixture, it is preferable to use cyclodextrin and to
maintain a minimum level of cyclodextrin throughout the filtration. In order to optimize
clearance of the benzodiazepine related impurity, the cyclodextrin is maintained at a level
that substanitally maintains solubility of the components (e.g., ADC) of the ADC mixture.
The cyclodextrin is preferably added to the mixture prior to the start of the filtration process
(e.g., after conjugation and optional quenching but prior to initiation of tangential flow
filtration) or at the start (or initiation) of the filtration process. In some aspects, cyclodextrin
will be added to the ADC mixture after the start of the filtration process but prior to any
substantial removal of impurities. The solubilizing agent (e.g., cyclodextrin) is preferably
added to the mixture prior to subjecting it to tangential flow filtration. The level of
cyclodextrin is preferably maintained throughout the filtration at a minimum level.
[0098] The present inventors have found that cyclodextrin is a particularly advantageous
solubilizing agent to use as its addition not only improves the removal of benzodiazepine
drug-related impurities but its incoporation into the formulated drug-product improves
stability of the formulated product. Cyclodextrin can be added to the mixture comprising
benzodiazepine ADCs and benzodiazepine drug-related impurities following the conjugation
reaction and optional quenching.         In some aspects, at least about 1% w/v cyclodextrin (i.e.,
10 g per liter) is added to the conjugation reaction mixture. In some aspects, at least about
2% w/v cyclodextrin (i.e., 20 g per liter) is added to the conjugation reaction mixture. In
some aspects, at least about 3 % w/v cyclodextrin (i.e., 30 g per liter) is added to the
conjugation reaction mixture. In some aspects from about 1 % w/v cyclodextrin to about 10
% w/v cyclodextrin, from about 2 % w/v cyclodextrin to about 10 % w/v cyclodextrin, or
from about 3 % w/v cyclodextrin to about 10 % w/v cyclodextrin, or from about 3 % w/v
                                                     31

cyclodextrin to about 6 % w/v cyclodextrin or from about 3 % w/v cyclodextrin to about 4 %
w/v cyclodextrin is added to the cyclodextrin mixture.
[0099] Tangential flow filtration refers to a filtration process wherein the sample to be
purified is re-circulated tangentially past the surface of a semi-permeable membrane.
Macromolecules that are too large to pass through the membrane pores are retained ono the
upstream side (retentate side) of the membrane and molecules that are small emough to pass
through the pores pass through to the filtrate side. Generally, determination of which
molecules are removed in the filtrate and those molecules retained in the retentate is
dependent primarily on molecular weight, solubility, and filter pore size. Other factors such
as feed flow rate, trans-membrane pressure, membrance type or composition, concentration
of components in the fluid mixture, temperature and viscosity of the fluid mixture, can affect
the rate and degree of clearance. General methods for using tangential flow filtration devices
and performing tangetial flow filtration for clearing drug-related impurities from conjugation
reaction mixtures are known in the art and can be optimized using the teachings of the present
invention combined with the knowledge in the art for use in clearing benzodiazepine drug
related impurities.
[0100] In some aspects, the mode of tangential flow filtration will be diafiltration. During
diafiltration, buffer is introduced while filtrate is removed. Diafiltration can be, for example,
constant volume diafiltration or discontinuous diafiltration. In preferred embodiments, a
constant level of cyclodextrin is maintained throughout the diafiltration. In preferred
embodiments, cyclodextrin is added to the mixture comprising benzodiazepine ADCs and
benzodiazepine drug-related impurities prior to or at the start of the filtration process.    In
some aspects, a level of at least about 1% w/v cyclodextrin is maintained throughout the
filtration. In some such aspects, the ADC mixture is supplemented with cyclodextrin prior to
or at the start of the filtration process such that is has a concentration of at least about 1%
w/v cyclodextrin and the diafiltration buffer comprises at least about 1% w/v cyclodextrin.
In some aspects, a level of at least about 2% w/v cyclodextrin is maintained throughout the
filtration. In some such aspects, the ADC mixture is supplemented with cyclodextrin prior to
or at the start of the filtration process such that is has a concentration of at least about 2% w/v
cyclodextrin and the diafiltration buffer comprises at least about 2% w/v cyclodextrin. In
some aspects, a level of at least about 3% w/v cyclodextrin is maintained throughout the
filtration. In some such aspects, the ADC mixture is supplemented with cyclodextrin prior to
                                                  32

or at the start of the filtration process such that is has a concentration of at least about 3% w/v
cyclodextrin and the diafiltration buffer comprises at least about 3% w/v cyclodextrin. In
some aspects, a level of at least about 1%, at least about 2%, at least above 3% w/v
cyclodextrin is maintained throughout the filtration.       In some such aspects, the ADC mixture
is supplemented with cyclodextrin prior to or at the start of the filtration process such that is
has a concentration of at least about 1%, 2%, or 3% w/v cyclodextrin and the diafiltration
buffer comprises at least about 1%, 2%, or 3% w/v cyclodextrin. In other aspects, a level of
at from about 1 % w/v cyclodextrin to about 10 % w/v cyclodextrin, about 2 %w/v
cyclodextrin to about 10 %w/v cyclodextrin, or from about 3 % w/v cyclodextrin to about 10
% w/v cyclodextrin, or from about 3 % w/v cyclodextrin to about 6 % w/v cyclodextrin or
from about 3 % w/v cyclodextrin to about 4 % w/v cyclodextrin is maintained throughout the
filtration. Preferably, cyclodextrin is added to the ADC mixture prior to or at the start of the
filtration process although it is also contemplated that the cyclodextrin is first introduced into
the ADC mixture after the start of the filtration process but, preferably, prior to any
substantial removal of impurities. Addition of the cyclodextrin can be, for example, via the
diafiltration buffer. By the phrase "maintained throughout the filtration", it is mean that the
indicated concentration of cyclodextrin is present during the filtration process. In some
aspects, such as those wherein the cyclodextrin is added after the initation of the filtration
process (preferably prior to any substantial removal of impurities), the cyclodextrin will not
be present at the start of the filtration process but will be maintained at the indicated
concentration following introduction of the cyclodextrin.
[0101] As noted above, the diafiltration buffer can comprise at least about 1 %, at least about
2%, at least about 3 %w/v cyclodextrin, or at least about 4% w/v/ cyclodextrin. In some
aspects, the diafiltration buffer will contain from about 1 % w/v cyclodextrin to about 10 %
w/v cyclodextrin, about 2 % w/v cyclodextrin to about 10 % w/v cyclodextrin, or from about
3 % w/v cyclodextrin to about 10 %w/v cyclodextrin, or from about 3 % w/v cyclodextrin to
about 6 % w/v cyclodextrin or from about 3 % w/v cyclodextrin to about 4 % w/v
cyclodextrin. Typically, the diafiltration buffer will additionally comprise a buffering agent.
Suitable buffers include, but are not limited to, acetate buffers, phosphate buffers, succinate
buffers, histidine buffers, HEPES and MOPS. In one aspect, the buffering agent will be Tris
(2-amino-2-(hydroxymethyl)-1,3-propanediol).          Exemplary concentrations of buffers for the
diafiltration buffer include concentrations of from about 5mM to about 100 mM, about 50
                                                  33

mM, about 10 mM to about 40 mM, or about 20 mM. With certain embodiments, Tris is
included at about 5 mM to about 50 mM, about 10 mM to about 40 mM, or about 20 mM.
A suitable pH for a diafiltration buffer is generally in the range of about 6.0 to about 8.0 but
can be higher or lower. In some aspects, the pH is in the range of from about 6.5 to about 7.5
or from about 7 to 7.4. In some aspects the pH is about 7.3 or about 7.2.
[0102] In some aspects, when using a betacyclodextrin, a concentration of at least about 2 %,
at least about 3 % or at least about 4 % of cyclodextrin is maintained throughout the
filtration. In some aspects, when using a gamma cyclodextrin, a concentration of at least
about 1 % is maintained throughout the filtration.
[0103] The present invention provides methods for removing benzodiazepine drug-related
impurities from an ADC mixture using tangential flow filtration. In some aspects, the
tangential flow filtration device comprises a filtration holder having an inlet, a filtrate outlet
(also referred to as permeate outlet), a retentate outlet, a semi-permeable ultrafiltration
membrane, and a pump. The filtration membrane separates the holder into an upstream
compartment and a downstream compartment such that all filtrate must enter the inlet and
pass through the membrane before exiting the holder through the filtrate outlet. The
filtration membrane to be used can be made out of any material or a combination of materials
suitable for use with ADC mixtures. Exemplary membranes include ultrafiltration
membranes made out of regenerated cellulose or polyethersulfone (e.g., Millipore
ULTRACEL@ or BIOMAX@ Membranes). The pore size of the membrane refers to the
average size of pores in the filter. For use in the present invention, the membrane will
typically have a pore size of less than 100 kD, more typically less than about 50 kD, or about
30 kD.     Accordingly, in some aspects, the filtration membrane will be a regenerated
cellulose or polyethersulfone ultrafiltration membrane having a pore size less than 100 kD,
more typically less than about 50 kD, or about 30 kD.
[0104] In some aspects, the tangential flow filtration system will further comprise a sample
reservoir for holding the conjugation reaction mixture and a buffer reservoir in fluid
communication with the buffer reservoir. In some aspects, the purpose of the buffer is for
replacing the filtrate volume at the same rate as the filtrate flow such that the volume in the
system remains constant. The mixture to be purified will be pumped from the sample
reservoir, past the filtration membrane, and returned to the sample reservoir. In some aspects,
the flow path will contain a valve that can be used to constrict the return ot the mixture to the
                                                 34

sample reservoir. Partially closing the valve forces a fraction of the flow through the
membrane to waste (filtrate) while the bulk of the flow returns to the sample reservoir
(retentate). The filtrate going to waste contains buffer and those solute molecules that are
small enough to go through the pores in the membrane. Diafiltration buffer is added to the
system to replace the buffer lost as filtrate so the total volume in the system remains constant.
Since the diafiltration buffer does not contain the solute being removed, the concentration of
solute gradually drops.
[0105]     As described, in some aspects of the present invention, constant volume diafiltation
is the mode of tangential flow filtration that is used to purify the ADC mixture and clear the
benzodiazepine drug-related impurities. In constant-volume diafiltration, a diavolume refers
to the total solution volume at any one time, in particular the starting total mixture volume.
In some aspects, samples will be removed after one or more diavolumes in order to measure
the concentration of benzodiazepine drug-related impurities.        Diafiltration will typically be
run for a number of diavolumes that has been determined by previous experiment to provide
clearance to a desired target level. Typically, diafiltration will be terminated once the
concentration of benzodiazepine drug-related impurities has reached a target level. In some
aspects, a target clearance level is about 1 pM or less, preferably about 0.5 pM or less, 0.2
pM, or even 0.1 pM or less.
[0106]     In some aspects, the retentate will comprise about 3 mg/ml to about 10 mg/ml
benzodiazepine ADC, from about 10 mM to about 30 mM Tris, from about 3% to about 10%
w/v cyclodextrin at a pH of from about 6.5 to about 7.5.       In some aspects, the retentate will
comprise about 3 mg/ml benzodiazepine ADC, about 20 mM Tris, about 3% cyclodextrin or
about 4% cyclodextrin, at a pH of about 7.3.
Cyclodextrin
[0107] Cyclodextrins are non-reducing cyclic glucose oligosaccharides produced from starch.
There are three common cyclodextrins with 6, 7 or 8 glucose units (a-, P-, and 7-cyclodextrin
respectively) linked by a-1,4 glycosidic bonds. Cyclodextrins can act as molecular
containers by entrapping guest molecules in their internal cavity thereby forming inclusion
complexes.      The a-cyclodextrins have a s naller cavity whereas the       -, and 7-cyclodextrins
have larger cavities.
[0108]     Suitable cyclodextrins for use in the present invention include alpha, beta, and
gamma cyclodextrins, although beta and gamma cyclodextrins are preferred given their larger
                                                  35

internal cavities. Chemical modifications have been made to the cyclodextrins, particularly
the 3-cyclodextrins to improve the solubility of the parent cyclodextrin. Hydroxyethyl P
cyclodextrin, hydroxypropyl 3-cyclodextrin (e.g., 2-Hydroxypropyl- -cyclodextrin),
methylated 3-cyclodextrin, glucosyl 3-cyclodextrin, and sulfobutyl ether 3-cyclodextrin are
examples of cyclodextrins that have been chemically modified to improve their solubility. In
some aspects of the present invention, a 3-cyclodextrin including chemically modified 3
cyclodextrins will be used. In some aspects, the chemically modifed 3-cyclodextrin will be
hydroxypropyl 3-cyclodextrin or sulfobutylether 3-cyclodextrin. In some aspects, the
cyclodextrin will be a gamma cyclodextrin including chemically modifed gamma
cyclodextrins. In some aspects, cyclodextrin will be a hydroxypropyl cyclodextrin (e.g.,
HP4.3- -cyclodextrin, HP5.5-p-cyclodextrin, HP7.6- -cyclodextrin, and HP4.5-7
cyclodextrin). In other aspects, the cylodextrin will be a sulfobuytlether 3-cyclodextrins
(e.g., SBE6.6--cyclodextrin, SBE6.7--cyclodextrin, SBE6.8--cyclodextrin, SBE4.1 -
cyclodextrin, and SBE4.6Et3.5-p-cyclodextrin). In yet other aspects, the cylodextrin will be
a sulfobuytlether 7 -cyclodextrins (e.g., SBE4.3-7-cyclodextrin, SBE4.6-7-cyclodextrin,
SBE5.2-7-cyclodextrin, and SBE5.6Et6.3-7-cyclodextrin).       As used herein "a chemically
modified beta cyclodextrin" is a beta cyclodextrin that has been chemically modified to at
least have improved solubility as compared to its parent cyclodextrin (i.e., the unmodified
cyclodextrin).
Formulations
[0109]    The present invention provides mixtures comprising benzodiazepine ADCs and
benzodiazepine drug-related impurities (including conjugation reaction mixtures and
quenched conjugation reaction mixtures), TFF retentate formulations, and pharmaceutical
formulations comprising benzodiazepine ADCs and cyclodextrin. A TFF retentate
formulation refers to an ADC mixture that has been purified using TFF but has not been
finally formulated.
[0110]    Cyclodextrins are typically added to the ADC mixtures at levels of at least about 1%
w/v, at least about 2% w/v cyclodextrin, at least about 3% w/v cyclodextrin, or at least about
4% w/v cyclodextrin (e.g., at 1% w/v, 2% w/v, 3% w/v, or 4% w/v) In some aspects, the
present invention provides a conjugation reaction mixture comprising at least about 1%, at
                                               36

least about 2% w/v cyclodextrin, at least about 3% w/v cyclodextrin, at least about 3% w/v
cyclodextrin, a quenched conjugation reaction mixture comprising at least about 1%, at least
about 2% w/v cyclodextrin or at least about 3% w/v cyclodextrin, and/or a TFF retentate
formulation comprising at least about 1%, at least about 2% w/v cyclodextrin or at least about
3% w/v cyclodextrin. In some aspects, cyclodextrins are present in the ADC mixtures
(including conjugation reaction mixtures and quenched conjugation reaction mixtures) and
TFF retentate formulations at a level of at from about 2 % or about 3% w/v cyclodextrin to
about 30 % w/v cyclodextrin, from about 2 % or about 3% w/v cyclodextrin to about 15 %
w/v cyclodextrin, from about 2 % or about 3% w/v cyclodextrin to about 10 % w/v
cyclodextrin. In some aspects, whererein the cyclodextrin is a betacyclodextrin there is at
least about 2 % or about 3 % cyclodextrin in the ADC mixture or TFF retentate formulation.
In some aspects, whererein the cyclodextrin is a gamma cyclodextrin there is at least about 1
% or about 2 % cyclodextrin or about 3 % cyclodextrin in the ADC mixture or TFF retentate
formulation.
[0111]     Cyclodextrins are typically present in the pharmaceutical formulations at levels of
about 3% w/v cyclodextrin or greater. In some aspects, cyclodextrins are present in the
pharmaceutical formulations at a level of about 5% w/v or greater, or about 6% w/v or
greater. In some aspects, cyclodextrins are present in the pharmaceutical formulations at a
level of from 3 % w/v cyclodextrin, about 5 % w/v cyclodextrin, or about 6 % w/v
cyclodextrin to about 30% % w/v cyclodextrin, or from about 3 % w/v cyclodextrin, about 5
% w/v cyclodextrin, or about 6 % w/v cyclodextrin to about 15% % w/v cyclodextrin, or
from about 3 % w/v cyclodextrin, about 5 % w/v cyclodextrin, or about 6 % w/v cyclodextrin
to about 10% % w/v cyclodextrin, or from about 3 % w/v cyclodextrin, about 5 % w/v
cyclodextrin, or about 6 % w/v cyclodextrin to about 8% % w/v cyclodextrin. In some
embodiments, the cyclodextrin is present at a concentration of about 3% w/v. In other
embodiments, the cyclodextrin is present at a concentration of about 4% w/v. In yet other
embodiments, the cyclodextrin is present at a concentration of about 5% w/v, about 6% w/v,
about 7% w/v, or about 8% w/v. In some aspects, the pharmaceutical formulations described
herein comprise 1 pM or less, 0.5 pM or less, 0.1 pM or less or 0.05 PM or less
benzodiazepine drug-related impurities.
[0112]     In some aspects, the present invention provides benzodiazepine ADC
pharmaceutical formulations and TFF retentate formulations comprising 1 PM or less, 0.5
pM or less, 0.1 pM or less or 0.05 pM or less benzodiazepine drug-related impurities.
                                                37

Cyclodextrins can be present in such benzodiazepine ADC formulations, at a level of from
about 1%, about 2 % or about 3% w/v cyclodextrin to about 30 % w/v cyclodextrin, from
about 1%, about 2 % or about 3% w/v cyclodextrin to about 15 % w/v cyclodextrin, from
about 1%, about 2 % or about 3% w/v cyclodextrin to about 10 % w/v cyclodextrin.      In some
aspects, cyclodextrins are present in the benzodiazepine ADC pharmaceutical formulations
and TFF retentate formulations comprising 1 pM or less, 0.5 pM or less, 0.1 pM or less or
0.05 pM or less benzodiazepine drug-related impurities at a level of about 5% or greater, or
about 6% or greater. In some aspects, cyclodextrins are present in such formulations at a
level of from about 1%, about 2%, about 3 % w/v cyclodextrin, about 5 % w/v cyclodextrin,
or about 6 % w/v cyclodextrin to about 30% % w/v cyclodextrin, or from about 3 % w/v
cyclodextrin, about 5 % w/v cyclodextrin, or about 6 % w/v cyclodextrin to about 15% %
w/v cyclodextrin, or from about 3 % w/v cyclodextrin, about 5 % w/v cyclodextrin, or about
6 % w/v cyclodextrin to about 10% % w/v cyclodextrin, or from about 3 % w/v cyclodextrin,
about 5 % w/v cyclodextrin, or about 6 % w/v cyclodextrin to about 8% % w/v cyclodextrin.
In some embodiments, the cyclodextrin is present at a concentration of about 1% w/v. In
some embodiments, the cyclodextrin is present at a concentration of about 2% w/v. In some
embodiments, the cyclodextrin is present at a concentration of about 3% w/v. In other
embodiments, the cyclodextrin is present at a concentration of about 4% w/v. In yet other
embodiments, the cyclodextrin is present at a concentration of about 5% w/v, about 6% w/v,
about 7% w/v, or about 8% w/v.
Pharmaceutical Formulations
[0113]     The present invention provides pharmaceutical formulations comprising
benzodiazepine ADCs and cyclodextrin. The present inventors have discovered that
cyclodextrin-containing formulations containing about 2% w/v cyclodextrin or higher exhibit
a reduction in the rate and extent of aggregation as compared to formulations containing
0.5% w/v cyclodextrin or less in the formulation and exhibit a reduction of growth of acidic
species as compared to formulations containing no cyclodextrin. The present inventors have
also discovered that formulations containing about 6% or greater w/v cyclodextrin exhibit a
reduction in chemical degradation of the benzodiazepine drug-linker as compared to
formluations containing 2% or less w/v cyclodextrin in the formulation. Accordingly, the
present invention is based, in part, on the discovery that benzodiazepine ADCs comprising
about 6% w/v cyclodextrin exhibit improved stability as compared to formulations containing
                                                38

smaller amounts of cyclodextrin or not containing cyclodextrin at all. Improved stability can
be demonstrated, for example, by one or more of the following: (i) reduction of the rate and
extent of aggregation, (ii) reduction of growth of acidic species and (iii) reduction of the
chemical degradation of the drug. In certain aspects, the present invention provides stabilized
liquid or lyophilized benzodiazepine ADC formulations for therapeutic use. In particular,
provided are formulations that are stabilized such that a therapeutic benzodiazepine ADC is
stable over an extended period of time and can be administered through a variety of
administration routes. Such formulations are especially useful, for example, for
benzodiazepine ADCs destined for use in the treatment of a disease or disorder (e.g.,
treatment of a cancer) by exerting a cytotoxic or cytostatic effect on target cells expressing an
antigen recognized by the antibody component of the ADC.
[0114]    In one aspect, the present invention provides a benzodiazepine ADC formulation
including a benzodiazepine ADC, a cyclodextrin, and optionally at least one buffering agent,
where the buffering agent is present in an amount to maintain a physiologically suitable pH.
The cyclodextrin can be any of the cyclodextrins described herein but is preferably a beta or
gamma cyclodextrin and more preferably a beta cyclodextrin that has been chemically
modified in order to improves its solubility as compared to its parent molecule. In some
aspects, the cyclodextrin is a gamma cyclodextrin. In some aspects, the gamma cyclodextrin
has been chemically modified in order to improve its solubility as compared to its parent
molecule. Particularly preferred cyclodextrins are hydroxypropyl beta cyclodextrin or
sulfobutylether beta cyclodextrin. The cyclodextrin can be present in the formulation at any
of the concentrations described herein. In some aspects, the cyclodextrin will be a gamma
cyclodextrin (unmodified or chemically modified molecule) or a chemically modified beta
cyclodextrin (e.g., methylated beta cyclodextrin, glucosyl beta cyclodextrin, hydroxypropyl
beta cyclodextrin, or sulfobutyl beta cyclodextrin) present in the formulation at levels of
about 3% w/v, about 4% w/v, about 5% w/v, or about about 6% w/v or higher. In some
aspects, the cyclodextrin will be a gamma cyclodextrin (unmodified or chemically modified
molecule) or a chemically modified beta cyclodextrin (e.g., methylated beta cyclodextrin,
glucosyl beta cyclodextrin, hydroxypropyl beta cyclodextrin, or sulfobutyl beta cyclodextrin)
present in the formulation at levels of from 3 % w/v cyclodextrin, about 5 % w/v
cyclodextrin, or about 6 % w/v cyclodextrin to about 30% % w/v cyclodextrin, or from about
3 % w/v cyclodextrin, about 5 % w/v cyclodextrin, or about 6 % w/v cyclodextrin to about
15% % w/v cyclodextrin, or from about 3 % w/v cyclodextrin, about 5 % w/v cyclodextrin,
                                                39

or about 6 %w/v cyclodextrin to about 10% % w/v cyclodextrin, or from about 3 % w/v
cyclodextrin, about 5 %w/v cyclodextrin, or about 6 % w/v cyclodextrin to about 8% % w/v
cyclodextrin.
[0115]     As noted above, an aqueous benzodizepine ADC formulation of the present
invention optionally includes a buffering agent to maintain a physiologically suitable pH in
aqueous solution. A suitable pH for a stabilized aqueous formulation as described herein
includes, e.g., a pH in the range of about 6.0 to about 8.0, or from about 6.5 to about 7.5. In
certain embodiments, it may be desirable to formulate the ADC at a pH from about 6.8 to
about 7.5; more typically from about 7.0 to about 7.5, from about 7.1 to about 7.5, from about
7.2 to about 7.5, or from about 7.3 to about 7.5. In a particular variation, the pH is about 7.3.
In a particular variation, the pH is about 7.2. Suitable buffers include Tris (2-amino-2
(hydroxymethyl)-1,3-propanediol) and citrate, as well as other physiologically acceptable
buffers that are effective within the noted pH range and will allow the solution to reach
approximately physiological pH during formulation, including upon reconstitution of a
lyophilized formulation to form an aqueous solution as described herein. Examples of such
buffers include acetate, phosphate, succinate, and histidine. Exemplary concentrations of
buffers for formulations in accordance with the present invention are from about 5mM to
about 100 mM, about 50 mM, about 10 mM to about 40 mM, or about 20 mM. With certain
embodiments, Tris is included at about 5 mM to about 50 mM, about 10 mM to about 40
mM, or about 20 mM. Other suitable concentrations of buffers for formulations in
accordance with the present invention can be readily determined by one of ordinary skill in
the art.
[0116]     In certain variations, formulations - such as those suitable for lyophilization,
reconstituted from lyophilized form, or a lyophilized formulation for reconstitution into an
aqueous formulation as described herein - may contain one or more stabilizing agents to
protect the antibody-drug conjugate. A stabilizing agent is also referred to herein as a
lyoprotectant. Typically, a suitable stabilizing agent is a sugar or an amino acid. Exemplary
stabilizing agents include sucrose, trehalose, mannitol, sorbitol, dextrose, maltose, dextran,
arginine, glycine and histidine. Typically, the amount of stabilizing agent (e.g.,
lyoprotectant) in a formulation is such that, upon reconstitution, the resulting formulation will
be substantially isotonic. In addition, the amount of lyoprotectant must not be too low such
that an unacceptable amount of degradation/aggregation of the ADC occurs upon
lyophilization. Where the lyoprotectant is a sugar (e.g., sucrose or trehalose), exemplary
                                                 40

lyoprotectant concentrations in an aqueous formulation may range from about 1% to about
10% (w/v), more typically about 2% to about 8% (w/v), and even more typically about 4% to
about 8% (w/v). In a specific variation, the lyoprotectant is sucrose at a concentration of
about 6% (w/v).
[0117]     In some aspects, there is 0.5 M or less arginine in the formulation. In some aspects,
there is 0.2M or 0.1 M or less arginine in the formulation.    In some aspects, there is no
arginine in the formulation. In some aspects, there are no amino acids in the formulation.
[0118]     Additional excipients for use in the formulations include, for examples, salts (e.g.,
sodium chloride), surfactants, (e.g., polysorbate 80, polysorbate 20, poloxamers),
antioxidants (e.g, ascorbic acid, methionie, malic acid), and other excipients such as
polyethylene glycols, propylene glycols, carboxymethylcellulose, and pyrrolidone.
[0119]     The ADC concentration in a pharmaceutical formulation of the present invention
typically ranges from about 0.1 mg/ml or 0.5 mg/ml to about 50 mg/ml or from about 1
mg/ml to about 30 mg/ml. More typically, the ADC is present at a concentration of from
about 1 mg/ml to about 5 mg/ml, to about 10 mg/ml, or to about 15 mg/ml; or at a
concentration of from about about 2 mg/ml to about 5 mg/ml or to about 10 mg/ml. In some
aspects, the ADC is present at a concentration of from about 0.6 mg/ml to about 3 mg/ml. In
particular variations, the ADC is present at a concentration of about 1 mg/ml, about 2 mg/ml,
about 3 mg/ml, about 4 mg/ml, about 5 mg/ml, about 6 mg/ml, about 7 mg/ml, about 8
mg/ml, about 9 mg/ml, or about 10 mg/ml.
[0120]     In some embodiments, the antibody component of the ADC in the ADC mixtures,
conjugation reaction mixtures, quenched conjugation reaction mixtures, TFF retentate
formulations, and pharmaceutical formulations comprising benzodiazepine ADCs and
cyclodextrin described herein is a monoclonal antibody selected from the following: a
tetramer consisting of two identical pairs of immunoglobulin chains, each pair having one
light chain and one heavy chain; an antibody Fv fragment; an antibody Fab fragment; an
antibody Fab'(2) fragment, an antibody Fd fragment, a single-chain antibody (e.g., an scFv or
an scFv-Fc fusion); or a single domain antibody fragment (Dab). In a particular variation,
the antibody comprises first and second polypeptide chains, where the first polypeptide chain
comprises a light chain variable (VL) domain fused at its carboxyl terminus to a light chain
constant region, and where the second polypeptide chain comprises a heavy chain variable
(VH) domain fused at its carboxyl terminus to a heavy chain constant region. In such
                                                 41

variations, the monoclonal antibody is typically a tetramer consisting of two identical pairs of
immunoglobulin chains, each pair having one light chain and one heavy chain. The heavy
chain constant region may be a naturally-occuring or mutant form of a natural human
constant region having reduced binding to an Fcy receptor relative to the natural human
constant region. In some embodiments, the antibody is of an isotype selected from IgG1,
IgG2, IgG3, and IgG4. In a specific variation, the heavy chain constant region is of IgGI
isotype.
[0121]    Various methods for generating antibodies, including monoclonal antibodies, are
well-known in the art and are not described herein in detail. Antibodies for use in the present
invention can be intact antibodies or antigen binding fragments thereof. Preferred antibodies
are human or humanized antibodies, in particular, human or humanized monoclonal
antibodies.    In some aspects, the antibody will specifically bind to a cancer cell antigen
which is expressed on the surface of a cancer cell. In other aspects, the antibody will be bind
to activated lymphocytes that are associated with the autoimmune disease state.      In some
aspects, the antibody will specifically bind CD19, CD20, CD30, CD33, CD70, Glypican-3,
Liv-1 or Lewis Y antigen.
[0122]    In particular embodiments, the antibody is an anti-CD33 antibody that specifically
binds to an extracellular domain of human CD33. An exemplary human CD33 sequence is
assigned Swiss Prot accession number P20138. In certain embodiments, the anti-CD33
antibody comprises the light and/or heavy chain variable domain complementarity
determining regions of the murine anti-CD33 monoclonal antibody designated as 2H12 (VL
and VH domain amino acid sequences shown in SEQ ID NOs: 1 and 2, respectively).
Accordingly, in some variations, the anti-CD33 antibody includes a light chain variable (VL)
domain comprising a CDR-L1 amino acid sequence as shown in SEQ ID NO:5, a CDR-L2
amino acid sequence as shown in SEQ ID NO:6, and a CDR-L3 amino acid sequence as
shown in SEQ ID NO:7; and/or a heavy chain variable (VH) domain comprising a CDR-H1
amino acid sequence as shown in SEQ ID NO:8, a CDR-H2 amino acid sequence as shown in
SEQ ID NO:9, and a CDR-H3 amino acid sequence as shown in SEQ ID NO: 10. In some
embodiments, the anti-CD33 antibody is a humanized antibody. For example, in certain
variations of an anti-CD33 antibody comprising the VL and/or VH domains as above, the VL
domain is a humanized VL domain derived from the murine 2H12 VL domain having the
amino acid sequence as shown in SEQ ID: 1, and/or the VH domain is a humanized VH
domain derived from the murine 2H12 VH domain having the amino acid sequence as shown
                                               42

in SEQ ID NO:2. Particularly suitable VL and VH domains have amino acid sequences that
are at least 90%, at least 91%, at least 92%, at least 93%, at least 95%, at least 96%, at least
97%, at least 98%, at least 99%, or 100% identical to SEQ ID NO:3 and SEQ ID NO:4,
respectively. In certain embodiments, an anti-CD33 antibody includes first and second
polypeptide chains, where the first polypeptide chain includes the VL domain fused at its
carboxyl terminus to a light chain constant region (e.g., a light chain constant region having
the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO:21) and the second polypeptide chain includes the
VH domain fused at its carboxyl terminus to a heavy chain constant region (e.g., a heavy
chain constant region having the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO:22 or SEQ ID NO:23).
In such variations, the anti-CD33 antibody is typically a tetramer consisting of two identical
pairs of immunoglobulin chains, each pair having one light chain and one heavy chain.
Exemplary anti-CD33 antibodies suitable for use in accordance with the present invention are
also described in US Provisional Application No. 61/649,110, filed on May 18, 2012, the
disclosure of which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety for all purposes.
[0123]     In other embodiments, the antibody is an anti-CD70 antibody that specifically binds
to an extracellular domain of human CD70. An exemplary human CD70 sequence is
assigned Swiss Prot accession number P32970.2. In certain embodiments, the anti-CD70
antibody comprises the light and/or heavy chain variable domain complementarity
determining regions of the murine anti-CD70 monoclonal antibody designated as 1F6 (VL
and VH domain amino acid sequences shown in SEQ ID NOs: 11 and 12, respectively). In
some such variations, the anti-CD70 antibody includes a light chain variable (VL) domain
comprising a CDR-L1 amino acid sequence as shown in SEQ ID NO:15, a CDR-L2 amino
acid sequence as shown in SEQ ID NO:16, and a CDR-L3 amino acid sequence as shown in
SEQ ID NO:17; and a heavy chain variable (VH) domain comprising a CDR-H1 amino acid
sequence as shown in SEQ ID NO: 18, a CDR-H2 amino acid sequence as shown in SEQ ID
NO:19, and a CDR-H3 amino acid sequence as shown in SEQ ID NO:20. In some
embodiments, the anti-CD70 antibody is a humanized antibody. For example, in certain
variations of an anti-CD70 antibody comprising the VL and VH domains as above, the VL
domain is a humanized VL domain derived from the murine 1F6 VL domain having the
amino acid sequence as shown in SEQ ID: 11, and/or the VH domain is a humanized VH
domain derived from the murine 1F6 VH domain having the amino acid sequence as shown
in SEQ ID NO: 12. Particularly suitable VL and VH domains have amino acid sequences that
are at least 90%, at least 91%, at least 92%, at least 93%, at least 94%, at least 95%, at least
                                                43

96%, at least 97%, at least 98%, at least 99%, or 100% identical to SEQ ID NO:13 and SEQ
ID NO: 14, respectively. In certain embodiments, the anti-CD70 antibody includes first and
second polypeptide chains, where the first polypeptide chain includes the VL domain fused at
its carboxyl terminus to a light chain constant region (e.g., a light chain constant region
having the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO:21) and the second polypeptide chain
includes the VH domain fused at its carboxyl terminus to a heavy chain constant region (e.g.,
a heavy chain constant region having the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO:22). In such
variations, the anti-CD70 antibody is typically a tetramer consisting of two identical pairs of
immunoglobulin chains, each pair having one light chain and one heavy chain. Exemplary
anti-CD70 antibodies suitable for use in accordance with the present invention are also
described in US Patent No. 8,067,546, the disclosure of which is incorporated by reference
herein in its entirety for all purposes.
[0124]    Exemplary anti-CD33 and anti-CD70 variable domain and CDR sequences, as well
as exemplary immunoglobulin light and heavy chain constant regions, are shown in Table 1
below.
Table 1
  Description                            Amino Acid Sequence                                SEQ ID
                                                                                             NO:
 Murine 21112      DIKMTQSPSSMYASLGERVIINCKASQDINSYLSWFQQKPGKSPKTLI                           1
       VL          YRANRLVDGVPSRFSGSGSGQDYSLTISSLEYEDMGIYYCLQYDEFPL
                   TFGAGTKLELK
 Murine 21112      QVQLQQSGPELVRPGTFVKISCKASGYTFTNYDINWVNQRPGQGLEWI                           2
       VH          GWIYPGDGSTKYNEKFKAKATLTADKSSSTAYLQLNNLTSENSAVYFC
                   ASGYEDAMDYWGQGTSVTVSS
   Humanized       DIQMTQSPSSLSASVGDRVTINCKASQDINSYLSWFQQKPGKAPKTLI                           3
    21112 VL       YRANRLVDGVPSRFSGSGSGQDYTLTISSLQPEDFATYYCLQYDEFPL
                   TFGGGTKVEIK
   Humanized       QVQLVQSGAEVKKPGASVKVSCKASGYTFTNYDINWVRQAPGQGLEWI                           4
    21112 VH       GWIYPGDGSTKYNEKFKAKATLTADTSTSTAYMELRSLRSDDTAVYYC
                   ASGYEDAMDYWGQGTTVTVSS
      21112        KASQDINSYLS                                                                5
    CDR-L1
      21112        RANRLVD                                                                    6
    CDR-L2
      21112        LQYDEFPLT                                                                  7
    CDR-L3
      21112        NYDIN                                                                      8
    CDR-H1
                                                44

     2H12       WIYPGDGSTKYNEKFKA                                 9
   CDR-H2
     2H12       GYEDAMDY                                         10
   CDR-H3
    Munne       DIVLTQSPASLAVSLGQRATISCRASKSVSTSGYSFMHWYQQKPGQPP 11
                KLLIYLASNLESGVPARFSGSGSGTDFTLNIHPVEEEDAATYYCQHSR
    1F6 VL      EVPWTFGGGTKLEIKR
    Munne       QIQLVQSGPEVKKPGETVKISCKASGYTFTNYGMNWVKQAPGKGLKWM 12
                GWINTYTGEPTYADAFKGRFAFSLETSASTAYLQINNLKNEDTATYFC
    1F6 VI      ARDYGDYGMDYWGQGTSVTVSS
  Humanized     DIVMTQSPDSLAVSLGERATINCRASKSVSTSGYSFMHWYQQKPGQPP 13
                KLLIYLASNLESGVPDRFSGSGSGTDFTLTISSLQAEDVAVYYCQHSR
    1F6 VL      EVPWTFGQGTKVEIKR
  Humanized     QVQLVQSGAEVKKPGASVKVSCKASGYTFTNYGMNWVRQAPGQGLKWM 14
                GWINTYTGEPTYADAFKGRVTMTRDTSISTAYMELSRLRSDDTAVYYC
    1F6 VI      ARDYGDYGMDYWGQGTTVTVSS
      1F6       RASKSVSTSGYSFMH                                  15
   CDR-L1
      1F6       LASNLES                                          16
   CDR-L2
      1F6       QHSREVPWT                                        17
   CDR-L3
      1F6       NYGMN                                            18
   CDR-H1
      1F6       WINTYTGEPTYADAFKG                                19
   CDR-H2
      1F6       DYGDYGMDY                                        20
   CDR-H3
 Human    light TVAAPSVFIFPPSDEQLKSGTASVVCLLNNFYPREAKVQWKVDNALQS 21
chain constant  GNSQESVTEQDSKDSTYSLSSTLTLSKADYEKHKVYACEVTHQGLSSP
    region      VTKSFNRGEC
Human    heavy  ASTKGPSVFPLAPSSKSTSGGTAALGCLVKDYFPEPVTVSWNSGALTS 22
chain constant  GVHTFPAVLQSSGLYSLSSVVTVPSSSLGTQTYICNVNHKPSNTKVDK
    region      KVEPKSCDKTHTCPPCPAPELLGGPSVFLFPPKPKDTLMISRTPEVTC
(no  C-term K)  VVVDVSHEDPEVKFNWYVDGVEVHNAKTKPREEQYNSTYRVVSVLTVL
                HQDWLNGKEYKCKVSNKALPAPIEKTISKAKGQPREPQVYTLPPSRDE
                LTKNQVSLTCLVKGFYPSDIAVEWESNGQPENNYKTTPPVLDSDGSFF
                LYSKLTVDKSRWQQGNVFSCSVMHEALHNHYTQKSLSLSPG
Human    heavy  ASTKGPSVFPLAPSSKSTSGGTAALGCLVKDYFPEPVTVSWNSGALTS 23
chain constant  GVHTFPAVLQSSGLYSLSSVVTVPSSSLGTQTYICNVNHKPSNTKVDK
region, S239C   KVEPKSCDKTHTCPPCPAPELLGGPCVFLFPPKPKDTLMISRTPEVTC
(no  C-term  K) VVVDVSHEDPEVKFNWYVDGVEVHNAKTKPREEQYNSTYRVVSVLTVL
                HQDWLNGKEYKCKVSNKALPAPIEKTISKAKGQPREPQVYTLPPSRDE
                LTKNQVSLTCLVKGFYPSDIAVEWESNGQPENNYKTTPPVLDSDGSFF
                LYSKLTVDKSRWQQGNVFSCSVMHEALHNHYTQKSLSLSPG
                                     45

[0125]     As previously noted, exemplary pharmaceutical formulations of the present
invention exhibit (i) a reduction in the rate and extent of aggregation as compared to
formulations containing 0.5% w/v cyclodextrin or less in the formulation, (ii) a reduction of
growth of acidic species as compared to formulations containing no cyclodextrin and/or (iii)
a reduction in chemical degradation of the drug-linker (e.g., the benzodiazepine drug) as
compared to formluations containing 2% or less w/v cyclodextrin in the formulation.
Accordingly, the present invention provides methods for preparing a formulation that has at
least one of (i) improved resistance to chemical degradation of the benzodizepine drug as
compared to formluations containing 2% or less w/v cyclodextrin in the formulation, (ii)
improved resistance to aggregation as compared to formulations containing 0.5% w/v
cyclodextrin or less in the formulation, and (iii) improved resistance to growth of acidic
species as compared to formulations containing no cyclodextrin. Accordingly, in some
aspects, pharmaceutical formulations of the present invention comprising about 5% or about
6% w/v or more cyclodextrin exhibit at least one of (i) improved resistance to chemical
degradation of the benzodiazepine drug as compared to formulations containing 2 % or less
cyclodextrin, (ii) improved resistance to aggregation as compared to formulations containing
0.5 % or less cyclodextrin and (iii) improved resistance to growth of acidic species compared
to formulations containing 0.5 % or less cyclodextrin.     Accordingly, in some aspects,
pharmaceutical formulations of the present invention comprising about 5% or about 6% w/v
or more cyclodextrin exhibit (i) improved resistance to chemical degradation of the
benzodiazepine drug as compared to formulations containing 2 % or less cyclodextrin, and
(ii) improved resistance to aggregation as compared to formulations containing 0.5 % or less
cyclodextrin.     In other aspects, pharmaceutical formulations of the present invention
comprising about 5% or about 6% w/v or more cyclodextrin exhibit (i) improved resistance to
chemical degradation of the benzodiazepine drug as compared to formulations containing 2
% or less cyclodextrin, (ii) improved resistance to aggregation as compared to formulations
containing 0.5 % or less cyclodextrin and (iii) improved resistance to growth of acidic species
compared to formulations containing 0.5 % or less cyclodextrin.
[0126]     In any of the mixtures or formulations described herein (including pharmaceutical
formulations), the benzodiazepine ADC can comprise a humanized 2H12 or humanized 1F6
antibody conjugated to PBD Dimer 1, PBD Dimer 2, PBD Dimer 3, PBD Dimer 4, PBD
Dimer 5, PBD Dimer 6, PBD Dimer 7, PBD Dimer 8, PBD Dimer 9, PBD Dimer 10, PBD
Dimer 11, PBD Dimer 12, PBD Dimer 13, PBD Dimer 14, PBD Dimer 15, PBD Dimer 16,
                                                46

or PBD Dimer 17 as described herein. In some aspects, conjugation of the PBD Dimer to the
antibody will be via a cysteine residue engineered into the antibody.     In some aspects, the
cysteine residue is engineered into the antibody at position 239 (human IgGI) as determined
by the EU index (Kabat, Sequences of Proteins of Immunological Interest (National Institutes
of Health, Bethesda, MD, 1987 and 1991)). In some aspects, there will be an average 2 drug
linkers per antibody in the formulation.
[0127]     In some embodiments, a pharmaceutical formulation of the present invention
provides a concentrated preparation of an ADC (for example, an anti-CD33 or anti-CD70
ADC), often useful as bulk drug product. Furthermore, in certain embodiments, a
pharmaceutical formulation of the present invention is stable to freezing, lyophilization
and/or reconstitution.
[0128]    In some aspects, the pharmaceutical formulations described herein are stored at
temperatures from about -80'C to about 80 C. Generally, the pharmaceutical formulation is
stable and retains biological activity at these ranges. In certain aspects, the formulations
decribed herein have improved stabilty as compared to formulations not containing
cyclodextrin when exposed to stress conditions (e.g., storage at 25 0 C or 40'C for extended
period of times such as 7 days and 14 days)
[0129]    The pharmaceutical formulations of the present invention are suitable for delivery
by a variety of administration routes. In certain embodiments, the pharmaceutical
formulation is administered parenterally, such as intravenously, intramuscularly, or
subcutaneously. For administration of an ADC for the treatment of cancer, the
pharmaceutical formulation may be delivered into the systemic circulation by intravenous or
subcutaneous administration. In a particular embodiment, the pharmaceutical formulation is
formulated for intravenous delivery. Intravenous administration can be, for example, by
infusion over a period such as 30-90 minutes or by a single bolus injection. In some aspects,
adminstration will be via slow IV push (i.e., over 30-60 seconds) in a peripherally inserted
central catheter.
[0130]    Effective doses of the pharmaceutical formulations of the present invention vary
depending upon many different factors, including means of administration, target site,
physiological state of the patient, whether the patient is human or an animal, other
medications administered, and whether treatment is prophylactic or therapeutic. Usually, the
                                                 47

patient is a human but non-human mammals can also be treated. Treatment dosages need to
be titrated to optimize safety and efficacy.
[0131]     Exemplary dosages for the ADC formulations of the present invention include from
about 1.0 pg/kg to about 5 mg/kg, from about 10 pg/kg to about 3 mg/kg, from about 10
pg/kg to about 2 mg/kg, from about 1.0 pg/kg to 1.0 mg/kg, or from about 1.0 pg/kg to 500.0
pg/kg of the subjects body weight.
[0132]     The frequency of administration depends on the half-life of the antibody-drug
conjugate in the circulation, the condition of the patient, and the route of administration,
among other factors. The frequency can be daily, weekly, monthly, quarterly, or at irregular
intervals in response to changes in the patient's condition or progression of the condition
(e.g., cancer) being treated. An exemplary frequency for intravenous administration is
between twice a week and quarterly over a continuous course of treatment, although more or
less frequent dosing is also possible. Other exemplary frequencies for intravenous
administration are between once weekly or once monthly over a continuous course of
treatment, although more or less frequent dosing is also possible. For subcutaneous
administration, an exemplary dosing frequency is daily to monthly, although more or less
frequent dosing is also possible.
[0133]     It is especially advantageous to provide the formulations of the invention in unit
dosage form for ease of administration and uniformity of dosage. Formulations of the
invention may be presented in either liquid or lyophilized form in, e.g., capsules, glass vials,
ampules, multi-dose containers, or the like. The unit dosage form may comprise any
formulation described herein. In some aspects, the ADC will be as a lyophilized cake or
powder stored in a single-use amber glass for reconstitution for IV administration.
Reconstitution is with a suitable diluent (e.g., Water For Injection) to the desired
concentration. Typically the reconstitued is reconstituted with sufficient diluent such that the
reconstituted solution will have the same concentration of components as the formulation
prior to lyophilization. The reconstituted product may be further diluted depending on the
dose level to be administered to the patient. Further dilution can be with, for example,
Sodium Chloride for Injection. In some aspects of the invention, immediately following
reconstitution or optional further dilution, the ADC is administered by IV (e.g., slow IV push)
into an appropriate injection port of a central venous access device. The infusion line will
typically be flushed with saline.
                                                 48

[0134]     In some aspects, the present invention provides a therapeutic product that includes a
pharmaceutical dosage unit form comprising a stabilized ADC formulation of the present
invention (e.g., a sealed container containing an ADC formulation, in either liquid or
lyophilized form, as described herein). The therapeutic product can further include labeling
for use. In some embodiments, the therapeutic product is provided as a kit further including,
for example, instructions to use the appropriate volume necessary to achieve a therapeutic
dose in a patient. The unit dosage form, container, or kit may be designed to provide enough
formulation for multiple uses or may be for single use. In some embodiments, the kit further
includes a diluent.
[0135]     If different versions of a sequence are associated with an accession number at
different times, the version associated with the accession number at the effective filing date
of this application is meant. The effective filing date means the earlier of the actual filing
date or filing date of a priority application referring to the accession number if applicable.
Likewise if different versions of a publication are published at different times, the version
most recently published at the effective filing date of the application is meant unless
otherwise indicated. Any feature, step, element, embodiment, or aspect of the invention can
be used in combination with any other unless specifically indicated otherwise. Although the
present invention has been described in some detail by way of illustration and example for
purposes of clarity and understanding, it will be apparent that certain changes and
modifications may be practiced within the scope of the appended claims. All patent filings,
website, other publications, accession numbers and the like cited above or below are
incorporated by reference in their entirety for all purposes to the same extent as if each
individual item were specifically and individually indicated to be so incorporated by
reference.
                                                  49

                                           EXAMPLES
[0136]    PBD dimers 1-4 and the synthesis thereof are described in W02011/130613. PBD
dimers 5-10 and 16 can be synthesized using the methods described in W02011/130613 Al.
Briefly, PBDs dimers 9 and 16 are accessible through the C3-tethered bis-triflate intermediate
8a in W02011/130613 Al. The desired C2 aryl groups as boronic acids or pinacol boronates
are introduced in sequential Suzuki couplings, followed by SEM dilactam reduction to reveal
the imine functional groups. PBD dimers 5-8 and 10 are prepared in the same manner from
C5-tethered bis-triflate intermediate 8b in W02011/130613 Al. PBD dimers 11-15
containing esters or carboxylic acids in the C2 aryl groups can be accessed using the methods
described in W02011/130613 Al with minor modifications. PBD dimer 13 can be prepared
from the C3-tethered bis-triflate intermediate 8a in WO2011/130613 Al. The bis triflate is
desymmetrized via Suzuki coupling with an appropriately functionalized boronic acid or
pinacol boronate to install the C2 aryl group bearing the amino functional group. The
resulting monotriflate is then reduced with lithium triethylborohydride to the SEM carbinol,
which is then carried forward to the second Suzuki coupling to install the C2 aryl group
containing the methyl ester. Finally, the SEM carbinols are converted to imines via stirring
on silica gel for 3 days, as described in WO2011/130613 Al. PBD dimers 12 and 14 can be
prepared in the same way starting with C5-tethered bis triflate 8b in WO2011/130613 Al.
Conversion of the PBD esters to the free carboxylic acid (11 and 15) could be achieved via
saponification.    Preparation of cysteine mutants of IgG1 mAb is generally described in
US20100158909.
[0137]    The PBD drug-linkers used in the following examples are as follows. Conjugation
of the drug-linkers to the antibodies is as described in W02011/130613 Al.
                                           Compound 1
                                                50

                                            Compound 2
                                            Compound 3
[0138]     The quenched drug-linker referred to in the following examples has the following
structure:
                             0                            NoN
                NNHN                                             O       O     O
                                                                               0
                                             Compound 4
The PBD drug linkers were conjugated to the h2Hl2ec antibody or hlF6ec via position 239
of the heavy chain (The notation "ec" following the antibody name refers to an antibody
having an engineered cysteine at position 239.) Briefly, the h2H12 and hlF6 having an
introduced cysteine at position 239 (EU index numbering) were reduced, partially re-oxidized
(i.e., re-oxidized as to inter-chain disulfides), and conjugated to the PBD drug-linker using
methods described in WO 2011/130613 to form an ADC. The PBD drug-linker was
conjugated to the partially re-oxidized antibody via the introduced cysteine residues (average
of 2 drug-linkers per antibody). h2H12-1 refers to the humanized 2H12ec antibody
conjugated to compound 1 whereas hlF6-1 refers to the humanized lF6ec antibody
conjugated to compound 1. h2H12-2 refers to the humanized 2H12ec antibody conjugated to
compound 2 whereas hlF6-2 refers to the humanized lF6ec antibody conjugated to
                                                  51

compound 2. h2H12-3 refers to the humanized 2H12ec antibody conjugated to compound 3
whereas h1F6-3 refers to the humanized lF6ec antibody conjugated to compound 3.
Examples 4-7 were performed using either the h2Hl2ec or hlF6ec antibody conjugated to
compound 1 via the introduced cysteine at position 239.
Example 1: Cyclodextrin based formulations reduced the rate and extent of aggregation for
all six PBD ADCs
[0139] Formulations were prepared by buffer exchange of starting materials into the tested
formulation buffers using dialysis, buffer exchange column or centrifugal filtration. The
formulations are as indicated in the figure legends. The concentration of arginine when
indicated as present is at 0.5 M. Final ADC concentration was in the range of 1.3 mg/mL to
3.1 mg/mL determined by UV spectrometry. The formulated ADCs were filled into pre
sterilized tubes and stored at the following ICH conditions: 2-8'C, 25 0 C/65%RH and/or
40'C/75%RH. % HMW was monitored using size exclusion chromatography. Figure 1
formulations contain h2H12-1 and storage is at 25'C; Figure 2 formulations contain h1F6-1
and storage is at 25'C; Figure 3 formulations contain h2H12-3 and storage is at 40'C; Figure
4 formulations contain h1F6-3 and storage is at 40'C; Figure 5 formulations contain h2H12-2
and storage is at 40'C; Figure 6 formulations contain h1F6-2 and storage is at 40'C; Figure 13
formulations contain h1F6-1 and storage is at 25'C.
Example 2: HPBCD-based formulations reduced the growth of acidic species for five of of
six PBD ADCs.
[0140] Formulations were prepared by buffer exchange of starting materials into the tested
formulation buffers using dialysis, buffer exchange column or centrifugal filtration. The
formulations are as indicated in the figure legends. The concentration of arginine when
indicated as present is at 0.5 M. Final ADC concentration was in the range of 1.3 mg/mL to
3.1 mg/mL determined by UV spectrometry. The formulation were filled into pre-sterilized
tubes and stored at the following ICH conditions: 2-8'C, 25 0 C/65%RH and/or 40'C/75%RH.
Samples were analyzed for charge distribution (% acidic, % main, % basic) by image
capillary isoelectric focusing. Figure 7 formulations contain h2H12-1 and storage is at
25'C; Figure 8 formulations contain h1F6-1 and storage is at 25'C; Figure 9 formulations
                                                52

contain h2H12-3 and storage is at 40'C; Figure 10 formulations contain h1F6-3 and storage is
at 40'C; Figure 11 formulations contain h2H12-2 and storage is at 40'C; Figure 12
formulations contain h1F6-2 and storage is at 40'C.
Example 3: HPBCD-based formulations reduced the chemical degradation of the drug-linker
[0141] Formulations were prepared by buffer exchange of starting materials into the tested
formulation buffers using dialysis, buffer exchange column or centrifugal filtration. In
general, formulations included initial formulation as control (mostly arginine), buffer, 3%
cyclodextrin and 6% cyclodextrin. Final ADC concentration was in the range of 1.3 mg/mL
to 3.1 mg/mL determined by UV spectrometry. The formulation were filled into pre-sterilized
tubes and stored at the following ICH conditions: 2-8'C, 25 0 C/65%RH and/or 40'C/75%RH.
Drug-linker stability was measured by % degradants using reduced PLRP/MS or by % intact
drug linker using pepsin digest map. The results are as follows with the formulations listed in
the left-hand column. Table 2 demonstrates that formulation containing 6% cyclodextrin
demonstrated less drug linker degradation than that with 2% cyclodextrin after 1 week at
40'C. Table 3 demonstrates that formulations of h2H12-1 containing 6% cyclodextrin
demonstrated less drug linker degradation after 1 week at 25'C and Table 4 demonstrates that
the formulations of h1F6-1 containing 6% hpbcyclodextrin maintained higher level of intact
drug linker after 1 week of incubation at 40'C.
                                            Table 2
    h1F6-1 sample (after 1 week storage at 40'C)     % of intact drug-linker by pepsin digest
            Starting material (TO control)                              82
                  20mM Tris, 2%CD                                       63
                  20mM Tris, 6%CD                                       70
                                            Table 3
                                               53

h2H12-1 sample ( after 1 week storage at 25'C)         % of drug linker degradant (-168 dalton
                                                                       species)
             0.5M Arg [t=0, Control]                                      0.2
             0.5 M Arg [25'C, t=lw]                                       4.7
      0.5 M Arg, 6% hpPCD [25'C, t=lw]                                    3.0
    6% hpPCD, 20 mM KPhos [t=0, Control]                                  0.6
    6% hpPCD, 20 mM KPhos [25'C t=lw]                                     1.4
                                              Table 4
     h1F6ec-1 sample (after 1 week storage at 40'C)            % of intact drug-linker by pepsin digest
               Starting material (TO control)                                     85
             0.5 M Arg [pH 7.2, 40'C, t=1w]                                       63
            20 mM Tris [pH 7.2, 40'C, t=1w]                                       66
     20 mM Tris, 6% hppCD, [pH 7.2, 40 0C, t=lw]                                  69
Example 4: Cyclodextrin concentration profile.
 [0142]    This experiment tested the utility of 3 w/v %hydroxypropyl-p-cyclodextrin (hpb
 CD), as a component of the diafiltration buffer, to prevent aggregation of a quenched
conjugation reaction mixture (QCR) comprising h2H12-1 during diafiltration. A primary
goal of this experiment was to determine whether or not the membrane to be used for
diafiltration was permeable to hpb-CD. If the membrane were poorly permeable to hpb-CD
its concentration in the batch would increase above the concentration in the diafiltration
                                                 54

buffer, while if it were readily permeable, the hpb-CD concentration in the batch would reach
the concentration in the diafiltration buffer and remain at that level.
[0143]     The diafiltration (DF) process used an 88 cm2 Ultracel Pellicon 3 cassette from
Millipore with a 30 kD molecular weight pore size. The batch volume for the DF was 250
mL, the feed flow rate was 40 ml/min throughout the process, and the retentate valve was
adjusted to maintain a trans-membrane pressure of - 20 psi. The diafiltration buffer addition
rate to maintain constant batch volume started at 9 mL/min, but was maintained at 13-14
ml/min through most of the process. Samples were removed after the completion of each
diavolume. The concentration of hpb-CD was measured in each sample using an RP HPLC
assay with evaporative light scattering detection.
[0144]     The results showed the concentration of hpb-CD increasing from 0 at the beginning
of the diafiltration to 2.8-2.9 wt % over 5 diavolumes, then remaining constant for an
additional 5 diavolumes (Figure 14). The concentration profile of hpb-CD is consistent with
a reagent that is readily permeable to the ultrafiltration membrane used.
Example 5: Tangential flow filtration with 3 % and 10 % w/v cyclodextrin
[0145]     In this experiment, a QCR was utilized containing h2H12-1, 50 w/w % propylene
glycol, quenched drug-linker (compound 4), and NAC, in 50 mM Tris/5 mM EDTA, pH 8.0.
This mixture was brought to 10 w/v % hpb-CD by addition of 25 % volume of a 50 w/v%
solution of hpb-CD in 50 mM Tris/5 mM EDTA, pH 8.0. The mixture then underwent
diafiltration, under conditions similar to Example 4, but scaled appropriately. Samples were
removed after each diavolume, and frozen until analysis. The concentration of quenched
drug-linker was determined in each sample. The concentration of quenched drug-linker
dropped throughout the diafiltration in a manner that follows the established model for
clearance through constant volume diafiltration, as shown by a linear relationship between
ln(C/Co) and diavolume # : C/Co = exp(-SN). C and Co are concentrations of the analyte
measured, N is the number of diavolumes, and S is the sieving factor, defined as the analyte
concentration on the permeate side of the membrane divided by the analyte concentration on
the retentate side of the membrane. The starting concentration was 16.3 pM, and the final
concentration was 0.14 pM.
[0146]     In the presence of 10 w/v % hpb-CD, quenched PBD drug-linker is effectively
cleared in this diafiltration process (Figure 15). Unlike previous experiments in which
clearance stopped after a certain number of diavolumes in the absence of hpb-CD, in this
                                                55

experiment clearance was effective to a very low level. The experiment demonstrates that
effective and complete clearance can be achieved under the conditions tested.
[0147]    The experiment was repeated with a lower concentration of hpb-CD (Figure 15).
Essentially identical clearance was observed when 3 w/v % hpb-CD was substituted for 10
Example 6: Clearance of drug-related impurities from QCR mixture
[0148]    The experiments described in Examples 4 and 5 showed that quenched PBD drug
linker could be removed from a mixture by a diafiltration process using cyclodextrin. The
purpose of this experiment was to determine whether this method could successfully clear
quenched drug-linker from a QCR having a higher starting concentration of the quenched
PBD drug-linker.
[0149]    Stored frozen reduced antibody (h2H12 reduced as to 239 position but not as to
interchain disulfides) was thawed. Propylene glycol (PG), followed by drug-linker-PG/DMA
(compound 1), was added to form the conjugation reaction mixture. The mixture contained
50% (v/v) PG, and excess drug-linker (compound 4). The reaction proceeded about 90 min,
after which 3.0 equivalents (relative to drug-linker) NAC were added, and the quench
reaction was allowed to proceed about 30 min.
[0150]    Sufficient 50 w/w % hpb-CD stock solution was added to bring the quenched
conjugation reaction hpb-CD concentration to 3%. The TFF process was started, by turning
on the TFF feed pump, using an 88 cm2 regenerated cellulose membrane. As with previous
TFF processes of solutions containing high percentages of PG, the initial flow rate was
limited due to high trans-membrane pressure, but during the first diavolume the feed flow
rate could be gradually increased into the recommended operating range for the membrane.
Thereafter, the retentate valve was adjusted to maintain the TMP of 20 psi. Diafiltration
buffer was added to maintain constant volume. The process was allowed to continue for 20
diavolumes, and samples were taken after each diavolume and frozen for subsequent analysis.
[0151]    Measurement of the concentration of quenched PBD drug-linker (compound 4) in
the solution in samples taken throughout the purification process showed that the material
was cleared by the TFF process. The concentration started at 27.47 pM and dropped to 0.03
pM after 20 diavolumes, showing that quenched PBD drug-linker could be cleared by TFF
                                                56

from a QCR solution (Figure 16). Analysis of the final product sample showed that average
drug load and distribution, disulfide bond integrity, charge distribution, and UV spectrum,
were not adversely affected by this process (data not shown).
Example 7: Clearance of drug-related impurities from QCR mixture comprising 2H12
ADCs or h1F6 ADCs
[0152]    The TFF process was performed on quenched conjugation reaction mixture using a
30 kD MW cutoff 0.1 m2 Ultracel Pellicon 3 membrane (Millipore). The TMP was
maintained at 20 psi, initially maintained by flow rate, then by retentate valve. The TFF
process ran for 20 diavolumes, with samples collected every 2       diavolume. The
concentration of quenched PBD drug-linker was determined in each sample.
[0153]    In one experiment with a QCR mixture comprising 2H12 ADCs, the concentration
of quenched PBD drug-linker (compound 4) dropped from 29.56 mM to 0.02 mM during the
TFF process. The clearance plot was linear, with a sieving factor of -0.4. Data on recovery
during the TFF step is not available, but overall yield for the ADC was >95%, so loss during
the TFF process was <5% (Figure 17)
[0154]    TFF is as effective as carbon-filtration for clearance of quenched PBD drug-linker,
in the presence of 3% hpb-CD. Based on examination of the drug-related impurities during
the TFF process, it is estimated that 14 diavolumes is sufficient to assure achieve a
sufficiently low impurity level.
[0155]    In one experiment with a QCR mixture comprsing h1F6 ADCs, the concentration of
quenched PBD drug-linker (compound 4) dropped from 21.2 mM to 0.1 uM during the TFF
process. The clearance plot was linear, with a sieving factor of -0.6. (Figure 18)z
Example 8 - Purification of benzodiazepine ADCs using tangential flow filtration
without cyclodextrin
[0156] Quenched drug-linker (compound 4) was purified from the QCR using constant
volume diafiltration. The quenched conjugation reaction mixture was introduced into the
tangential flow filtration device.   The quenched conjugation reaction mixture comprises
Tris, NaCl and 50 %propylene glycol. The tangential flow filtration buffer also comprises
Tris, NaCl and 50 %propylene glycol. After the ultrafiltration/diafiltration sequence, 1.1
uM benzodiazepine drug-related impurity remained in the mixture with the clearance stalling
after four diavolumes. (data not shown)
                                                 57

Example 9 - Cytotoxicity
[0157]     Cytotoxicity studies were performed to determine whether ADC formulations
containing 6% cyclodextrin retained cytotoxic activity. The results demonstrated that the
ADC formulations retained cytotoxic activity (data not shown).
Example 10 - Clearance of drug-related impurities from unquenched conjugation
reaction mixture
[0158]     Unquenched PBD drug-linker having a SlogP value of 7.57 (compound 1) was
purified from an unquenched conjugation reaction mixture using constant volume
diafiltration. Cyclodextrin was maintained at 3%.     Surprisingly, clearance of the
unquenched PBD linker (data not shown) was not as efficient as clearance of the quenched
PBD drug-linker as shown in the previous examples. This experiment demonstrated that
lowering the hydrophobicity of the PBD drug-linker (compound 4 has a SlogP value of 5.76)
improved clearance.
                                              58

WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
  1. A method for removing benzodiazepine drug-related impurities from a mixture
     comprising benzodizepine ADCs and benzodiazepine drug-related impurities
     comprising comprising subjecting a mixture comprising benzodizepine ADCs and
     benzodiazepine drug-related impurities to tangential flow filtration while maintaining
     a concentration of at least about 1 % w/v cylodextrin in the mixture.
  2. The method of claim 1 wherein the cyclodextrin is present in the mixture at the start
     of tangential flow filtration.
  3. The method of claim 1 wherein the cyclodextrin is added to the mixture prior to any
     substantial removal of benzodiazepine drug-related impurities and cyclodextrin is
     thereafter maintained at a concentration of at least about 1% w/v in the mixture.
  4. The method of any one of claims 1 to 3 wherein a concentration of at least about 2 %
     cyclodextrin is maintained in the mixture.
  5. The method of any one of claims I to 3 wherein a concentration of at least about 3 %
     is maintained in the mixture.
  6. The method of any one of the preceding claims wherien the tangential flow filtration
     is constant volume diafiltration.
  7. The method of any one of claims 1 to 3 wherein the tangential flow filtration device
     comprises a pump, a filtration holder having an inlet, a filtrate outlet, a retentate
     outlet, an ultrafiltration membrane having a pore size of about 50 Kd or smaller that
     separates the filtration holder into an upstream compartment and a downstream
     compartment such that all filtrate must enter the inlet and pass through the
     ultrafiltration membrane before exiting the filtration holder through the filtrate outlet,
     a sample reservoir for holding the conjugation reaction mixture, and a buffer reservoir
     in fluid communication with the sample reservoir and whrein the buffer in the buffer
     reservoir comprises at least about 1 % w/v cylodextrin, at least about 2 % w/v
     cylodextrin, or at least about 3 % w/v cylcodextrin.
                                              59

8. The method of claim 7 wherein the buffer replaces the filtration volume at the same
    rate as the filtrate flow such that the volume in the tangential flow filtration device
    remains constant.
9. The method of any one of claims 1 to 5 wherein the filtration is discontinuous
    diafiltration
10. The method of any one of the preceding claims further comprising the steps of (i)
    contacting an antibody with a benzodizepine drug-linker under conditions sufficient to
    form a conjugation reaction mixture comprising benzodiazepine ADCs, and (ii)
    contacting the reaction mixture with a quenching agent to form a quenched
    conjugation reaction mixture, wherein said mixture subjected to tangential flow
    filtration is a quenched conjugation reaction mixture.
11. The method of any one of claims I to 10 wherein the benzodiazepine drug-related
    impurities are quenched benzodiazepine drug-linkers.
12. The method of claim 11 wherein the quenched benzodiazepine drug-linkers have a
    SlogP value of no more than 7.50 or no more than 6.5.
13. The method of any of the preceding claims wherein the benzodiazepine drug-related
    impurities are reduced to a level of about 1 pM or less, 0.5 pM or less, 0.1 pM or
    less, or 0.05 pM or less
14. The method of any one of the preceding claims wherein the cyclodextrin is a
chemically modified beta cyclodextrin.
15. The method of claim 14 wherein the cyclodextrin is hydroxypropyl beta cyclodextrin
or sulfobutylether beta cyclodextrin.
16. The method of claim 15 wherein the cyclodextrin is hydroxypropyl beta cyclodextrin.
17. The method of any one of the preceding claims wherein the benzodiazepine ADC is a
monoclonal antibody conjugated to a pyrrolobenzodiazepine dimer.
18. The method of claim 17 wherein the pyrrolobenzodiazepine dimer is:
                                              60

                            H     -N       O          O         N-    H
                                ~N         OMe     MeO             N
            MeO                                                                   NH2,or
         or a salt thereof.
    19. The method of claim 18 wherein the benzodiazepine ADC is as follows:
                                                        H,  -N       ON-                   H
         Ab
                 O0          O,
                             0            O:               N         OMe  MeO            N
                                       H  00                    0
               N.,,                    N Jk                                                   I-K
                                 N           N                                                    OMe
            o                    H   O       H
                                                                                                     P
or a salt thereof, wherein Ab is a monoclonal antibody and p represents the average number
of drug-linker molecules per antibody in the mixture and is about 2.
    20.    The method of claim 18 or 19 wherein the benzodiazepine drug-related impurity is a
    quenched drug-linker wherein the drug-linker prior to quenching has the formula:
                                                                        O       N    H
                                                H,   -N
                                                ON             OMe    MeO          N
                        0          H 0                  0
                          N             N               OOMe
     o                    H    O        H
or a salt thereof.
    21. The method of any one of claims I to 16 wherein the benzodiazepine ADC is a
    monoclonal antibody conjugated to an indolinobenzodiazepine dimer or an
    oxazolidinobenzodiazepine dimer.
    22. A mixture purified using the methods of any one of the preceding claims.
    23. A benzodiazepine ADC formulation comprising 0.1 p M or less benzodiazepine drug
        related impurites in the formulation.
                                               61

24. A pharmaceutical formulation comprising:
             a benzodiazepine ADC; and
             cyclodextrin at a concentration of from about 3 %w/v to about 30 % w/v.
25. The pharmaceutical formulation of claim 24 wherein the formulation further
     comprises at least one buffering agent; wherein the formulation is in an aqueous
     solution and the concentration of that at least one buffering agent is effective to
     maintain a physiologically suitable pH.
26. The pharmaceutical formulation of claim 24 or 25 wherein the cyclodextrin is present
     at a concentration of from about 5 % w/v or from about 6 %w/v to about 30 % w/v.
27. The pharmaceutical formulation of claim 26 wherein the cyclodextrin is present at a
     concentration of from about 6 %w/v to about 10 % w/v.
28. The pharmaceutical formulation of any one of claims 24 to 27, further comprising a
     lyoprotectant.
29. The pharmaceutical formulation of claim 28 wherein the at least one lyoprotectant is a
     sugar.
30. The pharmaceutical formulation of claim 29 wherein the sugar is sucrose.
31. The pharmaceutical formulation of any one of claims 28 to 30 wherein the
lyoprotectant is present at a concentration of from about 4% to about 8% (w/v).
32. The pharmaceutical formulation of claim 31 wherein the lyoprotectant is present at a
concentration of about 6% (w/v).
33. The pharmaceutical formulation of any one of claims 24 to 32 wherein the
formulation has a pH of about 6.0 to about 8.0.
34. The formulation of claim 33 wherein the formulation has a pH of 6.5 to 7.5.
35. The formulation of claim 34 wherein the formulation has a pH of about 7.3.
36. The formulation of any one of claims 25 to 35 wherein the at least one buffering agent
is selected from the group consisting of Tris, acetate, histidine, citrate, phosphate, and
succinate.
                                            62

    37. The formulation of claim 36 wherein the at least one buffering agent is Tris at a
    concentration of about 20 mM
    38. The formulation of any one of claims 24 to 37 wherein the benzodiazepine ADC is
    present at a concentration of from about 0.5 mg/ml to about 30 mg/ml.
    39. The formulation of claim 38 wherein the benzodiazepine ADC is present at a
    concentration of from about 0.5 mg/ml, 1 mg/ml or 2 mg/ml to about 10 mg/ml.
    40. The formulation of claim 39 wherein the benzodiazepine ADC concentration is about
    2 mg/ml to about 5 mg/ml.
    41. The formulation of claim 40 wherein the benzodiazepine ADC concentration is about
    3 mg/ml.
    42. The formulation of any one of claims 23 to 41 wherein the cyclodextrin is a
    chemically modified beta cyclodextrin.
    43. The formulation of claim 42 wherein the cyclodextrin is hydroxypropyl beta
    cyclodextrin or sulfobutylether beta cyclodextrin.
    44. The formulation of claim 42 wherein the cyclodextrin is hydroxypropyl beta
    cyclodextrin.
    45. The formulation of any one of claims 23 to 44 wherein the benzodiazepine ADC is a
    monoclonal antibody conjugated to a pyrrolobenzodiazepine dimer.
    46. The formulation of claim 45 wherein the pyrrolobenzodiazepine dimer is:
                           H   _N         O                   N-    H
                              N           OMe     MeO            N
          MeO                                                                    NH2
or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.
    47. The formulation of claim 46 wherein the benzodiazepine ADC is as follows:
                                               63

                                                      H,   'N                       N-   H
        Ab
                                                          N         OMe   MeO          N
                             O
              N
                               N
                                      N JK-O N
                                                                                   O
                                                                                             OMe
            O                  H   O         H
                                                                                                P
or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof; wherein Ab is a monoclonal antibody and p
represents the average number of drug-linker molecules per antibody in the formulation and
is about 2.
    48. The formulation of any one of claims 23 to 44 wherein the benzodiazepine ADC is a
    monoclonal antibody conjugated to an indolinobenzodiazepine dimer or a
    oxazolidinobenzodiazepine dimer.
    49. The formulation of any one of claims 23 to 48 wherein the antibody component of the
    ADC is an antibody that specifically binds to an extracellular domain of human CD33 or
    human CD70.
    50. The formulation of claim 49 wherein the antibody is a h2H12 or hlF6 antibody.
    51. The formulation of claim 50 wherein the humanized 2H 12 antibody has a variable
    light chain sequence comprising the amino acid sequence set forth in SEQ ID NO: 3 and a
    variable heavy chain sequence comprising the amino acid sequence set forth in SEQ ID
    NO:4 and the humanized 1F6 antibody has a variable light chain sequence comprising the
    amino acid sequence set forth in SEQ ID NO: 13 and a variable heavy chain sequence
    comprising the amino acid sequence set forth in SEQ ID NO: 14.
    52. The formulation of any one of claims 23 to 51 wherein the antibody component of the
    ADC comprises a heavy chain constant region of the IgGI isotype.
    53. A pharmacuetical formulation comprising:
                A PBD ADC wherein the concentration of ADC is from about 2 mg/ml to
        about 5 mg/mol;
                hydroxypropyl cyclodextrin at a concentration of from about 5 % w/v to about
        10 % w/v; and
                a sugar at a concentration of about 4 % to about 8 %; and
                                                64

                at least one buffering agent;
        wherein the formulation is in an aqueous solution and the concentration of that at least
one buffering agent is effective to maintain a physiologically suitable pH
    54. The formulation of claim 53, wherein
                the concentration of the antibody-drug conjugate is about 3 mg/ml;
                the concentration of HP3CD is about 6%;
                the sugar is sucrose at a concentration of about 6%; and
                the at least one buffering agent is Tris at a concentration of about 20 mM; and
                the pH is about 7.0 to about 7.5 (preferably at 7.2 or 7.3)
    55. The formulation of claim 53 or 54, wherein the ADC has the formula:
                                                        H,   -N                          N-   H
        Ab
                                                            N          OMe    MeO           N
                SONO,
              N                NN      N                        O                       O
                                                                                                 OMe
           O                   H    O         H
                                                                                                    P
                or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof; wherein Ab is a monoclonal
antibody and p represents the average number of drug-linker molecules per antibody in the
formulation and is about 2.
    56. The formulation of any one of claims 23 to 55 wherein the benzodiazepine drug
    component of the ADC is conjugated to the antibody via an engineered cysteine residue
    present on the antibody and the interchain disulfide chains of the antibody are
    substantially intact.
    57. The formulation of claim 56 wherein the cysteine residue is at position 239 of the
    IgG1 heavy chain wherein numbering is according to the EU index as set forth in Kabat.
    58. The formulation of any one of claims 53 to 57 wherein the antibody is a h2H12 or
    h1F6 antibody.
    59. The formulation of claim 58 wherein the humanized 2H12 antibody has a variable
    light chain sequence comprising the amino acid sequence set forth in SEQ ID NO: 3 and a
                                                65

    variable heavy chain sequence comprising the amino acid sequence set forth in SEQ ID
   NO:4 and the humanized 1F6 antibody has a variable light chain sequence comprising the
    amino acid sequence set forth in SEQ ID NO: 13 and a variable heavy chain sequence
   comprising the amino acid sequence set forth in SEQ ID NO:14.
    60. A method of preparing a stabilized, lyophilized antibody-drug conjugate formulation,
    said method comprising:
               providing a formulation as in any one of claims 25 to 59; and
                lyophilizing the aqueous solution to form the lyophilized antibody-drug
conjugate formulation.
    61. A stabilized, lyophilized antibody-drug conjugate formulation prepared by the method
   of claim 60.
    62. A stabilized, lyophilized antibody-drug conjugate formulation that enables
   reconstitution into an aqueous formulation as in any one of claims 25 to 59.
    63. A method for preventing the chemical degradation and fragmentation of a
   benzodiapine drug-linker attached to an antibody comprising formulating the
   benzodiapine drug-linker attached to an antibody with at least about 6 % w/v gamma
   cyclodextrin or chemically modified beta cyclodextrin.
   64. The formulation of any one of claims 23 to 59 having improved stability as measured
   by a reduction in chemical degradation of the benzodiazepine drug linker present in the
   formulation as compared to a benzodiazepine drug linker having 2 % w/v cyclodextrin or
   less.
                                        Seattle Genetics, Inc.
                       Patent Attorneys for the Applicant/Nominated Person
                                      SPRUSON & FERGUSON
                                               66

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
                                                 <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2721><U+261B><U+271E><U+261E>
<removed-date>
                                           <U+2721><U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270C><U+270F><U+271F><U+270C> <U+2711><U+2712><U+2721><U+261B><U+2712><U+270F><U+2713>
              <U+2714><U+271D><U+271D><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+2721><U+2716><U+2717><U+2718><U+2718><U+2719><U+2716> <U+2713><U+2716><U+271A><U+2716><U+2718><U+271B><U+271C><U+2722><U+2723> <U+2712><U+271A><U+271C><U+2724>
              <U+2714><U+271D><U+271E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+271F><U+2725><U+271F><U+2711><U+2726><U+2702><U+270C><U+2727><U+261B><U+2605><U+2712><U+270F> <U+2729><U+270F><U+2702> <U+2729><U+270F><U+261B><U+2712><U+2701><U+2726><U+2702><U+2725><U+2704><U+2702><U+2605><U+270E><U+2713> <U+271F><U+2726><U+270F><U+272A><U+270E><U+2713><U+2729><U+261B><U+270C> <U+272B><U+2726><U+2605><U+272C><U+270E><U+2711><U+2729><U+261B><U+2712><U+2726><U+270F><U+2721>
              <U+2714><U+271D><U+272D><U+260E><U+2715>    <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E> <U+271F>
              <U+2714><U+271D><U+261E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+272E><U+271D><U+272F><U+2730><U+2706><U+260E><U+2723><U+271D><U+2706><U+261E>
              <U+2714><U+271D><U+261E><U+271D><U+2715>   <U+271E><U+260E><U+271D><U+272D><U+2704><U+260E><U+272D><U+2704><U+271D><U+272D>
              <U+2714><U+271D><U+261E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+272E><U+271D><U+272F><U+2730><U+2706><U+271E><U+2723><U+271E><U+272D><U+271D>
              <U+2714><U+271D><U+261E><U+271D><U+2715>   <U+271E><U+260E><U+271D><U+272D><U+2704><U+260E><U+272D><U+2704><U+271D><U+2731>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2714><U+271D><U+272E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+271E><U+272D>
              <U+2714><U+271D><U+2730><U+260E><U+2715>       <U+2717><U+2718><U+2716><U+271A><U+2718><U+2712><U+271A> <U+2732><U+2716><U+2733><U+2722><U+271B><U+2734><U+271A> <U+272D><U+2724><U+261E>
              <U+2714><U+271E><U+271D><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+271D>
              <U+2714><U+271E><U+271D><U+271D><U+2715>   <U+271D><U+260E><U+2730>
              <U+2714><U+271E><U+271D><U+271E><U+2715>    <U+2605><U+261B>
              <U+2714><U+271E><U+271D><U+272D><U+2715>   <U+2729><U+2733><U+2718><U+271B><U+2735><U+271B><U+271C><U+271B><U+2717><U+2719>
              <U+2714><U+271E><U+271E><U+260E><U+2715>
              <U+2714><U+271E><U+271E><U+272D><U+2715>   <U+272C><U+2736><U+2733><U+271B><U+271A><U+2716> <U+271E><U+2737><U+271D><U+271E> <U+2738><U+2711>
              <U+2714><U+2731><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+271D>
              <U+2729><U+2722><U+2739> <U+2712><U+2719><U+2716> <U+2711><U+273A><U+2722> <U+272C><U+2716><U+2718> <U+261B><U+273B><U+2733> <U+2713><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2721><U+2716><U+2733>        <U+2733><U+2734> <U+2721><U+2716><U+2733> <U+2721><U+2716><U+2733> <U+272C><U+2716><U+2718> <U+261B><U+273A><U+2733> <U+2729><U+2719><U+2717> <U+2721><U+2716><U+2733> <U+2711><U+2716><U+2736> <U+2713><U+2719><U+273A>
              <U+271D>               <U+261E>                         <U+271D><U+260E>                  <U+271D><U+261E>
              <U+2713><U+2719><U+2736> <U+2729><U+2733><U+273C> <U+2738><U+2717><U+2719> <U+2712><U+2719><U+2716> <U+2712><U+2719><U+2716> <U+2729><U+2722><U+271A> <U+271F><U+273A><U+2722> <U+2711><U+273A><U+2722> <U+2729><U+2719><U+2717> <U+2721><U+2716><U+2733> <U+2713><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2729><U+2722><U+2739> <U+2712><U+2719><U+2716> <U+2729><U+2722><U+271A> <U+2721><U+2716><U+2733> <U+261B><U+273A><U+2733>
                          <U+271E><U+260E>                  <U+271E><U+261E>                  <U+272D><U+260E>
              <U+2711><U+2716><U+2736> <U+2721><U+2716><U+2733> <U+261B><U+2733><U+2739>     <U+273B><U+2716> <U+2713><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2713><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2711><U+273A><U+2722>     <U+2733><U+2734> <U+2713><U+2719><U+273A> <U+2711><U+273A><U+2722> <U+2721><U+2716><U+2733>   <U+2733><U+2734> <U+2711><U+273A><U+2722> <U+261B><U+273B><U+2733> <U+2711><U+2716><U+2736> <U+2712><U+2719><U+2716>
                      <U+272D><U+261E>                        <U+2731><U+260E>                   <U+2731><U+261E>
              <U+261B><U+273A><U+2733> <U+2729><U+2733><U+273C> <U+2729><U+2719><U+2717> <U+2729><U+2722><U+271A> <U+2729><U+2733><U+273C> <U+2711><U+2716><U+2736> <U+2738><U+2717><U+2719> <U+2729><U+2722><U+2739> <U+2713><U+2719><U+273A> <U+2738><U+2717><U+2719>          <U+2733><U+2734> <U+2721><U+2716><U+2733> <U+2729><U+2733><U+273C>   <U+273B><U+2716> <U+2721><U+2716><U+2733> <U+2713><U+2719><U+273A>
                  <U+261E><U+260E>                  <U+261E><U+261E>                          <U+272E><U+260E>
              <U+2721><U+2716><U+2733> <U+2713><U+2719><U+273A> <U+2721><U+2716><U+2733> <U+2713><U+2719><U+273A> <U+2713><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2729><U+2722><U+2739> <U+261B><U+273A><U+2733> <U+2721><U+2716><U+2733> <U+2711><U+2716><U+2736> <U+261B><U+273B><U+2733> <U+2712><U+2719><U+2716> <U+2721><U+2716><U+2733> <U+2721><U+2716><U+2733> <U+2711><U+2716><U+2736> <U+2713><U+2719><U+2736> <U+261B><U+273A><U+2733>
              <U+272E><U+261E>                  <U+2730><U+260E>                  <U+2730><U+261E>                  <U+2706><U+260E>
              <U+2713><U+2719><U+2736> <U+2729><U+2722><U+2739> <U+272C><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2713><U+2719><U+273A> <U+2712><U+2719><U+2716> <U+261B><U+273A><U+2733> <U+261B><U+273A><U+2733> <U+271F><U+273A><U+2722> <U+2711><U+2716><U+2736> <U+2713><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261B><U+273A><U+2733> <U+2729><U+2722><U+2739> <U+2713><U+2719><U+2736>           <U+273B><U+2716>    <U+2733><U+2734> <U+2711><U+2716><U+2736>
                              <U+2706><U+261E>                  <U+273D><U+260E>                             <U+273D><U+261E>
              <U+261B><U+273B><U+2733>   <U+273B><U+2716> <U+2713><U+2719><U+273A> <U+2729><U+2719><U+2717> <U+2713><U+2719><U+273A> <U+261B><U+273B><U+2733> <U+2711><U+273A><U+2722> <U+2711><U+2716><U+2736> <U+2713><U+2719><U+2736> <U+2711><U+2716><U+2736> <U+2711><U+273A><U+2722>
                           <U+271D><U+260E><U+260E>                 <U+271D><U+260E><U+261E>
              <U+2714><U+271E><U+271D><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+271E>
              <U+2714><U+271E><U+271D><U+271D><U+2715>   <U+271D><U+271D><U+2730>
              <U+2714><U+271E><U+271D><U+271E><U+2715>    <U+2605><U+261B>
              <U+2714><U+271E><U+271D><U+272D><U+2715>   <U+2729><U+2733><U+2718><U+271B><U+2735><U+271B><U+271C><U+271B><U+2717><U+2719>
              <U+2714><U+271E><U+271E><U+260E><U+2715>
              <U+2714><U+271E><U+271E><U+272D><U+2715>   <U+272C><U+2736><U+2733><U+271B><U+271A><U+2716> <U+271E><U+2737><U+271D><U+271E> <U+2738><U+2737>
              <U+2714><U+2731><U+260E><U+260E><U+2715>   <U+271E>
              <U+2713><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2738><U+2717><U+2719> <U+2713><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2711><U+2716><U+2736> <U+2713><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2713><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2721><U+2716><U+2733> <U+2713><U+2719><U+273A>        <U+2733><U+2734> <U+2713><U+2719><U+2736> <U+2711><U+2716><U+2736> <U+2738><U+2717><U+2719> <U+2729><U+2733><U+273C>     <U+2733><U+2734> <U+2713><U+2719><U+273A> <U+261B><U+273B><U+2733>
              <U+271D>               <U+261E>                         <U+271D><U+260E>                     <U+271D><U+261E>
                                                       <U+2717><U+273C><U+2716> <U+271D>

                                                   <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2721><U+261B><U+271E><U+261E>
<removed-date>
               <U+270C><U+270D> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2711> <U+2712><U+2713><U+2714> <U+2715><U+2711><U+270D> <U+2721><U+270D><U+2716> <U+271F><U+2713><U+2714> <U+2712><U+2713><U+2714> <U+2717><U+2711><U+270F> <U+2721><U+270D><U+2716> <U+2718><U+2711><U+2713> <U+261B><U+2713><U+2716> <U+261B><U+270C><U+2716>          <U+270C><U+270D> <U+261B><U+270C><U+2716> <U+2717><U+2714><U+2719> <U+261B><U+2713><U+2716>
                          <U+271E><U+260E>                  <U+271E><U+261E>                          <U+271A><U+260E>
              <U+2717><U+2714><U+271B> <U+2715><U+2711><U+270D> <U+2717><U+2714><U+2719> <U+261B><U+2716><U+271B> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2711> <U+2717><U+2714><U+2719> <U+2718><U+2711><U+2719> <U+2717><U+2716><U+271C>        <U+2716><U+2722> <U+2718><U+2711><U+2713> <U+2718><U+2711><U+2719> <U+2718><U+2711><U+2713> <U+2712><U+270D><U+2723> <U+2718><U+2711><U+2723> <U+261B><U+2716><U+271B> <U+2715><U+2711><U+270D>
                      <U+271A><U+261E>                  <U+2724><U+260E>                        <U+2724><U+261E>
              <U+2718><U+2711><U+2713> <U+261B><U+2716><U+271B> <U+2715><U+2711><U+270D> <U+261B><U+2713><U+2716>        <U+2716><U+2722> <U+2718><U+2711><U+2713> <U+2717><U+2714><U+271B> <U+2718><U+2711><U+2713> <U+2721><U+270D><U+2716> <U+261B><U+270C><U+2716> <U+2712><U+2713><U+2714> <U+261B><U+2713><U+2716> <U+2717><U+2714><U+2719> <U+2718><U+2711><U+2723> <U+2712><U+2713><U+2714>        <U+270C><U+270D>
                  <U+261E><U+260E>                        <U+261E><U+261E>                  <U+2725><U+260E>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2712><U+2713><U+2714> <U+2717><U+2711><U+270F> <U+2712><U+2713><U+2714> <U+2717><U+2711><U+270F> <U+261B><U+270C><U+2716> <U+2712><U+270D><U+2723> <U+261B><U+270C><U+2716> <U+2717><U+2711><U+270F> <U+2717><U+2714><U+271B> <U+2712><U+2713><U+2714> <U+2721><U+270D><U+2716> <U+2721><U+270D><U+2716> <U+2721><U+270D><U+2716> <U+261B><U+270C><U+2716> <U+2717><U+2711><U+270F> <U+261B><U+2713><U+2716>
              <U+2725><U+261E>                  <U+2726><U+260E>                  <U+2726><U+261E>                  <U+2706><U+260E>
              <U+2712><U+270D><U+2723> <U+2718><U+2711><U+2719> <U+2712><U+270D><U+2723> <U+2717><U+2714><U+2719> <U+2717><U+2714><U+2719> <U+2712><U+270D><U+2723> <U+261B><U+270C><U+2716> <U+2721><U+270D><U+2716> <U+2718><U+2711><U+2723> <U+2717><U+2714><U+2719> <U+2721><U+270D><U+2716> <U+2717><U+2711><U+270F> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2711> <U+261B><U+2713><U+2716> <U+270C><U+270D> <U+271F><U+2713><U+2714>
                              <U+2706><U+261E>                  <U+2727><U+260E>                  <U+2727><U+261E>
              <U+2717><U+2711><U+270F> <U+2721><U+270D><U+2716> <U+2718><U+2711><U+2713> <U+261B><U+2713><U+2716> <U+2718><U+2711><U+2723> <U+2717><U+2714><U+271B> <U+2717><U+2711><U+270F> <U+2605><U+270D><U+2729> <U+2717><U+2714><U+271B> <U+261B><U+2713><U+2716> <U+261B><U+2716><U+271B> <U+2718><U+2711><U+2713> <U+2718><U+2711><U+2719> <U+2718><U+2711><U+2713> <U+261B><U+270C><U+2716> <U+2721><U+270D><U+2716>
                          <U+271D><U+260E><U+260E>                 <U+271D><U+260E><U+261E>                 <U+271D><U+271D><U+260E>
              <U+270E><U+270F><U+2711> <U+261B><U+270C><U+2716> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2711> <U+2721><U+270D><U+2716> <U+2721><U+270D><U+2716>
                      <U+271D><U+271D><U+261E>
              <U+272A><U+271E><U+271D><U+260E><U+272B>     <U+271A>
              <U+272A><U+271E><U+271D><U+271D><U+272B>     <U+271D><U+260E><U+2726>
              <U+272A><U+271E><U+271D><U+271E><U+272B>       <U+272C><U+261B>
              <U+272A><U+271E><U+271D><U+271A><U+272B>     <U+2717><U+2716><U+2729><U+272D><U+272E><U+272D><U+272F><U+272D><U+270F><U+2711>
              <U+272A><U+271E><U+271E><U+260E><U+272B>
              <U+272A><U+271E><U+271E><U+271A><U+272B>     <U+2730><U+2723><U+2731><U+270F><U+2719><U+272D><U+2732><U+270D><U+2733> <U+271E><U+2730><U+271D><U+271E> <U+270E><U+2712>
              <U+272A><U+2724><U+260E><U+260E><U+272B>     <U+271A>
              <U+2717><U+2714><U+271B> <U+2715><U+2711><U+270D> <U+2718><U+2711><U+2719> <U+2605><U+270D><U+2729> <U+261B><U+270C><U+2716> <U+2718><U+2711><U+2719> <U+2721><U+270D><U+2716>        <U+2716><U+2722> <U+2721><U+270D><U+2716> <U+2721><U+270D><U+2716> <U+2712><U+270D><U+2723> <U+2721><U+270D><U+2716> <U+2717><U+2711><U+270F> <U+2721><U+270D><U+2716> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2711> <U+2718><U+2711><U+2713>
              <U+271D>               <U+261E>                         <U+271D><U+260E>                  <U+271D><U+261E>
              <U+2717><U+2714><U+271B> <U+2717><U+2716><U+271C> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2711> <U+261B><U+270C><U+2716> <U+2715><U+2711><U+270D> <U+2717><U+2714><U+2719> <U+271F><U+2713><U+2714> <U+2712><U+2713><U+2714> <U+2717><U+2711><U+270F> <U+2721><U+270D><U+2716> <U+2718><U+2711><U+2719> <U+2717><U+2714><U+271B> <U+2715><U+2711><U+270D> <U+2717><U+2714><U+2719> <U+2721><U+270D><U+2716> <U+261B><U+2713><U+2716>
                          <U+271E><U+260E>                  <U+271E><U+261E>                  <U+271A><U+260E>
              <U+2712><U+270D><U+2723> <U+2721><U+270D><U+2716> <U+261B><U+2716><U+271B>       <U+270C><U+270D> <U+2718><U+2711><U+2719> <U+2718><U+2711><U+2719> <U+2712><U+2713><U+2714>    <U+2716><U+2722> <U+2718><U+2711><U+2713> <U+2712><U+2713><U+2714> <U+2717><U+2711><U+270F>   <U+2716><U+2722> <U+2712><U+2713><U+2714> <U+261B><U+270C><U+2716> <U+2712><U+270D><U+2723> <U+2715><U+2711><U+270D>
                      <U+271A><U+261E>                         <U+2724><U+260E>                   <U+2724><U+261E>
              <U+261B><U+2713><U+2716> <U+2717><U+2716><U+271C> <U+2717><U+2711><U+270F> <U+2717><U+2714><U+2719> <U+2717><U+2716><U+271C> <U+2712><U+270D><U+2723> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2711> <U+2717><U+2714><U+271B> <U+2718><U+2711><U+2713> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2711>           <U+2716><U+2722> <U+2721><U+270D><U+2716> <U+2717><U+2716><U+271C>   <U+270C><U+270D> <U+2721><U+270D><U+2716> <U+2718><U+2711><U+2713>
                  <U+261E><U+260E>                  <U+261E><U+261E>                           <U+2725><U+260E>
              <U+2721><U+270D><U+2716> <U+2718><U+2711><U+2713> <U+2721><U+270D><U+2716> <U+2718><U+2711><U+2713> <U+2718><U+2711><U+2719> <U+2717><U+2714><U+271B> <U+261B><U+2713><U+2716> <U+261B><U+270C><U+2716> <U+2712><U+270D><U+2723> <U+261B><U+270C><U+2716> <U+2715><U+2711><U+270D> <U+2721><U+270D><U+2716> <U+2721><U+270D><U+2716> <U+2712><U+270D><U+2723> <U+2718><U+2711><U+2719> <U+2716><U+2722>
              <U+2725><U+261E>                  <U+2726><U+260E>                  <U+2726><U+261E>                  <U+2706><U+260E>
              <U+2718><U+2711><U+2723> <U+2717><U+2714><U+271B>       <U+270C><U+270D> <U+2717><U+2711><U+270F> <U+261B><U+270C><U+2716> <U+261B><U+2713><U+2716> <U+261B><U+2713><U+2716> <U+271F><U+2713><U+2714> <U+2712><U+270D><U+2723> <U+2718><U+2711><U+2719> <U+261B><U+2713><U+2716> <U+2717><U+2714><U+271B> <U+2718><U+2711><U+2723>       <U+270C><U+270D>    <U+2716><U+2722> <U+2712><U+270D><U+2723>
                                   <U+2706><U+261E>                  <U+2727><U+260E>                         <U+2727><U+261E>
              <U+261B><U+270C><U+2716>   <U+270C><U+270D> <U+2718><U+2711><U+2713> <U+2718><U+2711><U+2713> <U+2718><U+2711><U+2713> <U+261B><U+270C><U+2716> <U+2712><U+2713><U+2714> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2711> <U+2718><U+2711><U+2723> <U+2715><U+2711><U+270D> <U+2712><U+2713><U+2714>
                           <U+271D><U+260E><U+260E>                 <U+271D><U+260E><U+261E>
              <U+272A><U+271E><U+271D><U+260E><U+272B>     <U+2724>
              <U+272A><U+271E><U+271D><U+271D><U+272B>     <U+271D><U+271D><U+2726>
                                                        <U+270F><U+271C><U+270D> <U+271E>

                                                <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2721><U+261B><U+271E><U+261E>
<removed-date>
              <U+270C><U+271E><U+271D><U+271E><U+270D>    <U+270E><U+261B>
              <U+270C><U+271E><U+271D><U+270F><U+270D>   <U+2711><U+2712><U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+2714><U+2716><U+2714><U+2717><U+2718>
              <U+270C><U+271E><U+271E><U+260E><U+270D>
              <U+270C><U+271E><U+271E><U+270F><U+270D>   <U+2719><U+271A><U+2719><U+271B><U+271A><U+2719><U+2721><U+271C><U+2711><U+2722><U+271A><U+2723><U+2723> <U+271C><U+2711><U+2721><U+271A><U+2723><U+271A><U+2721><U+271F><U+2723><U+2711><U+2721><U+271C><U+2724><U+261B><U+2725><U+261B><U+2726><U+2724><U+2702><U+2727><U+2726><U+2605><U+271A><U+270E><U+2719><U+2711> <U+271C><U+2719><U+271C><U+271B><U+2722><U+2605><U+2727><U+271C><U+2605><U+2727><U+2724> <U+271C><U+2702><U+271C><U+2721><U+261B><U+2723><U+2724><U+2726><U+2722><U+2723><U+2725><U+2723>
                      <U+2711><U+2723><U+2711><U+261B><U+271B><U+261B><U+2711><U+2702><U+261B><U+2721><U+261B><U+2721><U+261B><U+2711><U+2724><U+2729><U+2722><U+271B><U+270E><U+2721><U+271B><U+270E><U+2721><U+2702><U+2702><U+261B><U+2711><U+271A><U+2724><U+2724><U+271F><U+2711><U+2721><U+271C><U+2724><U+2722><U+2702><U+2711><U+2729><U+2702><U+2724><U+2605><U+271C><U+2719><U+271C><U+261B><U+261B><U+271A><U+261B><U+271A><U+2721><U+2721>
              <U+270C><U+272A><U+260E><U+260E><U+270D>   <U+272A>
              <U+271C><U+2718><U+272B> <U+271A><U+2717><U+2718> <U+271C><U+2718><U+272B> <U+271B><U+272C><U+272D> <U+271A><U+2717><U+2718> <U+271C><U+2718><U+272B> <U+2721><U+272C><U+2712> <U+271C><U+2718><U+272E> <U+2711><U+2718><U+2717> <U+271C><U+2718><U+272D> <U+271A><U+2717><U+2718> <U+271B><U+272E><U+272F> <U+271B><U+272E><U+272F>      <U+2712><U+2730> <U+271C><U+2718><U+272E> <U+2711><U+2718><U+2717>
              <U+271D>               <U+261E>                   <U+271D><U+260E>                      <U+271D><U+261E>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2721><U+272C><U+2712> <U+271A><U+2717><U+2718> <U+271B><U+272E><U+272F> <U+271A><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2721><U+272C><U+2712> <U+271F><U+272E><U+272F> <U+271B><U+272E><U+272F> <U+2711><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2721><U+272C><U+2712> <U+271C><U+2718><U+272E> <U+261B><U+272E><U+2712> <U+261B><U+2731><U+2712>      <U+2731><U+272C> <U+261B><U+2731><U+2712> <U+2711><U+272F><U+272B> <U+261B><U+272E><U+2712>
                          <U+271E><U+260E>                  <U+271E><U+261E>                      <U+270F><U+260E>
              <U+2711><U+272F><U+2732> <U+2727><U+2718><U+272C> <U+2711><U+272F><U+272B> <U+261B><U+2712><U+2732> <U+271A><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2711><U+2712><U+2733> <U+271C><U+2718><U+272B> <U+2711><U+2718><U+2717>      <U+2712><U+2730> <U+271C><U+2718><U+272E> <U+271C><U+2718><U+272B> <U+271C><U+2718><U+272E> <U+271B><U+272C><U+272D> <U+271C><U+2718><U+272D> <U+261B><U+2712><U+2732> <U+2727><U+2718><U+272C>
                      <U+270F><U+261E>                  <U+272A><U+260E>                      <U+272A><U+261E>
              <U+271C><U+2718><U+272E> <U+261B><U+2712><U+2732> <U+2727><U+2718><U+272C> <U+261B><U+272E><U+2712>      <U+2712><U+2730> <U+271C><U+2718><U+272E> <U+2711><U+272F><U+2732> <U+271C><U+2718><U+272E> <U+2721><U+272C><U+2712> <U+261B><U+2731><U+2712> <U+271B><U+272E><U+272F> <U+261B><U+272E><U+2712> <U+2711><U+272F><U+272B> <U+271C><U+2718><U+272D> <U+271B><U+272E><U+272F>   <U+2731><U+272C>
                  <U+261E><U+260E>                      <U+261E><U+261E>                  <U+2734><U+260E>
              <U+271B><U+272E><U+272F> <U+2711><U+2718><U+2717> <U+271B><U+272E><U+272F> <U+2711><U+2718><U+2717> <U+261B><U+2731><U+2712> <U+271B><U+272C><U+272D> <U+261B><U+2731><U+2712> <U+2711><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2711><U+272F><U+2732> <U+261B><U+2731><U+2712> <U+2721><U+272C><U+2712> <U+261B><U+2731><U+2712> <U+2721><U+272C><U+2712> <U+261B><U+2731><U+2712> <U+2711><U+2718><U+2717> <U+261B><U+272E><U+2712>
              <U+2734><U+261E>                  <U+2735><U+260E>                  <U+2735><U+261E>                  <U+2706><U+260E>
              <U+2729><U+272C><U+2713> <U+271C><U+2718><U+272D> <U+271B><U+272C><U+272D> <U+2711><U+2712><U+2733> <U+2721><U+272C><U+2712> <U+271B><U+272C><U+272D> <U+2711><U+2712><U+2733> <U+2721><U+272C><U+2712> <U+2711><U+272F><U+2732> <U+2711><U+272F><U+2732> <U+261B><U+2731><U+2712> <U+2711><U+2718><U+2717> <U+271A><U+2717><U+2718> <U+261B><U+272E><U+2712> <U+261B><U+272E><U+2712> <U+271F><U+272E><U+272F>
                              <U+2706><U+261E>                  <U+2736><U+260E>                  <U+2736><U+261E>
              <U+2711><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2721><U+272C><U+2712> <U+271C><U+2718><U+272E> <U+261B><U+272E><U+2712> <U+271C><U+2718><U+272D> <U+2711><U+272F><U+2732> <U+2711><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2729><U+272C><U+2713> <U+2711><U+272F><U+2732> <U+261B><U+272E><U+2712> <U+261B><U+2712><U+2732> <U+271C><U+2718><U+272E> <U+271C><U+2718><U+272B> <U+271C><U+2718><U+272E> <U+261B><U+2731><U+2712> <U+261B><U+2731><U+2712>
                          <U+271D><U+260E><U+260E>                 <U+271D><U+260E><U+261E>                 <U+271D><U+271D><U+260E>
              <U+271A><U+2717><U+2718> <U+261B><U+2731><U+2712> <U+271A><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2721><U+272C><U+2712> <U+2721><U+272C><U+2712>
                      <U+271D><U+271D><U+261E>
              <U+270C><U+271E><U+271D><U+260E><U+270D>   <U+261E>
              <U+270C><U+271E><U+271D><U+271D><U+270D>   <U+271D><U+271D>
              <U+270C><U+271E><U+271D><U+271E><U+270D>     <U+270E><U+261B>
              <U+270C><U+271E><U+271D><U+270F><U+270D>   <U+2711><U+2712><U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+2714><U+2716><U+2714><U+2717><U+2718>
              <U+270C><U+271E><U+271E><U+260E><U+270D>
              <U+270C><U+271E><U+271E><U+270F><U+270D>   <U+271E><U+2737><U+271D><U+271E> <U+271F><U+2702><U+270E><U+2704><U+271B><U+271D>
              <U+270C><U+272A><U+260E><U+260E><U+270D>   <U+261E>
              <U+271B><U+272E><U+272F> <U+2711><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2721><U+272C><U+2712> <U+271C><U+2718><U+272B> <U+2711><U+272F><U+2732> <U+2727><U+2718><U+272C> <U+2711><U+272F><U+272B> <U+2721><U+272C><U+2712> <U+261B><U+272E><U+2712> <U+271B><U+272C><U+272D> <U+2721><U+272C><U+2712>
              <U+271D>               <U+261E>                   <U+271D><U+260E>
              <U+270C><U+271E><U+271D><U+260E><U+270D>   <U+2734>
              <U+270C><U+271E><U+271D><U+271D><U+270D>   <U+2735>
              <U+270C><U+271E><U+271D><U+271E><U+270D>    <U+270E><U+261B>
              <U+270C><U+271E><U+271D><U+270F><U+270D>   <U+2711><U+2712><U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+2714><U+2716><U+2714><U+2717><U+2718>
              <U+270C><U+271E><U+271E><U+260E><U+270D>
              <U+270C><U+271E><U+271E><U+270F><U+270D>   <U+271E><U+2737><U+271D><U+271E> <U+271F><U+2702><U+270E><U+2704><U+271B><U+271E>
              <U+270C><U+272A><U+260E><U+260E><U+270D>   <U+2734>
              <U+2711><U+2712><U+2733> <U+2711><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2711><U+272F><U+272B> <U+2711><U+2712><U+2733> <U+271B><U+272C><U+272D> <U+271A><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2711><U+272F><U+2732>
              <U+271D>               <U+261E>
                                                     <U+2717><U+2733><U+272C> <U+270F>

                                                <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2721><U+261B><U+271E><U+261E>
<removed-date>
              <U+270C><U+271E><U+271D><U+260E><U+270D>   <U+2735>
              <U+270C><U+271E><U+271D><U+271D><U+270D>   <U+2736>
              <U+270C><U+271E><U+271D><U+271E><U+270D>    <U+270E><U+261B>
              <U+270C><U+271E><U+271D><U+270F><U+270D>   <U+2711><U+2712><U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+2714><U+2716><U+2714><U+2717><U+2718>
              <U+270C><U+271E><U+271E><U+260E><U+270D>
              <U+270C><U+271E><U+271E><U+270F><U+270D>   <U+271E><U+2737><U+271D><U+271E> <U+271F><U+2702><U+270E><U+2704><U+271B><U+270F>
              <U+270C><U+272A><U+260E><U+260E><U+270D>   <U+2735>
              <U+271B><U+272C><U+272D> <U+271C><U+2718><U+272B> <U+261B><U+272E><U+2712> <U+2711><U+272F><U+2732> <U+271C><U+2718><U+272D>     <U+2731><U+272C>   <U+2712><U+2730> <U+271B><U+272C><U+272D> <U+261B><U+2731><U+2712>
              <U+271D>               <U+261E>
<removed-apn>
              <U+270C><U+271E><U+271D><U+260E><U+270D>   <U+2706>
              <U+270C><U+271E><U+271D><U+271D><U+270D>   <U+261E>
              <U+270C><U+271E><U+271D><U+271E><U+270D>    <U+270E><U+261B>
              <U+270C><U+271E><U+271D><U+270F><U+270D>   <U+2711><U+2712><U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+2714><U+2716><U+2714><U+2717><U+2718>
              <U+270C><U+271E><U+271E><U+260E><U+270D>
              <U+270C><U+271E><U+271E><U+270F><U+270D>   <U+271E><U+2737><U+271D><U+271E> <U+271F><U+2702><U+270E><U+2704><U+2737><U+271D>
              <U+270C><U+272A><U+260E><U+260E><U+270D>   <U+2706>
              <U+2711><U+272F><U+272B> <U+261B><U+272E><U+2712> <U+2711><U+272F><U+2732> <U+2727><U+2718><U+272C> <U+2711><U+272F><U+272B>
              <U+271D>               <U+261E>
              <U+270C><U+271E><U+271D><U+260E><U+270D>   <U+2736>
              <U+270C><U+271E><U+271D><U+271D><U+270D>   <U+271D><U+2735>
              <U+270C><U+271E><U+271D><U+271E><U+270D>     <U+270E><U+261B>
              <U+270C><U+271E><U+271D><U+270F><U+270D>   <U+2711><U+2712><U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+2714><U+2716><U+2714><U+2717><U+2718>
              <U+270C><U+271E><U+271E><U+260E><U+270D>
              <U+270C><U+271E><U+271E><U+270F><U+270D>   <U+271E><U+2737><U+271D><U+271E> <U+271F><U+2702><U+270E><U+2704><U+2737><U+271E>
              <U+270C><U+272A><U+260E><U+260E><U+270D>   <U+2736>
              <U+261B><U+2712><U+2732> <U+2727><U+2718><U+272C> <U+261B><U+272E><U+2712>   <U+2712><U+2730> <U+271C><U+2718><U+272E> <U+2711><U+272F><U+2732> <U+271C><U+2718><U+272E> <U+2721><U+272C><U+2712> <U+261B><U+2731><U+2712> <U+271B><U+272E><U+272F> <U+261B><U+272E><U+2712> <U+2711><U+272F><U+272B> <U+271C><U+2718><U+272D> <U+271B><U+272E><U+272F> <U+2731><U+272C> <U+271B><U+272E><U+272F>
              <U+271D>                <U+261E>                   <U+271D><U+260E>                  <U+271D><U+261E>
              <U+2711><U+2718><U+2717>
              <U+270C><U+271E><U+271D><U+260E><U+270D>   <U+271D><U+260E>
              <U+270C><U+271E><U+271D><U+271D><U+270D>   <U+2706>
              <U+270C><U+271E><U+271D><U+271E><U+270D>     <U+270E><U+261B>
              <U+270C><U+271E><U+271D><U+270F><U+270D>   <U+2711><U+2712><U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+2714><U+2716><U+2714><U+2717><U+2718>
              <U+270C><U+271E><U+271E><U+260E><U+270D>
              <U+270C><U+271E><U+271E><U+270F><U+270D>   <U+271E><U+2737><U+271D><U+271E> <U+271F><U+2702><U+270E><U+2704><U+2737><U+270F>
              <U+270C><U+272A><U+260E><U+260E><U+270D>   <U+271D><U+260E>
              <U+271C><U+2718><U+272E> <U+261B><U+272E><U+2712> <U+271C><U+2718><U+272D> <U+2711><U+272F><U+2732> <U+2711><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2729><U+272C><U+2713> <U+2711><U+272F><U+2732> <U+261B><U+272E><U+2712>
              <U+271D>               <U+261E>
              <U+270C><U+271E><U+271D><U+260E><U+270D>   <U+271D><U+271D>
              <U+270C><U+271E><U+271D><U+271D><U+270D>   <U+271D><U+271D><U+271E>
              <U+270C><U+271E><U+271D><U+271E><U+270D>    <U+270E><U+261B>
              <U+270C><U+271E><U+271D><U+270F><U+270D>   <U+2711><U+2712><U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+2714><U+2716><U+2714><U+2717><U+2718>
              <U+270C><U+271E><U+271E><U+260E><U+270D>
              <U+270C><U+271E><U+271E><U+270F><U+270D>   <U+2729><U+272D><U+2712><U+2714><U+272B><U+272C> <U+271D><U+2725><U+2734> <U+271A><U+2737>
              <U+270C><U+272A><U+260E><U+260E><U+270D>   <U+271D><U+271D>
                                                        <U+2717><U+2733><U+272C> <U+272A>

                                                    <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2721><U+261B><U+271E><U+261E>
<removed-date>
              <U+2711><U+272F><U+2732> <U+2727><U+2718><U+272C> <U+271A><U+2717><U+2718> <U+271B><U+272C><U+272D> <U+261B><U+2731><U+2712> <U+271C><U+2718><U+272B> <U+2721><U+272C><U+2712>          <U+2712><U+2730> <U+2711><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2721><U+272C><U+2712> <U+271B><U+272C><U+272D> <U+2711><U+2718><U+2717> <U+271A><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2721><U+272C><U+2712> <U+271B><U+272C><U+272D> <U+271C><U+2718><U+272E>
              <U+271D>               <U+261E>                           <U+271D><U+260E>                  <U+271D><U+261E>
              <U+271C><U+2718><U+272B> <U+2711><U+2712><U+2733> <U+2711><U+2718><U+2717> <U+261B><U+2731><U+2712> <U+2727><U+2718><U+272C> <U+2721><U+272C><U+2712> <U+271F><U+272E><U+272F> <U+2711><U+2712><U+2733> <U+2711><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2721><U+272C><U+2712> <U+271B><U+272E><U+272F> <U+2721><U+272C><U+2712> <U+271A><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2721><U+272C><U+2712> <U+261B><U+2731><U+2712> <U+2721><U+272C><U+2712>
                          <U+271E><U+260E>                  <U+271E><U+261E>                  <U+270F><U+260E>
              <U+271C><U+2718><U+272E> <U+261B><U+272E><U+2712> <U+2721><U+272C><U+2712>       <U+2731><U+272C> <U+2729><U+272C><U+2713> <U+2737><U+2714><U+272F> <U+261B><U+2712><U+2732> <U+261B><U+272E><U+2712> <U+271C><U+2718><U+272B> <U+271C><U+2718><U+272B> <U+271B><U+272E><U+272F>     <U+2712><U+2730> <U+271C><U+2718><U+272E> <U+271C><U+2718><U+272B>   <U+2712><U+2730>   <U+2712><U+2730>
                      <U+270F><U+261E>                       <U+272A><U+260E>                     <U+272A><U+261E>
<removed-apn>
              <U+271B><U+272E><U+272F> <U+271B><U+272C><U+272D> <U+271B><U+272C><U+272D> <U+2727><U+2718><U+272C> <U+261B><U+272E><U+2712> <U+271B><U+272C><U+272D> <U+2711><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2721><U+272C><U+2712> <U+2711><U+272F><U+272B> <U+271B><U+272C><U+272D> <U+271C><U+2718><U+272D> <U+2721><U+272C><U+2712> <U+271C><U+2718><U+272E> <U+271A><U+2717><U+2718>           <U+2712><U+2730> <U+2711><U+2718><U+2717>
                  <U+261E><U+260E>                  <U+261E><U+261E>                  <U+2734><U+260E>
              <U+2711><U+2712><U+2733>   <U+2731><U+272C> <U+2721><U+272C><U+2712> <U+271C><U+2718><U+272E> <U+2721><U+272C><U+2712> <U+271C><U+2718><U+272E> <U+2721><U+272C><U+2712> <U+271C><U+2718><U+272E> <U+261B><U+2731><U+2712> <U+2711><U+272F><U+2732> <U+2731><U+272C> <U+261B><U+2731><U+2712> <U+271B><U+272C><U+272D> <U+2711><U+272F><U+272B> <U+2727><U+2718><U+272C> <U+2737><U+2714><U+272F>
              <U+2734><U+261E>                   <U+2735><U+260E>                  <U+2735><U+261E>                 <U+2706><U+260E>
               <U+2712><U+2730> <U+271A><U+2717><U+2718> <U+271C><U+2718><U+272D> <U+271C><U+2718><U+272D> <U+271C><U+2718><U+272D> <U+2711><U+272F><U+2732> <U+2711><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2711><U+2718><U+2717> <U+261B><U+2731><U+2712> <U+261B><U+272E><U+2712> <U+261B><U+272E><U+2712> <U+271F><U+272E><U+272F> <U+271C><U+2718><U+272B> <U+2737><U+2714><U+272F> <U+2721><U+272C><U+2712> <U+2711><U+2712><U+2733>
                              <U+2706><U+261E>                  <U+2736><U+260E>                  <U+2736><U+261E>
              <U+271C><U+2718><U+272D> <U+271A><U+2717><U+2718>        <U+2712><U+2730> <U+261B><U+2712><U+2732> <U+261B><U+2731><U+2712>    <U+2731><U+272C> <U+271C><U+2718><U+272E> <U+271C><U+2718><U+272E> <U+271C><U+2718><U+272E> <U+261B><U+2731><U+2712> <U+271B><U+272E><U+272F> <U+271B><U+272C><U+272D> <U+271C><U+2718><U+272D> <U+2727><U+2718><U+272C> <U+271B><U+272E><U+272F> <U+2711><U+2712><U+2733>
                                <U+271D><U+260E><U+260E>                   <U+271D><U+260E><U+261E>                 <U+271D><U+271D><U+260E>
              <U+270C><U+271E><U+271D><U+260E><U+270D>     <U+271D><U+271E>
              <U+270C><U+271E><U+271D><U+271D><U+270D>     <U+271D><U+271D><U+2706>
              <U+270C><U+271E><U+271D><U+271E><U+270D>      <U+270E><U+261B>
              <U+270C><U+271E><U+271D><U+270F><U+270D>     <U+2711><U+2712><U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+2714><U+2716><U+2714><U+2717><U+2718>
              <U+270C><U+271E><U+271E><U+260E><U+270D>
              <U+270C><U+271E><U+271E><U+270F><U+270D>     <U+2729><U+272D><U+2712><U+2714><U+272B><U+272C> <U+271D><U+2725><U+2734> <U+271A><U+2737>
              <U+270C><U+272A><U+260E><U+260E><U+270D>     <U+271D><U+271E>
              <U+271C><U+2718><U+272B> <U+2727><U+2718><U+272C> <U+271C><U+2718><U+272B> <U+271B><U+272C><U+272D> <U+271A><U+2717><U+2718> <U+271C><U+2718><U+272B> <U+2721><U+272C><U+2712> <U+271C><U+2718><U+272E>          <U+2712><U+2730> <U+271C><U+2718><U+272D> <U+271A><U+2717><U+2718> <U+271B><U+272E><U+272F> <U+271B><U+272E><U+272F>   <U+2712><U+2730> <U+271C><U+2718><U+272E> <U+271C><U+2718><U+272D>
              <U+271D>               <U+261E>                           <U+271D><U+260E>                   <U+271D><U+261E>
              <U+261B><U+2731><U+2712> <U+271A><U+2717><U+2718> <U+271B><U+272E><U+272F> <U+2727><U+2718><U+272C> <U+2721><U+272C><U+2712> <U+271F><U+272E><U+272F> <U+271B><U+272E><U+272F> <U+2711><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2721><U+272C><U+2712> <U+271C><U+2718><U+272E> <U+261B><U+272E><U+2712> <U+261B><U+2731><U+2712>          <U+2731><U+272C> <U+261B><U+2731><U+2712> <U+2711><U+272F><U+272B> <U+261B><U+272E><U+2712>
                          <U+271E><U+260E>                  <U+271E><U+261E>                          <U+270F><U+260E>
              <U+271C><U+2718><U+272E> <U+2729><U+272C><U+2713> <U+2711><U+272F><U+272B> <U+261B><U+2712><U+2732> <U+271A><U+2717><U+2718> <U+271B><U+272E><U+272F> <U+271C><U+2718><U+272B> <U+2711><U+2718><U+2717>          <U+2712><U+2730> <U+271C><U+2718><U+272E> <U+271B><U+272E><U+272F> <U+271C><U+2718><U+272E> <U+271B><U+272C><U+272D> <U+271B><U+272E><U+272F> <U+261B><U+2712><U+2732> <U+2729><U+272C><U+2713>
                      <U+270F><U+261E>                  <U+272A><U+260E>                          <U+272A><U+261E>
              <U+271C><U+2718><U+272E> <U+261B><U+2712><U+2732> <U+2727><U+2718><U+272C> <U+2711><U+272F><U+272B> <U+261B><U+2731><U+2712> <U+261B><U+272E><U+2712> <U+261B><U+2731><U+2712> <U+271C><U+2718><U+272E> <U+271C><U+2718><U+272D>          <U+2712><U+2730> <U+261B><U+2731><U+2712> <U+261B><U+272E><U+2712> <U+2711><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2711><U+272F><U+2732> <U+2711><U+2718><U+2717>    <U+2731><U+272C>
                  <U+261E><U+260E>                  <U+261E><U+261E>                          <U+2734><U+260E>
              <U+271B><U+272E><U+272F> <U+271C><U+2718><U+272E> <U+2711><U+2712><U+2733>       <U+2731><U+272C> <U+2711><U+2718><U+2717>     <U+2731><U+272C> <U+2721><U+272C><U+2712> <U+271B><U+272C><U+272D> <U+271C><U+2718><U+272D> <U+261B><U+2731><U+2712> <U+2721><U+272C><U+2712> <U+2711><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2721><U+272C><U+2712> <U+261B><U+2731><U+2712> <U+2711><U+2718><U+2717> <U+261B><U+272E><U+2712>
              <U+2734><U+261E>                          <U+2735><U+260E>                  <U+2735><U+261E>                  <U+2706><U+260E>
              <U+271B><U+272C><U+272D> <U+271C><U+2718><U+272B> <U+2727><U+2718><U+272C> <U+2711><U+272F><U+272B> <U+2711><U+272F><U+272B> <U+271B><U+272C><U+272D> <U+271B><U+272E><U+272F> <U+2711><U+272F><U+272B> <U+271C><U+2718><U+272D> <U+2711><U+272F><U+2732> <U+261B><U+2731><U+2712> <U+2711><U+2718><U+2717> <U+261B><U+2731><U+2712> <U+261B><U+272E><U+2712> <U+2731><U+272C> <U+271F><U+272E><U+272F>
                              <U+2706><U+261E>                  <U+2736><U+260E>                  <U+2736><U+261E>
              <U+2711><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2711><U+2712><U+2733> <U+2711><U+272F><U+2732> <U+261B><U+272E><U+2712> <U+271C><U+2718><U+272E> <U+2711><U+272F><U+2732> <U+261B><U+272E><U+2712> <U+271C><U+2718><U+272E> <U+2729><U+272C><U+2713> <U+2711><U+272F><U+2732> <U+261B><U+272E><U+2712> <U+261B><U+2712><U+2732> <U+271C><U+2718><U+272E> <U+271C><U+2718><U+272B> <U+271C><U+2718><U+272E> <U+261B><U+2731><U+2712>
                          <U+271D><U+260E><U+260E>                 <U+271D><U+260E><U+261E>                 <U+271D><U+271D><U+260E>
              <U+2721><U+272C><U+2712> <U+271A><U+2717><U+2718> <U+261B><U+2731><U+2712> <U+271A><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2721><U+272C><U+2712> <U+2721><U+272C><U+2712>
                      <U+271D><U+271D><U+261E>
                                                         <U+2717><U+2733><U+272C> <U+261E>

                                                   <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2721><U+261B><U+271E><U+261E>
<removed-date>
              <U+270C><U+271E><U+271D><U+260E><U+270D>     <U+271D><U+270F>
              <U+270C><U+271E><U+271D><U+271D><U+270D>     <U+271D><U+271D><U+271E>
              <U+270C><U+271E><U+271D><U+271E><U+270D>      <U+270E><U+261B>
              <U+270C><U+271E><U+271D><U+270F><U+270D>     <U+2711><U+2712><U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+2714><U+2716><U+2714><U+2717><U+2718>
              <U+270C><U+271E><U+271E><U+260E><U+270D>
              <U+270C><U+271E><U+271E><U+270F><U+270D>     <U+2737><U+272D> <U+2717><U+272B><U+2714><U+2701><U+272C><U+2702> <U+271D><U+2725><U+2734> <U+271A><U+271B>
              <U+270C><U+272A><U+260E><U+260E><U+270D>     <U+271D><U+270F>
              <U+2711><U+272F><U+2732> <U+2727><U+2718><U+272C> <U+271A><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2729><U+272C><U+2713> <U+261B><U+2731><U+2712> <U+271C><U+2718><U+272B> <U+2721><U+272C><U+2712>         <U+2712><U+2730> <U+2711><U+272F><U+2732> <U+2721><U+272C><U+2712> <U+271B><U+272C><U+272D> <U+2711><U+2718><U+2717> <U+271A><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2721><U+272C><U+2712> <U+271B><U+272C><U+272D> <U+271C><U+2718><U+272E>
<removed-apn>
              <U+271D>               <U+261E>                          <U+271D><U+260E>                  <U+271D><U+261E>
              <U+271C><U+2718><U+272D> <U+2711><U+2712><U+2733> <U+2711><U+2718><U+2717> <U+261B><U+2731><U+2712> <U+2727><U+2718><U+272C> <U+2711><U+272F><U+272B> <U+271F><U+272E><U+272F> <U+2711><U+2712><U+2733> <U+2711><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2721><U+272C><U+2712> <U+271B><U+272E><U+272F> <U+2721><U+272C><U+2712> <U+271A><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2721><U+272C><U+2712> <U+261B><U+2731><U+2712> <U+2721><U+272C><U+2712>
                          <U+271E><U+260E>                  <U+271E><U+261E>                  <U+270F><U+260E>
              <U+271C><U+2718><U+272E> <U+261B><U+272E><U+2712> <U+2721><U+272C><U+2712>       <U+2731><U+272C> <U+2729><U+272C><U+2713> <U+2737><U+2714><U+272F> <U+261B><U+2712><U+2732> <U+261B><U+272E><U+2712> <U+271C><U+2718><U+272B> <U+271C><U+2718><U+272B> <U+271B><U+272E><U+272F>    <U+2712><U+2730> <U+271C><U+2718><U+272E> <U+271C><U+2718><U+272B>   <U+2712><U+2730>   <U+2712><U+2730>
                      <U+270F><U+261E>                       <U+272A><U+260E>                    <U+272A><U+261E>
              <U+271B><U+272E><U+272F> <U+271B><U+272C><U+272D> <U+271B><U+272C><U+272D> <U+2727><U+2718><U+272C> <U+261B><U+272E><U+2712> <U+271B><U+272C><U+272D> <U+2711><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2721><U+272C><U+2712> <U+2711><U+272F><U+272B> <U+271B><U+272C><U+272D> <U+271C><U+2718><U+272D> <U+2721><U+272C><U+2712> <U+271C><U+2718><U+272E> <U+271A><U+2717><U+2718>          <U+2712><U+2730> <U+2711><U+272F><U+2732>
                  <U+261E><U+260E>                  <U+261E><U+261E>                  <U+2734><U+260E>
              <U+2711><U+2712><U+2733>   <U+2731><U+272C> <U+2721><U+272C><U+2712> <U+271C><U+2718><U+272E> <U+2721><U+272C><U+2712> <U+271C><U+2718><U+272E> <U+2721><U+272C><U+2712> <U+271C><U+2718><U+272E> <U+261B><U+2731><U+2712> <U+2711><U+272F><U+2732> <U+2731><U+272C> <U+261B><U+2731><U+2712> <U+271B><U+272C><U+272D> <U+261B><U+2731><U+2712> <U+2727><U+2718><U+272C> <U+2721><U+272C><U+2712>
              <U+2734><U+261E>                   <U+2735><U+260E>                  <U+2735><U+261E>                 <U+2706><U+260E>
              <U+2721><U+272C><U+2712> <U+271B><U+272C><U+272D> <U+271C><U+2718><U+272B> <U+2711><U+2718><U+2717> <U+271C><U+2718><U+272D> <U+2711><U+272F><U+2732> <U+271A><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2711><U+2718><U+2717> <U+271A><U+2717><U+2718> <U+261B><U+272E><U+2712> <U+261B><U+272E><U+2712> <U+271F><U+272E><U+272F> <U+271C><U+2718><U+272B> <U+2737><U+2714><U+272F> <U+2721><U+272C><U+2712> <U+2711><U+2712><U+2733>
                              <U+2706><U+261E>                  <U+2736><U+260E>                  <U+2736><U+261E>
              <U+271C><U+2718><U+272D> <U+271A><U+2717><U+2718>        <U+2712><U+2730> <U+261B><U+2712><U+2732> <U+261B><U+2731><U+2712>   <U+2731><U+272C> <U+271C><U+2718><U+272E> <U+271C><U+2718><U+272B> <U+271C><U+2718><U+272E> <U+261B><U+2731><U+2712> <U+271B><U+272E><U+272F> <U+271A><U+2717><U+2718> <U+271C><U+2718><U+272D> <U+2727><U+2718><U+272C> <U+271B><U+272E><U+272F> <U+2711><U+2712><U+2733>
                                <U+271D><U+260E><U+260E>                  <U+271D><U+260E><U+261E>                 <U+271D><U+271D><U+260E>
              <U+270C><U+271E><U+271D><U+260E><U+270D>     <U+271D><U+272A>
              <U+270C><U+271E><U+271D><U+271D><U+270D>     <U+271D><U+271D><U+2706>
              <U+270C><U+271E><U+271D><U+271E><U+270D>      <U+270E><U+261B>
              <U+270C><U+271E><U+271D><U+270F><U+270D>     <U+2711><U+2712><U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+2714><U+2716><U+2714><U+2717><U+2718>
              <U+270C><U+271E><U+271E><U+260E><U+270D>
              <U+270C><U+271E><U+271E><U+270F><U+270D>     <U+2737><U+272D> <U+2717><U+272B><U+2714><U+2701><U+272C><U+2702> <U+271D><U+2725><U+2734> <U+271A><U+2737>
              <U+270C><U+272A><U+260E><U+260E><U+270D>     <U+271D><U+272A>
              <U+271C><U+2718><U+272B> <U+271A><U+2717><U+2718> <U+271C><U+2718><U+272B> <U+271B><U+272C><U+272D> <U+271A><U+2717><U+2718> <U+271C><U+2718><U+272B> <U+2721><U+272C><U+2712> <U+271C><U+2718><U+272E> <U+2711><U+2718><U+2717> <U+271C><U+2718><U+272D> <U+271A><U+2717><U+2718> <U+271B><U+272E><U+272F> <U+271B><U+272E><U+272F>         <U+2712><U+2730> <U+271C><U+2718><U+272E> <U+2711><U+2718><U+2717>
              <U+271D>               <U+261E>                   <U+271D><U+260E>                         <U+271D><U+261E>
              <U+2721><U+272C><U+2712> <U+271A><U+2717><U+2718> <U+271B><U+272E><U+272F> <U+271A><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2721><U+272C><U+2712> <U+271F><U+272E><U+272F> <U+271B><U+272E><U+272F> <U+2711><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2721><U+272C><U+2712> <U+271C><U+2718><U+272E> <U+261B><U+272E><U+2712> <U+261B><U+2731><U+2712>         <U+2731><U+272C> <U+261B><U+2731><U+2712> <U+2711><U+272F><U+272B> <U+261B><U+272E><U+2712>
                          <U+271E><U+260E>                  <U+271E><U+261E>                         <U+270F><U+260E>
              <U+271C><U+2718><U+272E> <U+2729><U+272C><U+2713> <U+2711><U+272F><U+272B> <U+261B><U+2712><U+2732> <U+271A><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2711><U+2712><U+2733> <U+271C><U+2718><U+272B> <U+2711><U+2718><U+2717>         <U+2712><U+2730> <U+271C><U+2718><U+272E> <U+271C><U+2718><U+272B> <U+271C><U+2718><U+272E> <U+271B><U+272C><U+272D> <U+271B><U+272E><U+272F> <U+261B><U+2712><U+2732> <U+2729><U+272C><U+2713>
                      <U+270F><U+261E>                  <U+272A><U+260E>                         <U+272A><U+261E>
              <U+271C><U+2718><U+272E> <U+261B><U+2712><U+2732> <U+2727><U+2718><U+272C> <U+2711><U+272F><U+272B> <U+261B><U+2731><U+2712> <U+261B><U+272E><U+2712> <U+261B><U+2731><U+2712> <U+271C><U+2718><U+272E> <U+271C><U+2718><U+272D>         <U+2712><U+2730> <U+261B><U+2731><U+2712> <U+261B><U+272E><U+2712> <U+2711><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2711><U+272F><U+2732> <U+2711><U+2718><U+2717>    <U+2731><U+272C>
                  <U+261E><U+260E>                  <U+261E><U+261E>                         <U+2734><U+260E>
              <U+271B><U+272E><U+272F> <U+271C><U+2718><U+272E> <U+2711><U+2712><U+2733> <U+271A><U+2717><U+2718> <U+261B><U+2731><U+2712> <U+2729><U+272C><U+2713> <U+261B><U+2731><U+2712> <U+2711><U+2712><U+2733> <U+2711><U+272F><U+2732> <U+261B><U+2731><U+2712> <U+2721><U+272C><U+2712> <U+2727><U+2718><U+272C> <U+2721><U+272C><U+2712> <U+261B><U+2731><U+2712> <U+2711><U+2718><U+2717> <U+261B><U+272E><U+2712>
              <U+2734><U+261E>                  <U+2735><U+260E>                  <U+2735><U+261E>                  <U+2706><U+260E>
                                                        <U+2717><U+2733><U+272C> <U+2734>

                                             <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2721><U+261B><U+271E><U+261E>
<removed-date>
              <U+2729><U+272C><U+2713> <U+271C><U+2718><U+272D> <U+271B><U+272C><U+272D> <U+2721><U+272C><U+2712> <U+2711><U+2712><U+2733> <U+271B><U+272C><U+272D> <U+2711><U+2712><U+2733> <U+2721><U+272C><U+2712> <U+2711><U+272F><U+2732> <U+2711><U+272F><U+2732> <U+261B><U+2731><U+2712> <U+2711><U+2718><U+2717> <U+271A><U+2717><U+2718> <U+261B><U+272E><U+2712> <U+261B><U+272E><U+2712> <U+271F><U+272E><U+272F>
                              <U+2706><U+261E>                  <U+2736><U+260E>                  <U+2736><U+261E>
              <U+2711><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2711><U+2712><U+2733> <U+2711><U+272F><U+2732> <U+261B><U+272E><U+2712> <U+271C><U+2718><U+272E> <U+2711><U+272F><U+2732> <U+261B><U+272E><U+2712> <U+271C><U+2718><U+272E> <U+2729><U+272C><U+2713> <U+2711><U+272F><U+2732> <U+261B><U+272E><U+2712> <U+261B><U+2712><U+2732> <U+271C><U+2718><U+272E> <U+271C><U+2718><U+272B> <U+271C><U+2718><U+272E> <U+261B><U+2731><U+2712>
                          <U+271D><U+260E><U+260E>                 <U+271D><U+260E><U+261E>                 <U+271D><U+271D><U+260E>
              <U+261B><U+2731><U+2712> <U+271A><U+2717><U+2718> <U+261B><U+2731><U+2712> <U+271A><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2721><U+272C><U+2712> <U+2721><U+272C><U+2712>
                      <U+271D><U+271D><U+261E>
<removed-apn>
              <U+270C><U+271E><U+271D><U+260E><U+270D>   <U+271D><U+261E>
              <U+270C><U+271E><U+271D><U+271D><U+270D>   <U+271D><U+261E>
              <U+270C><U+271E><U+271D><U+271E><U+270D>    <U+270E><U+261B>
              <U+270C><U+271E><U+271D><U+270F><U+270D>   <U+2711><U+2712><U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+2714><U+2716><U+2714><U+2717><U+2718>
              <U+270C><U+271E><U+271E><U+260E><U+270D>
              <U+270C><U+271E><U+271E><U+270F><U+270D>   <U+271D><U+2725><U+2734> <U+271F><U+2702><U+270E><U+2704><U+271B><U+271D>
              <U+270C><U+272A><U+260E><U+260E><U+270D>   <U+271D><U+261E>
              <U+2711><U+2712><U+2733> <U+2711><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2721><U+272C><U+2712> <U+271B><U+272E><U+272F> <U+2721><U+272C><U+2712> <U+271A><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2721><U+272C><U+2712> <U+261B><U+2731><U+2712> <U+2721><U+272C><U+2712> <U+271C><U+2718><U+272E> <U+261B><U+272E><U+2712> <U+2721><U+272C><U+2712>   <U+2731><U+272C> <U+2729><U+272C><U+2713> <U+2737><U+2714><U+272F>
              <U+271D>               <U+261E>                   <U+271D><U+260E>                   <U+271D><U+261E>
              <U+270C><U+271E><U+271D><U+260E><U+270D>   <U+271D><U+2734>
              <U+270C><U+271E><U+271D><U+271D><U+270D>   <U+2735>
              <U+270C><U+271E><U+271D><U+271E><U+270D>     <U+270E><U+261B>
              <U+270C><U+271E><U+271D><U+270F><U+270D>   <U+2711><U+2712><U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+2714><U+2716><U+2714><U+2717><U+2718>
              <U+270C><U+271E><U+271E><U+260E><U+270D>
              <U+270C><U+271E><U+271E><U+270F><U+270D>   <U+271D><U+2725><U+2734> <U+271F><U+2702><U+270E><U+2704><U+271B><U+271E>
              <U+270C><U+272A><U+260E><U+260E><U+270D>   <U+271D><U+2734>
              <U+271B><U+272C><U+272D> <U+2711><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2721><U+272C><U+2712> <U+2711><U+272F><U+272B> <U+271B><U+272C><U+272D> <U+271C><U+2718><U+272D> <U+2721><U+272C><U+2712>
              <U+271D>               <U+261E>
              <U+270C><U+271E><U+271D><U+260E><U+270D>   <U+271D><U+2735>
              <U+270C><U+271E><U+271D><U+271D><U+270D>   <U+2736>
              <U+270C><U+271E><U+271D><U+271E><U+270D>     <U+270E><U+261B>
              <U+270C><U+271E><U+271D><U+270F><U+270D>   <U+2711><U+2712><U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+2714><U+2716><U+2714><U+2717><U+2718>
              <U+270C><U+271E><U+271E><U+260E><U+270D>
              <U+270C><U+271E><U+271E><U+270F><U+270D>   <U+271D><U+2725><U+2734> <U+271F><U+2702><U+270E><U+2704><U+271B><U+270F>
              <U+270C><U+272A><U+260E><U+260E><U+270D>   <U+271D><U+2735>
              <U+271C><U+2718><U+272B> <U+2737><U+2714><U+272F> <U+2721><U+272C><U+2712> <U+2711><U+2712><U+2733> <U+271C><U+2718><U+272D> <U+271A><U+2717><U+2718>   <U+2712><U+2730> <U+261B><U+2712><U+2732> <U+261B><U+2731><U+2712>
              <U+271D>               <U+261E>
              <U+270C><U+271E><U+271D><U+260E><U+270D>   <U+271D><U+2706>
              <U+270C><U+271E><U+271D><U+271D><U+270D>   <U+261E>
              <U+270C><U+271E><U+271D><U+271E><U+270D>     <U+270E><U+261B>
              <U+270C><U+271E><U+271D><U+270F><U+270D>   <U+2711><U+2712><U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+2714><U+2716><U+2714><U+2717><U+2718>
              <U+270C><U+271E><U+271E><U+260E><U+270D>
              <U+270C><U+271E><U+271E><U+270F><U+270D>   <U+271D><U+2725><U+2734> <U+271F><U+2702><U+270E><U+2704><U+2737><U+271D>
              <U+270C><U+272A><U+260E><U+260E><U+270D>   <U+271D><U+2706>
              <U+2711><U+272F><U+272B> <U+261B><U+272E><U+2712> <U+271C><U+2718><U+272E> <U+2729><U+272C><U+2713> <U+2711><U+272F><U+272B>
              <U+271D>               <U+261E>
                                                     <U+2717><U+2733><U+272C> <U+2735>

                                                <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2721><U+261B><U+271E><U+261E>
<removed-date>
              <U+270C><U+271E><U+271D><U+260E><U+270D>   <U+271D><U+270E>
              <U+270C><U+271E><U+271D><U+271D><U+270D>   <U+271D><U+270F>
              <U+270C><U+271E><U+271D><U+271E><U+270D>    <U+2711><U+261B>
              <U+270C><U+271E><U+271D><U+2712><U+270D>   <U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+2716><U+2717><U+2716><U+2718><U+2716><U+2719><U+271A>
              <U+270C><U+271E><U+271E><U+260E><U+270D>
              <U+270C><U+271E><U+271E><U+2712><U+270D>   <U+271D><U+271B><U+271C> <U+271F><U+2702><U+2711><U+2704><U+2722><U+271E>
              <U+270C><U+2723><U+260E><U+260E><U+270D>   <U+271D><U+270E>
              <U+261B><U+2714><U+2724> <U+2725><U+271A><U+2726> <U+2713><U+2727><U+2605> <U+261B><U+2729><U+2714> <U+261B><U+272A><U+2714> <U+261B><U+2729><U+2714> <U+272B><U+271A><U+272A> <U+272B><U+271A><U+272C>      <U+2714><U+272D> <U+261B><U+2729><U+2714> <U+261B><U+272A><U+2714> <U+2713><U+271A><U+2719> <U+2713><U+2727><U+2724> <U+2713><U+271A><U+2719> <U+2729><U+2726> <U+272E><U+272A><U+2727>
              <U+271D>               <U+261E>                       <U+271D><U+260E>                  <U+271D><U+261E>
<removed-apn>
              <U+272B><U+271A><U+272A>
              <U+270C><U+271E><U+271D><U+260E><U+270D>   <U+271E><U+260E>
              <U+270C><U+271E><U+271D><U+271D><U+270D>   <U+270E>
              <U+270C><U+271E><U+271D><U+271E><U+270D>     <U+2711><U+261B>
              <U+270C><U+271E><U+271D><U+2712><U+270D>   <U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+2716><U+2717><U+2716><U+2718><U+2716><U+2719><U+271A>
              <U+270C><U+271E><U+271E><U+260E><U+270D>
              <U+270C><U+271E><U+271E><U+2712><U+270D>   <U+271D><U+271B><U+271C> <U+271F><U+2702><U+2711><U+2704><U+2722><U+2712>
              <U+270C><U+2723><U+260E><U+260E><U+270D>   <U+271E><U+260E>
              <U+2713><U+2727><U+2724> <U+261B><U+272A><U+2714> <U+272B><U+271A><U+272A> <U+2713><U+2727><U+2724> <U+261B><U+272A><U+2714> <U+272B><U+271A><U+272A> <U+272F><U+2726><U+2715> <U+2713><U+2727><U+2724> <U+261B><U+272A><U+2714>
              <U+271D>               <U+261E>
              <U+270C><U+271E><U+271D><U+260E><U+270D>   <U+271E><U+271D>
              <U+270C><U+271E><U+271D><U+271D><U+270D>   <U+271D><U+260E><U+271C>
              <U+270C><U+271E><U+271D><U+271E><U+270D>    <U+2711><U+261B>
              <U+270C><U+271E><U+271D><U+2712><U+270D>   <U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+2716><U+2717><U+2716><U+2718><U+2716><U+2719><U+271A>
              <U+270C><U+271E><U+271E><U+260E><U+270D>
              <U+270C><U+271E><U+271E><U+2712><U+270D>   <U+2722><U+272C><U+2730><U+2719><U+2605> <U+271A><U+2716><U+2731><U+2729><U+2715> <U+2718><U+2729><U+2719><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2718><U+272D><U+2605><U+2727><U+2715><U+2719><U+2605><U+2715> <U+2714><U+2726><U+2731><U+2716><U+272D><U+2605>
              <U+270C><U+2723><U+260E><U+260E><U+270D>   <U+271E><U+271D>
              <U+261B><U+2729><U+2714> <U+2732><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2713><U+271A><U+2719> <U+2713><U+271A><U+2719> <U+2714><U+272D> <U+2721><U+2726><U+2714> <U+2732><U+2719><U+271A>      <U+2729><U+2726> <U+2725><U+271A><U+2726>    <U+2729><U+2726>     <U+2714><U+272D>   <U+2714><U+272D> <U+2721><U+2726><U+2714> <U+2713><U+2727><U+2724> <U+272B><U+271A><U+272C> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2605>
              <U+271D>              <U+261E>                         <U+271D><U+260E>                      <U+271D><U+261E>
              <U+272E><U+2726><U+272C> <U+272E><U+272A><U+2727> <U+2721><U+2726><U+2714> <U+272B><U+271A><U+272A> <U+261B><U+2729><U+2714> <U+2713><U+271A><U+2719> <U+2721><U+2726><U+2714> <U+2732><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2732><U+2719><U+271A> <U+271F><U+272A><U+2727> <U+272E><U+2726><U+272C> <U+272E><U+2726><U+272C> <U+2713><U+2727><U+2605> <U+2713><U+2727><U+2605>           <U+2729><U+2726> <U+261B><U+272A><U+2714>
                          <U+271E><U+260E>                  <U+271E><U+261E>                  <U+2712><U+260E>
               <U+2714><U+272D> <U+2713><U+2714><U+2731> <U+272B><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2713><U+271A><U+2719> <U+272E><U+272A><U+2727> <U+2732><U+2719><U+271A> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2605> <U+261B><U+2714><U+2724> <U+272E><U+272A><U+2727> <U+2732><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2713><U+2727><U+2724> <U+2713><U+2727><U+2605> <U+2713><U+271A><U+2719> <U+272E><U+2726><U+272C> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2605> <U+2721><U+2726><U+2714>
                      <U+2712><U+261E>                  <U+2723><U+260E>                  <U+2723><U+261E>
              <U+272B><U+271A><U+272A> <U+2713><U+2727><U+2605> <U+2721><U+2726><U+2714> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2605> <U+272B><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2721><U+2726><U+2714> <U+2732><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261B><U+2729><U+2714> <U+272B><U+271A><U+272C> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2605> <U+2713><U+2727><U+2724> <U+2721><U+2726><U+2714> <U+272E><U+272A><U+2727> <U+2713><U+2727><U+2724> <U+2721><U+2726><U+2714> <U+261B><U+2729><U+2714>
                  <U+261E><U+260E>                  <U+261E><U+261E>                  <U+271C><U+260E>
              <U+261B><U+272A><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2726><U+2714> <U+272E><U+2726><U+272C> <U+2721><U+2726><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2726><U+2714> <U+261B><U+2729><U+2714> <U+272E><U+2726><U+272C> <U+261B><U+2729><U+2714> <U+272E><U+2726><U+272C> <U+2721><U+2726><U+2714> <U+272E><U+272A><U+2727> <U+2713><U+271A><U+2719> <U+2713><U+2727><U+2724> <U+261B><U+272A><U+2714> <U+272B><U+271A><U+272C> <U+272E><U+272A><U+2727>
              <U+271C><U+261E>                  <U+270F><U+260E>                  <U+270F><U+261E>                  <U+2706><U+260E>
              <U+2722><U+2716><U+2727> <U+272E><U+272A><U+2727> <U+2732><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261B><U+272A><U+2714> <U+2713><U+271A><U+2719> <U+271F><U+272A><U+2727> <U+272B><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2732><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261B><U+2729><U+2714> <U+2722><U+2716><U+2727> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2605> <U+272B><U+271A><U+272A> <U+272E><U+2726><U+272C> <U+2721><U+2726><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2726><U+2714>           <U+2714><U+272D>
                              <U+2706><U+261E>                  <U+270E><U+260E>                  <U+270E><U+261E>
              <U+2732><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261B><U+2729><U+2714> <U+272E><U+272A><U+2727> <U+2721><U+2726><U+2714>      <U+2729><U+2726> <U+2713><U+2727><U+2605> <U+2713><U+2714><U+2731> <U+272B><U+271A><U+272A> <U+272B><U+271A><U+272C> <U+271F><U+272A><U+2727>
                          <U+271D><U+260E><U+260E>                     <U+271D><U+260E><U+261E>
                                                       <U+2719><U+2731><U+2726> <U+2706>

                                                   <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2721><U+261B><U+271E><U+261E>
<removed-date>
              <U+270C><U+271E><U+271D><U+260E><U+270D>     <U+271E><U+271E>
              <U+270C><U+271E><U+271D><U+271D><U+270D>     <U+2712><U+271E><U+270E>
              <U+270C><U+271E><U+271D><U+271E><U+270D>      <U+2711><U+261B>
              <U+270C><U+271E><U+271D><U+2712><U+270D>     <U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+2716><U+2717><U+2716><U+2718><U+2716><U+2719><U+271A>
              <U+270C><U+271E><U+271E><U+260E><U+270D>
              <U+270C><U+271E><U+271E><U+2712><U+270D>     <U+2722><U+272C><U+2730><U+2719><U+2605> <U+2729><U+2726><U+2719> <U+272A> <U+2718><U+2729><U+2719><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2718><U+272D><U+2605><U+2727><U+2715><U+2719><U+2605><U+2715> <U+2714><U+2726><U+2731><U+2716><U+272D><U+2605> <U+2701><U+2605><U+272D> <U+271F><U+2704><U+2715><U+2726><U+2714><U+2730> <U+2702><U+2704>
              <U+270C><U+2723><U+260E><U+260E><U+270D>     <U+271E><U+271E>
              <U+2713><U+271A><U+2719> <U+2721><U+2726><U+2714> <U+261B><U+2729><U+2714> <U+272E><U+272A><U+2727> <U+272B><U+271A><U+272A>         <U+2714><U+272D> <U+2721><U+2726><U+2714> <U+2732><U+2719><U+271A>   <U+2729><U+2726>    <U+2714><U+272D> <U+272E><U+2726><U+272C> <U+2713><U+271A><U+2719>   <U+2714><U+272D> <U+2721><U+2726><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2726><U+2714> <U+272E><U+272A><U+2727>
              <U+271D>               <U+261E>                             <U+271D><U+260E>                   <U+271D><U+261E>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2721><U+2726><U+2714> <U+261B><U+2729><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2726><U+2714> <U+272B><U+271A><U+272A> <U+272B><U+271A><U+272A> <U+261B><U+2729><U+2714> <U+2713><U+271A><U+2719> <U+2713><U+271A><U+2719> <U+272E><U+2726><U+272C> <U+272B><U+271A><U+272A> <U+271F><U+272A><U+2727> <U+272E><U+2726><U+272C> <U+2732><U+2719><U+271A> <U+272E><U+272A><U+2727> <U+2713><U+2727><U+2724> <U+261B><U+272A><U+2714>
                          <U+271E><U+260E>                  <U+271E><U+261E>                  <U+2712><U+260E>
               <U+2729><U+2726>     <U+2714><U+272D> <U+272B><U+271A><U+272C>    <U+2714><U+272D> <U+2732><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261B><U+2729><U+2714> <U+2732><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2721><U+2726><U+2714> <U+261B><U+2714><U+2724> <U+2713><U+2727><U+2605> <U+2721><U+2726><U+2714> <U+272B><U+271A><U+272A> <U+2713><U+271A><U+2719> <U+272E><U+2726><U+272C> <U+261B><U+2729><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2726><U+2714>
                         <U+2712><U+261E>                    <U+2723><U+260E>                  <U+2723><U+261E>
              <U+272B><U+271A><U+272A> <U+2732><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2722><U+2716><U+2727> <U+261B><U+2729><U+2714>        <U+2729><U+2726>   <U+2714><U+272D> <U+2713><U+271A><U+2719> <U+2732><U+2719><U+271A> <U+272E><U+2726><U+272C> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2605> <U+2721><U+2726><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2726><U+2714> <U+272B><U+271A><U+272A> <U+272E><U+2726><U+272C> <U+261B><U+272A><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2726><U+2714>
                  <U+261E><U+260E>                         <U+261E><U+261E>                  <U+271C><U+260E>
              <U+272E><U+2726><U+272C> <U+2721><U+2726><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2726><U+2714> <U+2732><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2732><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261B><U+2729><U+2714> <U+2732><U+2719><U+271A>         <U+2714><U+272D> <U+2721><U+2726><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2726><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2726><U+2714> <U+272E><U+2726><U+272C> <U+272B><U+271A><U+272A> <U+261B><U+2729><U+2714> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2605> <U+261B><U+2729><U+2714>
              <U+271C><U+261E>                  <U+270F><U+260E>                         <U+270F><U+261E>                  <U+2706><U+260E>
              <U+261B><U+272A><U+2714> <U+2725><U+271A><U+2726> <U+271F><U+272A><U+2727> <U+2713><U+2727><U+2605> <U+2732><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2713><U+2727><U+2605> <U+2722><U+2716><U+2727> <U+272E><U+272A><U+2727>          <U+2714><U+272D> <U+2721><U+2726><U+2714> <U+2713><U+2727><U+2605> <U+261B><U+2729><U+2714> <U+272E><U+272A><U+2727> <U+2732><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2713><U+2727><U+2724> <U+272E><U+272A><U+2727>
                              <U+2706><U+261E>                          <U+270E><U+260E>                  <U+270E><U+261E>
              <U+272E><U+272A><U+2727> <U+2732><U+2719><U+271A> <U+272B><U+271A><U+272C>       <U+2714><U+272D> <U+272E><U+272A><U+2727> <U+2721><U+2726><U+2714> <U+271F><U+272A><U+2727> <U+2713><U+2727><U+2724> <U+272E><U+272A><U+2727> <U+261B><U+2729><U+2714> <U+2722><U+2716><U+2727> <U+261B><U+2729><U+2714> <U+271F><U+272A><U+2727> <U+2714><U+272D>          <U+2714><U+272D> <U+271F><U+272A><U+2727>
                               <U+271D><U+260E><U+260E>                 <U+271D><U+260E><U+261E>                 <U+271D><U+271D><U+260E>
               <U+2714><U+272D> <U+2713><U+271A><U+2719>     <U+2714><U+272D> <U+272B><U+271A><U+272C> <U+272E><U+2726><U+272C> <U+272E><U+2726><U+272C> <U+272B><U+271A><U+272A> <U+272B><U+271A><U+272A>       <U+2714><U+272D> <U+2721><U+2726><U+2714> <U+2732><U+2719><U+271A>    <U+2729><U+2726> <U+272E><U+2726><U+272C>   <U+2729><U+2726>   <U+2714><U+272D>   <U+2714><U+272D>
                         <U+271D><U+271D><U+261E>                 <U+271D><U+271E><U+260E>                        <U+271D><U+271E><U+261E>
              <U+272E><U+272A><U+2727>    <U+2714><U+272D> <U+272E><U+272A><U+2727> <U+2713><U+2727><U+2724> <U+261B><U+2729><U+2714> <U+272E><U+2726><U+272C> <U+272F><U+2726><U+2715> <U+2725><U+271A><U+2726> <U+2721><U+2726><U+2714> <U+2713><U+2714><U+2731> <U+261B><U+2729><U+2714> <U+2714><U+272D> <U+272B><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2732><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261B><U+2729><U+2714> <U+271F><U+272A><U+2727>
                    <U+271D><U+2712><U+260E>                 <U+271D><U+2712><U+261E>                 <U+271D><U+2723><U+260E>
              <U+2732><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2732><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2732><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2713><U+2727><U+2724> <U+2732><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2721><U+2726><U+2714> <U+2722><U+2716><U+2727> <U+272B><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2713><U+2727><U+2724>            <U+2714><U+272D> <U+272B><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2732><U+2719><U+271A> <U+272E><U+272A><U+2727>   <U+2729><U+2726> <U+2713><U+2727><U+2605> <U+261B><U+2714><U+2724>
              <U+271D><U+2723><U+261E>                 <U+271D><U+261E><U+260E>                           <U+271D><U+261E><U+261E>                  <U+271D><U+271C><U+260E>
              <U+261B><U+272A><U+2714> <U+2732><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2713><U+2727><U+2724> <U+272B><U+271A><U+272A> <U+2732><U+2719><U+271A> <U+272B><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2732><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2722><U+2716><U+2727> <U+2713><U+2727><U+2605> <U+2713><U+271A><U+2719> <U+272E><U+272A><U+2727> <U+261B><U+2729><U+2714> <U+272E><U+272A><U+2727>             <U+2714><U+272D> <U+2713><U+2714><U+2731> <U+272B><U+271A><U+272C>
                              <U+271D><U+271C><U+261E>                 <U+271D><U+270F><U+260E>                            <U+271D><U+270F><U+261E>
              <U+272B><U+271A><U+272C> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2605> <U+261B><U+272A><U+2714> <U+2713><U+2727><U+2605> <U+2721><U+2726><U+2714> <U+261B><U+2729><U+2714> <U+261B><U+272A><U+2714> <U+2713><U+2714><U+2731> <U+2732><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2732><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2721><U+2726><U+2714> <U+2732><U+2719><U+271A> <U+272E><U+2726><U+272C> <U+261B><U+2729><U+2714> <U+2732><U+2719><U+271A> <U+272E><U+2726><U+272C>
                          <U+271D><U+2706><U+260E>                 <U+271D><U+2706><U+261E>                 <U+271D><U+270E><U+260E>
              <U+2722><U+2716><U+2727> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2605> <U+2713><U+2727><U+2724> <U+261B><U+2714><U+2724> <U+272E><U+2726><U+272C> <U+2713><U+2727><U+2605> <U+272B><U+271A><U+272A> <U+272E><U+272A><U+2727> <U+272B><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261B><U+272A><U+2714> <U+272E><U+272A><U+2727> <U+271F><U+272A><U+2727> <U+272E><U+272A><U+2727> <U+2732><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2721><U+2726><U+2714> <U+2713><U+2727><U+2605>
                      <U+271D><U+270E><U+261E>                 <U+271E><U+260E><U+260E>                 <U+271E><U+260E><U+261E>
              <U+272E><U+272A><U+2727> <U+2713><U+271A><U+2719> <U+272E><U+2726><U+272C>       <U+2714><U+272D> <U+2713><U+271A><U+2719>    <U+2714><U+272D> <U+2725><U+271A><U+2726> <U+272B><U+271A><U+272C> <U+272E><U+272A><U+2727> <U+261B><U+2729><U+2714> <U+2725><U+271A><U+2726> <U+2721><U+2726><U+2714> <U+272E><U+272A><U+2727> <U+2713><U+271A><U+2719> <U+272E><U+272A><U+2727> <U+272B><U+271A><U+272A>
                  <U+271E><U+271D><U+260E>                        <U+271E><U+271D><U+261E>                 <U+271E><U+271E><U+260E>
              <U+272B><U+271A><U+2605>     <U+2714><U+272D> <U+2713><U+2714><U+2731> <U+272B><U+271A><U+272C>     <U+2714><U+272D> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2605> <U+2732><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261B><U+272A><U+2714> <U+261B><U+2729><U+2714> <U+272E><U+2726><U+272C> <U+2714><U+272D>       <U+2714><U+272D> <U+2721><U+2726><U+2714> <U+2713><U+2714><U+2731> <U+2713><U+2727><U+2724> <U+272B><U+271A><U+272C>
              <U+271E><U+271E><U+261E>                       <U+271E><U+2712><U+260E>                 <U+271E><U+2712><U+261E>                     <U+271E><U+2723><U+260E>
                                                        <U+2719><U+2731><U+2726> <U+270E>

                                                    <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2721><U+261B><U+271E><U+261E>
<removed-date>
              <U+272E><U+2726><U+272C> <U+261B><U+2729><U+2714> <U+272E><U+272A><U+2727> <U+2713><U+2727><U+2605> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2605> <U+2732><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2721><U+2726><U+2714> <U+272E><U+2726><U+272C> <U+261B><U+2729><U+2714> <U+271F><U+272A><U+2727> <U+272E><U+2726><U+272C> <U+2732><U+2719><U+271A> <U+272E><U+272A><U+2727> <U+272B><U+271A><U+272A> <U+2729><U+2726> <U+261B><U+272A><U+2714>
                              <U+271E><U+2723><U+261E>                 <U+271E><U+261E><U+260E>                 <U+271E><U+261E><U+261E>
               <U+2714><U+272D> <U+2721><U+2726><U+2714> <U+2713><U+2727><U+2724> <U+2725><U+271A><U+2726> <U+2713><U+271A><U+2719> <U+2732><U+2719><U+271A> <U+272B><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261B><U+2714><U+2724> <U+272B><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2721><U+2726><U+2714> <U+2713><U+2727><U+2605> <U+272B><U+271A><U+272A> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2605> <U+2714><U+272D> <U+272B><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2713><U+2727><U+2605>
                          <U+271E><U+271C><U+260E>                 <U+271E><U+271C><U+261E>                 <U+271E><U+270F><U+260E>
              <U+2713><U+2727><U+2605> <U+261B><U+272A><U+2714> <U+272E><U+272A><U+2727> <U+261B><U+2729><U+2714> <U+261B><U+2729><U+2714>         <U+2714><U+272D>   <U+2714><U+272D> <U+2732><U+2719><U+271A> <U+272E><U+2726><U+272C> <U+2713><U+2727><U+2724> <U+2721><U+2726><U+2714> <U+2713><U+2727><U+2724> <U+272B><U+271A><U+272A> <U+2721><U+2726><U+2714>      <U+2729><U+2726>   <U+2729><U+2726>
                      <U+271E><U+270F><U+261E>                         <U+271E><U+2706><U+260E>                 <U+271E><U+2706><U+261E>
<removed-apn>
              <U+272E><U+2726><U+272C> <U+261B><U+272A><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2726><U+2714> <U+272E><U+272A><U+2727> <U+272E><U+2726><U+272C> <U+261B><U+2729><U+2714> <U+2732><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2713><U+2727><U+2724> <U+272E><U+272A><U+2727> <U+2721><U+2726><U+2714> <U+2713><U+2714><U+2731> <U+261B><U+2714><U+2724> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2605> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2605> <U+272B><U+271A><U+272A> <U+2713><U+2727><U+2605>
                  <U+271E><U+270E><U+260E>                 <U+271E><U+270E><U+261E>                 <U+2712><U+260E><U+260E>
              <U+2732><U+2719><U+271A>     <U+2729><U+2726> <U+2721><U+2726><U+2714> <U+271F><U+272A><U+2727> <U+2721><U+2726><U+2714> <U+2732><U+2719><U+271A> <U+272F><U+2726><U+2715> <U+2722><U+2716><U+2727> <U+272B><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2713><U+271A><U+2719> <U+272E><U+2726><U+272C> <U+2722><U+2716><U+2727> <U+2713><U+2727><U+2605> <U+2722><U+2716><U+2727> <U+261B><U+272A><U+2714> <U+261B><U+2729><U+2714>
              <U+2712><U+260E><U+261E>                    <U+2712><U+271D><U+260E>                 <U+2712><U+271D><U+261E>                 <U+2712><U+271E><U+260E>
              <U+272B><U+271A><U+2605> <U+272E><U+272A><U+2727> <U+2721><U+2726><U+2714> <U+272E><U+2726><U+272C> <U+2721><U+2726><U+2714> <U+272E><U+2726><U+272C> <U+2721><U+2726><U+2714>         <U+2714><U+272D> <U+272B><U+271A><U+272A>
                              <U+2712><U+271E><U+261E>
              <U+270C><U+271E><U+271D><U+260E><U+270D>     <U+271E><U+2712>
              <U+270C><U+271E><U+271D><U+271D><U+270D>     <U+2712><U+271E><U+270E>
              <U+270C><U+271E><U+271D><U+271E><U+270D>      <U+2711><U+261B>
              <U+270C><U+271E><U+271D><U+2712><U+270D>     <U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+2716><U+2717><U+2716><U+2718><U+2716><U+2719><U+271A>
              <U+270C><U+271E><U+271E><U+260E><U+270D>
              <U+270C><U+271E><U+271E><U+2712><U+270D>     <U+2722><U+272C><U+2730><U+2719><U+2605> <U+2729><U+2726><U+2719> <U+272A> <U+2718><U+2729><U+2719><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2718><U+272D><U+2605><U+2727><U+2715><U+2719><U+2605><U+2715> <U+2714><U+2726><U+2731><U+2716><U+272D><U+2605>         <U+2721><U+271E><U+2712><U+270E><U+271F> <U+2701><U+2605><U+272D> <U+271F><U+2704><U+2715><U+2726><U+2714><U+2730> <U+2702><U+2704>
              <U+270C><U+2723><U+260E><U+260E><U+270D>     <U+271E><U+2712>
              <U+2713><U+271A><U+2719> <U+2721><U+2726><U+2714> <U+261B><U+2729><U+2714> <U+272E><U+272A><U+2727> <U+272B><U+271A><U+272A>         <U+2714><U+272D> <U+2721><U+2726><U+2714> <U+2732><U+2719><U+271A>   <U+2729><U+2726>    <U+2714><U+272D> <U+272E><U+2726><U+272C> <U+2713><U+271A><U+2719>   <U+2714><U+272D> <U+2721><U+2726><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2726><U+2714> <U+272E><U+272A><U+2727>
              <U+271D>               <U+261E>                             <U+271D><U+260E>                   <U+271D><U+261E>
              <U+2721><U+2726><U+2714> <U+261B><U+2729><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2726><U+2714> <U+272B><U+271A><U+272A> <U+272B><U+271A><U+272A> <U+261B><U+2729><U+2714> <U+2713><U+271A><U+2719> <U+2713><U+271A><U+2719> <U+272E><U+2726><U+272C> <U+272B><U+271A><U+272A> <U+271F><U+272A><U+2727> <U+272E><U+2726><U+272C> <U+2732><U+2719><U+271A> <U+272E><U+272A><U+2727> <U+2713><U+2727><U+2724> <U+261B><U+272A><U+2714>
                          <U+271E><U+260E>                  <U+271E><U+261E>                  <U+2712><U+260E>
               <U+2729><U+2726>     <U+2714><U+272D> <U+272B><U+271A><U+272C>    <U+2714><U+272D> <U+2732><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261B><U+2729><U+2714> <U+2732><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2721><U+2726><U+2714> <U+261B><U+2714><U+2724> <U+2713><U+2727><U+2605> <U+2721><U+2726><U+2714> <U+272B><U+271A><U+272A> <U+2713><U+271A><U+2719> <U+272E><U+2726><U+272C> <U+261B><U+2729><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2726><U+2714>
                         <U+2712><U+261E>                    <U+2723><U+260E>                  <U+2723><U+261E>
              <U+272B><U+271A><U+272A> <U+2732><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2722><U+2716><U+2727> <U+261B><U+2729><U+2714>        <U+2729><U+2726>   <U+2714><U+272D> <U+2713><U+271A><U+2719> <U+2732><U+2719><U+271A> <U+272E><U+2726><U+272C> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2605> <U+2721><U+2726><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2726><U+2714> <U+272B><U+271A><U+272A> <U+272E><U+2726><U+272C> <U+261B><U+272A><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2726><U+2714>
                  <U+261E><U+260E>                         <U+261E><U+261E>                  <U+271C><U+260E>
              <U+272E><U+2726><U+272C> <U+2721><U+2726><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2726><U+2714> <U+2732><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2732><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261B><U+2729><U+2714> <U+2732><U+2719><U+271A>         <U+2714><U+272D> <U+2721><U+2726><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2726><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2726><U+2714> <U+272E><U+2726><U+272C> <U+272B><U+271A><U+272A> <U+261B><U+2729><U+2714> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2605> <U+261B><U+2729><U+2714>
              <U+271C><U+261E>                  <U+270F><U+260E>                         <U+270F><U+261E>                  <U+2706><U+260E>
              <U+261B><U+272A><U+2714> <U+2725><U+271A><U+2726> <U+271F><U+272A><U+2727> <U+2713><U+2727><U+2605> <U+2732><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2713><U+2727><U+2605> <U+2722><U+2716><U+2727> <U+272E><U+272A><U+2727>          <U+2714><U+272D> <U+2721><U+2726><U+2714> <U+2713><U+2727><U+2605> <U+261B><U+2729><U+2714> <U+272E><U+272A><U+2727> <U+2732><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2713><U+2727><U+2724> <U+272E><U+272A><U+2727>
                              <U+2706><U+261E>                          <U+270E><U+260E>                  <U+270E><U+261E>
              <U+272E><U+272A><U+2727> <U+2732><U+2719><U+271A> <U+272B><U+271A><U+272C>       <U+2714><U+272D> <U+272E><U+272A><U+2727> <U+2721><U+2726><U+2714> <U+271F><U+272A><U+2727> <U+2713><U+2727><U+2724> <U+272E><U+272A><U+2727> <U+261B><U+2729><U+2714> <U+2722><U+2716><U+2727> <U+261B><U+2729><U+2714> <U+271F><U+272A><U+2727> <U+2714><U+272D>          <U+2714><U+272D> <U+271F><U+272A><U+2727>
                               <U+271D><U+260E><U+260E>                 <U+271D><U+260E><U+261E>                 <U+271D><U+271D><U+260E>
               <U+2714><U+272D> <U+2713><U+271A><U+2719>     <U+2714><U+272D> <U+272B><U+271A><U+272C> <U+272E><U+2726><U+272C> <U+272E><U+2726><U+272C> <U+272B><U+271A><U+272A> <U+272B><U+271A><U+272A>       <U+2714><U+272D> <U+271F><U+272A><U+2727> <U+2732><U+2719><U+271A>    <U+2729><U+2726> <U+272E><U+2726><U+272C>   <U+2729><U+2726>   <U+2714><U+272D>   <U+2714><U+272D>
                         <U+271D><U+271D><U+261E>                 <U+271D><U+271E><U+260E>                        <U+271D><U+271E><U+261E>
              <U+272E><U+272A><U+2727>     <U+2714><U+272D> <U+272E><U+272A><U+2727> <U+2713><U+2727><U+2724> <U+261B><U+2729><U+2714> <U+272E><U+2726><U+272C> <U+272F><U+2726><U+2715> <U+2725><U+271A><U+2726> <U+2721><U+2726><U+2714> <U+2713><U+2714><U+2731> <U+261B><U+2729><U+2714>         <U+2714><U+272D> <U+272B><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2732><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261B><U+2729><U+2714> <U+271F><U+272A><U+2727>
                                                    <U+2719><U+2731><U+2726> <U+271D><U+260E>

                                                  <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2721><U+261B><U+271E><U+261E>
<removed-date>
                    <U+271D><U+2712><U+260E>                    <U+271D><U+2712><U+261E>                 <U+271D><U+2723><U+260E>
              <U+2732><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2732><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2732><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2713><U+2727><U+2724> <U+2732><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2721><U+2726><U+2714> <U+2722><U+2716><U+2727> <U+272B><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2713><U+2727><U+2724>          <U+2714><U+272D> <U+272B><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2732><U+2719><U+271A> <U+272E><U+272A><U+2727>   <U+2729><U+2726> <U+2713><U+2727><U+2605> <U+261B><U+2714><U+2724>
              <U+271D><U+2723><U+261E>                 <U+271D><U+261E><U+260E>                         <U+271D><U+261E><U+261E>                  <U+271D><U+271C><U+260E>
              <U+261B><U+272A><U+2714> <U+2732><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2713><U+2727><U+2724> <U+272B><U+271A><U+272A> <U+2732><U+2719><U+271A> <U+272B><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2732><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2722><U+2716><U+2727> <U+2713><U+2727><U+2605> <U+2713><U+271A><U+2719> <U+272E><U+272A><U+2727> <U+261B><U+2729><U+2714> <U+272E><U+272A><U+2727>           <U+2714><U+272D> <U+2713><U+2714><U+2731> <U+272B><U+271A><U+272C>
                              <U+271D><U+271C><U+261E>                 <U+271D><U+270F><U+260E>                          <U+271D><U+270F><U+261E>
              <U+272B><U+271A><U+272C> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2605> <U+261B><U+272A><U+2714> <U+2713><U+2727><U+2605> <U+2721><U+2726><U+2714> <U+261B><U+2729><U+2714> <U+261B><U+272A><U+2714> <U+2713><U+2714><U+2731> <U+2732><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2732><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2721><U+2726><U+2714> <U+2732><U+2719><U+271A> <U+272E><U+2726><U+272C> <U+261B><U+2729><U+2714> <U+2732><U+2719><U+271A> <U+272E><U+2726><U+272C>
                          <U+271D><U+2706><U+260E>                 <U+271D><U+2706><U+261E>                 <U+271D><U+270E><U+260E>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2722><U+2716><U+2727> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2605> <U+2713><U+2727><U+2724> <U+261B><U+2714><U+2724> <U+272E><U+2726><U+272C> <U+2713><U+2727><U+2605> <U+272B><U+271A><U+272A> <U+272E><U+272A><U+2727> <U+272B><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261B><U+272A><U+2714> <U+272E><U+272A><U+2727> <U+271F><U+272A><U+2727> <U+272E><U+272A><U+2727> <U+2732><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2721><U+2726><U+2714> <U+2713><U+2727><U+2605>
                      <U+271D><U+270E><U+261E>                 <U+271E><U+260E><U+260E>                 <U+271E><U+260E><U+261E>
              <U+272E><U+272A><U+2727> <U+2713><U+271A><U+2719> <U+272E><U+2726><U+272C>    <U+2714><U+272D> <U+2713><U+271A><U+2719>   <U+2714><U+272D> <U+2725><U+271A><U+2726> <U+272B><U+271A><U+272C> <U+272E><U+272A><U+2727> <U+261B><U+2729><U+2714> <U+2725><U+271A><U+2726> <U+2721><U+2726><U+2714> <U+272E><U+272A><U+2727> <U+2713><U+271A><U+2719> <U+272E><U+272A><U+2727> <U+272B><U+271A><U+272A>
                  <U+271E><U+271D><U+260E>                    <U+271E><U+271D><U+261E>                 <U+271E><U+271E><U+260E>
              <U+272B><U+271A><U+2605>    <U+2714><U+272D> <U+2713><U+2714><U+2731> <U+272B><U+271A><U+272C>   <U+2714><U+272D> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2605> <U+2732><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261B><U+272A><U+2714> <U+261B><U+2729><U+2714> <U+272E><U+2726><U+272C> <U+2714><U+272D>        <U+2714><U+272D> <U+2721><U+2726><U+2714> <U+2713><U+2714><U+2731> <U+2713><U+2727><U+2724> <U+272B><U+271A><U+272C>
              <U+271E><U+271E><U+261E>                    <U+271E><U+2712><U+260E>                 <U+271E><U+2712><U+261E>                      <U+271E><U+2723><U+260E>
              <U+272E><U+2726><U+272C> <U+261B><U+2729><U+2714> <U+272E><U+272A><U+2727> <U+2713><U+2727><U+2605> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2605> <U+2732><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2721><U+2726><U+2714> <U+272E><U+2726><U+272C> <U+261B><U+2729><U+2714> <U+271F><U+272A><U+2727> <U+272E><U+2726><U+272C> <U+2732><U+2719><U+271A> <U+272E><U+272A><U+2727> <U+272B><U+271A><U+272A> <U+2729><U+2726> <U+261B><U+272A><U+2714>
                              <U+271E><U+2723><U+261E>                 <U+271E><U+261E><U+260E>                 <U+271E><U+261E><U+261E>
               <U+2714><U+272D> <U+2721><U+2726><U+2714> <U+2713><U+2727><U+2724> <U+2725><U+271A><U+2726> <U+2713><U+271A><U+2719> <U+2732><U+2719><U+271A> <U+272B><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261B><U+2714><U+2724> <U+272B><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2721><U+2726><U+2714> <U+2713><U+2727><U+2605> <U+272B><U+271A><U+272A> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2605> <U+2714><U+272D> <U+272B><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2713><U+2727><U+2605>
                          <U+271E><U+271C><U+260E>                 <U+271E><U+271C><U+261E>                 <U+271E><U+270F><U+260E>
              <U+2713><U+2727><U+2605> <U+261B><U+272A><U+2714> <U+272E><U+272A><U+2727> <U+261B><U+2729><U+2714> <U+261B><U+2729><U+2714>     <U+2714><U+272D>    <U+2714><U+272D> <U+2732><U+2719><U+271A> <U+272E><U+2726><U+272C> <U+2713><U+2727><U+2724> <U+2721><U+2726><U+2714> <U+2713><U+2727><U+2724> <U+272B><U+271A><U+272A> <U+2721><U+2726><U+2714>     <U+2729><U+2726>   <U+2729><U+2726>
                      <U+271E><U+270F><U+261E>                      <U+271E><U+2706><U+260E>                 <U+271E><U+2706><U+261E>
              <U+272E><U+2726><U+272C> <U+261B><U+272A><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2726><U+2714> <U+272E><U+272A><U+2727> <U+272E><U+2726><U+272C> <U+261B><U+2729><U+2714> <U+2732><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2713><U+2727><U+2724> <U+272E><U+272A><U+2727> <U+2721><U+2726><U+2714> <U+2713><U+2714><U+2731> <U+261B><U+2714><U+2724> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2605> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2605> <U+272B><U+271A><U+272A> <U+2713><U+2727><U+2605>
                  <U+271E><U+270E><U+260E>                 <U+271E><U+270E><U+261E>                 <U+2712><U+260E><U+260E>
              <U+2732><U+2719><U+271A>    <U+2729><U+2726> <U+2721><U+2726><U+2714> <U+271F><U+272A><U+2727> <U+2721><U+2726><U+2714> <U+2732><U+2719><U+271A> <U+272F><U+2726><U+2715> <U+2722><U+2716><U+2727> <U+272B><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2713><U+271A><U+2719> <U+272E><U+2726><U+272C> <U+2722><U+2716><U+2727> <U+2713><U+2727><U+2605> <U+2722><U+2716><U+2727> <U+261B><U+272A><U+2714> <U+261B><U+2729><U+2714>
              <U+2712><U+260E><U+261E>                   <U+2712><U+271D><U+260E>                 <U+2712><U+271D><U+261E>                 <U+2712><U+271E><U+260E>
              <U+272B><U+271A><U+2605> <U+272E><U+272A><U+2727> <U+2721><U+2726><U+2714> <U+272E><U+2726><U+272C> <U+2721><U+2726><U+2714> <U+272E><U+2726><U+272C> <U+2721><U+2726><U+2714>        <U+2714><U+272D> <U+272B><U+271A><U+272A>
                              <U+2712><U+271E><U+261E>
                                                          <U+2719><U+2731><U+2726> <U+271D><U+271D>

