C:\Intrwoven\NRPortbI\DCC\KZill 7144503l.docx-12 06/2018
ABSTRACT
Compositions and methods, including novel homogeneous microparticulate suspensions, are
described for treating natural surfaces that contain bacterial biofilm, including unexpected
synergy or enhancing effects between bismuth-thiol (BT) compounds and certain antibiotics,
to provide formulations including antiseptic formulations. Previously unpredicted antibacterial
properties and anti-biofilm properties of disclosed BT compounds and BT compound-plus
antibiotic combinations are also described, including preferential efficacies of certain such
compositions for treating certain gram-positive bacterial infections, and distinct preferential
efficacies of certain such compositions for treating certain gram-negative bacterial infections.

   C: Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\KZIA 7144452_.docx-12 06/2018
           BISMUTH-THIOLS AS ANTISEPTICS FOR BIOMEDICAL USES, INCLUDING
                            TREATMENT OF BACTERIAL BIOFILMS AND OTHER USES
                   This is a divisional of Australian Patent Application No. <removed-apn>, which is a
 5 divisional of Australian Patent Application No. 2011212941, the entire contents of which are
   incorporated herein by reference.
   CROSS REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATION
                   This application claims the benefit of PCT Application No. PCT/US2010/023 108 filed
10 February 3, 2010, and of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61/373,188 filed August 12, 2010,
   each of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.
   BACKGROUND
15 Technical field
                   The presently disclosed invention embodiments relate to compositions and methods for
   the treatment of microbial infections. In particular, the present embodiments relate to
   improved treatments for managing bacterial infections in epithelial tissues, including in
   wounds such as chronic wounds and acute wounds, and in clinical, personal healthcare, and
20 other contexts, including treatment of bacterial biofilms and other conditions.
   Description of the Related Art
                   The complex series of coordinated cellular and molecular interactions that contribute to
   skin wound healing and responding to and resisting microbial infections and/or to healing or
25 maintenance of bodily tissues generally, may be adversely impacted by a variety of external
   factors, such as opportunistic and nosocomial infections (e.g., clinical regimens that can
   increase the risk of infection), local or systemic administration of antibiotics (which may
   influence cell growth, migration or other functions and can also select for antibiotic-resistant
   microbes), frequent wound dressing changes, open-air exposure of wounds to speed healing,
30 the use of temporary artificial structural support matrix or scaffold materials, the possible need

  C: Intrwoven\NRPortbI\DCC\KZll 7144452_.docx-12 06/2018
                                                          - 1A
  for debridement and/or repeat surgery to excise infected or necrotic tissue and/or other factors.
                 Wound healing thus continues to be a formidable challenge for clinical practitioners
  worldwide. The current treatments for recalcitrant wounds are impractical and ineffective,
  often requiring multiple surgeries to close the wound. For instance, Regranex® (becaplermin,
5 Ortho-McNeil Pharmaceutical, Inc., available from Ethicon, Inc., recombinant platelet-derived
  growth factor)

   WO 20111097347                                                       PCT/US2011/023549
                                               2
     exemplifies one of the few available treatments for chronic wounds, but is
     expensive to produce and has limited clinical utility.
     Chronic and Acute Wounds and Wound Biofilms
                    Wounds occur when the continuity between cells within a tissue,
 5 or between tissues, is disrupted, for instance, by physical, mechanical,
     biological, pathological and/or chemical forces (e.g., burns, dermal infections,
     puncture wounds, gunshot or shrapnel wounds, skin ulcers, radiation poisoning,
     malignancies, gangrene, autoimmune disease, immunodeficiency disease,
     respiratory insult such as by inhalation or infection, gastrointestinal insult such
10 as by deleterious ingestion or infection, circulatory and hematologic disorders
     including clotting defects,) or other traumatic injuries, or the like.
                    While a limited level of bacterial contamination in a wound, or
    "colonization" of the wound, may not necessarily interfere with the processes of
    wound healing, the presence of bacteria in numbers sufficient to overwhelm the
15 host immune defenses can lead to an acute wound or a chronic wound or a
    wound in which a bacterial biofilm is present, such as a wound infection in
    which bacterial growth proceeds to the detriment of the host. Bryant and Nix,
    Acute and Chronic Wounds: Current Management Concepts, 2006 Mosby
    (Elsevier), NY; Baronoski, Wound Care Essentials: Practical Principles (2 nd
20  Ed.), 2007 Lippincott, Williams and Wilkins, Philadelphia, PA). For example,
    acute wounds such as may result from injury, trauma, surgical intervention, or
    other causes, typically lack underlying health deficits and heal rapidly, but may
    on occasion fail to do so due to the presence of an infection; rapidly forming
    bacterial biofilms have been described in acute wounds (e.g.,
25  W012007/061942). Additional factors that may contribute to the development
    of chronic wounds include losses in mobility (e.g., that result in continued
    pressure being applied to a wound site), deficits of sensation or mental ability,
    inaccessibility of the wound site (e.g., in the respiratory or gastrointestinal
    tracts) and circulatory deficits. Infection at a chronic wound site may be
30  detected by the clinical signs of skin redness, edema, pus formation and/or
    unpleasant odor, or other relevant, clinically accepted criteria.
                   Acute wounds that cannot heal properly may thus be present, and
    chronic wounds thus may develop, in higher organisms (including but not
    limited to humans and other mammals) when the host's immune system has
35  been overwhelmed by bacterial infection of a wound site (e.g., an acute
    wound), creating permissive conditions for bacteria to invade and further

   WO 20111097347                                                     PCT/US2011/023549
                                                 3
     destroy tissue. In general, chronic wounds are wounds that do not heal within
    three months, and instead of becoming smaller they tend to grow larger as the
     bacterial infiltration progresses. Chronic wounds may become very painful and
    stressful for the patient when nearby nerves become damaged (neuropathy) as
 5  the wound progresses. These wounds affect four million Americans each year
    and cost about $9 billion in treatment expenses. Afflicted individuals are mostly
    over the age of 60.
                     Chronic wounds may in some cases originate as acute wounds
    and thus may include, for example, gunshot or shrapnel wounds, burns,
10  punctures, venous ulcers, pressure ulcers, diabetic ulcers, radiation poisoning,
    malignancies, dermal infections, gangrene, surgical wounds, diabetic foot
    ulcers, decubitis ulcers, venous leg ulcers, infected and/or biofilm-containing
    nonhealing surgical wounds, pyoderma gangrenosum, traumatic wounds, acute
    arterial insufficiency, necrotizing fasciitis, osteomyelitis (bone infection), and
15  radiation injuries, such as osteoradionecrosis and soft tissue radionecrosis, or
    other types of wounds. Venous ulcers, for example, occur mostly in the legs,
    as a result of poor circulation (e.g., ischemia), malfunctioning valves of veins, or
    repeated physical trauma (e.g., repetitive injury). Pressure ulcers may be
    present when local pressure that is exerted at or around a wound site is greater
20  than blood pressure, for instance, such that poor circulation, paralysis, and/or
    bed sores may contribute to, or exacerbate, the chronic wound. Diabetic ulcers
    may occur in individuals with diabetes mellitus, for example, persons in whom
    uncontrolled high blood sugar can contribute to a loss of feeling in the
    extremities, leading to repetitive injuries and/or neglect on the part of the
25  individual to attend to injuries. Factors that can complicate or otherwise
    influence clinical onset and outcome of chronic wounds include the subject's
    immunological status (e.g., immune suppression, pathologically (e.g., HIV
    AIDS), radiotherapeutically or pharmacologically compromised immune system;
    age; stress); skin aging (including photochemical aging), and development and
30  progression of biofilms within the wound. In the case of epithelial tissues in the
    respiratory and/or gastrointestinal tracts, inaccessibility, occlusion, difficulty in
    generating epithelial surface-clearing fluid forces or development of localized
    microenvironments conducive to microbial survival can engender clinical
    complications.
35                   Wound-related injuries may be accompanied by lost or
    compromised organ function, shock, bleeding and/or thrombosis, cell death
    (e.g., necrosis and/or apoptosis), stress and/or microbial infection. Any or all of

   WO 20111097347                                                      PCT/US2011/023549
                                               4
    these events, and especially infection, can delay or prevent the effective tissue
     repair processes that are involved in wound healing. Hence, it can be important
    as early as possible in an individual who has sustained a wound to remove
     nonviable tissue from a wound site, a process referred to as debridement, and
 5  also to remove any foreign matter from the wound site, also referred to as
    wound cleansing.
                    Severe wounds, acute wounds, chronic wounds, burns, and
     ulcers can benefit from cellular wound dressings. Several artificial skin
    products are available for nonhealing wounds or burns such as: Apligraft®
10  (Norvartis), Demagraft@, Biobrane@, Transcyte® (Advance Tissue Science),
     Integra@ Dermal Regeneration Template@ (from Integra Life Sciences
    Technology), and OrCel®. These products, however, are not designed to
    address the problem of bacterial tissue infiltration and wound spreading.
                    Unfortunately, systemic antibiotics are not effective for the
15  treatment of chronic wounds, and are generally not used unless an acute
    bacterial infection is present. Current approaches include administration or
    application of antibiotics, but such remedies may promote the advent of
    antibiotic-resistant bacterial strains and/or may be ineffective against bacterial
    biofilms. It therefore may become especially important to use antiseptics when
20  drug resistant bacteria (e.g., methicillin resistant Staphylococcus aureus, or
    MRSA) are detected. There are many antiseptics widely in use, but bacterial
    populations or subpopulations that are established may not respond to these
    agents, or to any other currently available treatments. Additionally, a number of
    antiseptics may be toxic to host cells at the concentrations that may be needed
25  to be effective against an established bacterial infection, and hence such
    antiseptics are unsuitable. This problem may be particularly acute in the case
    of efforts to clear infections from natural surfaces, including internal epithelial
    surfaces, such as respiratory (e.g., airway, nasopharyngeal and laryngeal
    paths, tracheal, pulmonary, bronchi, bronchioles, alveoli, etc.) or
30  gastrointestinal (e.g., buccal, esophageal, gastric, intestinal, rectal, anal, etc.)
    tracts, or other epithelial surfaces.
                    Particularly problematic are infections composed of bacterial
    biofilms, a relatively recently recognized organization of bacteria by which free,
    single-celled ("planktonic") bacteria assemble by intercellular adhesion into
35  organized, multi-cellular communities (biofilms) having markedly different
    patterns of behavior, gene expression, and susceptibility to environmental
    agents including antibiotics. Biofilms may deploy biological defense

   WO 20111097347                                                      PCT/US2011/023549
                                                 5
     mechanisms not found in planktonic bacteria, which mechanisms can protect
     the biofilm community against antibiotics and host immune responses.
     Established biofilms can arrest the tissue-healing process.
                    Common microbiologic contaminants that underlie persistent and
  5 potentially deleterious infections include S. aureus, including MRSA (Methicillin
     Resistant Staphylococcus aureus), Enterococci, E. coli, P. aeruginosa,
     Streptococci, and Acinetobacterbaumannii. Some of these organisms exhibit
     an ability to survive on non-nutritive clinical surfaces for months. S. aureus, has
     been shown to be viable for four weeks on dry glass, and for between three and
10 six months on dried blood and cotton fibers (Domenico et al., 1999 Infect.
     Immun. 67:664-669). Both E. cofi and P. aeruginosa have been shown to
    survive even longer than S. aureus on dried blood and cotton fibers (ibid).
                    Microbial biofilms are associated with substantially increased
     resistance to both disinfectants and antibiotics. Biofilm morphology results
15 when bacteria and/or fungi attach to surfaces. This attachment triggers an
    altered transcription of genes, resulting in the secretion of a remarkably resilient
    and difficult to penetrate polysaccharide matrix, protecting the microbes.
     Biofilms are very resistant to the mammalian immune system, in addition to
    their very substantial resistance to antibiotics. Biofilms are very difficult to
20 eradicate once they become established, so preventing biofilm formation is a
    very important clinical priority. Recent research has shown that open wounds
    can quickly become contaminated by biofilms. These microbial biofilms are
    thought to delay wound healing, and are very likely related to the establishment
    of serious wound infections.
25                  The current guidelines for the care for military wounds, for
    example, specify vigorous and complete irrigation and debridement
    (Blankenship CL, Guidelines for care of open combat casualty wounds, Fleet
    Operations and Support. U.S. Bureau of Medicine and Surgery). While this
    early intervention is important, it is not adequate to prevent the development of
30 infection. Additional therapeutic steps need to be taken following debridement
    to promote healing, reduce the microbial bio-burden, and thereby reduce the
    chances of establishing wound infections and wound biofilms.
                    Because of the complex nature of military traumatic wounds, the
    potential for infection is great, particularly considering the introduction of foreign
35 objects and other environmental contaminating agents. Both military and
    clinical environments (including people within both of these environments) act
    as important sources of potentially pathogenic microbes, particularly to those

   WO 20111097347                                                     PCT/US2011/023549
                                                 6
     suffering from open and/or complex wounds. Acute and chronic wounds,
     including surgical and military wounds, have already compromised the body's
     primary defense and barrier against infection; the skin. Wounds thus expose
     the interior of the body (a moist and nutritive environment) to opportunistic and
 5   pathogenic infections. Many of these infections, particularly persistent wound
     infections, are likely related to biofilm formation, as has been shown to be the
     case with chronic wounds (James et al., 2008). Infection of wounds in hospitals
     constitutes one of the most common causes of nosocomial infection, and
     wounds acquired in military and natural disaster environments are particularly
10   susceptible to microbial contamination. Military wounds are predisposed to
     infection because they are typically associated with tissue damage, tend to be
     extensive and deep, may introduce foreign bodies and interfere with local blood
     supply, may be associated with fractures and burns, and may lead to shock and
     compromised immune defenses.
15   Skin Architecture and Wound Healing
                      Maintenance of intact, functioning skin and other epithelial tissues
     (e.g., generally avascular epithelial surfaces that form barriers between an
     organism and its external environment, such as those found in skin and also
     found in the linings of respiratory and gastrointestinal tracts, glandular tissues,
20   etc.) is significant to the health and survival of humans and other animals. The
     skin is the largest body organ in humans and other higher vertebrates (e.g.,
     mammals), protecting against environmental insults through its barrier function,
     mechanical strength and imperviousness to water. As a significant
     environmental interface, skin provides a protective body covering that permits
25   maintenance of physiological equilibria.
                     Skin architecture is well known. Briefly, epidermis, the skin outer
     layer, is covered by the stratum corneum, a protective layer of dead epidermal
     skin cells (e.g., keratinocytes) and extracellular connective tissue proteins. The
    epidermis undergoes a continual process of being sloughed off as it is replaced
30   by new material pushed up from the underlying epidermal granular cell, spinous
     cell, and basal cell layers, where continuous cell division and protein synthesis
     produce new skin cells and skin proteins (e.g., keratin, collagen). The dermis
     lies underneath the epidermis, and is a site for the elaboration by dermal
    fibroblasts of connective tissue proteins (e.g., collagen, elastin, etc.) that
35  assemble into extracellular matrix and fibrous structures that confer flexibility,

   WO 20111097347                                                        PCT/US2011/023549
                                                  7
     strength and elasticity to the skin. Also present in the dermis are nerves, blood
     vessels, smooth muscle cells, hair follicles and sebaceous glands.
                     As the body's first line of defense, the skin is a major target for
     clinical insults such as physical, mechanical, chemical and biological (e.g.,
 5 xenobiotic, autoimmune) attack that can alter its structure and function. The
     skin is also regarded as an important component of immunological defense of
     the organism. In the skin can be found migrating as well as resident white
     blood cells (e.g., lymphocytes, macrophages, mast cells) and epidermal
     dendritic (Langerhans) cells having potent antigen-presenting activity, which
10 contribute to immunological protection. Pigmented melanocytes in the basal
     layer absorb potentially harmful ultraviolet (UV) radiation. Disruption of the skin
     presents undesirable risks to a subject, including those associated with
    opportunistic infections, incomplete or inappropriate tissue remodeling,
    scarring, impaired mobility, pain and/or other complications. Like the skin, other
15 epithelial surfaces (e.g., respiratory tract, gastrointestinal tract and glandular
    linings) have defined structural attributes when healthy such that infection or
    other disruptions may present serious health risks.
                     Damaged or broken skin may result, for example, from wounds
    such as cuts, scrapes, abrasions, punctures, burns (including chemical burns),
20 infections, temperature extremes, incisions (e.g., surgical incisions), trauma and
    other injuries. Efficient skin repair via wound healing is therefore clearly
    desirable in these and similar contexts.
                     Although skin naturally exhibits remarkable ability for self-repair
    following many types of damage, there remain a number of contexts in which
25 skin healing does not occur rapidly enough and/or in which inappropriate
    cellular tissue repair mechanisms result in incompletely remodeled skin that as
    a consequence can lack the integrity, barrier properties, mechanical strength,
    elasticity, flexibility, or other desirable properties of undamaged skin. Skin
    wound healing thus presents such associated challenges, for example, in the
30  context of chronic wounds.
                    Wound healing occurs in three dynamic and overlapping phases,
    beginning with the formation of a fibrin clot. The clot provides a temporary
    shield and a reservoir of growth factors that attracts cells into the wound. It also
    serves as a provisional extracellular matrix (ECM) that the cells invade during
35  repair. Intermingled with clot formation is the inflammatory phase, which is
    characterized by the infiltration of phagocytes and neutrophils into the wound,
    which clear the wound of debris and bacteria, while releasing growth factors

   WO 20111097347                                                      PCT/US2011/023549
                                                8
     that amplify the early healing response. The process of restoring the denuded
     area is initiated in the proliferation phase of healing and is driven by
     chemokines, cytokines, and proteases that have been secreted from the
     immune cells and are concentrated within the clot. Keratinocytes are
  5 stimulated to proliferate and migrate, which forms the new layer of epithelium
     that covers the wound while wound angiogenesis delivers oxygen, nutrients,
     and inflammatory cells to the wounded area. The remodeling phase is the final
     phase of wound repair and it is carried out by the myofibroblasts, which
    facilitate connective tissue contraction, increase wound strength, and deposit
 10 the ECM that forms the scar (Martin, P. Wound Healing-Aiming for Perfect Skin
     Regeneration. Science 1997;4:75-80).
     Bismuth Thiol- (BT) based Antiseptics
                     A number of natural products (e.g., antibiotics) and synthetic
    chemicals having antimicrobial, and in particular antibacterial, properties are
15   known in the art and have been at least partially characterized by chemical
    structures and by antimicrobial effects, such as ability to kill microbes ("cidal"
    effects such as bacteriocidal properties), ability to halt or impair microbial
    growth ("static" effects such as bacteriostatic properties), or ability to interfere
    with microbial functions such as colonizing or infecting a site, bacterial secretion
20  of exopolysaccharides and/or conversion from planktonic to biofilm populations
    or expansion of biofilm formation. Antibiotics, disinfectants, antiseptics and the
    like (including bismuth-thiol or BT compounds) are discussed, for example, in
    U.S. 6,582,719, including factors that influence the selection and use of such
    compositions, including, e.g., bacteriocidal or bacteriostatic potencies, effective
25  concentrations, and risks of toxicity to host tissues.
                     Bismuth, a group V metal, is an element that (like silver)
    possesses antimicrobial properties. Bismuth by itself may not be
    therapeutically useful and may exhibit certain inappropriate properties, and so
    may instead be typically administered by means of delivery with a complexing
30  agent, carrier, and/or other vehicle, the most common example of which is
    Pepto Bismol@, in which bismuth is combined (chelated) with subsalicylate.
    Previous research has determined that the combination of certain thiol- (-SH,
    sulfhydryl) containing compounds such as ethane dithiol with bismuth, to
    provide an exemplary bismuth thiol (BT) compound, improves the antimicrobial
35  potency of bismuth, compared to other bismuth preparations currently available.
    There are many thiol compounds that may be used to produce BTs (disclosed,

   WO 20111097347                                                        PCT/US2011/023549
                                                9
     for example, in Domenico et al., 2001 Antimicrob. Agent. Chemotherap.
    45(5):1417-1421, Domenico et al., 1997 Antimicrob. Agent. Chemother.
    41(8):1697-1703, and in U.S. RE37,793, U.S. 6,248,371, U.S. 6,086,921, and
     U.S. 6,380,248; see also, e.g., U.S. 6,582,719) and several of these
 5   preparations are able to inhibit biofilm formation.
                    BT compounds have proven activity against MRSA (methicillin
     resistant S. aureus), MRSE (methicillin resistant S. epidermidis),
     Mycobacterium tuberculosis, Mycobacterium avium, drug-resistant P.
    aeruginosa, enterotoxigenic E. coli, enterohemorrhagic E. coli, Klebsiella
10  pneumoniae, Clostridium difficile, Heliobacterpylori, Legionella pneumophila,
    Enterococcus faecalis, Enterobacter cloacae, Salmonella typhimurium, Proteus
     vulgaris, Yersinia enterocolitica, Vibrio cholerae, and Shigella Flexneri
     (Domenico et al., 1997 Antimicrob. Agents Chemother. 41:1697-1703). There
    is also evidence of activity against cytomegalovirus, herpes simplex virus type 1
15  (HSV-1) and HSV-2, and yeasts and fungi, such as Candida albicans. BT roles
    have also been demonstrated in reducing bacterial pathogenicity, inhibiting or
    killing a broad spectrum of antibiotic-resistant microbes (gram-positive and
    gram-negative), preventing biofilm formation, preventing septic shock, treating
    sepsis, and increasing bacterial susceptibility to antibiotics to which they
20  previously exhibited resistance (see, e.g., Domenico et al., 2001 Agents
    Chemother. 45:1417-1421; Domenico et al., 2000 Infect. Med. 17:123-127;
    Domenico et al., 2003 Res. Adv. In Antimicrob. Agents & Chemother. 3:79-85;
    Domenico et al., 1997 Antimicrob. Agents Chemother. 41(8):1697-1703;
    Domenico et al., 1999 Infect. Immun. 67:664-669: Huang et al. 1999 J
25  Antimicrob. Chemother. 44:601-605; Veloira et al., 2003 J Antimicrob.
    Chemother. 52:915-919; Wu et al., 2002 Am J Respir Cell Mol Biol. 26:731
    738).
                    Despite the availability of BT compounds for well over a decade,
    effective selection of appropriate BT compounds for particular infectious
30  disease indications has remained an elusive goal, where behavior of a
    particular BT against a particular microorganism cannot be predicted, where
    synergistic activity of a particular BT and a particular antibiotic against a
    particular microorganism cannot be predicted, where BT effects in vitro may not
    always predict BT effects in vivo, and where BT effects against planktonic
35  (single-cell) microbial populations may not be predictive of BT effects against
    microbial communities, such as bacteria organized into a biofilm. Additionally,
    limitations in solubility, tissue permeability, bioavailability, biodistribution and the

  WO 20111097347                                                      PCT/US2011/023549
                                               10
    like may in the cases of some BT compounds hinder the ability to deliver clinical
    benefit safely and effectively. The presently disclosed invention embodiments
    address these needs and offer other related advantages.
    BRIEF SUMMARY
 5                 As disclosed herein for the first time, and without wishing to be
    bound by theory, according to certain embodiments described herein bismuth
    thiol (BT) compounds may be used as antiseptic agents for use in the treatment
    of a wide variety of clinical infectious diseases and conditions and in personal
    healthcare, while also decreasing the costs incurred for the treatment of such
10 infections, including savings that are realized by prevention or prophylaxis
    mediated at least in part by BTs.
                   Also, in certain embodiments there are contemplated formulations
   for treating tissues and/or surfaces that contain bacterial biofilms or bacteria
    related to biofilm formation (e.g., bacteria that are capable of forming or
15 otherwise promoting biofilms), which formulations comprise one or more BT
    compound and one or more antibiotic compound, as described herein, where
    according to non-limiting theory, appropriately selected combinations of BT
    compound(s) and antibiotic(s) based on the present disclosure provide
    heretofore unpredicted synergy in the antibacterial (including anti-biofilm)
20 effects of such formulations, and/or unpredicted enhancing effects, for
    prevention, prophylaxis and/or therapeutically effective treatment against
    microbial infections including infections that contain bacterial biofilms.
                   Also provided herein for the first time are unprecedented bismuth
   thiol compositions comprising substantially monodisperse microparticulate
25 suspensions, and methods for their synthesis and use.
                   According to certain embodiments of the invention described
   herein there is thus provided a bismuth-thiol composition, comprising a plurality
   of microparticles that comprise a bismuth-thiol (BT) compound, substantially all
   of said microparticles having a volumetric mean diameter of from about 0.4 tm
30 to about 5 ptm, wherein the BT compound comprises bismuth or a bismuth salt
   and a thiol-containing compound. In another embodiment there is provided a
   bismuth-thiol composition, comprising a plurality of microparticles that comprise
   a bismuth-thiol (BT) compound, substantially all of said microparticles having a
   volumetric mean diameter of from about 0.4 tm to about 5 pLm and being
35 formed by a process that comprises (a) admixing, under conditions and for a
   time sufficient to obtain a solution that is substantially free of a solid precipitate,

   WO 20111097347                                                       PCT/US2011/023549
                                                11
     (i) an acidic aqueous solution that comprises a bismuth salt comprising bismuth
     at a concentration of at least 50 mM and that lacks a hydrophilic, polar or
     organic solubilizer, with (ii) ethanol in an amount sufficient to obtain an
     admixture that comprises at least about 5%, 10%, 15%, 20%, 25% or 30%
 5 ethanol by volume; and (b) adding to the admixture of (a) an ethanolic solution
     comprising a thiol-containing compound to obtain a reaction solution, wherein
     the thiol-containing compound is present in the reaction solution at a molar ratio
     of from about 1:3 to about 3:1 relative to the bismuth, under conditions and for a
    time sufficient for formation of a precipitate which comprises the microparticles
10 comprising the BT compound. In certain embodiments the bismuth salt is
     Bi(N0 3)3. In certain embodiments the acidic aqueous solution comprises at
     least 5%, 10%, 15%, 20%, 22% or 22.5% bismuth by weight. In certain
    embodiments the acidic aqueous solution comprises at least 0.5%, 1%, 1.5%,
    2%, 2.5%, 3%, 3.5%, 4%, 4.5% or 5% nitric acid by weight. In certain
15 embodiments the thiol-containing compound comprises one or more agents
    selected from 1,2-ethane dithiol, 2,3-dimercaptopropanol, pyrithione,
    dithioerythritol, 3,4-dimercaptotoluene, 2,3-butanedithiol, 1,3-propanedithiol, 2
     hydroxypropane thiol, 1-mercapto-2-propanol, dithioerythritol, alpha-lipoic acid
    and dithiothreitol.
20                  In another embodiment there is provided a method for preparing a
    bismuth-thiol composition that comprises a plurality of microparticles that
    comprise a bismuth-thiol (BT) compound, substantially all of said microparticles
    having a volumetric mean diameter of from about 0.4 tm to about 5 ptm, said
    method comprising the steps of (a) admixing, under conditions and for a time
25  sufficient to obtain a solution that is substantially free of a solid precipitate, (i)
    an acidic aqueous solution that comprises a bismuth salt comprising bismuth at
    a concentration of at least 50 mM and that lacks a hydrophilic, polar or organic
    solubilizer, with (ii) ethanol in an amount sufficient to obtain an admixture that
    comprises at least about 5%, 10%, 15%, 20%, 25% or 30% ethanol by volume;
30  and (b) adding to the admixture of (a) an ethanolic solution comprising a thiol
    containing compound to obtain a reaction solution, wherein the thiol-containing
    compound is present in the reaction solution at a molar ratio of from about 1:3
    to about 3:1 relative to the bismuth, under conditions and for a time sufficient for
    formation of a precipitate which comprises the microparticles comprising the BT
35  compound. In certain embodiments the method further comprises recovering
    the precipitate to remove impurities. In certain embodiments the bismuth salt is
    Bi(N0 3)3. In certain embodiments the acidic aqueous solution comprises at

  WO 20111097347                                                       PCT/US2011/023549
                                                12
    least 5%, 10%, 15%, 20%, 22% or 22.5% bismuth by weight. In certain
    embodiments the acidic aqueous solution comprises at least 0.5%, 1%, 1.5%,
    2%, 2.5%, 3%, 3.5%, 4%, 4.5% or 5% nitric acid by weight. In certain
    embodiments the thiol-containing compound comprises one or more agents
 5 selected from the group consisting of 1,2-ethane dithiol, 2,3
    dimercaptopropanol, pyrithione, dithioerythritol, 3,4-dimercaptotoluene, 2,3
    butanedithiol, 1,3-propanedithiol, 2-hydroxypropane thiol, 1-mercapto-2
    propanol, dithioerythritol, dithiothreitol, alpha-lipoic acid, methanethiol (CH 3SH
    [m-mercaptan]), ethanethiol (C2H5SH [e- mercaptan]), 1-propanethiol (C3H7SH
10 [n-P mercaptan]), 2-propanethiol (CH3CH(SH)CH 3 [2C 3 mercaptan]),
    butanethiol (C4 H9 SH ([n-butyl mercaptan]), tert-butyl mercaptan (C(CH 3)3SH [t
    butyl mercaptan]), pentanethiols (C5H11 SH [pentyl mercaptan]), coenzyme A,
    lipoamide, glutathione, cysteine, cystine, 2-mercaptoethanol, dithiothreitol,
   dithioerythritol, 2-mercaptoindole, transglutaminase, (11
15 mercaptoundecyl)hexa(ethylene glycol), (11 -mercaptoundecyl)tetra(ethylene
   glycol), (11 -mercaptoundecyl)tetra(ethylene glycol) functionalized gold
    nanoparticles, 1,1',4',1"-terphenyl-4-thiol, 1,11-undecanedithiol, 1,16
    hexadecanedithiol, 1,2-ethanedithiol technical grade, 1,3-propanedithiol, 1,4
   benzenedimethanethiol, 1,4-butanedithiol, 1,4-butanedithiol diacetate, 1,5
20 pentanedithiol, 1,6-hexanedithiol, 1,8-octanedithiol, 1,9-nonanedithiol,
   adamantanethiol, 1-butanethiol, 1-decanethiol, 1-dodecanethiol, 1
   heptanethiol, 1-heptanethiol purum, 1-hexadecanethiol, 1-hexanethiol, 1
   mercapto-(triethylene glycol), 1-mercapto-(triethylene glycol) methyl ether
   functionalized gold nanoparticles, 1-mercapto-2-propanol, 1-nonanethiol, 1
25 octadecanethiol, 1-octanethiol, 1-octanethiol, 1-pentadecanethiol, 1
   pentanethiol, 1-propanethiol, 1-tetradecanethiol, 1-tetradecanethiol purum, 1
   undecanethiol, 11-(1H-pyrrol-1-yl)undecane-1-thiol, 11-amino-1-undecanethiol
   hydrochloride, 11-bromo-1-undecanethiol, 11-mercapto-1-undecanol, 11
   mercapto-1-undecanol, 11-mercaptoundecanoic acid, 11-mercaptoundecanoic
30 acid, 11-mercaptoundecyl trifluoroacetate, 11-mercaptoundecylphosphoric
   acid, 12-mercaptododecanoic acid, 12-mercaptododecanoic acid, 15
   mercaptopentadecanoic acid, 16-mercaptohexadecanoic acid, 16
   mercaptohexadecanoic acid, 1H,1H,2H,2H-perfluorodecanethiol, 2,2'
   (ethylenedioxy)diethanethiol, 2,3-butanedithiol, 2-butanethiol, 2
35 ethylhexanethiol, 2-methyl-1-propanethiol, 2-methyl-2-propanethiol, 2
   phenylethanethiol, 3,3,4,4,5,5,6,6,6-nonafluoro-1-hexanethiol purum, 3
   (dimethoxymethylsilyl)-1-propanethiol, 3-chloro-1-propanethiol, 3-mercapto-1-

   WO 20111097347                                                          PCT/US2011/023549
                                                13
     propanol, 3-mercapto-2-butanol, 3-mercapto-N-nonylpropionamide, 3
     mercaptopropionic acid, 3-mercaptopropyl-functionalized silica gel, 3-methyl
     1-butanethiol, 4,4'-bis(rercaptomethyl)biphenyl, 4,4'-dimercaptostilbene, 4
     (6-mercaptohexyloxy)benzyl alcohol, 4-cyano-1-butanethiol, 4-mercapto-1
 5 butanol, 6-(ferrocenyl)hexanethiol, 6-mercapto-1-hexanol, 6
     mercaptohexanoic acid, 8-mercapto-1-octanol, 8-mercaptooctanoic acid, 9
     mercapto-1-nonanol, biphenyl-4,4'-dithiol, butyl 3-mercaptopropionate,
     copper(l) 1-butanethiolate, cyclohexanethiol, cyclopentanethiol, decanethiol
     functionalized silver nanoparticles, dodecanethiol functionalized gold
10 nanoparticles, dodecanethiol functionalized silver nanoparticles, hexa(ethylene
     glycol)mono-1 1-(acetylthio)undecyl ether, mercaptosuccinic acid, methyl 3
     mercaptopropionate, nanoTether BPA-HH, NanoThinks" 18, NanoThinksT " 8,
     NanoThinks" ACID11, NanoThinksTM ACID16, NanoThinks ALCO1 1,
     NanoThinks m TH108, octanethiol functionalized gold nanoparticles, PEG
15 dithiol average Mn 8,000, PEG dithiol average mol wt 1,500, PEG dithiol
     average mol wt 3,400, S-(11-bromoundecyl)thioacetate, S-(4
     cyanobutyl)thioacetate, thiophenol, triethylene glycol mono-11
     mercaptoundecyl ether, trimethylolpropane tris(3-mercaptopropionate), [11
     (methylcarbonylthio)undecyl]tetra(ethylene glycol), m-carborane-9-thiol, p
20 terphenyl-4,4"-dithiol, tert-dodecylmercaptan, tert-nonyl mercaptan.
                    In another embodiment there is provided a method for protecting
    a natural surface, including a biological tissue surface such as an epithelial
    tissue surface, against one or more of a bacterial pathogen, a fungal pathogen
    and a viral pathogen, comprising contacting the epithelial tissue surface with an
25 effective amount of a BT composition under conditions and for a time sufficient
    for one or more of (i) prevention of infection of the surface by the bacterial,
    fungal or viral pathogen, (ii) inhibition of cell viability or cell growth of
    substantially all planktonic cells of the bacterial, fungal or viral pathogen, (iii)
    inhibition of biofilm formation by the bacterial, fungal or viral pathogen, and (iv)
30 inhibition of biofilm viability or biofilm growth of substantially all biofilm-form
    cells of the bacterial, fungal or viral pathogen, wherein the BT composition
    comprises a plurality of microparticles that comprise a bismuth-thiol (BT)
    compound, substantially all of said microparticles having a volumetric mean
    diameter of from about 0.4 tm to about 5 pm. In certain embodiments the
35 bacterial pathogen comprises at least one of (i) one or more gram-negative
    bacteria; (ii) one or more gram-positive bacteria; (iii) one or more antibiotic
    sensitive bacteria; (iv) one or more antibiotic-resistant bacteria; (v) a bacterial

   WO 20111097347                                                        PCT/US2011/023549
                                                14
     pathogen that is selected from Staphylococcus aureus (S. aureus), MRSA
     (methicillin-resistant S. aureus), Staphylococcus epidermidis , MRSE
     (methicillin-resistant S. epidermidis), Mycobacterium tuberculosis,
     Mycobacterium avium, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, drug-resistant P. aeruginosa,
 5 Escherichia coli, enterotoxigenic E. co/i, enterohemorrhagic E. coli, Klebsiella
     pneumoniae, Clostridium difficile, Heliobacterpylori, Legionella pneumophila,
     Enterococcus faecalis, methicillin-susceptible Enterococcus faecalis,
     Enterobacter cloacae, Salmonella typhimurium, Proteus vulgaris, Yersinia
     enterocolitica, Vibrio cholera, Shigella flexneri, vancomycin-resistant
10 Enterococcus (VRE), Burkholderia cepacia complex, Francisella tularensis,
     Bacillus anthracis, Yersinia pestis, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, vancomycin
     resistant enterococci, Streptococcus pneumonia, penicillin-resistant
     Streptococcus pneumonia, Escherichia coli, Burkholderia cepacia, Bukholderia
     multivorans, Mycobacterium smegmatis and Acinetobacter baumannii. In
15 certain embodiments the bacterial pathogen exhibits antibiotic resistance. In
     certain embodiments the bacterial pathogen exhibits resistance to an antibiotic
     that is selected from methicillin, vancomycin, naficilin, gentamicin, ampicillin,
     chloramphenicol, doxycycline and tobramycin.
                     In certain embodiments the natural surface comprises an
20 oral/buccal cavity surface. In further embodiments, the natural surface
     comprises a biological surface such as bone, joint, muscle, ligament, or tendon.
                     In certain embodiments the surface comprises an epithelial tissue
    surface that comprises a tissue that is selected from epidermis, dermis,
     respiratory tract, gastrointestinal tract and glandular linings.
25                  In certain embodiments the step of contacting is performed one or
    a plurality of times. In certain embodiments at least one step of contacting
    comprises one of spraying, irrigating, dipping and painting the natural surface.
     In certain embodiments at least one step of contacting comprises one of
    inhaling, ingesting and orally irrigating. In certain embodiments least one step
30 of contacting comprises administering by a route that is selected from topically,
    intraperitoneally, orally, parenterally, intravenously, intraarterially,
    transdermally, sublingually, subcutaneously, intramuscularly, transbuccally,
    intranasally, via inhalation, intraoccularly, intraauricularly, intraventricularly,
    subcutaneously, intraadiposally, intraarticularly and intrathecally. In certain
35 embodiments the BT composition comprises one or more BT compounds
    selected from the group consisting of BisBAL, BisEDT, Bis-dimercaprol, Bis
    DTT, Bis-2-mercaptoethanol, Bis-DTE, Bis-Pyr, Bis-Ery, Bis-Tol, Bis-BDT, Bis-

   WO 20111097347                                                        PCT/US2011/023549
                                               15
     PDT, Bis-Pyr/Bal, Bis-Pyr/BDT, Bis-Pyr/EDT, Bis-Pyr/PDT, Bis-Pyr/Tol, Bis
     Pyr/Ery, bismuth-1-mercapto-2-propanol, and Bis-EDT/2-hydroxy-1
     propanethiol.
                     In certain embodiments the bacterial pathogen exhibits antibiotic
 5   resistance. In certain other embodiments the above described method further
     comprises contacting the natural surface with a synergizing antibiotic and/or
    with an enhancing antibiotic, simultaneously or sequentially and in any order
    with respect to the step of contacting the surface with the BT composition. In
     certain embodiments the synergizing and/or enhancing antibiotic comprises an
10   antibiotic that is selected from an aminoglycoside antibiotic, a carbapenem
    antibiotic, a cephalosporin antibiotic, a fluoroquinolone antibiotic, a glycopeptide
    antibiotic, a lincosamide antibiotic, a penicillinase-resistant penicillin antibiotic,
    and an aminopenicillin antibiotic. In certain embodiments the synergizing
    and/or enhancing antibiotic is an aminoglycoside antibiotic that is selected from
15  amikacin, arbekacin, gentamicin, kanamycin, neomycin, netilmicin,
     paromomycin, rhodostreptomycin, streptomycin, tobramycin and apramycin.
                     In another embodiment of the invention described herein there is
     provided a method for overcoming antibiotic resistance (e.g., for a bacterial
     pathogen that is resistant to at least one anti-bacterial effect of at least one
20  antibiotic known to have an anti-bacterial effect against bacteria of the same
     bacterial species, rendering such a pathogen susceptible to an antibiotic) on a
     natural surface where an antibiotic-resistant bacterial pathogen is present,
    comprising contacting the surface simultaneously or sequentially and in any
    order with an effective amount of (1) at least one bismuth-thiol (BT) composition
25  and (2) at least one antibiotic that is enhanced by, and/or that is capable of
    acting synergistically with the at least one BT composition, under conditions
    and for a time sufficient for one or more of: (i) prevention of infection of the
    surface by the bacterial pathogen, (ii) inhibition of cell viability or cell growth of
    substantially all planktonic cells of the bacterial pathogen, (iii) inhibition of
30  biofilm formation by the bacterial pathogen, and (iv) inhibition of biofilm viability
    or biofilm growth of substantially all biofilm-form cells of the bacterial pathogen,
    wherein the BT composition comprises a plurality of microparticles that
    comprise a bismuth-thiol (BT) compound, substantially all of said microparticles
    having a volumetric mean diameter of from about 0.4 prm to about 5 pm; and
35  thereby overcoming antibiotic resistance on the epithelial tissue surface. In
    certain embodiments the bacterial pathogen comprises at least one of: (i) one
    or more gram-negative bacteria; (ii) one or more gram-positive bacteria; (iii) one

   WO 20111097347                                                      PCT/US2011/023549
                                                16
     or more antibiotic-sensitive bacteria; (iv) one or more antibiotic-resistant
     bacteria; (v) a bacterial pathogen that is selected from Staphylococcus aureus
     (S. aureus), MRSA (methicillin-resistant S. aureus), Staphylococcus
     epidermidis, MRSE (methicillin-resistant S. epidermidis), Mycobacterium
 5   tuberculosis, Mycobacterium avium, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, drug-resistant
     P. aeruginosa, Escherichia coli, enterotoxigenic E. coli, enterohemorrhagic E.
     coli, Klebsiella pneumoniae, Clostridium difficile, Heliobacter pylori, Legionella
     pneumophila, Enterococcus faecals, methicillin-susceptible Enterococcus
     faecalis, Enterobacter cloacae, Salmonella typhimurium, Proteus vulgaris,
10    Yersinia enterocolitica, Vibrio cholera, Shigella flexneri, vancomycin-resistant
     Enterococcus (VRE), Burkholderia cepacia complex, Francisella tularensis,
     Bacillus anthracis, Yersinia pestis, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, vancomycin
     resistant enterococci, Streptococcus pneumonia, penicillin-resistant
     Streptococcus pneumonia, Escherichia coli, Burkholderia cepacia, Bukholderia
15   multivorans, Mycobacterium smegmatis and Acinetobacter baumannii.
                     In certain embodiments the bacterial pathogen exhibits resistance
     to an antibiotic that is selected from methicillin, vancomycin, naficilin,
     gentamicin, ampicillin, chloramphenicol, doxycycline, tobramycin, clindamicin
     and gatifloxacin.
20                   In certain embodiments the natural surface comprises an
     oral/buccal cavity surface. In further embodiments, the natural surface
     comprises a biological surface such as bone, joint, muscle, ligament, or tendon.
                     In certain embodiments the surface comprises a tissue that is
     selected from the group consisting of epidermis, dermis, respiratory tract,
25   gastrointestinal tract and glandular linings. In certain embodiments the step of
     contacting is performed one or a plurality of times. In certain embodiments at
     least one step of contacting comprises one of spraying, irrigating, dipping and
     painting the surface. In certain other embodiments at least one step of
     contacting comprises one of inhaling, ingesting and orally irrigating. In certain
30   embodiments at least one step of contacting comprises administering by a
     route that is selected from topically, intraperitoneally, orally, parenterally,
     intravenously, intraarterially, transdermally, sublingually, subcutaneously,
     intramuscularly, transbuccally, intranasally, via inhalation, intraoccularly,
     intraauricularly, intraventricularly, subcutaneously, intraadiposally,
35   intraarticularly and intrathecally. In certain embodiments the BT composition
     comprises one or more BT compounds selected from BisBAL, BisEDT, Bis
     dimercaprol, Bis-DTT, Bis-2-mercaptoethanol, Bis-DTE, Bis-Pyr, Bis-Ery, Bis-

   WO 20111097347                                                      PCT/US2011/023549
                                               17
     Tol, Bis-BDT, Bis-PDT, Bis-Pyr/Bal, Bis-Pyr/BDT, Bis-Pyr/EDT, Bis-Pyr/PDT,
     Bis-Pyr/Tol, Bis-Pyr/Ery, bismuth-1-mercapto-2-propanol, and Bis-EDT/2
     hydroxy-1-propanethiol. In certain embodiments the synergizing and/or
     enhancing antibiotic comprises an antibiotic that is selected from clindamicin,
  5 gatifloxacin, an aminoglycoside antibiotic, a carbapenem antibiotic, a
     cephalosporin antibiotic, a fluoroquinolone antibiotic, a glycopeptide antibiotic, a
     lincosamide antibiotic, a penicillinase-resistant penicillin antibiotic, and an
    aminopenicillin antibiotic. In certain embodiments the synergizing and/or
    enhancing antibiotic is an aminoglycoside antibiotic that is selected from
 10 amikacin, arbekacin, gentamicin, kanamycin, neomycin, netilmicin,
    paromomycin, rhodostreptomycin, streptomycin, tobramycin and apramycin.
                   Turning to another embodiment there is provided an antiseptic
    composition, comprising (a) at least one BT compound; (b) at least one
    antibiotic compound that is enhanced by and/or is capable of acting
115 synergistically with the BT compound; and (c) a pharmaceutically acceptable
    excipient or carrier, including a carrier for topical use. In certain embodiments
    the BT compound is selected from BisBAL, BisEDT, Bis-dimercaprol, Bis-DTT,
    Bis-2-mercaptoethanol, Bis-DTE, Bis-Pyr, Bis-Ery, Bis-Tol, Bis-BDT, Bis-PDT,
    Bis-Pyr/Bal, Bis-Pyr/BDT, Bis-Pyr/EDT, Bis-Pyr/PDT, Bis-Pyr/Tol, Bis-Pyr/Ery,
20 bismuth-1-mercapto-2-propanol, and Bis-EDT/2-hydroxy-1-propanethiol. In
    certain embodiments the BT composition comprises a plurality of microparticles
    that comprise a bismuth-thiol (BT) compound, substantially all of said
    microparticles having a volumetric mean diameter of from about 0.4 pm to
    about 5 pim. In certain embodiments the BT compound is selected from
25 BisEDT and BisBAL. In certain embodiments the antibiotic compound
    comprises an antibiotic that is selected from methicillin, vancomycin, naficilin,
    gentamicin, ampicillin, chloramphenicol, doxycycline, tobramycin, clindamicin,
    gatifloxacin and an aminoglycoside antibiotic. In certain embodiments the
    aminoglycoside antibiotic is selected from amikacin, arbekacin, gentamicin,
30 kanamycin, neomycin, netilmicin, paromomycin, rhodostreptomycin,
    streptomycin, tobramycin and apramycin. In certain embodiments the
    aminoglycoside antibiotic is amikacin.
                   In certain other embodiments there is provided a method for
    treating a natural surface that supports or contains bacterial biofilm, comprising
35 (a) identifying a bacterial infection on or in the surface as comprising one of (i)
    gram positive bacteria, (ii) gram negative bacteria, and (iii) both (i) and (ii); and
    (b) administering a formulation that comprises one or more bismuth thiol (BT)

    WO 20111097347                                                       PCT/US2011/023549
                                                  18
      compositions to the surface, wherein (i) if the bacterial infection comprises gram
      positive bacteria, then the formulation comprises therapeutically effective
      amounts of at least one BT compound and at least one antibiotic that is
      rifamycin, (ii) if the bacterial infection comprises gram negative bacteria, then
  5 the formulation comprises therapeutically effective amounts of at least one BT
      compound and amikacin, (iii) if the bacterial infection comprises both gram
      positive and gram negative bacteria, then the formulation comprises
      therapeutically effective amounts of one or a plurality of BT compounds,
      rifamycin and amikacin, and thereby treating the surface.
 10                   In certain embodiments the biofilm comprises one or a plurality of
      antibiotic-resistant bacteria. In certain embodiments treating the surface
      comprises at least one of: (i) eradicating the bacterial biofilm, (ii) reducing the
      bacterial biofilm, and (iii) impairing growth of the bacterial biofilm. In certain
     embodiments the BT composition comprises a plurality of microparticles that
15 comprise a bismuth-thiol (BT) compound, substantially all of said microparticles
      having a volumetric mean diameter of from about 0.4 4m to about 5 vm.
                     These and other aspects of the herein described invention
     embodiments will be evident upon reference to the following detailed
20   description and attached drawings. All of the U.S. patents, U.S. patent
     application publications, U.S. patent applications, foreign patents, foreign patent
     applications and non-patent publications referred to in this specification and/or
     listed in the Application Data Sheet, including U.S. RE37,793, U.S. 6,248,371,
     U.S. 6,086,921, and U.S. 6,380,248, are incorporated herein by reference in
25   their entirety, as if each was incorporated individually. Aspects and
     embodiments of the invention can be modified, if necessary, to employ
     concepts of the various patents, applications and publications to provide yet
     further embodiments.
     BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE SEVERAL VIEWS OF THE DRAWINGS
30                   Figure 1 shows surviving numbers (log CFU; colony forming units)
     from Pseudomonas aeruginosa colony biofilms grown for 24 hours on 10%
     tryptic soy agar (TSA) at 370C, followed with indicated treatment for 18 hours.
     Indicated antibiotic treatments are TOB, tobramycin 1oX MIC; AMK, amikacin
     10OX MIC; IPM, imipenem 1oX MIC; CEF, cefepime 1OX MIC; CIP,
35   ciprofloxacin 10OX MIC; Cpd 2B, compound 2B (Bis-BAL, 1:1.5). (MIC;

   WO 20111097347                                                     PCT/US2011/023549
                                                19
      minimum inhibitory concentration, e.g., lowest concentration that prevents
      bacterial growth).
                     Figure 2 shows surviving numbers (log CFU) from
      Staphylococcus aureus colony biofilms grown for 24 hours on 10% tryptic soy
 5   agar, followed by the indicated treatment. Indicated antibiotic treatments are
      Rifampicin, RIF 10OX MIC; daptomycin, DAP 320X MIC; minocycline, MIN
      10OX MIC; ampicillin, AMC 1OX MIC; vancomycin, VAN 1OX MIC; Cpd 2B,
     compound 2B (Bis-BAL, 1:1.5), Cpd 8-2, compound 8-2 (Bis-Pyr/BDT (1:1/0.5).
                    Figure 3 shows scratch closure over time of keratinocytes
10   exposed to biofilms. (*) Significantly different from control (P<0.001).
                    Figure 4A and 4B show the subinhibitory BisEDT reversing
     antibiotic-resistance to several antibiotics. Effects of antibiotics with and
     without BisEDT (0.05 pg/ml) on a lawn of MRSA (Methicillin-resistant S. aureus)
     is shown. Panel A shows standard antibiotic-soaked discs alone, and Panel B
15   shows discs combined with a BisEDT (BE). [GM= gentamicin, CZ= cefazolin,
     FEP= cefepime, IPM= imipenim,SAM= ampicillin/ sulbactam, LVX=
     levofloxacin.
                    Figure 5 shows the effect of BisEDT and antibiotics on biofilm
     formation. S. epidermidis grown in TSB + 2% glucose in polystyrene plates for
20   48h at 370C. Gatifloxacin (GF), clindamycin (CM), minocycline (MC),
     gentamicin (GM), vancomycin (VM), cefazolin (CZ), nafcillin (NC), and
     rifampicin (RP). Results were expressed as the mean change in the BPC (in
     serial 2-fold dilution steps) at 0.25 ptM BisEDT (n=3).
                    Figure 6 shows the effect of BisEDT and antibiotics on growth of
25   S. epidermidis grown in TSB plus 2% glucose for 48h at 370C. Results are
     expressed as the mean change in MIC (dilution steps) with increasing BisEDT
     (n=3). See legend in Figure 5 for antibiotic definitions.
                    Figure 7 is a bar graph showing the mean S. aureus bacteria
     levels detected on the bone and hardware samples from open fractures in an in
30   vivo rat model following treatment with three BT formulations, Bis-EDT, MB-1 1
     and MB-8-2 with or without Cefazolin antibiotic treatment. Standard errors of
    the mean are shown as error bars. Animals euthanized early are not excluded
    from the analysis, however samples from one animal in group 2 have been
     excluded due to gross contamination.

   WO 20111097347                                                      PCT/US2011/023549
                                               20
     DETAILED DESCRIPTION
                    Particular embodiments of the invention disclosed herein are
     based on the surprising discovery that certain bismuth-thiol (BT) compounds as
     provided herein (in certain embodiments including BT microparticles having a
 5 volumetric mean diameter of from about 0.4 pm to about 5 pm), but not certain
    other BT compounds (even if provided as microparticles), exhibited potent
    antiseptic, antibacterial and/or anti-biofilm activity against particular bacteria,
    including bacteria associated with a number of clinically significant infections
    including infections that can comprise bacterial biofilms.
10                  Unexpectedly, not all BT compounds were uniformly effective
    against such bacteria in a predictable fashion, but instead exhibited different
    potencies depending on the target bacterial species. In particular and as
    described herein, certain BT compounds (preferably including BT microparticles
    having a volumetric mean diameter of from about 0.4 pm to about 5 pm) were
15 found to exhibit higher potency against gram-negative bacteria, while certain
    other BT compounds (preferably including BT microparticles having a
    volumetric mean diameter of from about 0.4 ptm to about 5 tm) were found to
    exhibit greater potency against gram-positive bacteria, in a manner that,
    according to non-limiting theory, may for the first time afford clinically relevant
20 strategies for the management of bacterial infections, including bacterial biofilm
    infections.
                    Additionally, and as described in greater detail below, certain
    embodiments of the invention described herein relate to surprising advantages
    that are provided by novel bismuth-thiol (BT) compositions that, as disclosed
25 herein, can be made in preparations that comprise a plurality of BT
    microparticles that are substantially monodisperse with respect to particle size
    (e.g., having volumetric mean diameter from about 0.4 pm to about 5 pm). In
    certain of these and related embodiments, the microparticulate BT is not
    provided as a component of a lipid vesicle or liposome such as a multilamellar
30 phosphocholine-cholesterol liposome or other multilamellar or unilamellar
    liposomal vesicle.
                   As also disclosed herein, with respect to certain embodiments, it
    has been discovered that antibacterial and anti-biofilm efficacies of certain
    antibiotics, which antibiotics have previously been found to lack potent
35 therapeutic effect against such bacterial infections, may be significantly
    enhanced (e.g., increased in a statistically significant manner) by treating the
    infection (e.g., by direct application on or in an infected site such as a natural

   WO 20111097347                                                     PCT/US2011/023549
                                               21
    surface) with one or more of these antibiotics in concert, simultaneously or
    sequentially and in either order, with a selected BT compound. In a manner
    that could not be predicted prior to the present disclosure, certain BT
    compounds can be combined with certain antibiotics to provide a synergizing or
 5  enhancing combination as provided herein with respect to antibacterial and/or
    anti-biofilm activity against certain bacterial species or bacterial strains. The
    unpredicted nature of such combinations, as described in greater detail below,
    is evidenced by the observations that while certain BT/antibiotic combinations
    acted synergistically or exhibited enhancement against certain bacteria, certain
10  other BT/antibiotic combinations failed to exhibit such synergistic or enhanced
    antibacterial and/or anti-biofilm activity.
                   According to these and related embodiments, the antibiotic and
    the BT compound may be administered simultaneously or sequentially and in
    either order, and it is noteworthy that the specific synergizing or enhancing
15  combinations of one or more antibiotic and one or more BT compound as
    disclosed herein for treatment of a particular infection (e.g., a biofilm formed by
    gram-negative or gram-positive bacteria) did not exhibit predictable (e.g.,
    merely additive) activities but instead acted in an unexpectedly synergistic or
    enhancing (e.g., supra-additive) fashion, as a function of the selected antibiotic,
20  the selected BT compound and the specifically identified target bacteria.
                   For example, by way of illustration and not limitation, disclosed
    herein in the context of a wide variety of actually or potentially microbially
    infected natural surfaces, and further in the context of improved substantially
    monodisperse microparticulate BT formulations, either or both of a particular
25  antibiotic compound and a particular BT compound may exert limited
    antibacterial effects when used alone against a particular bacterial strain or
    species, but the combination of both the antibiotic compound and the BT
    compound exerts a potent antibacterial effect against the same bacterial strain
    or species, which effect is greater in magnitude (with statistical significance)
30  than the simple sum of the effects of each compound when used alone, and is
    therefore believed according to non-limiting theory to reflect antibiotic-BT
    synergy (e.g., FICI < 0.5) or an enhancing effect (e.g., 0.5 < FICI < 1.0) of the
    BT on the antibiotic potency and/or of the antibiotic on the BT potency.
    Accordingly, not every BT compound may synergize with, or be enhancing for,
35  every antibiotic, and not every antibiotic may synergize with, or be enhancing
    for, every BT compound, such that antibiotic-BT synergy and BT-antibiotic
    enhancement generally are not predictable. Instead, and according to certain

  WO 20111097347                                                        PCT/US2011/023549
                                                 22
    embodiments as disclosed herein, specific combinations of synergizing or
    enhancing antibiotic and BT compounds surprisingly confer potent antibacterial
    effects against particular bacteria, including in particular environments such as
    natural surfaces as described herein, and further including in certain situations
 5 antibacterial effects against biofilms formed by the particular bacteria.
                    That is, certain BT-synergizing antibiotics are described herein,
    which includes an antibiotic that is capable of acting synergistically (FICI < 0.5)
    with at least one BT composition that comprises at least one BT compound as
    provided herein, where such synergy manifests as a detectable effect that is
10 greater (i.e., in a statistically significant manner relative to an appropriate
    control condition) in magnitude than the effect that can be detected when the
    antibiotic is present but the BT compound is absent, and/or when the BT
    compound is present but the antibiotic is absent. Similarly, certain BT-antibiotic
    combinations exhibit enhancement (0.5 < FICI < 1.0), where such enhancement
15 manifests as a detectable effect that is greater (i.e., in a statistically significant
    manner relative to an appropriate control condition) in magnitude than the effect
    that can be detected when the antibiotic is present but the BT compound is
    absent, and/or when the BT compound is present but the antibiotic is absent.
                    Examples of such a detectable effect may in certain embodiments
20 include (i) prevention of infection by a bacterial pathogen, (ii) inhibition of cell
   viability or cell growth of substantially all planktonic cells of a bacterial
    pathogen, (iii) inhibition of biofilm formation by a bacterial pathogen, and (iv)
    inhibition of biofilm viability or biofilm growth of substantially all biofilm-form
   cells of a bacterial pathogen, but the invention is not intended to be so limited,
25 such that in other contemplated embodiments antibiotic-BT synergy may
    manifest as one or more detectable effects that may include alteration (e.g., a
   statistically significant increase or decrease) of one or more other clinically
   significant parameters, for example, the degree of resistance or sensitivity of a
   bacterial pathogen to one or more antibiotics or other drugs or chemical agents,
30 the degree of resistance or sensitivity of a bacterial pathogen to one or more
   chemical, physical or mechanical conditions (e.g., pH, ionic strength,
   temperature, pressure), and/or the degree of resistance or sensitivity of a
   bacterial pathogen to one or more biological agents (e.g., a virus, another
   bacterium, a biologically active polynucleotide, an immunocyte or an
35 immunocyte product such as an antibody, cytokine, chemokine, enzyme
   including degradative enzymes, membrane-disrupting protein, a free radical
   such as a reactive oxygen species, or the like).

   WO 20111097347                                                     PCT/US2011/023549
                                                23
                    Persons familiar with the art will appreciate these and a variety of
     other criteria by which the effects of particular agents on the structure, function
     and/or activity of a bacterial population may be determined (e.g., Coico et al.
     (Eds.), Current Protocols in Microbiology, 2008, John Wiley & Sons, Hoboken,
  5 NJ; Schwalbe et al., Antimicrobial Susceptibility Testing Protocols, 2007, CRC
     Press, Boca Raton, FL), for purposes of ascertaining antibiotic-BT synergy or
     enhancement which, as provided herein, is present when the effects of the
     synergizing or enhancing antibiotic-BT combination exceed the mere sum of the
     effects observed when one component of the combination is not present.
10                  For example, in certain embodiments synergy may be determined
     by determining an antibacterial effect such as those described herein using
     various concentrations of candidate agents (e.g., a BT and an antibiotic
     individually and in combination) to calculate a fractional inhibitory concentration
     index (FICI) and a fractional bactericidal concentration index (FBCI), according
15 to Eliopoulos et al. (Eliopoulos and Moellering, (1996) Antimicrobial
     combinations. In Antibiotics in Laboratory Medicine (Lorian, V., Ed.), pp. 330
     96, Williams and Wilkins, Baltimore, MD, USA). Synergy may be defined as an
     FICI or FBCI index of 50.5, and antagonism at >4. (e.g., Odds, FC (2003)
     Synergy, antagonism, and what the chequerboard puts between them. Journal
20 of Antimicrobial Chemotherapy 52:1). Synergy may also be defined
     conventionally as 24-fold decrease in antibiotic concentration, or alternatively,
     using fractional inhibitory concentration (FIC) as described, e.g., by Hollander et
     al. (1998 Antimicrob. Agents Chemother, 42:744). In certain embodiments,
     synergy may be defined as an effect that results from a combination of two
25 drugs (e.g., an antibiotic and a BT composition) wherein the effect of the
     combination is greater (e.g., in a statistically significant manner) than it would
     be if the concentration of the second drug is replaced by the first drug.
                    Accordingly as described herein and in certain preferred
    embodiments, a combination of BT and antibiotic will be understood to
30 synergize when a FICI value that is less than or equal to 0.5 is observed.
     (Odds, 2003). As also described herein, in certain other preferred
    embodiments and according to non-limiting theory, it is disclosed that certain
     BT-antibiotic combinations may exhibit a FICI value between 0.5 and 1.0 that
    signifies a high potential for such synergy, and which may be observed using
35 non-optimal concentrations of at least one BT and at least one antibiotic that
    exhibit unilateral or mutually enhanced cooperative antimicrobial efficacy. Such

   WO 20111097347                                                         PCT/US2011/023549
                                                24
     an effect may also be referred to herein as "enhanced" antibiotic activity or
     "enhanced" BT activity.
                     Enhanced antibiotic and/or BT activity may be detected according
     to certain embodiments when the presence both (i) of at least one BT at a
  5 concentration that is less (in a statistically significant manner) than the
     characteristic minimum inhibitory concentration (MIC) for that BT for a given
    target microbe (e.g., a given bacterial species or strain), and (ii) of at least one
     antibiotic at a concentration that is less (in a statistically significant manner)
    than the characteristic IC50 (concentration that inhibits the growth of 50% of a
 10 microbial population; e.g., Soothill et al., 1992 J Antimicrob Chemother
    29(2):137) and/or that is less than the biofilm-prevention concentration (BPC) of
    that antibiotic for the given target microbe, results in enhanced (in a statistically
    significant manner) antimicrobial efficacy of the BT-antibiotic combination
     relative to the antimicrobial effect that would be observed if either antimicrobial
15 agent (e.g., the BT or the antibiotic) were used at the same concentration in the
    absence of the other antimicrobial agent (e.g., the antibiotic or the BT). In
    preferred embodiments, "enhanced" antibiotic and/or BT activity is present
    when a FICI value that is less than or equal to 1.0, and greater than 0.5, is
    determined.
20                  As will be appreciated by the skilled person based on the present
    disclosure, in certain embodiments synergistic or enhanced antibiotic and/or BT
    activity may be determined according to methods known in the art, such as
    using Loewe additivity-based models (e.g., FIC index, Greco model), or Bliss
    independence based models (e.g., non-parametric and semi-parametric
25  models) or other methods described herein and known in the art (e.g.,
    Meletiadis et al., 2005 Medical Mycology43:133-152). Illustrative methods for
    determining synergy or enhanced antibiotic and/or BT activity are thus
    described, for instance, in Meletiadis et al., 2005 Medical Mycology 43:133-152
    and references cited therein (see also, Meletiadis et a/., 2002 Rev Med
30  Microbiol 13:101-117; White et al., 1996 Antimicrob Agents Chemother
    40:1914-1918; Mouton et al., 1999 Antimicrob Agents Chemother 43:2473
    2478).
                    Certain other embodiments contemplate specific combinations of
    one or more antibiotic and one or more BT compound as disclosed herein that
35  may exhibit synergizing or enhancing effects in vivo for treatment of a particular
    infection (e.g., a biofilm formed by gram-negative or gram-positive bacteria),
    even where the BT compound(s) and antibiotic(s) did not exhibit predictable

   WO 20111097347                                                      PCT/US2011/023549
                                                25
     (e.g., merely additive) activities in vivo but instead acted in an unexpectedly
     synergistic or enhancing (e.g., supra-additive; or conferring an effect when two
     or more such agents are present in combination that is greater (e.g., in a
     statistically significant manner) than the effect that is obtained if the
  5 concentration of the second agent is replaced by the first agent) fashion, as a
     function of the selected antibiotic, the selected BT compound and one or more
     of the specifically identified target bacterial species of which the infection is
     comprised. It will therefore be appreciated, according to these and related
     embodiments, that in certain in vivo situations FICI or FBCI values (which are
 10 determined in vitro) may not be readily available, but that instead BT-antibiotic
     synergizing or enhancing effects may be determined in a manner afforded by
    the quantifiable metrics of the infection.
                     For example, in one embodiment, such as in the in vivo open
    fracture Rattus norvegicus femur critical defect model as described in Example
 15 11, a statistically significant reduction in bacterial counts observed post
    treatment for the BT-antibiotic combination as compared to the antibiotic
    treatment or BT compound alone, is an indication of synergizing or enhancing
    effects. Statistical significance can be determined using methods well-known to
    the skilled person. In certain other embodiments, a reduction observed in this
20 or other in vivo models by at least 5%, 10%, 20%, 30%, 40%, or 50% of
    bacterial counts observed in the injury post-treatment for the BT-antibiotic
    combination as compared to the antibiotic treatment or BT compound alone is
    considered an indication of synergizing or enhancing effects.
                     Other exemplary indicia of in vivo infections may be determined
25 according to established methodologies that have been developed for
    quantification of the severity of the infection, such as a variety of wound scoring
    systems known to the skilled person (see e.g., scoring systems reviewed in
    European Wound Management Association (EWMA), Position Document:
    Identifying criteria for wound infection. London: MEP Ltd, 2005). Illustrative
30 wound scoring systems that may be used in assessing synergistic or
    enhancement activity of BT-antibiotic combinations as described herein include
    ASEPSIS (Wilson AP, J Hosp Infect 1995; 29(2): 81-86; Wilson et al., Lancet
    1986; 1: 311-13), the Southampton Wound Assessment Scale (Bailey IS,
    Karran SE, Toyn K, et al. BMJ 1992; 304: 469-71). See also, Horan TC,
35 Gaynes P, Martone WJ, et al. ,1992 Infect Control Hosp Epidemiol 1992; 13:
    606-08. Additionally, recognized clinical indicia of wound healing known to the
    skilled clinician may also be measured in the presence or absence of BT

   WO 20111097347                                                     PCT/US2011/023549
                                                26
      compounds and/or antibiotics, such as wound size, depth, granulation tissue
     condition, infection, etc. Accordingly, and based on the present disclosure, the
     skilled person will readily appreciate a variety of methods for determining
     whether a BT composition -antibiotic combination alters (e.g., increases or
  5 decreases in a statistically significant manner relative to appropriate controls) in
      vivo wound healing.
                     In view of these and related embodiments, there are provided
     herein a wide variety of methods for treating microbially infected natural
     surfaces such as surfaces that support or contain bacterial biofilms, with an
 10 effective amount (e.g., in certain embodiments a therapeutically effective
     amount) of a composition or formulation that comprises one or more BT
     compounds and, optionally, one or more antibiotic compounds, such as one or
     more synergizing antibiotics, or one or more enhancing antibiotics, as provided
     herein. It will be appreciated that based on the present disclosure, certain
15 antibiotics are now contemplated for use in the treatment of given types of
     infections, where such antibiotics had previously been viewed by persons
     familiar with the art as ineffective against infections of the same type.
                     Certain embodiments thus contemplate compositions that
     comprise one or more BT compounds for use as antiseptics. An antiseptic is a
20 substance that kills or prevents the growth of microorganisms, and may be
     typically applied to living tissue, distinguishing the class from disinfectants,
     which are usually applied to inanimate objects (Goodman and Gilman's "The
     Pharmacological Basis of Therapeutics ", Seventh Edition, Gilman et al.,
     editors, 1985, Macmillan Publishing Co., (hereafter, Goodman and Gilman") pp.
25 959-960). Common examples of antiseptics are ethyl alcohol and tincture of
     iodine. Germicides include antiseptics that kill microbes such as microbial
     pathogens.
                    Certain embodiments described herein may contemplate
    compositions that comprise one or more BT compounds and one or more
30 antibiotic compound (e.g., a synergizing antibiotic and/or an enhancing
    antibiotic as provided herein). Antibiotics are known in the art and typically
    comprise a drug made from a compound produced by one species of
    microorganism to kill another species of microorganism, or a synthetic product
    having an identical or similar chemical structure and mechanism of action, e.g.,
35 a drug that destroys microorganisms within or on the body of a living organism,
    including such drug when applied topically. Among embodiments disclosed
    herein are those in which an antibiotic may belong to one of the following

   WO 20111097347                                                       PCT/US2011/023549
                                                 27
    classes: aminoglycosides, carbapenems, cephalosporins, fluoroquinolones,
    glycopeptide antibiotics, lincosamides (e.g., clindamycin), penicillinase-resistant
     penicillins, and aminopenicillins. Antibiotics thus may include, but need not be
     limited to, oxacillin, piperacillin, cefuroxime, cefotaxime, cefepime, imipenem,
 5  aztreonam, streptomycin, tobramycin, tetracycline, minocycline, ciprofloxacin,
     levofloxacin, erythromycin, linezolid, phosphomycin, capreomycin, isoniazid,
    ansamycin, carbacephem, monobactam, nitrofuran, penicillin, quinolone,
    sulfonamide, Clofazimine, Dapsone, Capreomycin, Cycloserine, Ethambutol,
     Ethionamide, Isoniazid, Pyrazinamide, Rifampicin, Rifampin, Rifabutin,
10   Rifapentine, Streptomycin, Arsphenamine, Chloramphenicol, Fosfomycin,
     Fusidic acid, Linezolid, Metronidazole, Mupirocin, Platensimycin, Quinupristin,
     Dalfopristin, Rifaximin, Thiamphenicol, Tinidazole, aminoglycoside, beta
    lactam, penicillin, cephalosporin, carbapenem, fluroquinolone, ketolide,
    lincosamide, macrolide, oxazolidinone, stretogramin, sulphonamide,
15  tetracycline, glycylcycline, methicillin, vancomycin, naficilin, gentamicin,
    ampicillin , chloramphenicol, doxycycline, tobramycin, amikacin, arbekacin,
    gentamicin, kanamycin, neomycin, netilmicin, paromomycin,
    rhodostreptomycin, streptomycin, tobramycin, apramycin, clindamicin,
    gatifloxacin, aminopenicillin, and others known to the art. Compendia of these
20  and other clinically useful antibiotics are available and known to those familiar
    with the art (e.g., Washington University School of Medicine, The Washington
    Manual of Medical Therapeutics (3 2 nd Ed.), 2007 Lippincott, Williams and
    Wilkins, Philadelphia, PA; Hauser, AL, Antibiotic Basics for Clinicians, 2007
    Lippincott, Williams and Wilkins, Philadelphia, PA).
25                  An exemplary class of antibiotics for use with one or more BT
    compounds in certain herein disclosed embodiments is the aminoglycoside
    class of antibiotics, which are reviewed in Edson RS, Terrell CL. The
    aminoglycosides. Mayo Clin Proc. 1999 May; 74(5):519-28. This class of
    antibiotics inhibits bacterial growth by impairing bacterial protein synthesis,
30  through binding and inactivation of bacterial ribosomal subunits. In addition to
    such bacteriostatic properties, aminoglycosides also exhibit bacteriocidal
    effects through disruption of cell walls in gram-negative bacteria.
                    Aminoglycoside antibiotics include gentamicin, amikacin,
    streptomycin, and others, and are generally regarded as useful in the treatment
35  of gram-negative bacteria, mycobacteria and other microbial pathogens,
    although cases of resistant strains have been reported. The aminoglycosides
    are not absorbed through the digestive tract and so are not generally regarded

   WO 20111097347                                                      PCT/US2011/023549
                                              28
     as being amenable to oral formulations. Amikacin, for example, although often
     effective against gentamicin-resistant bacterial strains, is typically administered
     intravenously or intramuscularly, which can cause pain in the patient.
    Additionally, toxicities associated with aminoglycoside antibiotics such as
 5   amikacin can lead to kidney damage and/or irreversible hearing loss.
                   Despite these properties, certain embodiments disclosed herein
     contemplate oral administration of a synergizing BT/antibiotic combination (e.g.,
    where the antibiotic need not be limited to an aminoglycoside) for instance, for
    treatment of an epithelial tissue surface at one or more locations along the oral
10  cavity, gastrointestinal tract/ alimentary canal. Also contemplated in certain
    other embodiments may be use of compositions and methods described herein
    as disinfectants, which refers to preparations that kill, or block the growth of,
    microbes on an external surface of an inanimate object.
                   As also described elsewhere herein, a BT compound may be a
15  composition that comprises bismuth or a bismuth salt and a thiol- (e.g., -SH, or
    sulfhydryl) containing compound, including those that are described (including
    their methods of preparation) in Domenico et al., 1997 Antimicrob. Agent.
    Chemother. 41(8):1697-1703, Domenico et al., 2001 Antimicob.Agent.
    Chemother. 45(5):1417-1421, and in U.S. RE37,793, U.S. 6,248,371, U.S.
20  6,086,921, and U.S. 6,380,248; see also, e.g., U.S. 6,582,719. Certain
    embodiments are not so limited, however, and may contemplate other BT
    compounds that comprise bismuth or a bismuth salt and a thiol-containing
    compound. The thiol-containing compound may contain one, two, three, four,
    five, six or more thiol (e.g., -SH) groups. In preferred embodiments the BT
25  compound comprises bismuth in association with the thiol-containing compound
    via ionic bonding and/or as a coordination complex, while in some other
    embodiments bismuth may be associated with the thiol-containing compound
    via covalent bonding such as may be found in an organometallic compound.
    Certain contemplated embodiments, however, expressly exclude a BT
30  compound that is an organometallic compound such as a compound in which
    bismuth is found in covalent linkage to an organic moiety.
                   Exemplary BT compounds are shown in Table 1:

   WO 20111097347                                                          PCT/US2011/023549
                                                   29
                                                TABLE 1
                                     Exemplary BT Compounds*
                  1)     CPD 1B-1 Bis-EDT (1:1) BiC 2 H4 S2
                  2)     CPD 1B-2 Bis-EDT (1:1.5) BiC 3 H6 S3
                  3)     CPD 1B-3 Bis-EDT (1:1.5) BiC 3 H6 S3
                  4)    CPD IC Bis-EDT (1:1.5) BiC 3H6 S3
                  5)    CPD 2A Bis-Bal (1:1) BiC 3 H6 S2 0
                  6)    CPD 2B Bis-Bal (1:1.5) BiC 4 .5 H9 0 1.5 S3
                  7)    CPD 3A Bis-Pyr (1:1.5) BiC 7 .5 HN               .
                                                              1.5 01.5S1 5
                  8)    CPD 3B Bis-Pyr (1:3) BiC 1 5H12N30 3S3
                  9)    CPD 4 Bis-Ery (1:1.5) BiC 6 H12 O3 S3
                  10)   CPD 5 Bis-Tol (1:1.5) BiC 1 0 .5H9S3
                  11)   CPD 6 Bis-BDT (1:1.5) BiC 6 H12 S3
                  12)   CPD 7 Bis-PDT (1:1.5) BiC4. 5 H9 S3
                  13)   CPD 8-1 Bis-Pyr/BDT (1:1/1)
                  14)   CPD 8-2 Bis-Pyr/BDT (1:1/0.5)
                  15)   CPD 9 Bis-2hydroxy, propane thiol (1:3)
                  16)   CPD 10 Bis-Pyr/Bal (1:1/0.5)
                  17)   CPD 11 Bis-Pyr/EDT (1:1/0.5)
                  18)   CPD 12 Bis-Pyr/Tol (1:1/0.5)
                  19)   CPD 13 Bis-Pyr/PDT (1:1/0.5)
                  20)   CPD 14 Bis-Pyr/Ery (1:1/0.5)
                |21) CPD 15 Bis-EDT/2hydroxy, propane thiol (1:1/1)
         *Shown are atomic ratios relative to a single bismuth atom, for comparison, based
         on the stoichiometric ratios of the reactants used and the known propensity of
 5       bismuth to form trivalent complexes with sulfur containing compounds. Atomic
         ratios as shown may not be accurate molecular formulae for all species in a given
         preparation. The numbers in parenthesis are the ratios of bismuth to one (or more)
         thiol agents. (e.g. Bi:thiol1/thiol2) "CPD", compound.
10                    BT compounds for use in certain of the presently disclosed
    embodiments may be prepared according to established procedures (e.g., U.S.
    RE37,793, U.S. 6,248,371, U.S. 6,086,921, and U.S. 6,380,248; Domenico et
    al., 1997 Antimicrob. Agent. Chemother. 41(8):1697-1703, Domenico et al.,
    2001 Antimicob.Agent. Chemother. 45(5):1417-1421) and in certain other

   WO 20111097347                                                    PCT/US2011/023549
                                             30
     embodiments BT compounds may also be prepared according to
     methodologies described herein. Certain preferred embodiments thus
     contemplate the herein described synthetic methods for preparing BT
     compounds, and in particular for obtaining BT compounds in substantially
  5 monodisperse microparticulate form, in which an acidic aqueous bismuth
     solution that contains dissolved bismuth at a concentration of at least 50 mM, at
     least 100 mM, at least 150 mM, at least 200 mM, at least 250 mM, at least 300
     mM, at least 350 mM, at least 400 mM, at least 500 mM, at least 600 mM, at
     least 700 mM, at least 800 mM, at least 900 mM or at least 1 M and that lacks a
 10 hydrophilic, polar or organic solubilizer is admixed with ethanol to obtain a first
    ethanolic solution, which is reacted with a second ethanolic solution comprising
    a thiol-containing compound to obtain a reaction solution, wherein the thiol
    containing compound is present in the reaction solution at a molar ratio of from
    about 1:3 to about 3:1 relative to the bismuth, under conditions and for a time
15 sufficient for formation of a precipitate which comprises the microparticles
    comprising the BT compound (such as the conditions of concentration, solvent
    strength, temperature, pH, mixing and/or pressure, and the like, as described
    herein and as will be appreciated by the skilled person based on the present
    disclosure).
20                 Accordingly, exemplary BTs include compound 1B-1, Bis-EDT
    (bismuth-1,2-ethane dithiol, reactants at 1:1); compound 1B-2, Bis-EDT (1:1.5);
    compound 1B-3, Bis-EDT (1:1.5); compound 1C, Bis-EDT (soluble Bi
    preparation, 1:1.5); compound 2A, Bis-Bal (bismuth-British anti-Lewisite
    (bismuth-dimercaprol, bismuth-2,3-dimercaptopropanol), 1:1); compound 2B,
25 Bis-Bal (1:1.5); compound 3A Bis-Pyr (bismuth-pyrithione, 1:1.5); compound 3B
    Bis-Pyr (1:3); compound 4, Bis-Ery (bismuth-dithioerythritol, 1:1.5); compound
    5, Bis-Tol (bismuth-3,4-dimercaptotoluene, 1:1.5); compound 6, Bis-BDT
    (bismuth-2,3-butanedithiol, 1:1.5); compound 7, Bis-PDT (bismuth-1,3
    propanedithiol, 1:1.5); compound 8-1 Bis-Pyr/BDT (1:1/1); compound 8-2, Bis
30 Pyr/BDT (1:1/0.5); compound 9, Bis-2-hydroxy, propane thiol (bismuth-1
    mercapto-2-propanol, 1:3); compound 10, Bis-Pyr/Bal (1:1/0.5); compound 11,
    Bis-Pyr/EDT (1:1/0.5); compound 12 Bis-Pyr/Tol (1:1/0.5); compound 13, Bis
    Pyr/PDT (1:1/0.5); compound 14 Bis-Pyr/Ery (1:1/0.5); compound 15, Bis
    EDT/2-hydroxy, propane thiol (1:1/1) (see, e.g., Table 1).
35                 Without wishing to be bound by theory, it is believed that the
    presently disclosed methods of preparing a BT compound, which in certain
    preferred embodiments may comprise preparing or obtaining an acidic aqueous

   WO 20111097347                                                   PCT/US2011/023549
                                              31
     liquid solution that comprises bismuth such as an aqueous nitric acid solution
     comprising bismuth nitrate, may desirably yield compositions comprising BT
     compounds where such compositions have one or more desirable properties,
     including ease of large-scale production, improved product purity, uniformity or
 5 consistency (including uniformity in particle size), or other properties useful in
     the preparation and/or administration of the present topical formulations.
                     In particular embodiments it has been discovered that BT
     compositions, prepared according to the methods described herein for the first
     time, exhibit an advantageous degree of homogeneity with respect to their
10 occurrence as a substantially monodisperse suspension of microparticles each
     having a volumetric mean diameter (VMD) according to certain presently
     preferred embodiments of from about 0.4 pm to about 5 pm. Measures of
     particle size can be referred to as volumetric mean diameter (VMD), mass
     median diameter (MMD), or mass median aerodynamic diameter (MMAD).
15 These measurements may be made, for example, by impaction (MMD and
     MMAD) or by laser (VMD) characterization. For liquid particles, VMD, MMD
     and MMAD may be the same if environmental conditions are maintained, e.g.,
     standard humidity. However, if humidity is not maintained, MMD and MMAD
     determinations will be smaller than VMD due to dehydration during impactor
20 measurements. For the purposes of this description, VMD, MMD and MMAD
     measurements are considered to be under standard conditions such that
     descriptions of VMD, MMD and MMAD will be comparable. Similarly, dry
     powder particle size determinations in MMD, and MMAD are also considered
     comparable.
25                  As described herein, preferred embodiments relate to a
     substantially monodisperse suspension of BT-containing microparticles.
     Generation of a defined BT particle size with limited geometric standard
    deviation (GSD) may, for instance, optimize BT deposition, accessibility to
    desired target sites in or on a natural surface, and/or tolerability by a subject to
30 whom the BT microparticles are administered. Narrow GSD limits the number
    of particles outside the desired VMD or MMAD size range.
                    In one embodiment, a liquid or aerosol suspension of
    microparticles containing one or more BT compounds disclosed herein is
    provided having a VMD from about 0.5 microns to about 5 microns. In another
35 embodiment, a liquid or aerosol suspension having a VMD or MMAD from
    about 0.7 microns to about 4.0 microns is provided. In another embodiment, a
    liquid or aerosol suspension having aVMD or MMAD from about 1.0 micron to

   WO 20111097347                                                     PCT/US2011/023549
                                               32
     about 3.0 microns is provided. In certain other preferred embodiments there is
    provided a liquid suspension comprising one or a plurality of BT compound
    particles of from about 0.1 to about 5.0 microns VMD, or of from about 0.1,
    about 0.2, about 0.3, about 0.4, about 0.5, about 0.6, about 0.7, about 0.8 or
 5 about 0.9 microns to about 1.0, about 1.5, about 2.0, about 2.5, about 3.0,
    about 3.5, about 4.0, about 4.5, about 5.0, about 5.5, about 6.0, about 6.5,
    about 7.0, about 7.5 or about 8.0 microns, the particle comprising a BT
    compound prepared as described herein.
                    Accordingly and in certain preferred embodiments, a BT
10 preparation described for the first time herein which is "substantially"
    monodisperse, for example, a BT composition that comprises a BT compound
    in microparticulate form wherein "substantially" all of the microparticles have a
    volumetric mean diameter (VMD) within a specified range (e.g., from about 0.4
     tm to about 5 gm), includes those compositions in which at least 80%, 85%,
15 90%, 91%, 92%, 93%, or 94%, more preferably at least 95%, 96%, 97%, 98%,
    99% or more of the particles have a VMD that is within the recited size range.
                    These and related properties of BT compositions prepared
    according to the herein described synthetic methods offer unprecedented
    advantages over previously described BTs, including lower cost and ease of
20 production, and uniformity within the composition that may permit its
    characterization in a manner that facilitates regulatory compliance according to
    one or more of pharmaceutical, formulary and cosmeceutical standards.
                   Additionally or alternatively, the herein described substantially
    monodisperse BT microparticles may advantageously be produced without the
25 need for micronization, i.e., without the expensive and labor-intensive milling or
    supercritical fluid processing or other equipment and procedures that are
    typically used to generate microparticles (e.g., Martin et al. 2008 Adv. Drug
    Deliv. Rev. 60(3):339; Moribe et al., 2008 Adv. Drug Deliv. Rev. 60(3):328;
    Cape et al., 2008 Pharm. Res. 25(9):1967; Rasenack et al. 2004 Pharm. Dev.
30 Technol. 9(1):1-13). Hence, the present embodiments offer beneficial effects of
    substantially uniform microparticu late preparations, including without limitation
    enhanced and substantially uniform solubilization properties, suitability for
    desired administration forms such as oral, inhaled or dermatological/ skin
    wound topical forms, increased bioavailability and other beneficial properties.
35                 The BT compound microparticulate suspension can be
    administered as aqueous formulations, as suspensions or solutions in aqueous
    as well as organic solvents including halogenated hydrocarbon propellants, as

   WO 20111097347                                                     PCT/US2011/023549
                                               33
     dry powders, or in other forms as elaborated below, including preparations that
     contain wetting agents, surfactants, mineral oil or other ingredients or additives
     as may be known to those familiar with formulary, for example, to maintain
     individual microparticles in suspension. Aqueous formulations may be
  5 aerosolized by liquid nebulizers employing, for instance, either hydraulic or
     ultrasonic atomization. Propellant-based systems may use suitable pressurized
     dispensers. Dry powders may use dry powder dispersion devices, which are
     capable of dispersing the BT-containing microparticles effectively. A desired
     particle size and distribution may be obtained by choosing an appropriate
 10 device.
                    As also noted above, also provided herein according to certain
    embodiments is a method for preparing a bismuth-thiol (BT) composition that
    comprises a plurality of microparticles that comprise a BT compound,
    substantially all of such microparticles having a volumetric mean diameter
15 (VMD) of from about 0.1 to about 8 microns, and in certain preferred
    embodiments from about 0.4 microns to about 5 microns.
                    In general terms, the method comprises the steps of (a) admixing,
    under conditions and for a time sufficient to obtain a solution that is
    substantially free of a solid precipitate, (i) an acidic aqueous solution that
20 comprises a bismuth salt comprising bismuth at a concentration of at least 50
    mM and that lacks a hydrophilic, polar or organic solubilizer, with (ii) ethanol in
    an amount sufficient to obtain an admixture that comprises at least about 5%,
    10%, 15%, 20%, 25% or 30%, and preferably about 25% ethanol by volume;
    and (b) adding to the admixture of (a) an ethanolic solution comprising a thiol
25 containing compound to obtain a reaction solution, wherein the thiol-containing
    compound is present in the reaction solution at a molar ratio of from about 1:3
    to about 3:1 relative to the bismuth, under conditions and for a time sufficient for
    formation of a precipitate which comprises the BT compound.
                    In certain preferred embodiments the bismuth salt may be
30 Bi(N0 3)3, but it will be appreciated according to the present disclosure that
    bismuth may also be provided in other forms. In certain embodiments the
    bismuth concentration in the acidic aqueous solution may be at least 100 mM,
    at least 150 mM, at least 200 mM, at least 250 mM, at least 300 mM, at least
    350 mM, at least 400 mM, at least 500 mM, at least 600 mM, at least 700 mM,
35  at least 800 mM, at least 900 mM or at least 1 M. In certain embodiments the
    acidic aqueous solution comprises at least 5%, 10%, 15%, 20%, 22% or 22.5%
    bismuth by weight. The acidic aqueous solution may in certain preferred

   WO 20111097347                                                    PCT/US2011/023549
                                               34
     embodiments comprise at least 5% or more nitric acid by weight, and in certain
     other embodiments the acidic aqueous solution may comprise at least 0.5%, at
     least 1%, at least 1.5%, at least 2%, at least 2.5%, at least 3%, at least 3.5%, at
     least 4%, at least 4.5% or at least 5% nitric acid by weight.
 5                  The thiol-containing compound may be any thiol-containing
     compound as described herein, and in certain embodiments may comprise one
    or more of 1,2-ethane dithiol, 2,3-dimercaptopropanol, pyrithione,
    dithioerythritol, 3,4-dimercaptotoluene, 2,3-butanedithiol, 1,3-propanedithiol, 2
     hydroxypropane thiol, 1-mercapto-2-propanol, dithioerythritol and dithiothreitol.
10  Other exemplary thiol-containing compounds include alpha-lipoic acid,
    methanethiol (CH3SH [m-mercaptan]), ethanethiol (C2H5SH [e- mercaptan]), 1
    propanethiol (C3 H7SH [n-P mercaptan]), 2-Propanethiol (CH3CH(SH)CH 3 [2C 3
    mercaptan]), butanethiol (C4 H9 SH ([n-butyl mercaptan]), tert-butyl mercaptan
    (C(CH 3)3SH [t-butyl mercaptan]), pentanethiols (C5H11SH [pentyl mercaptan]),
15  coenzyme A, lipoamide, glutathione, cysteine, cystine, 2-mercaptoethanol,
    dithiothreitol, dithioerythritol, 2-mercaptoindole, transglutaminase and any of the
    following thiol compounds available from Sigma-Aldrich (St. Louis, MO): (11
    mercaptoundecyl)hexa(ethylene glycol), (11 -mercaptoundecyl)tetra(ethylene
    glycol), (11-mercaptoundecyl)tetra(ethylene glycol) functionalized gold
20  nanoparticles, 1,1',4',1"-terphenyl-4-thiol, 1,11-undecanedithiol, 1,16
    hexadecanedithiol, 1,2-ethanedithiol technical grade, 1,3-propanedithiol, 1,4
    benzenedimethanethiol, 1,4-butanedithiol, 1,4-butanedithiol diacetate, 1,5
    pentanedithiol, 1,6-hexanedithiol, 1,8-octanedithiol, 1,9-nonanedithiol,
    adamantanethiol, 1-butanethiol, 1-decanethiol, 1-dodecanethiol, 1
25  heptanethiol, 1-heptanethiol purum, 1-hexadecanethiol, 1-hexanethiol, 1
    mercapto-(triethylene glycol), 1-mercapto-(triethylene glycol) methyl ether
    functionalized gold nanoparticles, 1-mercapto-2-propanol, 1-nonanethiol, 1
    octadecanethiol, 1-octanethiol, 1-octanethiol, 1-pentadecanethiol, 1
    pentanethiol, 1-propanethiol, 1-tetradecanethiol, 1-tetradecanethiol purum, 1
30  undecanethiol, 11-(1H-pyrrol-1-yl)undecane-1-thiol, 11-amino-1 -undecanethiol
    hydrochloride, 11-bromo-1-undecanethiol, 11-mercapto-1-undecanol, 11
    mercapto-1-undecanol, 11-mercaptoundecanoic acid, 11-mercaptoundecanoic
    acid, 11-mercaptoundecyl trifluoroacetate, 11-mercaptoundecylphosphoric
    acid, 12-mercaptododecanoic acid, 12-mercaptododecanoic acid, 15
35  mercaptopentadecanoic acid, 16-mercaptohexadecanoic acid, 16
    mercaptohexadecanoic acid, 1H,IH,2H,2H-perfluorodecanethiol, 2,2'
    (ethylenedioxy)diethanethiol, 2,3-butanedithiol, 2-butanethiol, 2-

   WO 20111097347                                                     PCT/US2011/023549
                                                35
     ethylhexanethiol, 2-methyl-1-propanethiol, 2-methyl-2-propanethiol, 2
      phenylethanethiol, 3,3,4,4,5,5,6,6,6-nonafluoro-1-hexanethiol purum, 3
      (dimethoxymethylsilyl)-1-propanethiol, 3-chloro-1-propanethiol, 3-mercapto-1
     propanol, 3-mercapto-2-butanol, 3-mercapto-N-nonylpropionamide, 3
 5 mercaptopropionic acid, 3-mercaptopropyl-functionalized silica gel, 3-methyl
      1-butanethiol, 4,4'-bis(mercaptomethy)biphenyl, 4,4'-dimercaptostilbene, 4
     (6-mercaptohexyloxy)benzyl alcohol, 4-cyano-1-butanethiol, 4-mercapto-1
     butanol, 6-(ferrocenyl)hexanethiol, 6-mercapto-1-hexanol, 6
     mercaptohexanoic acid, 8-mercapto-1-octanol, 8-mercaptooctanoic acid, 9
10 mercapto-1-nonanol, biphenyl-4,4'-dithiol, butyl 3-mercaptopropionate,
     copper(l) 1-butanethiolate, cyclohexanethiol, cyclopentanethiol, decanethiol
     functionalized silver nanoparticles, dodecanethiol functionalized gold
     nanoparticles, dodecanethiol functionalized silver nanoparticles, hexa(ethylene
     glycol)mono-1 1-(acetylthio)undecyl ether, mercaptosuccinic acid, methyl 3
15   mercaptopropionate, nanoTether BPA-HH, NanoThinksM 18, NanoThinks" 8,
     NanoThinks" ACID11, NanoThinksT " ACID16, NanoThinks" ALCO11,
     NanoThinks " THIO8, octanethiol functionalized gold nanoparticles, PEG
     dithiol average Mn 8,000, PEG dithiol average mol wt 1,500, PEG dithiol
     average mol wt 3,400, S-(1 1-bromoundecyl)thioacetate, S-(4
20   cyanobutyl)thioacetate, thiophenol, triethylene glycol mono-11
     mercaptoundecyl ether, trimethylolpropane tris(3-mercaptopropionate), [11
     (methylcarbonylthio)undecyl]tetra(ethylene glycol), m-carborane-9-thiol, p
     terphenyl-4,4"-dithiol, tert-dodecylmercaptan, and tert-nonyl mercaptan.
                    Exemplary reaction conditions, including temperature, pH,
25   reaction time, the use of stirring or agitation to dissolve solutes and procedures
     for collecting and washing precipitates, are described herein and employ
     techniques generally known in the art.
                    Unlike previously described methodologies for producing BT
     compounds, according to the present methods for preparing BT, BT products
30   are provided as microparticulate suspensions having substantially all
     microparticles with VMD from about 0.4 to about 5 microns in certain preferred
     embodiments, and generally from about 0.1 microns to about 8 microns
     according to certain other embodiments. Further unlike previous approaches,
     according to the instant embodiments bismuth is provided in an acidic aqueous
35  solution that comprises a bismuth salt at a concentration of from at least about
     50 mM to about 1 M, and nitric acid in an amount from at least about 0.5% to

   WO 20111097347                                                     PCT/US2011/023549
                                                36
      about 5% (w/w), and preferably less than 5% (weight/weight), and that lacks a
      hydrophilic, polar or organic solubilizer.
                     In this regard the present methods offer surprising and
      unexpected advantages in view of generally accepted art teachings that
 5    bismuth is not water soluble at 50 pM (e.g., U.S. RE37793), that bismuth is
      unstable in water (e.g., Kuvshinova et al., 2009 Russ. J Inorg. Chem
      54(11):1816), and that bismuth is unstable even in nitric acid solutions unless a
      hydrophilic, polar or organic solubilizer is present. For example, in all of the
     definitive descriptions of BT preparation methodologies (e.g., Domenico et al.,
10    1997 Antimicrob. Agents. Chemother. 41:1697; U.S. 6,380,248; U.S. RE37793;
      U.S. 6,248,371), the hydrophilic solubilizing agent propylene glycol is required
     to dissolve bismuth nitrate, and the bismuth concentration of solutions prepared
     for reaction with thiols is well below 15 mM, thereby limiting the available
     production modalities for BT compounds.
15                  By contrast, according to the present disclosure there is no
     requirement for a hydrophilic, polar or organic solubilizer in order dissolve
     bismuth, yet higher concentrations are surprisingly achieved. Hydrophilic, polar
     or organic solubilizers include propylene glycol (PG) and ethylene glycol (EG)
     and may also include any of a large number of known solubility enhancers,
20   including polar solvents such as dioxane and dimethylsulfoxide (DMSO),
     polyols (including, e.g., PG and EG and also including polyethylene glycol
     (PEG), polypropyleneglycol (PPG), pentaerythritol and others), polyhydric
     alchohols such as glycerol and mannitol, and other agents. Other water
     miscible organic of high polarity include dimethylsulfoxide (DMSO),
25   dimethylformamide (DMF) and NMP (N-methyl-2-pyrrolidone).
                    Thus, it will be appreciated by those familiar with the art that
     solvents, including those commonly used as hydrophilic, polar or organic
     solubilizers as provided herein, may be selected, for instance, based on the
     solvent polarity/ polarizability (SPP) scale value using the system of Catalan et
30   al. (e.g., 1995 Liebigs Ann. 241; see also Catalan, 2001 In: Handbook of
     Solvents, Wypych (Ed.), Andrew Publ., NY, and references cited therein),
     according to which, for example, water has a SPP value of 0.962, toluene a
     SPP value of 0.655, and 2-propanol a SPP value of 0.848. Methods for
    determining the SPP value of a solvent based on ultraviolet measurements of
35  the 2-N,N-dimethyl-7-nitrofluorene/ 2-fluoro-7-nitrofluorene probe/ homomorph
    pair have been described (Catalan et al., 1995).

   WO 20111097347                                                        PCT/US2011/023549
                                                 37
                     Solvents with desired SPP values (whether as pure single
     component solvents or as solvent mixtures of two, three, four or more solvents;
     for solvent miscibility see, e.g., Godfrey 1972 Chem. Techno. 2:359) based on
     the solubility properties of a particular BT composition can be readily identified
  5 by those having familiarity with the art in view of the instant disclosure, although
     as noted above, according to certain preferred embodiments regarding the
     herein described synthetic method steps, no hydrophilic, polar or organic
     solubilizer is required in order dissolve bismuth.
                     Solubility parameters may also include the interaction parameter
10 C, Hildebrand solubility parameter d, or partial (Hansen) solubility parameters:
    6p, 6h and 6d, describing the solvent's polarity, hydrogen bonding potential and
    dispersion force interaction potential, respectively. In certain embodiments, the
     highest value for a solubility parameter that describes a solvent or co-solvent
    system in which the bismuth salt comprising bismuth will dissolve may provide
15 a limitation for the aqueous solution that comprises the bismuth salt, for
    instance, according to the presently described method for preparing a
    microparticulate BT composition. For example, higher 6h values will have a
    greater hydrogen bonding ability and would therefore have a greater affinity for
    solvent molecules such as water. A higher value of maximum observed 6h for
20 a solvent may therefore be preferred for situations where a more hydrophilic
    environment is desired.
                     By way of non-limiting example, BisEDT having the structure
    shown below in formula I may be prepared according to the following reaction
    scheme:
                                                                               S
                                 SHEtoH                                S-Bi
    Bi(NO 3 )3 +HS               S
                                                      Bi-S
25                                                 S
                                                                        (I)
                     Briefly, and as a non-limiting illustrative example, to an excess
    (11.4 L) of 5% aqueous HNO 3 at room temperature may be slowly added 0.331
30  L (about 0.575 moles) of an aqueous acidic bismuth solution such as a Bi(N0 3)3
    solution (e.g., 43% Bi(NO 3)3 (w/w), 5% nitric acid (w/w), 52% water (w/w),
    available from Shepherd Chemical Co., Cincinnati, OH) with stirring, followed
    by slow addition of absolute ethanol (4 L). An ethanolic solution (1.56 L) of a

   WO 20111097347                                                    PCT/US2011/023549
                                               38
     thiol compound such as 1,2-ethanedithiol [-0.55 M] may be separately
      prepared by adding, to 1.5 L of absolute ethanol, 72.19 mL (0.863 moles) of
      1,2-ethanedithiol using a 60 mL syringe, and then stirring for five minutes. 1,2
     ethanedithiol (CAS 540-63-6) and other thiol compounds are available from,
  5 e.g., Sigma-Aldrich, St. Louis, MO. The ethanolic solution of the thiol
     compound may then be slowly added to the aqueous Bi(NO 3)3 / HNO 3 solution
     with stirring overnight to form a reaction solution. The thiol-containing
     compound may be present in the reaction solution, according to certain
     preferred embodiments, at a molar ratio of from about 1:3 to about 3:1 relative
 10 to the bismuth. The formed product is allowed to settle as a precipitate
     comprising microparticles as described herein, which is then collected by
     filtration and washed sequentially with ethanol, water and acetone to obtain
     BisEDT as a yellow amorphous powdered solid. The crude product may be
     redissolved in absolute ethanol with stirring, then filtered and washed
15 sequentially with ethanol several times followed by acetone several times. The
     washed powder may be triturated in 1M NaOH (500mL), filtered and washed
     sequentially with water, ethanol and acetone to afford purified microparticulate
     BisEDT.
                    According to non-limiting theory, bismuth inhibits the ability of
20 bacteria to produce extracellular polymeric substances (EPS) such as bacterial
     exopolysaccharides, and this inhibition leads to impaired biofilm formation.
     Bacteria are believed to employ the glue-like EPS for biofilm cohesion.
     Depending on the nature of an infection, biofilm formation and elaboration of
     EPS may contribute to bacterial pathogenicity such as interference with wound
25 healing. However, bismuth alone is not therapeutically useful as an intervention
    agent, and is instead typically administered as part of a complex such as a BT.
     Bismuth-thiols (BTs) are thus a family of compositions that includes compounds
    that result from the chelation of bismuth with a thiol compound, and that exhibit
    dramatic improvement in the antimicrobial therapeutic efficacy of bismuth. BTs
30 exhibit remarkable anti-infective, anti-biofilm, and immunomodulatory effects.
    Bismuth thiols are effective against a broad-spectrum of microorganisms, and
    are typically not affected by antibiotic-resistance. BTs prevent biofilm formation
    at remarkably low (sub-inhibitory) concentrations, prevent many pathogenic
    characteristics of common wound pathogens at those same sub-inhibitory
35 levels, can prevent septic shock in animal models, and may be synergistic with
    many antibiotics.

    WO 20111097347                                                     PCT/US2011/023549
                                               39
                     As described herein, such synergy in the antibacterial effects of
      one or more specified BT when combined with one or more specified antibiotic
      compound is not readily predictable based on profiles of separate antibiotic and
      BT effects against a particular bacterial type, but surprisingly may result from
  5   selection of particular BT-antibiotic combinations in view of the specific bacterial
      population, including identification of whether gram-negative or gram-positive
      (or both) bacteria are present. For instance, as disclosed herein, antibiotics
     that synergize with certain BTs may include one or more of amikacin, ampicillin,
     aztreonam, cefazolin, cefepime, chloramphenicol, ciprofloxacin, clindamycin (or
 10  other lincosamide antibiotics), daptomycin (Cubicin@), doxycycline, gatifloxacin,
     gentamicin, imipenim, levofloxacin, linezolid (Zyvox@), minocycline, nafcilin,
     paromomycin, rifampin, sulphamethoxazole, tetracycline, tobramycin and
     vancomycin. In vitro studies showed, for example, that MRSA, which was
     poorly or not at all susceptible to gentamicin, cefazolin, cefepime,
 15  suphamethoxazole, imipenim or levofloxacin individually, exhibited marked
     sensitivity to any one of these antibiotics if exposed to the antibiotic in the
     presence of the BT compound BisEDT. Certain embodiments contemplated
     herein thus expressly contemplate compositions and/or methods in which may
     be included the combination of a BT compound and one or more antibiotics
20   selected from amikacin, ampicillin, cefazolin, cefepime, chloramphenicol,
     ciprofloxacin, clindamycin (or another lincosamide antibiotic), daptomycin
     (Cubicin@),_doxycycline, gatifloxacin, gentamicin, imipenim, levofloxacin,
     linezolid (Zyvox@), minocycline, nafcilin, paromomycin, rifampin,
     sulphamethoxazole, tobramycin and vancomycin, whilst certain other
25   embodiments contemplated herein contemplate compositions and/or methods
     in which may be included the combination of a BT compound and one or more
     antibiotics from which expressly excluded may be one or more antibiotic
     selected from amikacin, ampicillin, cefazolin, cefepime, chloramphenicol,
     ciprofloxacin, clindamycin (or other lincosamides), daptomycin (Cubicin®),
30   doxycycline, gatifloxacin, gentamicin, imipenim, levofloxacin, linezolid (Zyvox@),
     minocycline, nafcilin, paromomycin, rifampin, sulphamethoxazole, tobramycin
     and vancomycin. It is noted in this context that gentamicin and tobramycin
     belong to the aminoglycoside class of antibiotics. Also expressly excluded from
     certain contemplated embodiments are certain compositions and methods
35   described in Domenico et al., 2001 Agents Chemother. 45:1417-1421;
     Domenico et al., 2000 Infect. Med. 17:123-127; Domenico et al., 2003 Res.
     Adv. In Antimicrob. Agents & Chemother. 3:79-85; Domenico et al., 1997

   WO 20111097347                                                       PCT/US2011/023549
                                                40
     Antimicrob. Agents Chemother. 41(8):1697-1703; Domenico et al., 1999 Infect.
     Immun. 67:664-669: Huang et al. 1999 J Antimicrob. Chemother. 44:601-605;
     Veloira et al., 2003 J Antimicrob. Chemother. 52:915-919; Wu et al., 2002 Am J
     Respir Ce// Mol Biol. 26:731-738; Halwani et al., 2008 nt. J Pharmaceut.
  5 358:278; Halwani et al., 2009 Int. J. Pharmaceut. 373:141-146; where it will be
     noted that none of these publications teach or suggest the mondisperse
     microparticulate BT compositions that are disclosed herein.
                     Accordingly and as described herein, in certain preferred
     embodiments there are provided compositions and methods for treating a
 10 subject with a composition that comprises the herein described microparticu late
     BT and that optionally and in certain other embodiments also comprises a
     synergizing and/or an enhancing antibiotic. Persons familiar with the relevant
     art will, based on the present disclosure, recognize appropriate clinical contexts
     and situations in which such treatment may be desired, criteria for which are
 15 established in the medical arts, including inter alia, e.g., surgical, military
    surgical, dermatological, trauma medicine, gerontological, cardiovascular,
     metabolic diseases (e.g., diabetes, obesity, etc.), infection and inflammation
     (including in the epithelial linings of the respiratory tract or the gastrointestinal
    tract, or other epithelial tissue surfaces such as in glandular tissues), and other
20 relevant medical specialties and subspecialities.
                     It will therefore be appreciated that, in certain embodiments as
    disclosed herein and known in the art, promoting skin tissue repair (or other
    tissue repair, such as epithelial tissue, bone, joint, muscle tendon, or ligament
    repair) is contemplated. In certain embodiments, promoting skin tissue or other
25 epithelial tissue repair may comprise stimulating or disinhibiting one or more
    cellular wound repair activities selected from (i) epithelial cell (e.g.,
    keratinocyte) or dermal fibroblast migration, (ii) epithelial cell (e.g., keratinocyte)
    or dermal fibroblast growth, (iii) downregulation of epithelial cell (e.g.,
    keratinocyte) or dermal fibroblast collagenase, gelatinase or matrix
30  metalloproteinase activity, (iv) dermal fibroblast extracellular matrix protein
    deposition, and (v) induction or potentiation of dermal angiogenesis.
    Methodologies for identifying and characterizing such cellular wound repair
    activities have been described such that the effects of the herein disclosed
    wound tissue repair-promoting compounds, such as compositions comprising
35  BT agents as described herein, on these and related activities can be
    determined readily and without undue experimentation based on the present
    disclosure. For example, disclosed herein are compositions and methods that

   WO 20111097347                                                      PCT/US2011/023549
                                               41
     relate to art accepted models for wound repair based on keratinocyte wound
     closure following a scratch wound.
                    Preferred compositions for treating a microbial infection on or in a
     natural surface for use according to the embodiments described herein, may
 5 include in certain embodiments compositions that comprise bismuth-thiol (BT)
    compounds as described herein, and which may in certain distinct but related
    embodiments also include other compounds that are known in the art such as
    one or more antibiotic compounds as described herein. BT compounds and
    methods for making them are disclosed herein and are also disclosed, for
10 example, in Domenico et al. (1997 Antimicrob. Agent. Chemother. 41(8):1697
     1703; 2001 Antimicrob. Agent. Chemother. 45(5)1417-1421) and in U.S.
     RE37,793, U.S. 6,248,371, U.S. 6,086,921, and U.S. 6,380,248. As also noted
    above, certain preferred BT compounds are those that contain bismuth or a
    bismuth salt ionically bonded to, or in a coordination complex with, a thiol
15 containing compound, such as a composition that comprises bismuth chelated
    to the thiol-containing compound, and certain other preferred BT compounds
    are those that contain bismuth or a bismuth salt in covalent bond linkage to the
    thiol-containing compound. Also preferred are substantially monodisperse
    microparticulate BT compositions as described herein. Neither from previous
20 efforts to treat bacterial infections, nor from previous characterization in other
    contexts of any compounds described herein for the first time as having use in
    compositions and methods for promoting the herein described treatment of
    natural surfaces, could it be predicted that the present methods of using such
    compounds would have the herein described beneficial effects.
25                  According to preferred embodiments there are thus provided
    methods for treating a natural surface, comprising administering to the surface
    at least one microparticulate BT compound as described herein. In certain
    embodiments the method further comprises administering, simultaneously or
    sequentially and in either order, at least one antibiotic compound, which in
30 certain preferred embodiments may be a synergizing antibiotic as described
    herein, and which in certain other preferred. embodiments may be an enhancing
    antibiotic as described herein. The antibiotic compound may be an
    aminoglycoside antibiotic, a carbapenem antibiotic, a cephalosporin antibiotic, a
    fluoroquinolone antibiotic, a glycopeptides antibiotic, a lincosamide antibiotic, a
35 penicillinase-resistant penicillin antibiotic, or an aminopenicillin antibiotic.
    Clinically useful antibiotics are discussed elsewhere herein and are also
    described in, e.g., Washington University School of Medicine, The Washington

   WO 20111097347                                                     PCT/US2011/023549
                                               42
      Manual of Medical Therapeutics (3 2nd Ed.), 2007 Lippincott, Williams and
      Wilkins, Philadelphia, PA; and in Hauser, AL, Antibiotic Basics for Clinicians,
      2007 Lippincott, William and Wilkins, Philadelphia, PA.
                     As described herein, certain embodiments derive from the
  5 unpredictable discovery that for a bacterial infection that comprises gram
      positive bacteria, a preferred therapeutically effective formulation may comprise
      a BT compound (e.g., BisEDT, bismuth:1,2-ethanedithiol; BisPyr,
      bismuth: pyrithione; BisEDT/Pyr, bismuth:1,2-ethanedithiol/pyrithione) and
      rifamycin, or a BT compound and daptomycin (Cubicin@, Cubist
 10 Pharmaceuticals, Lexington, MA), or a BT compound and linezolid (Zyvox@,
      Pfizer, Inc., NY, NY), or a BT compound (e.g., BisEDT, bismuth:1,2
     ethanedithiol; BisPyr, bismuth:pyrithione; BisEDT/Pyr, bismuth:1,2
     ethanedithiol/pyrithione) and one or more of ampicillin, cefazolin, cefepime,
     chloramphenicol, clindamycin (or another lincosamide antibiotic), daptomycin
15 (Cubicin@), doxycycline, gatifloxacin, gentamicin, imipenim, levofloxacin,
      linezolid (Zyvox@), nafcilin, paromomycin, rifampin, sulphamethoxazole,
     tobramycin and vancomycin.
                     As also described herein, certain embodiments derive from the
     unpredictable discovery that for a bacterial infection that comprises gram
20 negative bacteria, a preferred therapeutically effective formulation may
     comprise a BT compound and amikacin. Certain related embodiments
     contemplate treatment of an infection comprising gram negative bacteria with a
     BT compound and another antibiotic, such as another aminoglycoside
     antibiotic, which in certain embodiments is not gentamicin or tobramycin.
25 Accordingly and in view of these embodiments, other related embodiments
     contemplate identifying one or more bacterial populations or subpopulations in
     or on a natural surface by the well known criterion of being gram positive or
     gram negative, according to methodologies that are familiar to those skilled in
     the medical microbiology art, as a step for selecting appropriate antibiotic
30 compound(s) to include in a formulation to be administered according to the
     present methods.
                     The presently described compositions and methods may find use
     in the treatment -of microbes (e.g., bacteria, viruses, yeast, molds and other
     fungi, microbial parasites, etc.) in a wide variety of contexts, typically by
35 application or administration of the herein described compounds (e.g., one or
     more microparticulate BTs alone or in combination with one or more
     synergizing and/or enhancing antibiotics as disclosed herein) to a microbial site

   WO 20111097347                                                      PCT/US2011/023549
                                               43
     such as a microbial presence on or in a natural surface. Such natural surfaces
     include but are not limited to mammalian tissues (e.g., epithelia including skin,
    scalp, gastrointestinal tract lining, buccal cavity, etc.; endothelia, cell and tissue
     membranes such as peritoneal membrane, pericardial membrane, pleural
 5 membrane, periosteal membrane, meningeal membranes, sarcolemal
     membranes, and the like; cornea, sclera, mucous membranes, etc.; and other
     mammalian tissues such as teeth, bone, joint, tendon, ligament, muscle, heart,
     lung, kidney, liver, spleen, gall bladder, pancreas, bladder, nerve, etc.).
                    The microparticulate antimicrobial agents described herein may
10  be used to suppress microbial growth, reduce microbial infestationreduce
    biofilm, prevent conversion of bacteria to biofilm, prevent or inhibit microbial
    infection and any other use described herein. These agents are also useful for
    a number of antiviral purposes, including prevention or inhibition of viral
    infection by herpes family viruses such as cytomegalovirus, herpes simplex
15  virus Type 1, and herpes simplex virus Type 2, and/or infection by other
    viruses. In this regard, the agents are useful for the prevention or inhibition of
    viral infection by a variety of viruses, such as, single stranded RNA viruses,
    single stranded DNA viruses, Rous sarcoma virus (RSV), hepatitis A virus,
    hepatitis B virus (HBV), Hepatitis C (HCV), Influenza viruses, west nile virus
20  (WNV), Epstein-Barr virus (EBV), eastern equine encephalitis virus (EEEV),
    severe acute respiratory virus (SARS), human immunodeficiency virus (HIV),
    human papilloma virus (HPV), and human T cell lymphoma virus (HTLV).
                    Other internal and external pharmaceutical uses of the herein
    described antimicrobial agents include, but are not limited to, treatment or
25  prevention of bacterial infection, of tuberculosis, of fungal infections such as
    yeast and mold infections (for example, Candida (e.g., Candida albicans,
    Candida glabrata, C. parapsilosis, C. tropicalis, and C. dubliniensis) or
    Cryptococcus or other fungi), of Helicobacterpylori infection, and of peptic ulcer
    disease. In one embodiment, the agent is used at a dosage not generally lethal
30  to bacteria but which is nonetheless sufficient to reduce protective
    polysaccharide coatings that would otherwise resist natural immune response.
    This technique is thus believed to aid immune system-mediated eradication of
    bacterial infection without harming human symbiotic microorganisms (e.g.,
    normal intestinal flora and the like) to the extent that may be the case with
35  antibiotics.
                   By way of illustration and not limitation, certain contemplated
    embodiments are now described.

   WO 20111097347                                                       PCT/US2011/023549
                                              44
                     In certain embodiments, a microparticulate BT compound
     described herein (or composition comprising the microparticulate BT
     compound) may be combined with at least one or more anti-biofilm agents for
     controlling biofilm development, disrupting a biofilm, or reducing the amount of
 5   biofilm. As understood in the art, interspecies quorum sensing is related to
     biofilm formation. Certain agents that increase LuxS-dependent pathway or
     interspecies quorum sensing signal (see, e.g., U.S. Patent No. 7,427,408)
     contribute to controlling development and/or proliferation of a biofilm.
     Exemplary agents include, by way of example, N-(3-oxododecanoyl)-L
10   homoserine lactone (OdDHL) blocking compounds and N-butyryl-L-homoserine
     lactone (BHL) analogs, either in combination or separately (see, e.g., U.S.
     Patent No. 6,455,031). An oral hygiene composition comprising a
     microparticulate BT compound and at least one anti-biofilm agent can be
     delivered locally for disruption and inhibition of bacterial biofilm and for
15   treatment of periodontal disease (see, e.g., U.S. Patent No.6,726,898).
                     Compositions Comprising Microparticu late Bismuth-Thiols and
     Uses for Oral Hygiene and for Treating Inflammation and Infection of the Mouth.
     In another embodiment, compositions comprising microparticulate BT
     compounds are formulated for oral use and may be used in methods for
20   preventing or reducing microbial growth in the mouth and for preventing and/or
     treating microbial infections and inflammation of the oral cavity. These
     compositions are therefore useful for preventing or treating (i.e., reducing or
     inhibiting development of, reducing the likelihood of occurrence or recurrence
     of) dental plaque, halitosis, periodontal disease, gingivitis, and other infections
25   of the mouth. The oral compositions comprising microparticulate BT compound
     may also be useful for preventing and/or controlling (i.e., slowing, retarding,
     inhibiting) biofilm development, disrupting a biofilm, or reducing the amount of
     biofilm present on an oral surface, particularly a tooth or gums.
                     Trapped food particles, poor oral hygiene and poor oral health,
30   and improper cleaning of dentures can promote microbial growth between
     teeth, around the gums, and on the tongue. Continued microbial growth and
     the presence of dental caries may result in halitosis, dental plaque (i.e., a
     biofilm formed by colonization of microorganisms), gingivitis, and inflammation.
     In the absence of proper oral care (e.g., tooth brushing, flossing), more serious
35   infections, such as periodontal disease and infections of the jaw, may ensue.
                     Good oral hygiene is important not only for oral health, but for
     prevention of several chronic conditions. Controlling bacterial growth in the

   WO 20111097347                                                      PCT/US2011/023549
                                                 45
      mouth may help lower risk of heart disease, preserve memory, and reduce the
      risk of infection and inflammation in other areas of the body. People with
      diabetes are at greater risk for developing severe gum problems, and reducing
      the risk of gingivitis by maintaining good oral health may help control blood
  5 sugar. Pregnant women may be more likely to experience gingivitis, and some
      research suggests a relationship between gum disease in pregnant women and
      delivery of preterm, low-birth-weight infants.
                      Bacteria are the primary etiologic agents in periodontal disease.
      More than 500 bacterial strains may be found in dental plaque (Kroes et al.,
 10 Proc. Nat/. Acad. Sci. USA 96:14547-52 (1999)). Bacteria have evolved to
     survive in the environment of the tooth surface, gingival epithelium, and oral
     cavity as biofilms, which contributes to the difficulty in treating periodontitis.
      Bactericidal agents as well as antibiotics that are currently used to treat such
     infections often do not kill all of offending organisms. Use of an agent that is
15 ineffective against certain bacteria species may result in proliferation of
     resistant bacterial species. Moreover, these agents may cause unpleasant side
     effects, such allergic reactions, inflammation, and tooth discoloration.
                      Dental bacterial plaque is a biofilm that adheres tenaciously to
     tooth surfaces, restorations, and prosthetic appliances. The primary means to
20 control biofilms in the mouth is through mechanical cleaning (i.e., tootbrushing,
     flossing, etc.). Within the first two days after which no such cleaning has been
     undertaken, the tooth's surface is colonized predominantly by gram-positive
     facultative cocci, which are primarily streptococci species. The bacteria excrete
     an extracellular slime layer that helps anchor the bacteria to the surface and
25 provides protection for the attached bacteria. Microcolony formation begins
     once the surface of the tooth has been covered with attached bacteria. The
     biofilm grows primarily through cell division of adherent bacteria, rather than
     through the attachment of new bacteria. Doubling times of bacteria forming
     plaque are rapid in early development and slower in more mature biofilms.
30                   Coaggregation occurs when bacterial colonizers subsequently
     adhere to bacteria already attached to the pellicle. The result of coaggregation
     is the formation of a complex array of different bacteria linked to one another.
    After a few days of undisturbed plaque formation, the gingival margin becomes
     inflamed and swollen. Inflammation may result in creation of a deepened
35 gingival sulcus. The biofilm extends into this subgingival region and flourishes
     in this protected environment, resulting in the formation of a mature subgingival
     plaque biofilm. Gingival inflammation does not appear until the biofilm changes

   WO 20111097347                                                        PCT/US2011/023549
                                                 46
      from one composed largely of gram-positive bacteria to one containing gram
       negative anaerobes. A subgingival bacterial microcolony, composed
      predominantly of gram-negative anaerobic bacteria, becomes established in the
      gingival sulcus between 3 and 12 weeks after the beginning of supragingival
  5 plaque formation. Most bacterial species currently suspected of being
      periodontal pathogens are anaerobic, gram-negative bacteria.
                      Bacterial microcolonies protected within the biofilm are typically
      resistant to antibiotics (administered systemically), antiseptics or disinfectants
      (administered locally), and immune defenses. Antibiotic doses that kill free
10 floating bacteria, for example, need to be increased as much as 1,500 times to
      kill biofilm bacteria. At this high concentration, these antimicrobials tend to be
      toxic to the patient as well (see, e.g., Coghlan 1996, New Scientist 2045:32-6;
      Elder et al., 1995, Eye 9:102-9).
                      Diligent and frequent physical removal of bacterial plaque biofilms
15 is the most effective means of eliminating and controlling plaque. However,
      subgingival plaque within pockets cannot be reached by brushes, floss, or oral
      rinses. Therefore, frequent periodontal debridement of subgingival root
      surfaces by a dental hygienist or dentist is an essential component in
      prevention and treatment of periodontitis.
20                    In certain embodiments, a microparticulate BT compound may be
      incorporated into oral hygiene compositions , such as but not limited to,
     toothpaste, mouthwash (i.e., mouth rinse), oral gels, dentifrice powders, oral
     sprays (including a spray dispersed by an oral inhaler), edible film, chewing
     gum, oral slurry, denture liquid cleaners, denture storage liquids, and dental
25 floss, which may be routinely used by any subject. A microparticulate BT
     compound may be incorporated into oral hygiene compositions that are used
     primarily by dental care professions, including for example, fluoride liquid
     treatments, cleaning compositions, buffing compositions, oral rinses, and dental
     floss. The present embodiments contemplate replacement of antimicrobials
30 formulated with oral hygiene compositions, which are described in the art, with
     the presently described microparticulate BT compounds to provide the
     advantages disclosed herein, including the range of antimicrobial activities,
     solubility and bioavailability, anti-biofilm effects, non-toxicity, enhancement of
     antibiotic efficacies, and other properties as described herein.
35                   A microparticulate BT compound may also be used for preventing
     or treating caries and/or inflammation (i.e., reducing the likelihood of occurrence
     or recurrence of caries and/or inflammation, respectively) by administering the

   WO 20111097347                                                   PCT/US2011/023549
                                              47
     microparticulate BT compound to the surface of the teeth. A composition
     comprising a microparticulate BT compound may be a mucoadhesive
     composition that is applied to the surface of a tooth and/or gum or oral mucous
     membrane may be in any form that adheres to some extent to a surface or that
 5 delivers a pharmaceutically effective amount of the active ingredient(s) to the
     desired surface. A microparticulate BT compound can also be formulated to
     release slowly from the composition applied to the tooth. For example, the
     composition may be a gel (e.g., a hydrogel, thiomer, aerogel, or organogel) or
     liquid. An organogel may comprise an organic solvent, lipoic acid, vegetable
10 oil, or mineral oil. Such gel or liquid coating formulations may be applied
     interior or exterior to an amalgam or composite or other restorative composition.
    A slow-release composition may deliver a pharmaceutically effective amount of
     microparticulate BT compound for 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, or 7 (a week) days or for 2, 3,
    4, 5, 6, 7 weeks, or 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, or 6 months. Such compositions can be
15 prepared by a person skilled in the art using any number of methods known in
    the art.
                    In certain other embodiments, and as described herein,
    antimicrobial compositions are provided for oral use that comprise
    microparticulate BT compound and one or more additional antimicrobial
20  compounds or agents. Particularly useful are the compositions comprising s
    and a second antimicrobial agent that when administered in combination have
    enhanced or synergistic antimicrobial effects, as described herein. By way of
    example, an enhanced antimicrobial effect may be observed when a
    microparticulate BT compound is administered together with an antimicrobial
25  agent that chelates iron. In other particular embodiments, a microparticulate BT
    compound is formulated with an anti-inflammatory agent, compound, small
    molecule, or macromolecule (such as a peptide or polypeptide).
                    Any of the microparticulate BT compounds described herein may
    be formulated for oral use. In certain embodiments, microparticulate BT
30  compounds that are prepared with hydrophobic thiols (e.g., thiochlorophenol)
    may be used and which may exhibit greater capability than less hydrophobic BT
    compounds to adhere to teeth and tissues of the mouth. BT compounds that
    have a net negative charge, such as those having a 1:2 molar ratio (bismuth to
    thiol) may also have favorable adhesive properties.
35                  The oral hygiene compositions comprising a microparticulate BT
    compound may further comprise one or more active ingredients and/or one or
    more orally suitable excipients or carriers. In one embodiment, the oral hygiene

  WO 20111097347                                                     PCT/US2011/023549
                                              48
    compositions may further comprise baking soda or another alkaline compound
    or substance. Because of the chemical and physical properties of baking soda,
    it has wide range of applications, including cleaning, deodorizing, and buffering.
    Baking soda neutralizes odors chemically, rather than masking or absorbing
 5 them. Baking soda can be combined with a microparticulate BT compound
    either as a mixture of powders, or dissolved or suspended in any one of the
    dentifrice powders, gels, pastes, and liquids described herein. In other
    embodiments, a microparticulate BT compound can be combined with other
    alkali metal bicarbonate or carbonate substances (e.g., potassium bicarbonate
10 or calcium carbonate) that help maintain a desired alkaline pH and that also
    possess cleansing and deodorizing properties.
                   Oral hygiene compositions comprising a microparticulate BT
    compound may further comprise one or more of the following ingredients.
   Antimicrobial agents: for example, chlorhexidine; sanguinarine extract;
15 metronidazole; quaternary ammonium compounds (such as cetylpyridinium
   chloride); bis-guanides (e.g., chlorhexidine digluconate, hexetidine, octenidine,
   alexidine); halogenated bisphenolic compounds (e.g., 2,2' methylenebis-(4
   chloro-6-bromophenol) or other phenolic antibacterial compounds;
   alkylhydroxybenzoate; cationic antimicrobial peptides; aminoglycosides;
20 quinolones; lincosamides; penicillins; cephalosporins, macrolides; tetracyclines;
   other antibiotics known in the art; Coleus forskohlii essential oil; silver or
   colloidal silver antimicrobials; tin- or copper-based antimicrobials; Manuka oil;
   oregano; thyme; rosemary; or other herbal extracts; and grapefruit seed extract.
   Anti-inflammatory or antioxidant agents: for example, ibuprofen, flurbiprofen,
25 aspirin, indomethacin, aloe vera, turmeric, olive leaf extract, cloves, panthenol,
   retinol, omega-3 fatty acids, gamma-linolenic acid (GLA), green tea, ginger,
   grape seed, etc. Anti-caries agents: for example, sodium- and stannous
   fluoride, aminefluorides, sodium monofluorophosphate, sodium
   trimetaphosphate, zinc citrate or other zinc agents, and casein. Plaque buffers:
30 for example, urea, calcium lactate, calcium glycerophosphate, and strontium
   polyacrylates. Vitamins: for example, Vitamins A, C and E. Plant extracts.
   Desensitizing agents: for example, potassium citrate, potassium chloride,
   potassium tartrate, potassium bicarbonate, potassium oxalate, potassium
   nitrate, and strontium salts. Anti-calculus agents: for example, alkali-metal
35 pyrophosphates, hypophosphite-containing polymers, organic phosphonates
   and phosphocitrates etc. Biomolecules: for example, bacteriocins,
   bacteriophages, antibodies, enzymes, etc. Flavors: for example, peppermint

   WO 20111097347                                                     PCT/US2011/023549
                                               49
     and spearmint oils, fennel, cinnamon, etc. Proteinaceous materials: for
     example, collagen. Preservatives. Opacifying agents. Coloring agents. pH
     adiusting agents. Sweetening agents. Pharmaceutically acceptable carriers:
     for example, starch, sucrose, water or water/alcohol systems etc. Surfactants:
  5 for example, anionic, nonionic, cationic and zwitterionic or amphoteric
     surfactants, saponins from plant materials (see, e.g., U.S. Patent No.
     6,485,711). Particulate abrasive materials: for example, silicas, aluminas,
     calcium carbonates, dicalcium phosphates, calcium pyrophosphates,
     hydroxyapatites, trimetaphosphates, insoluble hexametaphosphates,
10 agglomerated particulate abrasive materials, chalk, fine ground natural chalk
     and the like, Humectants: for example, glycerol, sorbitol, propyleneglycol,
     xylitol, lactitol etc. Binders and thickeners: for example, sodium carboxy methyl
     cellulose, hydroxyethyl cellulose (Natrosol@), xanthan gum, gum arabic,
     synthetic polymers (e.g., polyacrylates and carboxyvinyl polymers such as
15 Carbopol@). Polymeric compounds that enhance the delivery of active
     ingredients such as antimicrobial agents. Buffers and salts to buffer the pH and
     ionic strength of the oral care composition. Bleaching agents: for example,
     peroxy compounds (e.g., potassium peroxydiphosphate). Effervescing systems:
    for example, sodium bicarbonate/citric acid systems. Color change systems. In
20 particular embodiments, an abrasive is silica or fine ground natural chalk.
                      The oral hygiene compositions comprising a microparticulate BT
    compound that are formulated for use as a toothpaste may further comprise a
     humectant (for example, glycerol or sorbitol), a surface-active agent, binding
    agent, and/or a flavoring agent. The toothpastes may also include a
25 sweetening agent, whitening agent, preservative, and antimicrobial agent. The
    pH of a toothpaste and other compositions for oral use is typically between pH
    5.5 and 8.5. In certain embodiments, oral hygiene compositions, including
    toothpaste, have a pH between 7 and 7.5, between 7.5 and 8, between 8 and
    8.5, or between 8.5 and 9, which may enhance the antimicrobial activity of the
30 microparticulate BT compound. The toothpaste compositions described herein
    may include one or more of chalk, dicalcium phosphate dihydrate, sorbitol,
    water, hydrated aluminum oxide, precipitated silica, sodium lauryl sulfate,
    sodium carboxymethyl cellulose, flavoring, sorbitan monooleate, sodium
    saccharin, tetrasodium pyrophosphate, methyl paraben, propyl paraben. One
35 or more coloring agents, for example, FD&C Blue, can be employed if desired.
    Other suitable ingredients that may be including in a toothpaste formulation are
    described in the art, for example, in U.S. Pat. No. 5,560,517.

   WO 20111097347                                                       PCT/US2011/023549
                                                50
                      In one particular embodiment, the oral hygiene composition is a
      mouthspray and comprises a microparticulate BT compound, an alkaline buffer
      (e.g., potassium bicarbonate), an alcohol, a sweetener component, and a flavor
      system. The flavor system may also have or more of the following: a flavorant,
  5 a humectant, a surfactant, a sweetener, and a colorant agent (see, e.g., U.S.
      Patent No. 6,579,513). Surfactants described herein and known in the art for
      use in oral hygiene compositions may be anionic, nonionic, or amphoteric.
                     In another embodiment, the microparticulate BT-containing oral
      hygiene composition may be combined with additional active ingredients such
 10 as taurolidine and taurultam, which have been described in the art as useful for
      including in toothpastes, tooth gels, and mouthwashes for treating treat serious
      infections (see, e.g., United Kingdom Patent Application No., GB 1557163, U.S.
      Patent No. 6,488,912). As described herein, microparticulate BT can also be
     combined with one or more additional antimicrobial agents that when combined
 15 with microparticulate BT, the combination has additive or synergistic effects.
                     In yet another particular embodiment, an oral hygiene composition
     described herein may further comprise at least one or more anti-biofilm agents
     for controlling biofilm development, disrupting a biofilm, or reducing the amount
     of biofilm. As understood in the art, interspecies quorum sensing is related to
20 biofilm formation. Certain agents that increase LuxS-dependent pathway or
     interspecies quorum sensing signal (see, e.g., U.S. Patent No. 7,427,408)
     contribute to controlling development and/or proliferation of a biofilm.
     Exemplary agents include, by way of example, N-(3-oxododecanoyl)-L
     homoserine lactone (OdDHL) blocking compounds and N-butyryl-L-homoserine
25 lactone (BHL) analogs, either in combination or separately (see, e.g., U.S.
     Patent No. 6455031}. An oral hygiene composition comprising a
     microparticulate BT compound and at least one anti-biofilm agent can be
     delivered locally for disruption and inhibition of bacterial biofilm and for
    treatment of periodontal disease (see, e.g., U.S. Patent No.6,726,8981.
30                  An oral hygiene composition described herein may contain a
    sufficient amount of a microparticulate BT compound that effects substantial
    antimicrobial action during the time required for a normal tooth brushing, mouth
     rinsing, or flossing. As described herein a microparticulate BT compound may
    be retained on oral surfaces (such as tooth, amalgam, composite, mucous
35 membrane, gums). A microparticulate BT compound retained on the teeth and
    gums after completion of brushing, rinsing, flossing, for example, may continue
    to provide extended anti-biofilm and anti-inflammatory action.

   WO 20111097347                                                    PCT/US2011/023549
                                               51
                    In other embodiments, microparticulate BT compounds are slowly
      released from muco-adhesive polymers or other agents that contribute to
      retention of microparticulate BT compound on mucosal and tooth surfaces.
      Microparticulate BTcompounds may be added to stable, viscous,
 5 mucoadhesive aqueous compositions, which may also be used for the
     prevention and treatment of ulcerative, inflammatory, and/or erosive disorders
     of mucous membranes and/or the delivery of pharmaceutically active
     compounds to mucosal surfaces for topical treatment or transfer to the systemic
     circulation (see, e.g., U.S. Patent No. 7,547,433).
10                  In another embodiment, oral hygiene compositions comprising a
     microparticulate BT compound further comprise olive oil, which may enhance
     plaque removal. The use of olive oil in a product intended for oral hygiene,
     such as a toothpaste, a mouthwash, a spray, oral inhaler, or chewing gum, may
     contribute to elimination or reduction (a decrease) of bacterial plaque and/or to
15 elimination or reduction (decrease of) in the numbers of bacteria present in the
     buccal cavity, thereby achieving a reduction in the occurrence of dental
     diseases (e.g., tooth decay, periodontal disease) and halitosis (see, e.g., U.S.
     Patent No. 7,074,391).
                    In other embodiments, an oral hygiene composition comprising a
20 microparticulate BT compound may further comprise a mucosal disinfectant
     preparation for topical application in the mouth. An oral hygiene composition
     may further comprise an aqueous slurry useful for cleaning the tongue and
     throat (see, e.g., U.S. Patent No. 6,861,049). In still another embodiment, an
     oral hygiene composition comprising a microparticulate BT compound may
25 further comprise at least one mint that is used for preventing (i.e., reducing the
     likelihood of occurrence) formation of a cavity (dental caries) or reducing the
     number of cavities. One such mint, called CaviStat@ (Ortek Therapeutics, Inc.,
     Roslyn Heights, NY), contains arginine and calcium, which helps neutralize acid
     pH and promotes adherence of calcium to enamel surfaces. The inclusion of
30   mint in an oral hygiene composition comprising a microparticulate BT
     compound may thus increase pH and enhance adherence of a microparticulate
     BT compound to oral surfaces.
                    Compositions Comprising Microparticulate Bismuth-Thiols
     Formulated for Orthopedic Use. In a particular embodiment, methods are
35   provided for using compositions comprising a microparticulate BT compound for
     preventing and/or treating microbial infections and inflammation resulting from
    an orthopedic procedure (e.g., orthopedic surgery, orthopedic therapy,

    WO 20111097347                                                      PCT/US2011/023549
                                                52
      arthroplasty (including two-step arthoplasty), orthodontic therapy). The
      compositions comprising microparticulate BT compounds as described herein
      are therefore useful for preventing and/or treating (i.e., reducing or inhibiting
      development of, reducing the likelihood of occurrence or recurrence of)
  5   microbial infections of the skeleton and supporting structure (i.e., bones, joints,
      muscles, ligaments, tendons) such as osteomyelitis. The compositions
      described herein comprising a microparticulate BT compound may also be
      useful for preventing and/or controlling (i.e., slowing, retarding, inhibiting)
      biofilm development, disrupting a biofilm, or reducing the amount of biofilm
 10   present in a joint or on the surface of a bone, ligament, tendon, or tooth.
                     The compositions described herein for orthopedic use that
      comprise a microparticulate BT compound may further comprise one or more
      additional antimicrobial compounds or agents. Particularly useful are the
     compositions comprising a microparticulate BT compound and a second
 15  antimicrobial agent that when administered in combination have enhanced or
     synergistic antimicrobial effects, as described herein. By way of an additional
     example, an enhanced antimicrobial effect may be observed when a
     microparticulate BT compound is administered together with an antimicrobial
     agent that chelates iron. In other particular embodiments, a microparticulate BT
20   compound is formulated with an anti-inflammatory agent, compound, small
     molecule, or macromolecule (such as a peptide or polypeptide).
                    Compositions comprising a microparticulate BT compound may
     be combined with at least one other antimicrobial agent (i.e., a second, third,
     fourth, etc. antimicrobial agent) that when administered in combination have
25   enhanced or synergistic antimicrobial effects (i.e., greater than an additive
     effect). By way of example, an enhanced antimicrobial effect may be observed
     when a microparticulate BT compound is administered together with an
     antimicrobial agent that chelates iron. In particular embodiments, compositions
     comprising a microparticulate BT compound may be combined with at least one
30   other antimicrobial agent and/or anti-inflammatory agent selected from the
     following: Antimicrobial agents: for example, chlorhexidine; sanguinarine
     extract; metronidazole; quaternary ammonium compounds (such as
     cetylpyridinium chloride); bis-guanides (e.g., chlorhexidine digluconate,
     hexetidine, octenidine, alexidine); halogenated bisphenolic compounds (e.g.,
35   2,2' methylenebis-(4-chloro-6-bromophenol) or other phenolic antibacterial
     compounds; alkylhydroxybenzoate; cationic antimicrobial peptides;
     aminoglycosides; quinolones; lincosamides; penicillins; cephalosporins,

   WO 20111097347                                                        PCT/US2011/023549
                                                53
     macrolides; tetracyclines; other antibiotics known in the art; Coleus forskohli
    essential oil; silver or colloidal silver antimicrobials; tin- or copper-based
    antimicrobials; Manuka oil; oregano; thyme; rosemary; or other herbal extracts;
    and grapefruit seed extract. Anti-inflammatory or antioxidant agents: for
 5 example, ibuprofen, flurbiprofen, aspirin, indomethacin, aloe vera, turmeric,
    olive leaf extract, cloves, panthenol, retinol, omega-3 fatty acids, gamma
    linolenic acid (GLA), green tea, ginger, grape seed, etc. In particular
    embodiments, the compositions comprising microparticulate BT compound may
    further comprise an antibiotic selected from clindamycin, vancomycin,
10 daptomycin, cefazolin, gentamicin, tobramycin, metronidazole, cefaclor,
    ciprofloxacin, or other antimicrobial such as a quaternary ammonium compound
    (e.g., benzalkonium chloride, cetyl pyridinium chloride), an anti-microbial
    zeolite, alkali metal hydroxide, or an alkaline earth metal oxide. The
    compositions may optionally comprise one or more pharmaceutically suitable
15 carriers (i.e., excipients), surfactants, buffers, diluents, and salts, and bleaching
    agents, which are described herein. Accordingly, these and certain of the
    related herein disclosed embodiments contemplate inclusion in such products
    and processes of the presently disclosed microparticulate BT compositions,
    which may include one or more microparticulate BT, and which may also
20  optionally further include an antibiotic such as a synergizing or an enhancing
    antibiotic as described herein.
                    Biological, Biomedical and Other Uses for Microparticulate BTs.
    Certain other embodiments contemplate use of the herein described
    microparticulate BTs, whether as individual BTs or BTs in which the bismuth
25  moiety is replaced with a different Group V metal such as antimony (Sb) or
    arsenic (As), and/or as such BTs in combination with one or more antibiotic with
    which, as described herein, the BT exhibits synergizing or enhanced
    antimicrobial activity, in orally ingested nutritional formulations.
                   According to non-limiting theory, the inclusion of microparticulate
30  BTs in such formulations along with other components such as vitamins,
    minerals, amino acids, hydrocarbons including carbohydrates, fatty acids, oils,
    phytonutrients, teas, herbs or herbal extracts, and/or other nutritional or food
    products, may in certain embodiments result in the blockage or retardation of
    nutrient uptake by microbial populations in the gastrointestinal tract, in a
35  manner that promotes increased (e.g., in a statistically significant manner
    relative to an appropriate control) bioavailability of the BT and optionally the
    antibiotic and/or of the additional nutritional component(s) to the host digestive

   WO 20111097347                                                       PCT/US2011/023549
                                                54
    tract. In certain other embodiments, by varying the particular vitamins,
     minerals, amino acids, hydrocarbons including carbohydrates, fatty acids, oils,
     phytonutrients, teas, herbs or herbal extracts, and/or other nutritional or food
     products that are included in the oral microparticulate BT (or AsT or SbT)
  5 formulation, bioavailability of the BT and optionally of the antibiotic and/or of the
    additional nutritional component(s) to the host digestive tract may be decreased
     (e.g., in a statistically significant manner relative to an appropriate control).
                     For instance, it may be desirable when a pathologic
    gastrointestinal (GI) tract infection is present to administer a microparticulate BT
 10 formulation that discourages intestinal absorption of the BT compounds so that
    they remain bioavailable within the GI tract in order to exert antimicrobial effects
    against the infectious pathogens. Those familiar with the art will be aware of a
    number of vitamins, minerals, amino acids, hydrocarbons including
    carbohydrates, fatty acids, oils, phytonutrients, teas, herbs and/or herbal
 15 extracts that promote or discourage GI tract absorption of nutrients, such that
    formulations for increasing or decreasing the GI tract presence of one or more
    components (e.g., the microparticulate BT compound, the antibiotic, or one or
    more particular nutrients) may be prepared using the presently disclosed
    microparticu late BTs (or AsT or SbT).
20                  Certain other embodiments provided herein contemplate inclusion
    of the presently disclosed microparticulate BT compounds in compositions for
    oral delivery to reduce fecal or digestive gas odors, for instance in patients who
    have undergone colostomy, and in other compositions for topical delivery to
    reduce underarm, foot or other body odors associated with topical microbial
25 presence. A number of skin and GI tract microbial populations, including
    planktonic and biofilm bacteria, are susceptible to low concentrations of the
    herein described microparticulate BT compounds, including such BT
    compounds when present with enhancing or synergizing antibiotics as
    described herein.
30                  Accordingly, certain embodiments contemplate orally delivered
    and topically delivered microparticulate BT formulations to decrease (e.g., in a
    statistically significant manner relative to an appropriate control) populations of
    GI-resident or skin-resident bacteria in a manner that reduces or alleviates the
    problem of unwanted odor. Oral and topical pharmaceutical formulations are
35 described below, such that these and related embodiments offer advantages
    associated with the present microparticulate formulation of BT, such as
    compatible bioavailability and solubility properties and low toxicity; other factors

   WO 20111097347                                                       PCT/US2011/023549
                                                55
     that may influence the selection of antimicrobial compositions are described
     elsewhere herein and may also be found, e.g., in U.S. 6,582,719.
                    An exemplary BT compound, BisEDT, has been applied (50 uL of
     a 1 mg/mL solution in DMSO) to the axillary area in human test subjects and
 5 shown to neutralize body odors for two to three days. A mixture of BisEDT in
     talcum powder applied to the feet of a human test subject substantially reduced
     foot odor. Laboratory mice fed 1 mg/kg BisEDT orally twice daily for five days
     exhibited 90% reductions in the number of fecal flora. Related embodiments
     also contemplate a generally useful deodorant for any thiol-containing solution
10 that emits odors (e.g., fish oils such as salmon oil), comprising a
     microparticulate BT preparation as described herein that is made with an
     excess of bismuth, and that can be added to the thiol-containing solution as an
     odor quenching agent. The resulting mixture retains the antimicrobial
     properties of the microparticulate BT. Other contemplated applications include
15 solvents such as other biological source oils or butters, for instance, hemp oil,
    tea tree oil, shea butter, flax seed oil, fish oils, and in certain embodiments such
     oils as may have an independent or synergistic anti-inflammatory and/or pain
     reducing and/or other beneficial physiologic effect.
             Pharmaceutical Compositions and Administration
20                  Certain embodiments also relate to a pharmaceutical composition
    containing the microparticulate BT compounds disclosed herein; in certain such
    embodiments the pharmaceutical composition may further comprise one or
     more antibiotics such as an antibiotic with which the BT compound exhibits a
    synergizing or enhancing effect as described herein. In one embodiment, there
25  is provided a composition comprising one or more such microparticulate BT
    compounds in a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier, excipient or diluent and in
    a therapeutic amount, as disclosed herein, when administered to an animal,
    preferably a mammal, most preferably a human patient.
                   Administration of the microparticulate BT compounds, or their
30  pharmaceutically acceptable salts, in pure form or in an appropriate
    pharmaceutical composition, can be carried out via any of the accepted modes
    of administration of agents for serving similar utilities. The pharmaceutical
    compositions can be prepared by combining a microparticulate BT compound
    with an appropriate pharmaceutically acceptable carrier, diluent or excipient,
35  and may be formulated into preparations in solid, semi-solid, liquid or gaseous
    forms, such as tablets, capsules, powders, granules, ointments, solutions,

   WO 20111097347                                                       PCT/US2011/023549
                                                56
    suppositories, injections, inhalants, gels, microspheres, and aerosols. Typical
     routes of administering such pharmaceutical compositions include, without
     limitation, oral, topical, transdermal, inhalation, parenteral, sublingual, rectal,
    vaginal, and intranasal. The term parenteral as used herein includes
 5 subcutaneous injections, intravenous, intramuscular, intrasternal injection or
     infusion techniques. Pharmaceutical compositions are formulated so as to
    allow the active ingredients contained therein to be bioavailable upon
    administration of the composition to a patient. Compositions that will be
    administered to a subject or patient take the form of one or more dosage units,
10 where for example, a tablet may be a single dosage unit, and a container of a
    compound in aerosol form may hold a plurality of dosage units. Actual methods
    of preparing such dosage forms are known, or will be apparent, to those skilled
    in this art; for example, see The Science and Practice of Pharmacy, 20th
    Edition (Philadelphia College of Pharmacy and Science, 2000). The
15 composition to be administered will, in any event, contain a therapeutically
    effective amount of a compound, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof,
    for treatment of a disease or condition of interest in accordance with the
    teachings herein.
                     The pharmaceutical compositions useful herein also contain a
20  pharmaceutically acceptable carrier, including any suitable diluent or excipient,
    which includes any pharmaceutical agent that does not itself induce the
    production of antibodies harmful to the individual receiving the composition, and
    which may be administered without undue toxicity. Pharmaceutically
    acceptable carriers include, but are not limited to, liquids, such as water, saline,
25  glycerol and ethanol, and the like. A thorough discussion of pharmaceutically
    acceptable carriers, diluents, and other excipients is presented in
    REMINGTON'S PHARMACEUTICAL SCIENCES (Mack Pub. Co., N.J. current
    edition).
                    A pharmaceutical composition may be in the form of a solid or
30  liquid. In one aspect, the carrier(s) are particulate, so that the compositions
    are, for example, in tablet or powder form. The carrier(s) may be liquid, with the
    compositions being, for example, an oral syrup, injectable liquid or an aerosol,
    which is useful in, for example, inhalatory administration.
                    When intended for oral administration, the pharmaceutical
35  composition is preferably in either solid or liquid form, where semi-solid,
    semi-liquid, suspension and gel forms are included within the forms considered
    herein as either solid or liquid.

   WO 20111097347                                                    PCT/US2011/023549
                                              57
                   As a solid composition for oral administration, the pharmaceutical
     composition may be formulated into a powder, granule, compressed tablet, pill,
     capsule, chewing gum, wafer or the like form. Such a solid composition will
    typically contain one or more inert diluents or edible carriers. In addition, one or
 5 more of the following may be present: binders such as carboxymethylcellulose,
    ethyl cellulose, microcrystalline cellulose, gum tragacanth or gelatin; excipients
    such as starch, lactose or dextrins, disintegrating agents such as alginic acid,
    sodium alginate, Primogel, corn starch and the like; lubricants such as
    magnesium stearate or Sterotex; glidants such as colloidal silicon dioxide;
10 sweetening agents such as honey, sucrose or saccharin; a flavoring agent such
    as peppermint, methyl salicylate or orange flavoring; and a coloring agent.
                   When the pharmaceutical composition is in the form of a capsule,
    for example, a gelatin capsule, it may contain, in addition to materials of the
    above type, a liquid carrier such as polyethylene glycol or oil.
15                 The pharmaceutical composition may be in the form of a liquid, for
    example, an elixir, syrup, solution, emulsion or suspension. The liquid may be
    for oral administration or for delivery by injection, as two examples. When
    intended for oral administration, preferred composition contain, in addition to
    the present compounds, one or more of a sweetening agent, preservatives,
20  dye/colorant and flavor enhancer. In a composition intended to be administered
    by injection, one or more of a surfactant, preservative, wetting agent, dispersing
    agent, suspending agent, buffer, stabilizer and isotonic agent may be included.
                   The liquid pharmaceutical compositions, whether they be
    solutions, suspensions or other like form, may include one or more of the
25  following adjuvants: sterile diluents such as water for injection, saline solution,
    preferably physiological saline, Ringer's solution, isotonic sodium chloride, fixed
    oils such as synthetic mono or diglycerides which may serve as the solvent or
    suspending medium, polyethylene glycols, glycerin, propylene glycol or other
    solvents; antibacterial agents such as benzyl alcohol or methyl paraben;
30  antioxidants such as ascorbic acid or sodium bisulfite; chelating agents such as
    ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid; buffers such as acetates, citrates or
    phosphates and agents for the adjustment of tonicity such as sodium chloride
    or dextrose. The parenteral preparation can be enclosed in ampoules,
    disposable syringes or multiple dose vials made of glass or plastic.
35  Physiological saline is a preferred adjuvant. An injectable pharmaceutical
    composition is preferably sterile.

    WO 20111097347                                                       PCT/US2011/023549
                                                 58
                     A liquid pharmaceutical composition intended for either parenteral
      or oral administration should contain an amount of a microparticulate BT
      compound such that a suitable dosage will be obtained. Typically, this amount
      is at least 0.01% of a microparticulate BT compound in the composition. When
  5   intended for oral administration, this amount may be varied to be between 0.1
      and about 70% of the weight of the composition. Preferred oral pharmaceutical
      compositions contain between about 4% and about 50% of the BT compound.
      Preferred pharmaceutical compositions and preparations according to the
      present invention are prepared so that a parenteral dosage unit contains
 10   between 0.01 to 10% by weight of the microparticulate BT compound prior to
      dilution.
                     The pharmaceutical composition may be intended for topical
     administration, in which case the carrier may suitably comprise a solution,
     emulsion, ointment or gel base. The base, for example, may comprise one or
15   more of the following: petrolatum, lanolin, polyethylene glycols, bee wax,
     mineral oil, shea butter, tea tree oil, flax seed oil, hemp oil or other plant or
     vegetable oils including those known to have anti-inflammatory and/or anti-pain
     or other beneficial effects, salmon oil or other fish oils including those known to
     have anti-inflammatory and/or anti-pain or other beneficial effects, diluents such
20   as water and alcohol, and emulsifiers and stabilizers. Thickening agents may
     be present in a pharmaceutical composition for topical administration. If
     intended for transdermal administration, the composition may include a
     transdermal patch or iontophoresis device. Topical formulations may contain a
     concentration of the microparticulate BT compound from about 0.1 to about
25   10% w/v (weight per unit volume).
                     The pharmaceutical composition may be intended for rectal
     administration, in the form, for example, of a suppository, which will melt in the
     rectum and release the drug. The composition for rectal administration may
     contain an oleaginous base as a suitable nonirritating excipient. Such bases
30   include, without limitation, lanolin, cocoa butter and polyethylene glycol.
                     The pharmaceutical composition may include various materials,
    which modify the physical form of a solid or liquid dosage unit. For example,
    the composition may include materials that form a coating shell around the
    active ingredients. The materials that form the coating shell are typically inert,
35  and may be selected from, for example, sugar, shellac, and other enteric
    coating agents. Alternatively, the active ingredients may be encased in a
    gelatin capsule.

   WO 20111097347                                                      PCT/US2011/023549
                                             59
                     The pharmaceutical composition in solid or liquid form may
      include an agent that binds to the microparticulate BT compound and thereby
     assists in the delivery of the compound. Suitable agents that may act in this
     capacity include a monoclonal or polyclonal antibody, a protein or a liposome.
  5 Certain contemplated embodiments, however, expressly exclude the inclusion
     of a liposome in the pharmaceutical composition.
                    The pharmaceutical composition may consist of dosage units that
     can be administered as an aerosol. The term aerosol is used to denote a
     variety of systems ranging from those of colloidal nature to systems consisting
 10 of pressurized packages. Delivery may be by a liquefied or compressed gas or
     by a suitable pump system that dispenses the active ingredients. Aerosols of
     the microparticulate BT compounds may be delivered in single phase,
     bi-phasic, or tri-phasic systems in order to deliver the active ingredient(s).
     Delivery of the aerosol includes the necessary container, activators, valves,
 15 subcontainers, and the like, which together may form a kit. One skilled in the
     art, without undue experimentation may determine preferred aerosols.
                    The pharmaceutical compositions may be prepared by
     methodology well known in the pharmaceutical art. For example, a
     pharmaceutical composition intended to be administered by injection can be
20 prepared by combining a compound of the invention with sterile, distilled water
    so as to form a solution. A surfactant may be added to facilitate the formation
    of a homogeneous solution or suspension. Surfactants are compounds that
     non-covalently interact with the compound of the invention so as to facilitate
    dissolution or homogeneous suspension of the compound in the aqueous
25 delivery system.
                    The herein described microparticulate BT compounds, or their
    pharmaceutically acceptable salts, are administered in a therapeutically
    effective amount, which will vary depending upon a variety of factors including
    the activity of the specific compound employed; the metabolic stability and
30 length of action of the compound; the age, body weight, general health, sex,
    and diet of the patient; the mode and time of administration; the rate of
    excretion; the drug combination; the severity of the particular disorder or
    condition; and the subject undergoing therapy. Generally, a therapeutically
    effective daily dose is (for a 70 kg mammal) from about 0.001 mg/kg (i.e., 0.07
35 mg) to about 100 mg/kg (i.e., 7.0 g); preferaby a therapeutically effective dose
    is (for a 70 kg mammal) from about 0.01 mg/kg (i.e., 7 mg) to about 50 mg/kg

   WO 20111097347                                                       PCT/US2011/023549
                                                60
     (Le., 3.5 g); more preferably a therapeutically effective dose is (for a 70 kg
     mammal) from about 1 mg/kg (i.e., 70 mg) to about 25 mg/kg (i.e., 1.75 g).
                    The ranges of effective doses provided herein are not intended to
     be limiting and represent preferred dose ranges. However, the most preferred
 5   dosage will be tailored to the individual subject, as is understood and
     determinable by one skilled in the relevant arts. (see, e.g., Berkowet al., eds.,
     The Merck Manual, 16 th edition, Merck and Co., Rahway, N.J., 1992;
     Goodmanetna., eds.,Goodman and Cilman's The Pharmacological Basis of
     Therapeutics, 10 th edition, Pergamon Press, Inc., Elmsford, N.Y., (2001);
10  Avery's Drug Treatment: Principles and Practice of Clinical Pharmacology and
     Therapeutics, 3rd edition, ADIS Press, LTD., Williams and Wilkins, Baltimore,
     MD. (1987), Ebadi, Pharmacology, Little, Brown and Co., Boston, (1985);
     Osolci al., eds.,Remington's Pharmaceutical Sciences, 1 8 th edition, Mack
     Publishing Co., Easton, PA (1990); Katzung, Basic and Clinical Pharmacology,
15  Appleton and Lange, Norwalk, CT (1992)).
                    The total dose required for each treatment can be administered by
     multiple doses or in a single dose over the course of the day, if desired.
    Generally, treatment is initiated with smaller dosages, which are less than the
    optimum dose of the compound. Thereafter, the dosage is increased by small
20   increments until the optimum effect under the circumstances is reached. The
    diagnostic pharmaceutical compound or composition can be administered alone
    or in conjunction with other diagnostics and/or pharmaceuticals directed to the
    pathology, or directed to other symptoms of the pathology. The recipients of
    administration of microparticulate BT compounds and/or compositions can be
25  any vertebrate animal, such as mammals. Among mammals, the preferred
    recipients are mammals of the Orders Primate (including humans, apes and
    monkeys), Arteriodactyla (including horses, goats, cows, sheep, pigs), Rodenta
    (including mice, rats, rabbits, and hamsters), and Carnivora (including cats, and
    dogs). Among birds, the preferred recipients are turkeys, chickens and other
30  members of the same order. The most preferred recipients are humans.
                    For topical applications, it is preferred to administer an effective
    amount of a microparticulate BT-containing pharmaceutical composition to a
    target area, e.g., skin surfaces, mucous membranes, and the like. This amount
    will generally range from about 0.0001 mg to about 1 g of a BT compound per
35  application, depending upon the area to be treated, whether the use is
    diagnostic, prophylactic or therapeutic, the severity of the symptoms, and the
    nature of the topical vehicle employed. A preferred topical preparation is an

   WO 20111097347                                                    PCT/US2011/023549
                                               61
     ointment, wherein about 0.001 to about 50 mg of active ingredient is used per
     cc of ointment base. The pharmaceutical composition can be formulated as
     transdermal compositions or transdermal delivery devices ("patches"). Such
     compositions include, for example, a backing, active compound reservoir, a
 5 control membrane, liner and contact adhesive. Such transdermal patches may
     be used to provide continuous pulsatile, or on demand delivery of the
     compounds of the present invention as desired.
                     The microparticulate BT compositions can be formulated so as to
     provide quick, sustained or delayed release of the active ingredient after
10 administration to the patient by employing procedures known in the art.
     Controlled release drug delivery systems include osmotic pump systems and
     dissolutional systems containing polymer-coated reservoirs or drug-polymer
     matrix formulations. Examples of controlled release systems are given in U.S.
     Pat. Nos. 3,845,770 and 4,326,525 and in P. J. Kuzma et al, Regional
15 Anesthesia 22 (6): 543-551 (1997), all of which are incorporated herein by
     reference.
                     The microparticulate BT compositions can also be delivered
     through intra-nasal drug delivery systems for local, systemic, and nose-to-brain
     medical therapies. Controlled Particle Dispersion (CPD) TM technology,
20 traditional nasal spray bottles, inhalers or nebulizers are known by those skilled
     in the art to provide effective local and systemic delivery of drugs by targeting
     the olfactory region and paranasal sinuses.
                     The invention also relates in certain embodiments to an
     intravaginal shell or core drug delivery device suitable for administration to the
25 human or animal female. The device may be comprised of the active
     pharmaceutical ingredient in a polymer matrix, surrounded by a sheath, and
     capable of releasing the compound in a substantially zero order pattern on a
     daily basis similar to devices used to apply testosterone as described in WO
     98/50016.
30                   Current methods for ocular delivery include topical administration
     (eye drops), subconjunctival injections, periocular injections, intravitreal
     injections, surgical implants and iontophoresis (uses a small electrical current to
     transport ionized drugs into and through body tissues). Those skilled in the art
     would combine the best suited excipients with the compound for safe and
35   effective intra-occular administration.
                    The most suitable route will depend on the nature and severity of
     the condition being treated. Those skilled in the art are also familiar with

   WO 20111097347                                                    PCT/US2011/023549
                                              62
    determining administration methods (oral, intravenous, inhalation, sub
    cutaneous, rectal etc.), dosage forms, suitable pharmaceutical excipients and
    other matters relevant to the delivery of the compounds to a subject in need
    thereof.
 5                 The presently described compositions and methods may also find
    use in the treatment of acute and chronic wounds and wound biofilms,
    including, for example, as burn creams, as topicals for the treatment of existing
    wounds including those described herein, for prevention of chronic wounds, for
    treatment of MRSA skin infections, and for other related indications as
10  disclosed herein and as will be apparent to the skilled person in view of the
    present disclosure.
                   Non-limiting examples of bacteria against which the herein
    described compositions and methods may find beneficial use, according to
    certain embodiments as described herein, include Staphylococcus aureus (S.
15  aureus), MRSA (methicillin-resistant S. aureus), Staphylococcus epidermidis,
    MRSE (methicillin-resistant S. epidermidis), Mycobacterium tuberculosis,
    Mycobacterium avium, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, drug-resistant P. aeruginosa,
    Escherichia coli, enterotoxigenic E. coli, enterohemorrhagic E. coli, Klebsiella
    pneumoniae, Clostridium difficile, Heliobacter pylori, Legionella pneumophila,,
20  Enterococcus faecalis, methicillin-susceptible Enterococcus faecalis,
    Enterobacter cloacae, Salmonella typhimurium, Proteus vulgaris, Yersinia
    enterocolitica, Vibrio cholera, Shigella flexneri, vancomycin-resistant
    Enterococcus (VRE), Burkholderia cepacia complex, Francisella tularensis,
    Bacillus anthracis, Yersinia pestis, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, vancomycin
25  sensitive and vancomycin-resistant enterococci (e.g., E. faecalis, E. faecium),
    methicillin-sensitive and methicillin-resistant staphylococci (e.g., S. aureus , S.
    epidermidis) and Acinetobacter baumanni, Staphylococcus haemolyticus,
    Staphylococcus hominis, Enterococcus faecium, Streptococcus pyogenes,
    Streptococcus agalactiae, Bacillus anthracis, Klebsiella pneumonia, Proteus
30  mirabilis, Proteus vulgaris, Yersinia enterocolytica, Stenotrophomonas
    maltophilia, Streptococcus pneumonia, penicillin-resistant Streptococcus
    pneumonia, Burkholderia cepacia, Bukholderia multivorans, Mycobacterium
    smegmatis and E. cloacae.
                   The practice of certain embodiments of the present invention will
35  employ, unless indicated specifically to the contrary, conventional methods of
    microbiology, molecular biology, biochemistry, cell biology, virology and
    immunology techniques that are within the skill of the art, and reference to

   WO 20111097347                                                       PCT/US2011/023549
                                                63
     several of which is made below for the purpose of illustration. Such techniques
     are explained fully in the literature. See, e.g., Sambrook, et al. Molecular
     Cloning: A Laboratory Manual (2nd Edition, 1989); Maniatis et al. Molecular
     Cloning: A Laboratory Manual (1982); DNA Cloning: A Practical Approach, vol. I
 5  & II (D. Glover, ed.); O/igonucleotide Synthesis (N. Gait, ed., 1984); Nucleic
    Acid Hybridization (B. Hames & S. Higgins, eds., 1985); Transcription and
     Translation (B. Hames & S. Higgins, eds., 1984); Animal Cell Culture (R.
     Freshney, ed., 1986); Perbal, A Practical Guide to Molecular Cloning (1984).
                    Unless the context requires otherwise, throughout the present
10  specification and claims, the word "comprise" and variations thereof, such as,
    "comprises" and "comprising" are to be construed in an open, inclusive sense,
    that is as "including, but not limited to".
                    Reference throughout this specification to "one embodiment" or
    "an embodiment" or "an aspect" means that a particular feature, structure or
15  characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at
    least one embodiment of the present invention. Thus, the appearances of the
    phrases "in one embodiment" or "in an embodiment" in various places
    throughout this specification are not necessarily all referring to the same
    embodiment. Furthermore, the particular features, structures, or characteristics
20  may be combined in any suitable manner in one or more embodiments.
                   Certain embodiments relate to methods, compositions and kits for
    treating an acute or chronic wound or a wound biofilm in a subject, which may
    comprise promoting skin tissue repair in the subject, or for altering one or more
    cellular wound repair activity in a cell or plurality of cells. A cell generally
25  indicates a single cell, whereas a plurality of cells indicates more than one cell.
    The cells may comprise a tissue, organ or entire organism. Furthermore, the
    cell or cells may be located in vivo, in vitro, or ex vivo. Maintaining cell, tissue
    and organ cultures are routine procedures for one of skill in the art, the
    conditions and media for which can be easily ascertained. (See, for example,
30  Freshney, Culture of Animal Cells: A Manual of Basic Technique, Wiley-Liss 5 th
    Ed. (2005); Davis, Basic Cell Culture, Oxford University Press 2 nd Ed. (2002)).
                   As disclosed herein, certain embodiments relate to methods for
    treating an acute or chronic wound or a wound biofilm in a subject that
    comprises administering to the subject a therapeutically effective amount of a
35  composition comprising a BT compound as described herein for use in such
    method (e.g., as provided in the form of a plurality of substantially
    monodisperse microparticles), and optionally in certain further embodiments

   WO 20111097347                                                       PCT/US2011/023549
                                               64
     also comprising an antibiotic compound as described herein for use in such
     method, for example, a BT compound such as BisEDT or BisBAL or other
     compounds presented in Table 1 herein, or any other BT agent such as those
    described in Domenico et al. (1997 Antimicrob. Agent. Chemother. 41:1697;
 5 2001 Antimicrob. Agent. Chemother. 45:1421) and/or in U.S. RE37,793, U.S.
    6,248,371, U.S. 6,086,921, and U.S. 6,380,248 and/or as prepared according to
    the methods disclosed herein. Certain other embodiments relate to methods
    that comprise contacting any natural surface with a composition comprising
    one or more of the herein described microparticu late BT compounds, where
10 such step of contacting may comprise one or more of directly applying, coating,
    dipping, irrigating, spraying, painting or otherwise bringing the BT composition
    into contact with the natural surface.
                   The step of administering to a subject such as a human or other
    mammalian subject may be performed by any means known to the art, for
15 example, topically (including via direct administration to skin or to any epithelial
    tissue surface, including such surfaces as may be present in glandular tissues
    or in the respiratory and/or gastrointestinal tracts), vaginally, intraperitoneally,
    orally, parenterally, intravenously, intraarterially, transdermally, sublingually,
    subcutaneously, intramuscularly, transbuccally, intranasally, via inhalation,
20 intraoccularly, subcutaneously, intraadiposally, intraarticularly or intrathecally.
                   In preferred embodiments administering may be performed
    topically, where pharmaceutical excipients or carriers for topical use are
    described herein and known in the art.
                   As noted above, certain invention embodiments described herein
25 relate to topical formulations of the described BT compounds (e.g., BisEDT
    and/or BisBAL), which formulations may in certain further embodiments
    comprise one or more antibiotic compounds as described herein, for instance,
    amikacin, ampicillin, cefazolin, cefepime, chloramphenicol, ciprofloxacin,
    clindamycin (or another lincosamide antibiotic), daptomycin (Cubicin@),
30 doxycycline, gatifloxacin, gentamicin, imipenim, levofloxacin, linezolid (Zyvox@),
    minocycline, nafcilin, paromomycin, rifampin, sulphamethoxazole, tobramycin
    and vancomycin; or a carbapenem antibiotic, a cephalosporin antibiotic, a
    fluoroquinolone antibiotic, a glycopeptide antibiotic, a lincosamide antibiotic, a
    penicillinase-resistant penicillin antibiotic, and/or an aminopenicillin antibiotic,
35  and/or an aminoglycoside antibiotic such as amikacin, arbekacin, gentamicin,
    kanamycin, neomycin, netilmicin, paromomycin, rhodostreptomycin,
    streptomycin, tobramycin or apramycin, and/or a lipopeptide antibiotic such as

   WO 20111097347                                                      PCT/US2011/023549
                                               65
     daptomycin (Cubicin@), or an oxazolidinone antibiotic such as linezolid
     (Zyvox@). These and related formulations may comprise the BT compound(s)
     (and optionally one or more antibiotics) in a pharmaceutically acceptable
     carrier, excipient or diluent and in a therapeutic amount, as disclosed herein,
 5 when administered topically to an animal, preferably a mammal, and most
     preferably a human, and in particularly preferred embodiments, a human having
     an acute or chronic wound or a wound that contains a bacterial infection which
     may be biofilm-related (e.g., in which bacteria capable of promoting biofilm
     formation may be present but a biofilm is not yet detectable) or that contains a
10 bacterial infection such as a biofilm or other bacterial presence.
                    Topical administration of the BT compounds described herein, or
     their pharmaceutically acceptable salts, in pure form or in an appropriate
     pharmaceutical composition, can be carried out via any of the accepted modes
     of topical administration of agents for serving similar utilities. Topical
15 application or administration of a composition includes, in preferred
     embodiments, directly contacting the composition (e.g., a topical formulation)
     with skin and/or another epithelial tissue surface (e.g., respiratory tract,
     gastrointestinal tract and/or glandular epithelial linings) of the subject
     undergoing treatment, which may be at one or more localized or widely
20 distributed skin and/or other epithelial tissue surface sites and which may
     generally refer to contacting the topical formulation with an acute or chronic
     wound site that is surrounded by intact stratum corneum or epidermis but need
     not be so limited; for instance, certain embodiments contemplate as a topical
     application the administration of a topical formulation described herein to
25 injured, abraded or damaged skin, or skin of a subject undergoing surgery,
     such that contact of the topical formulation may take place not only with stratum
     corneum or epidermis but also with skin granular cell, spinous cell, and/or basal
     cell layers, and/or with dermal or underlying tissues, for example, as may
     accompany certain types of wound repair or wound healing or other skin tissue
30   remodeling.
                    Such skin tissue repair may therefore comprise, in certain
     preferred embodiments, dermal wound healing, as may be desirable, for
     example, in preventing or ameliorating an acute chronic wound or a wound
     biofilm or, as another example, in preventing or ameliorating skin wound
35   dehiscence, or in improving, accelerating or otherwise enhancing dermal wound
     healing when an acute or chronic wound and/or skin wound dehiscence may be
     present. Certain other embodiments that contemplate topical administration to

   WO 20111097347                                                       PCT/US2011/023549
                                               66
      an epithelial tissue surface present in respiratory tract, gastrointestinal tract
      and/or glandular linings similarly may comprise administration of the topical
      formulation by an appropriate route as will be known in the art for delivering a
      topical preparation as provided herein, to one or more epithelial tissue surfaces
  5 present in respiratory (e.g., airway, nasopharyngeal and laryngeal paths,
      tracheal, pulmonary, bronchi, bronchioles, alveoli, etc.) and/or gastrointestinal
      (e.g., buccal, esophageal, gastric, intestinal, rectal, anal, etc.) tracts, and/or
      other epithelial surfaces.
                     According to certain contemplated embodiments topical
 10 administration may comprise direct application into an open wound. For
      instance, an open fracture or other open wound may include a break in the skin
     that may expose additional underlying tissues to the external environment in a
      manner that renders them susceptible to microbial infection. Such a situation is
      not uncommon in certain types of acute traumatic military wounds, including, for
 15 example, Type Ill (severe) open fractures. In accord with these and related
     embodiments, topical administration may be by direct contact of the herein
     described BT composition with such damaged skin and/or another epithelial
     surface and/or with other tissues, such as, for instance, connective tissues
     including muscle, ligaments, tendons, bones, circulatory tissues such as blood
20 vessels, associated nerve tissues, and any other organs that may be exposed
     in such open wounds. Examples of other tissues that may be exposed, and
     hence for which such direct contact is contemplated, include kidney, bladder,
     liver, pancreas, and any other tissue or organ that may be so detrimentally
     exposed to opportunistic infection in relation to an open wound.
25                   The topical formulations (e.g., pharmaceutical compositions) may
     be prepared by combining the described BT compound (e.g., comprising a
     compound described in U.S. RE37,793, U.S. 6,248,371, U.S. 6,086,921, and/or
     U.S. 6,380,248 and/or prepared according to the present disclosure such as the
     herein described microparticulate BT suspensions), and in certain related
30   embodiments by combining one or more desired antibiotics (e.g., an
     aminoglycoside antibiotic such as amikacin) separately or together with the BT
     compound, with an appropriate pharmaceutically acceptable carrier, diluent or
     excipient for use in a topical formulation preparation, and may be formulated
     into preparations in solid, semi-solid, gel, cream, colloid, suspension or liquid or
35   other topically applied forms, such as powders, granules, ointments, solutions,
     washes, gels, pastes, plasters, paints, bioadhesives, microsphere suspensions,
     and aerosol sprays.

    WO 20111097347                                                      PCT/US2011/023549
                                                67
                      Pharmaceutical compositions of these and related embodiments
     are formulated so as to allow the active ingredients contained therein, and in
     particularly preferred embodiments the herein described BT compound(s) alone
     or in combination with one or more desired antibiotics (e.g., a carbapenem
  5  antibiotic, a cephalosporin antibiotic, a fluoroquinolone antibiotic, a glycopeptide
     antibiotic, a lincosamide antibiotic, a penicillinase-resistant penicillin antibiotic,
     and an aminopenicillin antibiotic, or an aminoglycoside antibiotic such as
     amikacin, or rifamycin) which may be applied simultaneously or sequentially
     and in either order, to be bioavailable upon topical administration of the
10   formulation containing the BT compound(s) and/or antibiotic composition(s) to
     an acute or chronic wound and optionally to surrounding skin of a subject, such
     as a mammal, including a human, and in certain preferred embodiments a
     human patient having an acute or chronic wound, or being at increased risk for
     having, an acute or chronic wound or a wound biofilm or wound dehiscence
15   (e.g., an obese and/or diabetic individual). Certain embodiments disclosed
     herein contemplate topical administration of a BT compound and of an
     antibiotic, including administration that may be simultaneous or sequential and
     in either order, but the invention is not intended to be so limited and in other
     embodiments expressly contemplates a distinct route of administration for the
20   BT compound relative to the route of administration of the antibiotic. Thus, the
     antibiotic may be administered orally, intravenously, or by any other route of
     administration as described herein, while the BT compound may be
     administered by a route that is independent of the route used for the antibiotic.
     As a non-limiting, illustrative example, the BT compound may be administered
25   topically as provided herein, while the antibiotic may be simultaneously or
     sequentially (and in any order) administered by a distinct route, such as orally,
     intravenously, transdermally, subcutaneously, intramuscularly and/or by any
     other route of administration.
                     The topical formulations described herein deliver a therapeutically
3.0  effective amount of the antiseptic or wound-healing agent(s) (and optionally the
     antibiotic(s)) to the wound site, for instance, to skin cells such as dermal
     fibroblasts. Preferred formulations may be contacted with a desired site such
     as a topical wound site, a chronic wound, an epithelial tissue surface or other
     intended site of administration by spraying, irrigating, dipping and/or painting;
35   such formulations therefore may exhibit ready permeability into the skin, as can
     be determined according to any of a number of established methodologies
     known to the art for testing the skin permeability of a drug composition (see,

   WO 20111097347                                                     PCT/US2011/023549
                                              68
     e.g., Wagner et al., 2002 J. Invest. Dermatol. 118:540, and references cited
    therein; Bronaugh et al., 1985 J. Pharm. Sci. 74:64; Bosman et al., 1998 J.
    Pharm. Biomed. Anal. 17:493-499; Bosman et al., 1996 J. Pharm Biomed Anal.
     1996 14:1015-23; Bonferoni et al., 1999 Pharm. Dev. Technol. 4:45-53; Frantz,
  5 Instrumentation and methodology for in vitro skin diffusion cells in methodology
    for skin absorption. In: Methods for Skin Absorption (Kemppainen & Reifenrath,
    Eds), CRC Press, Florida, 1990, pp. 35-59; Tojo, Design and calibration of in
    vitro permeation apparatus. In: Transdermal Controlled Systemic Medications
    (Chien YW, Ed), Marcel Dekker, New York, 1987, 127-158; Barry, Methods for
 10 studying percutaneous absorption. In: Dermatological Formulations:
    Percutaneous absorption, Marcel Dekker, New York, 1983, 234-295).
                    Compositions, and formulations comprising such compositions,
    that will be administered to the skin of a subject or patient may in certain
    embodiments take the form of one or more dosage units, where for example, a
15 liquid-filled capsule or ampule may contain a single dosage unit, and a
    container of a topical formulation as described herein in aerosol form may hold
    a plurality of dosage units. Actual methods of preparing such dosage forms are
    known, or will be apparent, to those skilled in this art; for example, see The
    Science and Practice of Pharmacy, 20th Edition (Philadelphia College of
20 Pharmacy and Science, 2000). The composition or formulation to be
    administered will, in any event, contain a therapeutically effective amount of an
    antiseptic and/or wound healing-promoting compound as provided herein (e.g.,
    a BT compound), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, in accordance
    with the present teachings.
25                 As noted above, the present topical formulations may take any of
    a wide variety of forms, and include, for example, creams, lotions, solutions,
    sprays, gels, ointments, pastes or the like, and/or may be prepared so as to
    contain liposomes, micelles, and/or microspheres. See, e.g., U.S. Patent No.
    7,205,003. For instance, creams, as is well known in the arts of pharmaceutical
30 and cosmeceutical formulation, are viscous liquids or semisolid emulsions,
    either oil-in-water or water-in-oil. Cream bases are water-washable, and
    contain an oil phase, an emulsifier, and an aqueous phase. The oil phase, also
    called the "internal" phase, is generally comprised of petrolatum and a fatty
    alcohol such as cetyl or stearyl alcohol. The aqueous phase usually, although
35 not necessarily, exceeds the oil phase in volume, and generally contains a
    humectant. The emulsifier in a cream formulation is generally a nonionic,
    anionic, cationic or amphoteric surfactant.

   WO 20111097347                                                      PCT/US2011/023549
                                               69
                    Lotions, which are preferred for delivery of cosmetic agents, are
     preparations to be applied to the skin surface without friction, and are typically
     liquid or semi-liquid preparations in which solid particles, including the active
     agent, are present in a water or alcohol base. Lotions are usually suspensions
  5 of solids, and preferably comprise a liquid oily emulsion of the oil-in-water type.
     Lotions are preferred formulations herein for treating large body areas, because
     of the ease of applying a more fluid composition. It is generally preferred that
    the insoluble matter in a lotion be finely divided. Lotions will typically contain
    suspending agents to produce better dispersions as well as compounds useful
 10 for localizing and holding the active agent in contact with the skin, e.g.,
     methylcellulose, sodium carboxymethyl-cellulose, or the like.
                    Solutions are homogeneous mixtures prepared by dissolving one
    or more chemical substances (solutes) in a liquid such that the molecules of the
    dissolved substance are dispersed among those of the solvent. The solution
15 may contain other pharmaceutically acceptable and/or cosmeceutically
    acceptable chemicals to buffer, stabilize or preserve the solute. Common
    examples of solvents used in preparing solutions are ethanol, water, propylene
    glycol or any other pharmaceutically acceptable and/or cosmeceutically
    acceptable vehicles.
20                  Gels are semisolid, suspension-type systems. Single-phase gels
    contain organic macromolecules distributed substantially uniformly throughout
    the carrier liquid, which is typically aqueous, but also, preferably, contain an
    alcohol, and, optionally, an oil. Preferred "organic macromolecules," i.e., gelling
    agents, may be chemically crosslinked polymers such as crosslinked acrylic
25 acid polymers, for instance, the "carbomer" family of polymers, e.g.,
    carboxypolyalkylenes, that may be obtained commercially under the Carbopol@
    trademark. Also preferred in certain embodiments may be hydrophilic polymers
    such as polyethylene oxides, polyoxyethylene-polyoxypropylene copolymers
    and polyvinylalcohol; cellulosic polymers such as hydroxypropyl cellulose,
30 hydroxyethyl cellulose, hydroxypropyl methylcellulose, hydroxypropyl
    methylcellulose phthalate, and methyl cellulose; gums such as tragacanth and
    xanthan gum; sodium alginate; and gelatin. In order to prepare a uniform gel,
    dispersing agents such as alcohol or glycerin can be added, or the gelling agent
    can be dispersed by trituration, mechanical mixing or stirring, or combinations
35 thereof.
                   Ointments, as also well known in the art, are semisolid
    preparations that are typically based on petrolatum or other petroleum

   WO 20111097347                                                       PCT/US2011/023549
                                                  70
      derivatives. The specific ointment base to be used, as will be appreciated by
      those skilled in the art, is one that will provide for a number of desirable
      characteristics, e.g., emolliency or the like. As with other carriers or vehicles,
      an ointment base should be inert, stable, nonirritating, and nonsensitizing. As
  5 explained in Remington: The Science and Practice of Pharmacy, 19th Ed.
      (Easton, Pa.: Mack Publishing Co., 1995), at pages 1399-1404, ointment bases
      may be grouped in four classes: oleaginous bases; emulsifiable bases;
      emulsion bases; and water-soluble bases. Oleaginous ointment bases include,
      for example, vegetable oils, fats obtained from animals, and semisolid
 10   hydrocarbons obtained from petroleum. Emulsifiable ointment bases, also
      known as absorbent ointment bases, contain little or no water and include, for
      example, hydroxystearin sulfate, anhydrous lanolin, and hydrophilic petrolatum.
      Emulsion ointment bases are either water-in-oil (W/O) emulsions or oil-in-water
      (01W) emulsions, and include, for example, cetyl alcohol, glyceryl
15    monostearate, lanolin, and stearic acid. Preferred water-soluble ointment
      bases are prepared from polyethylene glycols of varying molecular weight (see,
      e.g., Remington, Id.).
                    Pastes are semisolid dosage forms in which the active agent is
     suspended in a suitable base. Depending on the nature of the base, pastes are
20   divided between fatty pastes or those made from single-phase aqueous gels.
     The base in a fatty paste is generally petrolatum or hydrophilic petrolatum or
     the like. The pastes made from single-phase aqueous gels generally
     incorporate carboxymethylcellulose or the like as a base.
                    Formulations may also be prepared with liposomes, micelles, and
25   microspheres. Liposomes are microscopic vesicles having one (unilamellar) or
     a plurality (multilamellar) of lipid walls comprising a lipid bilayer, and, in the
     present context, may encapsulate and/or have adsorbed to their lipid
     membranous surfaces one or more components of the topical formulations
     herein described, such as the antiseptic, wound healing/skin tissue/ epithelial
30   tissue repair-promoting compounds (e.g., microparticulate BT compounds,
     optionally along with one or more antibiotics) or certain carriers or excipients.
     Liposomal preparations herein include cationic (positively charged), anionic
     (negatively charged), and neutral preparations. Cationic liposomes are readily
     available. For example, N[1-2,3-dioleyloxy)propyl]-N,N,N-triethylammonium
35   (DOTMA) liposomes are available under the tradename Lipofectin@ (GIBCO
     BRL, Grand Island, N.Y.). Similarly, anionic and neutral liposomes are readily
     available as well, e.g., from Avanti Polar Lipids (Birmingham, AL), or can be

   WO 20111097347                                                     PCT/US2011/023549
                                              71
     easily prepared using readily available materials. Such materials include
     phosphatidyl choline, cholesterol, phosphatidyl ethanolamine,
     dioleoylphosphatidyl choline (DOPC), dioleoylphosphatidyl glycerol (DOPG),
     and dioleoylphoshatidyl ethanolamine (DOPE), among others. These materials
 5   can also be mixed with DOTMA in appropriate ratios. Methods for making
     liposomes using these materials are well known in the art.
                    Micelles are known in the art as comprised of surfactant
     molecules arranged so that their polar headgroups form an outer spherical
     shell, while the hydrophobic, hydrocarbon chains are oriented towards the
10   center of the sphere, forming a core. Micelles form in an aqueous solution
     containing surfactant at a high enough concentration so that micelles naturally
     result. Surfactants useful for forming micelles include, but are not limited to,
     potassium laurate, sodium octane sulfonate, sodium decane sulfonate, sodium
     dodecane sulfonate, sodium lauryl sulfate, docusate sodium,
15   decyltrimethylammonium bromide, dodecyltrimethylammonium bromide,
    tetradecyltrimethylammonium bromide, tetradecyltrimethyl-ammon ium chloride,
     dodecylammonium chloride, polyoxyl-8 dodecyl ether, polyoxyl-12 dodecyl
     ether, nonoxynol 10, and nonoxynol 30.
                    Microspheres, similarly, may be incorporated into the presently
20  described topical formulations. Like liposomes and micelles, microspheres
    essentially encapsulate one or more components of the present formulations.
    They are generally, but not necessarily, formed from lipids, preferably charged
     lipids such as phospholipids. Preparation of lipidic microspheres is well known
     in the art.
25                  Various additives, as known to those skilled in the art, may also
    be included in the topical formulations. For example, solvents, including
    relatively small amounts of alcohol, may be used to solubilize certain
    formulation components. It may be desirable, for certain topical formulations or
    in cases of particularly severe skin injury such as a post-surgical acute or
30  chronic wound or post-surgical dermal wound dehiscence, to include in the
    topical formulation an added skin permeation enhancer in the formulation.
    Examples of suitable enhancers include, but are not limited to, ethers such as
    diethylene glycol monoethyl ether (available commercially as Transcutol@) and
    diethylene glycol monomethyl ether; surfactants such as sodium laurate,
35  sodium lauryl sulfate, cetyltrimethylammonium bromide, benzalkonium chloride,
    Poloxamer@ (231, 182, 184), Tween@ (20, 40, 60, 80), and lecithin (U.S. Pat.
    No. 4,783,450); alcohols such as ethanol, propanol, octanol, benzyl alcohol,

   WO 20111097347                                                     PCT/US2011/023549
                                               72
     and the like; polyethylene glycol and esters thereof such as polyethylene glycol
     monolaurate (PEGML; see, e.g., U.S. Pat. No. 4,568,343); amides and other
     nitrogenous compounds such as urea, dimethylacetamide (DMA),
     dimethylformamide (DMF), 2-pyrrolidone, 1 -methyl-2-pyrrolidone,
 5 ethanolamine, diethanolamine, and triethanolamine; terpenes; alkanones; and
     organic acids, particularly citric acid and succinic acid. Azone@ and sulfoxides
     such as DMSO and C1 0MSO may also be used, but are less preferred.
                     Most preferred skin permeation enhancers are those lipophilic co
     enhancers typically referred to as "plasticizing" enhancers, i.e., enhancers that
10 have a molecular weight in the range of about 150 to 1000 daltons, an aqueous
     solubility of less than about 1 wt %, preferably less than about 0.5 wt %, and
     most preferably less than about 0.2 wt %. The Hildebrand solubility parameter
     of plasticizing enhancers is in the range of about 2.5 to about 10, preferably in
    the range of about 5 to about 10. Preferred lipophilic enhancers are fatty
15 esters, fatty alcohols, and fatty ethers. Examples of specific and most preferred
    fatty acid esters include methyl laurate, ethyl oleate, propylene glycol
    monolaurate, propylene glycerol dilaurate, glycerol monolaurate, glycerol
    monooleate, isopropyl n-decanoate, and octyldodecyl myristate. Fatty alcohols
    include, for example, stearyl alcohol and oleyl alcohol, while fatty ethers include
20 compounds wherein a diol or triol, preferably a C2-C4 alkane diol or triol, are
    substituted with one or two fatty ether substituents. Additional skin permeation
    enhancers will be known to those of ordinary skill in the art of topical drug
    delivery, and/or are described in the relevant literature. See, e.g.,
    Percutaneous Penetration Enhancers, eds. Smith et al. (CRC Press, Boca
25 Raton, FL, 1995).
                     Various other additives may be included in the topical
    formulations according to certain embodiments of the present invention, in
    addition to those identified above. These include, but are not limited to,
    antioxidants, astringents, perfumes, preservatives, emollients, pigments, dyes,
30 humectants, propellants, and sunscreen agents, as well as other classes of
    materials whose presence may be cosmetically, medicinally or otherwise
    desirable. Typical examples of optional additives for inclusion in the
    formulations of certain embodiments of the invention are as follows:
    preservatives such as sorbate; solvents such as isopropanol and propylene
35 glycol; astringents such as menthol and ethanol; emollients such as
    polyalkylene methyl glucosides; humectants such as glycerine; emulsifiers such
    as glycerol stearate, PEG-1 00 stearate, polyglyceryl-3 hydroxylauryl ether, and

   WO 20111097347                                                      PCT/US2011/023549
                                               73
     polysorbate 60; sorbitol and other polyhydroxyalcohols such as polyethylene
     glycol; sunscreen agents such as octyl methoxyl cinnamate (available
     commercially as Parsol MCX) and butyl methoxy benzoylmethane (available
     under the tradename Parsol 1789); antioxidants such as ascorbic acid (vitamin
  5 C), a-tocopherol (Vitamin E), p-tocopherol , y-tocopherol, S-tocopherol, s
     tocopherol , CI-tocopherol, C2 -tocopherol, q-tocopherol , and retinol (vitamin A);
     essential oils, ceramides, essential fatty acids, mineral oils, wetting agents and
     other surfactants such as the PLURONIC@ series of hydrophilic polymers
     available from BASF (Mt. Olive, NJ), vegetable oils (e.g., soy bean oil, palm oil,
 10 liquid fraction of shea butter, sunflower oil), animal oils (e.g.,
     perhydrosqualene), mineral oils, synthetic oils, silicone oils or waxes (e.g.,
     cyclomethicone and dimethicone), fluorinated oils (generally
     perfluoropolyethers), fatty alcohols (e.g., cetyl alcohol), and waxes (e.g.,
     beeswax, carnauba wax, and paraffin wax); skin-feel modifiers; and thickeners
 15 and structurants such as swelling clays and cross-linked carboxypolyalkylenes
    that may be obtained commercially under the Carbopol@ trademark.
                    Other additives include beneficial agents such as those materials
    that condition the skin (particularly, the upper layers of the skin in the stratum
     corneum) and keep it soft by retarding the decrease of its water content and/or
20 protect the skin. Such conditioners and moisturizing agents include, by way of
    example, pyrrolidine carboxylic acid and amino acids; organic antimicrobial
    agents such as 2,4,4'-trichloro-2-hydroxy diphenyl ether (triclosan) and benzoic
    acid; anti-inflammatory agents such as acetylsalicylic acid and glycyrrhetinic
    acid; anti-seborrhoeic agents such as. retinoic acid; vasodilators such as
25 nicotinic acid; inhibitors of melanogenesis such as kojic acid; and mixtures
    thereof. Other advantageously included cosmeceutically active agents may be
    present, for example, a-hydroxyacids, a-ketoacids, polymeric hydroxyacids,
    moisturizers, collagen, marine extracts, and antioxidants such as ascorbic acid
    (vitamin C), a-tocopherol (Vitamin E) or other tocopherols such as those
30 described above, and retinol (vitamin A), and/or cosmetically acceptable salts,
    esters, amides, or other derivatives thereof. Additional cosmetic agents include
    those that are capable of improving oxygen supply in skin tissue, as described,
    for example, in WO 94/00098 and WO 94/00109. Sunscreens may also be
    included.
35                  Other embodiments may include a variety of non-carcinogenic,
    non-irritating healing materials that facilitate treatment with the formulations of
    certain embodiments of the invention. Such healing materials may include

  WO 20111097347                                                      PCT/US2011/023549
                                                74
    nutrients, minerals, vitamins, electrolytes, enzymes, herbs, plant extracts,
    honey, glandular or animal extracts, or safe therapeutic agents that may be
    added to the formulation to facilitate dermal healing. The amounts of these
    various additives are those conventionally used in the cosmetics field, and
 5 range, for example, from about 0.01% to about 20% of the total weight of the
    topical formulation.
                    The formulations of certain embodiments of the invention may
    also include conventional additives such as opacifiers, fragrance, colorant,
    gelling agents, thickening agents, stabilizers, surfactants, and the like. Other
10 agents may also be added, such as antimicrobial agents, to prevent spoilage
    upon storage, i.e., to inhibit growth of microbes such as yeasts and molds.
    Suitable antimicrobial agents are typically selected from methyl and propyl
    esters of p-hydroxybenzoic acid (e.g., methyl and propyl paraben), sodium
    benzoate, sorbic acid, imidurea, and combinations thereof. The formulations
15 may also contain irritation-mitigating additives to minimize or eliminate the
    possibility of skin irritation or skin damage resulting from the anti-infective acute
    or chronic wound healing and skin tissue repair-promoting compound to be
    administered, or from other components of the composition. Suitable irritation
    mitigating additives include, for example: a-tocopherol ; monoamine oxidase
20 inhibitors, particularly phenyl alcohols such as 2-phenyl-1-ethanol; glycerin;
   salicylates; ascorbates; ionophores such as monensin; amphiphilic amines;
   ammonium chloride; N-acetylcysteine; capsaicin; and chioroquine. The
    irritation-mitigating additive, if present, may be incorporated into the topical
   formulation at a concentration effective to mitigate irritation or skin damage,
25 typically representing not more than about 20 wt %, more typically not more
   than about 5 wt %, of the formulation.
                    The topical formulations may also contain, in addition to the
   antiseptic/ wound healing/ anti-biofilm/ skin tissue repair-promoting compound
   (e.g., a BT compound, preferably as substantially homogeneous microparticles
30 as provided herein, and optionally in combination with one or more synergizing
   antibiotics as described herein), a therapeutically effective amount of one or
   more additional pharmacologically active agents suitable for topical
   administration. Such agents may include an asymmetrical lamellar aggregate
   consisting of phospholipids and oxygen-loaded fluorocarbon or a fluorocarbon
35 compound mixture, which are capable of improving oxygen supply in skin
   tissue, as described, for example, in International Patent Publication Nos. WO
   94/00098 and WO 94/00109.

   WO 20111097347                                                        PCT/US2011/023549
                                                75
                     Suitable pharmacologically active agents that may be
     incorporated into the present topical formulations and thus topically applied,
     may include but are not limited to, the following: agents that improve or
     eradicate pigmented or non-pigmented age spots, keratoses, and wrinkles;
  5 antimicrobial agents; antibacterial agents; antipruritic and antixerotic agents;
     antiinflammatory agents; local anesthetics and analgesics; corticosteroids;
     retinoids (e.g., retinoic acid; vitamins; hormones; and antimetabolites. Some
     examples of topical pharmacologically active agents include acyclovir,
     amphotericins, chlorhexidine, clotrimazole, ketoconazole, econazole,
10 miconazole, metronidazole, minocycline, nystatin, neomycin, kanamycin,
     phenytoin, para-amino benzoic acid esters, octyl methoxycinnamate, octyl
    salicylate, oxybenzone, dioxybenzone, tocopherol, tocopheryl acetate, selenium
    sulfide, zinc pyrithione, diphenhydramine, pramoxine, lidocaine, procaine,
    erythromycin, tetracycline, clindamycin, crotamiton, hydroquinone and its
15  monomethyl and benzyl ethers, naproxen, ibuprofen, cromolyn, retinoic acid,
    retinol, retinyl palmitate, retinyl acetate, coal tar, griseofulvin, estradiol,
    hydrocortisone, hydrocortisone 21-acetate, hydrocortisone 17-valerate,
    hydrocortisone 17-butyrate, progesterone, betamethasone valerate,
    betamethasone dipropionate, triamcinolone acetonide, fluocinonide, clobetasol
20  propionate, minoxidil, dipyridamole, diphenylhydantoin, benzoyl peroxide, and
    5-fluorouracil. As also noted above, certain embodiments contemplate
    inclusion in the formulation of an antibiotic such as a carbapenem antibiotic, a
    cephalosporin antibiotic, a fluoroquinolone antibiotic, a glycopeptide antibiotic, a
    lincosamide antibiotic, a pen icillinase-resistant penicillin antibiotic, an
25  aminopenicillin antibiotic, or an aminoglycoside antibiotic such as amikacin.
                    A pharmacologically acceptable carrier may also be incorporated
    in the topical formulation of certain present embodiments and may be any
    carrier conventionally used in the art. Examples include water, lower alcohols,
    higher alcohols, honey, polyhydric alcohols, monosaccharides, disaccharides,
30  polysaccharides, sugar alcohols such as, for example, glycols (2-carbon),
    glycerols (3-carbon), erythritols and threitols (4-carbon), arabitols, xylitols and
    ribitols (5-carbon), mannitols, sorbitols, dulcitols and iditols (6-carbon),
    isomaltols, maltitols, lactitols and polyglycitols, hydrocarbon oils, fats and oils,
    waxes, fatty acids, silicone oils, nonionic surfactants, ionic surfactants, silicone
35  surfactants, and water-based mixtures and emulsion-based mixtures of such
    carriers.

   WO 20111097347                                                       PCT/US2011/023549
                                               76
                    Topical formulation embodiments of the present invention may be
     applied regularly to whatever acute or chronic wound site (e.g., the wound itself
     and surrounding tissue, including surrounding tissue that appears unaffected by
     infection or otherwise normal or healthy) or skin area or other epithelial tissue
 5   surface (e.g., gastrointestinal tract, respiratory tract, glandular tissue) requires
    treatment with the frequency and in the amount necessary to achieve the
    desired results. The frequency of treatment depends on the nature of the skin
     (or other epithelial tissue) condition (e.g., an acute or chronic wound or other
    skin wound such as may be found in dehiscence that results from a surgical
10   incision, or other types of skin wounds), the degree of damage or deterioration
    of the skin (or other tissue), the responsiveness of the user's skin (or other
    tissue), the strength of the active ingredients (e.g., the herein described wound
    healing/ antiseptic/ anti-biofilm/ skin tissue repair-promoting compounds such
    as a BT compound and optionally one or more additional pharmaceutically
15  active ingredients, such as an antibiotic, e.g., amikacin or other antibiotic) in the
    particular embodiment, the effectiveness of the vehicle used to deliver the
    active ingredients into the appropriate layer of the skin (or other epithelial
    surface-containing tissue), the ease with which the formula is removed by
    physical contact with bandages or other dressings or clothing, or its removal by
20  sweat or other intrinsic or extrinsic fluids, and the convenience to the subject's
    or patient's activity level or lifestyle.
                    Typical concentrations of active substances such as the BT
    compound antiseptic/ anti-biofilm/ wound-healing/ skin tissue repair-promoting
    compositions described herein can range, for example, from about 0.001-30%
25  by weight based on the total weight of the composition, to about 0.01-5.0%, and
    more preferably to about 0.1-2.0%. As one representative example,
    compositions of these embodiments of the present invention may be applied to
    an acute or chronic wound and/or to the skin at a rate equal to from about 1.0
    mg/cm 2 of skin to about 20.0 mg/cm 2 of skin. Representative examples of
30  topical formulations include, but are not limited to, aerosols, alcohols,
    anhydrous bases (such as lipsticks and powders), aqeuous solutions, creams,
    emulsions (including either water-in-oil or oil-in-water emulsions), fats, foams,
    gels, hydro-alcoholic solutions, liposomes, lotions, microemulsions, ointments,
    oils, organic solvents, polyols, polymers, powders, salts, silicone derivatives,
35  and waxes. Topical formulations may include, for example, chelating agents,
    conditioning agents, emollients, excipients, humectants, protective agents,
    thickening agents, or UV absorbing agents. One skilled in the art will

   WO 20111097347                                                     PCT/US2011/023549
                                               77
     appreciate that formulations other than those listed may be used in
     embodiments of the present invention.
                     Chelating agents may be optionally included in topical
     formulations, and may be selected from any agent that is suitable for use in a
 5   cosmetic composition, and may include any natural or synthetic chemical which
     has the ability to bind divalent cationic metals such as Ca'*, Mn2*, or Mg2+.
     Examples of chelating agents include, but are not limited to EDTA, disodium
     EDTA, EGTA, citric acid, and dicarboxylic acids.
                     Conditioning agents may also be optionally included in topical
10   formulations. Examples of skin conditioning agents include, but are not limited
     to, acetyl cysteine, N-acetyl dihydrosphingosine, acrylates/behenyl
     acrylate/dimethicone acrylate copolymer, adenosine, adenosine cyclic
     phosphate, adensosine phosphate, adenosine triphosphate, alanine, albumen,
     algae extract, allantoin and deriviatives, aloe barbadensis extracts, aluminum
15   PCA, amyloglucosidase, arbutin, arginine, azulene, bromelain, buttermilk
     powder, butylene glycol, caffeine, calcium gluconate, capsaicin, carbocysteine,
     carnosine, beta-carotene, casein, catalase, cephalins, ceramides, chamomilla
     recutita (matricaria) flower extract, cholecalciferol, cholesteryl esters, coco
     betaine, coenzyme A, corn starch modified, crystallins, cycloethoxymethicone,
20   cysteine DNA, cytochrome C, darutoside, dextran sulfate, dimethicone
     copolyols, dimethylsilanol hyaluronate, DNA, elastin, elastin amino acids,
    epidermal growth factor, ergocalciferol, ergosterol, ethylhexyl PCA, fibronectin,
    folic acid, gelatin, gliadin, beta-glucan, glucose, glycine, glycogen, glycolipids,
    glycoproteins, glycosaminoglycans, glycosphingolipids, horseradish peroxidase,
25   hydrogenated proteins, hydrolyzed proteins, jojoba oil, keratin, keratin amino
    acids, and kinetin, lactoferrin, lanosterol, lauryl PCA, lecithin, linoleic acid,
     linolenic acid, lipase, lysine, lysozyme, malt extract, maltodextrin, melanin,
     methionine, mineral salts, niacin, niacinamide, oat amino acids, oryzanol,
    palmitoyl hydrolyzed proteins, pancreatin, papain, PEG, pepsin, phospholipids,
30  phytosterols, placental enzymes, placental lipids, pyridoxal 5-phosphate,
    quercetin, resorcinol acetate, riboflavin, RNA, saccharomyces lysate extract,
    silk amino acids, sphingolipids, stearamidopropyl betaine, stearyl palmitate,
    tocopherol, tocopheryl acetate, tocopheryl linoleate, ubiquinone, vitis vinifera
    (grape) seed oil, wheat amino acids, xanthan gum, and zinc gluconate. Skin
35  conditioning agents other than those listed above may be combined with a
    disclosed composition or preparation provided thereby, as can be readily
    appreciated by one skilled in the art.

   WO 20111097347                                                       PCT/US2011/023549
                                                78
                    Topical formulations may also optionally include one or more
    emollients, examples of which include, but are not limited to, acetylated lanolin,
    acetylated lanolin alcohol, acrylates/C 10o  3 alkyl acrylate crosspolymer, acrylates
    copolymer, alanine, algae extract, aloe barbadensis extract or gel, althea
 5  officinalis extract, aluminum starch octenylsuccinate, aluminum stearate, apricot
    (prunus armeniaca) kernel oil, arginine, arginine aspartate, arnica montana
    extract, ascorbic acid, ascorbyl palmitate, aspartic acid, avocado (persea
    gratissima) oil, barium sulfate, barrier sphingolipids, butyl alcohol, beeswax,
    behenyl alcohol, beta-sitosterol, BHT, birch (betula alba) bark extract, borage
10  (borago officinalis) extract, 2-bromo-2-nitropropane-1,3-diol, butcherbroom
    (ruscus aculeatus) extract, butylene glycol, calendula officinalis extract,
    calendula officinalis oil, candelilla (euphorbia cerifera) wax, canola oil,
    caprylic/capric triglyceride, cardamon (elettaria cardamomum) oil, carnauba
    (copernicia cerifera) wax, carrageenan (chondrus crispus), carrot (daucus
15  carota sativa) oil, castor (ricinus communis) oil, ceramides, ceresin, ceteareth
    5, ceteareth-12, ceteareth-20, cetearyl octanoate, ceteth-20, ceteth-24, cetyl
    acetate, cetyl octanoate, cetyl palmitate, chamomile (anthemis nobilis) oil,
    cholesterol, cholesterol esters, cholesteryl hydroxystearate, citric acid, clary
    (salvia sclarea) oil, cocoa (theobroma cacao) butter, coco-caprylate/caprate,
20  coconut (cocos nucifera) oil, collagen, collagen amino acids, corn (zea mays)
    oil, fatty acids, decyl oleate, dextrin, diazolidinyl urea, dimethicone copolyol,
    dimethiconol, dioctyl adipate, dioctyl succinate, dipentaerythrityl
    hexacaprylate/hexacaprate, DMDM hydantoin, DNA, erythritol, ethoxydiglycol,
    ethyl linoleate, eucalyptus globulus oil, evening primrose (oenothera biennis)
25  oil, fatty acids, tructose, gelatin, geranium maculatum oil, glucosamine, glucose
    glutamate, glutamic acid, glycereth-26, glycerin, glycerol, glyceryl distearate,
    glyceryl hydroxystearate, glyceryl laurate, glyceryl linoleate, glyceryl myristate,
    glyceryl oleate, glyceryl stearate, glyceryl stearate SE, glycine, glycol stearate,
    glycol stearate SE, glycosaminoglycans, grape (vitis vinifera) seed oil, hazel
30  (corylus americana) nut oil, hazel (corylus avellana) nut oil, hexylene glycol,
    honey, hyaluronic acid, hybrid safflower (carthamus tinctorius) oil,
    hydrogenated castor oil, hydrogenated coco-glycerides, hydrogenated coconut
    oil, hydrogenated lanolin, hydrogenated lecithin, hydrogenated palm glyceride,
    hydrogenated palm kernel oil, hydrogenated soybean oil, hydrogenated tallow
35  glyceride, hydrogenated vegetable oil, hydrolyzed collagen, hydrolyzed elastin,
    hydrolyzed glycosaminoglycans, hydrolyzed keratin, hydrolyzed soy protein,
    hydroxylated lanolin, hydroxyproline, imidazolidinyl urea, iodopropynyl

   WO 20111097347                                                         PCT/US2011/023549
                                                  79
      butylcarbamate, isocetyl stearate, isocetyl stearoyl stearate, isodecyl oleate,
      isopropyl isostearate, isopropyl lanolate, isopropyl myristate, isopropyl
      palmitate, isopropyl stearate, isostearamide DEA, isostearic acid, isostearyl
      lactate, isostearyl neopentanoate, jasmine (jasminum officinale) oil, jojoba
 5    (buxus chinensis) oil, kelp, kukui (aleurites moluccana) nut oil, lactamide MEA,
      Ianeth-16, laneth-10 acetate, lanolin, lanolin acid, lanolin alcohol, lanolin oil,
     lanolin wax, lavender (lavandula angustifolia) oil, lecithin, lemon (citrus medica
     limonum) oil, linoleic acid, linolenic acid, macadamia ternifolia nut oil,
     magnesium stearate, magnesium sulfate, maltitol, matricaria (chamomilla
10   recutita) oil, methyl glucose sesquistearate, methylsilanol PCA, microcrystalline
     wax, mineral oil, mink oil, mortierella oil, myristyl lactate, myristyl myristate,
     myristyl propionate, neopentyl glycol dicaprylate/dicaprate, octyldodecanol,
     octyldodecyl myristate, octyldodecyl stearoyl stearate, octyl hyd roxystearate,
     octyl palmitate, octyl salicylate, octyl stearate, oleic acid, olive (olea europaea)
15   oil, orange (citrus aurantium dulcis) oil, palm (elaeis guineensis) oil, palmitic
     acid, pantethine, panthenol, panthenyl ethyl ether, paraffin, PCA, peach (prunus
     persica) kernel oil, peanut (arachis hypogaea) oil, PEG-8 C12 18 ester, PEG-15
     cocamine, PEG-150 distearate, PEG-60 glyceryl isostearate, PEG-5 glyceryl
     stearate, PEG-30 glyceryl stearate, PEG-7 hydrogenated castor oil, PEG-40
20   hydrogenated castor oil, PEG-60 hydrogenated castor oil, PEG-20 methyl
     glucose sesquistearate, PEG-40 sorbitan peroleate, PEG-5 soy sterol, PEG-10
     soy sterol, PEG-2 stearate, PEG-8 stearate, PEG-20 stearate, PEG-32
     stearate, PEG-40 stearate, PEG-50 stearate, PEG-100 stearate, PEG-150
     stearate, pentadecalactone, peppermint (mentha piperita) oil, petrolatum,
25   phospholipids, polyamino sugar condensate, polyglyceryl-3 diisostearate,
     polyquaternium-24, polysorbate 20, polysorbate 40, polysorbate 60,
     polysorbate 80, polysorbate 85, potassium myristate, potassium palmitate,
     potassium sorbate, potassium stearate, propylene glycol, propylene glycol
     dicaprylate/dicaprate, propylene glycol dioctanoate, propylene glycol
30   dipelargonate, propylene glycol laurate, propylene glycol stearate, propylene
     glycol stearate SE, PVP, pyridoxine dipalmitate, quaternium-15, quaternium-18
     hectorite, quaternium-22, retinol, retinyl palmitate, rice (oryza sativa) bran oil,
     RNA, rosemary (rosmarinus officinalis) oil, rose oil, safflower (carthamus
     tinctorius) oil, sage (salvia officinalis) oil, salicylic acid, sandalwood (santalum
35   album) oil, serine, serum protein, sesame (sesamum indicum) oil, shea butter
     (butyrospermum parkii), silk powder, sodium chondroitin sulfate, sodium DNA,
     sodium hyaluronate, sodium lactate, sodium palmitate, sodium PCA, sodium

   WO 20111097347                                                      PCT/US2011/023549
                                               80
    polyglutamate, sodium stearate, soluble collagen, sorbic acid, sorbitan laurate,
    sorbitan oleate, sorbitan palmitate, sorbitan sesquioleate, sorbitan stearate,
    sorbitol, soybean (glycine soja) oil, sphingolipids, squalane, squalene,
    stearamide MEA-stearate, stearic acid, stearoxy dimethicone,
 5 stearoxytrimethylsilane, stearyl alcohol, stearyl glycyrrhetinate, stearyl
    heptanoate, stearyl stearate, sunflower (helianthus annuus) seed oil, sweet
    almond (prunus amygdalus dulcis) oil, synthetic beeswax, tocopherol,
    tocopheryl acetate, tocopheryl linoleate, tribehenin, tridecyl neopentanoate,
    tridecyl stearate, triethanolamine, tristearin, urea, vegetable oil, water, waxes,
10 wheat (triticum vulgare) germ oil, and ylang ylang (cananga odorata) oil.
                    In some embodiments a topical formulation may contain a suitable
    excipient, which typically should have a high affinity for the skin, be well
    tolerated, stable, and yield a consistency that allows for easy utilization.
    Suitable topical excipients and vehicles can be routinely selected for a
15 particular use by those skilled in the art, and especially with reference to one of
    many standard texts in the art, such as Remington's Pharmaceutical Sciences,
    Vol. 18, Mack Publishing Co., Easton, Pa. (1990), in particular Chapter 87.
    Optionally one or more humectants are also included in the topical formulation.
    Examples of humectants include, but are not limited to, amino acids,
20  chondroitin sulfate, diglycerin, erythritol, fructose, glucose, glycerin, glycerol,
    glycol, 1,2,6-hexanetriol, honey, hyaluronic acid, hydrogenated honey,
    hydrogenated starch hydrolysate, inositol, lactitol, maltitol, maltose, mannitol,
    natural moisturization factor, PEG-15 butanediol, polyglyceryl sorbitol, salts of
    pyrollidone carboxylic acid, potassium PCA, propylene glycol, sodium
25  glucuronate, sodium PCA, sorbitol, sucrose, trehalose, urea, and xylitol.
                    Certain embodiments contemplate topical formulations containing
    one or more additional skin protective agent. Examples of skin protective
    agents may include, but are not limited to, algae extract, allantoin, aluminum
    hydroxide, aluminum sulfate, betaine, camellia sinensis leaf extract,
30  cerebrosides, dimethicone, glucuronolactone, glycerin, kaolin, lanolin, malt
    extract, mineral oil, petrolatum, potassium gluconate, and talc. One skilled in
    the art will readily appreciate that skin protectants other than those listed above
    may also be combined with a disclosed composition of the present invention or
    preparation provided thereby.
35                  Surfactants may also desirably be included in certain topical
    formulations contemplated herein, and can be selected from any natural or
    synthetic surfactants suitable for use in cosmetic compositions, such as

   WO 20111097347                                                       PCT/US2011/023549
                                               81
     cationic, anionic, zwitterionic, or non-ionic surfactants, or mixtures thereof.
     (See Rosen, M., "Surfactants and Interfacial Phenomena," Second Edition,
     John Wiley & Sons, New York, 1988, Chapter 1, pages 4 31). Examples of
     cationic surfactants may include, but are not limited to, DMDAO or other amine
 5   oxides, long-chain primary amines, diamines and polyamines and their salts,
    quaternary ammonium salts, polyoxyethylenated long-chain amines, and
    quaternized polyoxyethylenated long-chain amines. Examples of anionic
    surfactants may include, but are not limited to, SDS; salts of carboxylic acids
     (e.g., soaps); salts of sulfonic acids, salts of sulfuric acid, phosphoric and
10   polyphosphoric acid esters; alkylphosphates; monoalkyl phosphate (MAP); and
    salts of perfluorocarboxylic acids. Examples of zwitterionic surfactants may
     include, but are not limited to, cocoamidopropyl hydroxysultaine (CAPHS) and
    others which are pH-sensitive and require special care in designing the
    appropriate pH of the formula (i.e., alkylaminopropionic acids, imidazoline
15  carboxylates, and betaines) or those which are not pH-sensitive (e.g.,
    sulfobetaines, sultaines). Examples of non-ionic surfactants may include, but
    are not limited to, alkylphenol ethoxylates, alcohol ethoxylates,
    polyoxyethylenated polyoxypropylene glycols, polyoxyethylenated mercaptans,
     long-chain carboxylic acid esters, alkonolamides, tertiary acetylenic glycols,
20  polyoxyethylenated silicones, N-alkylpyrrolidones, and alkylpolyglycosidases.
    Wetting agents, mineral oil or other surfactants such as non-ionic detergents or
    agents such as one or more members of the PLURONICS@ series (BASF, Mt.
    Olive, NJ) may also be included, for example and according to non-limiting
    theory, to discourage aggregation of BT microparticles within the
25  microparticu late suspension. Any combination of surfactants is acceptable.
    Certain embodiments may include at least one anionic and one cationic
    surfactant, or at least one cationic and one zwitterionic surfactant which are
    compatible, i.e., do not form complexes which precipitate appreciably when
    mixed.
30                  Examples of thickening agents that may also be present in certain
    topical formulations include, but are not limited to, acrylamides copolymer,
    agarose, amylopectin, bentonite, calcium alginate, calcium carboxymethyl
    cellulose, carbomer, carboxymethyl chitin, cellulose gum, dextrin, gelatin,
    hydrogenated tallow, hydroxytheylcellulose, hyd roxypropylcellulose,
35  hydroxpropyl starch, magnesium alginate, methylcellulose, microcrystalline
    cellulose, pectin, various PEG's, polyacrylic acid, polymethacrylic acid, polyvinyl
    alcohol, various PPG's, sodium acrylates copolymer, sodium carrageenan,

    WO 20111097347                                                      PCT/US2011/023549
                                                82
      xanthan gum, and yeast beta-glucan. Thickening agents other than those listed
      above may also be used in embodiments of this invention.
                     According to certain embodiments contemplated herein, a topical
      formulation may comprise one or more sunscreening or UV absorbing agents.
  5   Where ultraviolet light- (UVA and UVB) absorbing properties are desired, such
      agents may include, for example, benzophenone, benzophenone-1,
      benzophenone-2, benzophenone-3, benzophenone-4, benzophenone-5,
      benzophenone-6, benzophenone-7, benzophenone-8, benzophenone-9,
      benzophenone-1 0, benzophenone-1 1, benzophenone-12, benzyl salicylate,
 10   butyl PABA, cinnamate esters, cinoxate, DEA-methoxycinnamate, diisopropyl
      methyl cinnamate, ethyl dihydroxypropyl PABA, ethyl diisopropylcinnamate,
      ethyl methoxycinnamate, ethyl PABA, ethyl urocanate, glyceryl octanoate
      dimethoxycinnamate, glyceryl PABA, glycol salicylate, homosalate, isoamyl p
      methoxycinnamate, oxides of titanium, zinc, zirconium, silicon, manganese, and
15    cerium, PABA, PABA esters, Parsol 1789, and isopropylbenzyl salicylate, and
      mixtures thereof. One skilled in the art will appreciate that sunscreening and
      UV absorbing or protective agents other than those listed may be used in
      certain embodiments of the present invention.
                    Topical formulations disclosed herein are typically effective at pH
20   values between about 2.5 and about 10.0. Preferably, the pH of the
     composition is at or about the following pH ranges: about pH 5.5 to about pH
     8.5, about pH 5 to about pH 10, about pH 5 to about pH 9, about pH 5 to about
     pH 8, about pH 3 to about pH 10, about pH 3 to about pH 9, about pH 3 to
     about pH 8, and about pH 3 to about pH 8.5. Most preferably, the pH is about
25   pH 7 to about pH 8. One of ordinary skill in the art may add appropriate pH
     adjusting ingredients to the compositions of the present invention to adjust the
     pH to an acceptable range. "About" a specified pH is understood by those
     familiar with the art to include formulations in which at any given time the actual
     measured pH may be less or more than the specified value by no more than
30   0.7, 0.6, 0.5, 0.4., 0.3, 0.2 or 0.1 pH units, where it is recognized that
     formulation composition and storage conditions may result in drifting of pH from
     an original value.
                    A cream, lotion, gel, ointment, paste or the like may be spread on
     the affected surface and gently rubbed in. A solution may be applied in the
35   same way, but more typically will be applied with a dropper, swab, or the like,
     and carefully applied to the affected areas. The application regimen will
     depend on a number of factors that may readily be determined, such as the

   WO 20111097347                                                      PCT/US2011/023549
                                                 83
      severity of the wound and its responsiveness to initial treatment, but will
      normally involve one or more applications per day on an ongoing basis. One of
      ordinary skill may readily determine the optimum amount of the formulation to
      be administered, administration methodologies and repetition rates. In general,
 5    it is contemplated that the formulations of these and related embodiments of the
      invention will be applied in the range of once or twice or more weekly up to
      once, twice, thrice, four times or more daily.
                     As also discussed above, the topical formulations useful herein
     thus also contain a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier, including any suitable
10    diluent or excipient, which includes any pharmaceutical agent that does not
      itself harm the subject receiving the composition, and which may be
      administered without undue toxicity. Pharmaceutically acceptable carriers
      include, but are not limited to, liquids, such as water, saline, glycerol and
     ethanol, and the like, and may also include viscosity enhancers (e.g., balsam fir
15    resin) or film-formers such as colloidion or nitrocellulose solutions. A thorough
     discussion of pharmaceutically acceptable carriers, diluents, and other
     excipients is presented in REMINGTON'S PHARMACEUTICAL SCIENCES
     (Mack Pub. Co., N.J. current edition).
                     When the topical formulation is in the form of a gel- or liquid-filled
20   capsule, for example, a gelatin capsule, it may contain, in addition to materials
     of the above type, a liquid carrier such as polyethylene glycol or oil. The liquid
     pharmaceutical compositions of certain embodiments of the invention, whether
     they be solutions, suspensions or other like form, may include one or more of
     the following: sterile diluents such as water for injection, saline solution,
25   preferably physiological saline, Ringer's solution, isotonic sodium chloride, fixed
     oils such as synthetic mono or diglycerides which may serve as the solvent or
     suspending medium, polyethylene glycols, glycerin, propylene glycol or other
     solvents; antibacterial agents such as benzyl alcohol or methyl paraben;
     additional antioxidants such as ascorbic acid or sodium bisulfite; chelating
30   agents such as ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid (EDTA); buffers such as
     acetates, citrates or phosphates and agents for the adjustment of tonicity such
     as sodium chloride or dextrose.
                     For topical administration the carrier may suitably comprise a
     solution, emulsion, ointment or gel base. The base, for example, may comprise
35   one or more of the following: petrolatum, lanolin, polyethylene glycols, bee
    wax, mineral oil, diluents such as water and alcohol, and emulsifiers and
     stabilizers. Thickening agents may be present in a pharmaceutical or

   WO 20111097347                                                     PCT/US2011/023549
                                                84
      cosmeceutical composition for topical administration. If intended for
      transdermal administration, the composition may include a transdermal patch or
      iontophoresis device. Topical formulations may contain a concentration of the
      compound of certain embodiments of the invention from about 0.1 to about
  5 10% w/v (weight per unit volume). A topical formulation may be provided in the
      form of a cream, lotion, solution, spray, gel, ointment, paste or the like, and/or
      may contain liposomes, micelles, microspheres and/or other microparticle or
      nanoparticle delivery elements. A topical formulation may also be provided in
      the form of time-release or sustained release particles or pellets, for example,
 10 slow-release ethylene vinyl acetate polymer (e.g., Elvax@40, Aldrich,
      Milwaukee, WI) pellets, that can be directly administered to a wound site.
                     The topical formulation may include an agent that binds to the
     skin tissue repair-promoting compound and thereby assists in its delivery to
     skin epithelial cells (e.g., keratinocytes) and/or fibroblasts. Suitable agents that
15 may act in this capacity include clathrating agents such as cyclodextrins; other
     agents may include a protein or a liposome.
                     The topical formulation of certain embodiments of the invention
     may also be provided in the form of dosage units that can be administered as
     an aerosol. The term aerosol is used to denote a variety of systems ranging
20 from those of colloidal nature to systems consisting of pressurized packages.
     Delivery may be by a liquefied or compressed gas or by a suitable pump
     system that dispenses the active ingredients. Aerosols of compounds of certain
     embodiments of the invention may be delivered in single phase, bi-phasic, or
     tri-phasic systems in order to deliver the active ingredient(s). Delivery of the
25 aerosol includes the necessary container, activators, valves, subcontainers,
     and the like, which together may form a kit. One skilled in the art, without
     undue experimentation may determine preferred aerosols for delivering topical
     formulations to the skin or to a wound site.
                     The topical formulations may be prepared by methodology well
30 known in the pharmaceutical art. For example, a pharmaceutical composition
     intended to be administered to a wound site or to the skin as a spray, wash or
     rinse can be prepared by combining a BT antiseptic/ wound-healing/ anti
     biofilm/ skin tissue repair-promoting compound as described herein with sterile,
     distilled water so as to form a solution. A surfactant may be added to facilitate
35  the formation of a homogeneous solution or suspension. Surfactants are
     compounds that non-covalently interact with the antioxidant active compound

   WO 20111097347                                                     PCT/US2011/023549
                                               85
     so as to facilitate dissolution or homogeneous suspension of the compound in
     the aqueous delivery system.
                     The BT antiseptic/ wound-healing/ anti-biofilm/ skin tissue repair
     promoting compounds for use in topical formulations, or their pharmaceutically
  5 acceptable salts, are administered in a therapeutically effective amount, which
     will vary depending upon a variety of factors including the nature of the wound
     site (where relevant), the activity of the specific BT compound employed
     (including the inclusion or absence from the formulation of an antibiotic, such as
     an aminoglycoside antibiotic, e.g., amikacin); the metabolic stability and length
10 of action of the compound; the age, body weight, general health, sex, skin type,
     immune status and diet of the subject; the mode and time of administration; the
     rate of excretion; the drug combination; the severity of the particular skin wound
     for which skin tissue repair is desired; and the subject undergoing therapy.
     Generally, a therapeutically effective daily dose is (for a 70 kg mammal) from
15 about 0.001 mg/kg (i.e., 0.07 mg) to about 100 mg/kg (i.e., 7.0 g); preferably a
    therapeutically effective dose is (for a 70 kg mammal) from about 0.01 mg/kg
     (i.e., 7 mg) to about 50 mg/kg (i.e., 3.5 g); more preferably a therapeutically
     effective dose is (for a 70 kg mammal) from about 1 mg/kg (i.e., 70 mg) to
     about 25 mg/kg (i.e., 1.75 g).
20                  The ranges of effective doses provided herein are not intended to
     be limiting and represent preferred dose ranges. However, the most preferred
    dosage will be tailored to the individual subject, as is understood and
    determinable by one skilled in the relevant arts. (see, e.g., Berkow et al., eds.,
    The Merck Manual, 1 6 th edition, Merck and Co., Rahway, N.J., 1992; Goodman
25 et al., eds., Goodman and Gilman's The Pharmacological Basis of
    Therapeutics, 10 th edition, Pergamon Press, Inc., Elmsford, N.Y., (2001);
    Avery's Drug Treatment: Principles and Practice of Clinical Pharmacology and
    Therapeutics, 3rd edition, ADIS Press, Ltd., Williams and Wilkins, Baltimore,
    MD. (1987); Ebadi, Pharmacology, Little, Brown and Co., Boston, (1985);
30 Osolci al., eds., Remington's Pharmaceutical Sciences, 18 th edition, Mack
    Publishing Co., Easton, PA (1990); Katzung, Basic and Clinical Pharmacology,
    Appleton and Lange, Norwalk, CT (1992)).
                    The total dose required for each treatment can be administered by
    multiple doses or in a single dose over the course of the day, if desired. Certain
35 preferred embodiments contemplate a single application of the topical
    formulation per day. Generally, and in distinct embodiments, treatment may be
    initiated with smaller dosages, which are less than the optimum dose of the

   WO 20111097347                                                       PCT/US2011/023549
                                                86
     compound. Thereafter, the dosage is increased by small increments until the
     optimum effect under the circumstances is reached.
                    The topical formulation can be administered alone or in
    conjunction with other treatments and/or pharmaceuticals directed to the skin
 5  wound, or directed to other associated symptoms or etiologic factors. For
    example, and as also noted above, the topical formulation may further comprise
     retinoic acid. As another example, the topical formulation may comprise one or
    more skin tissue repair-promoting compounds described herein, or may
    comprise two or more such compounds having different cellular wound repair
10  activities.
                    The recipients of the topical formulations described herein can be
    any vertebrate animal, such as mammals. Among mammals, the preferred
    recipients are mammals of the Orders Primate (including humans, apes and
    monkeys), Arteriodactyla (including horses, goats, cows, sheep, pigs), Rodenta
15  (including mice, rats, rabbits, and hamsters), and Carnivora (including cats, and
    dogs). Among birds, the preferred recipients are turkeys, chickens and other
    members of the same order. The most preferred recipients are humans, and
    particularly preferred are humans having one or more acute or chronic wounds
    or wounds that contain biofilms.
20                  For topical applications, it is preferred to administer an effective
    amount of a pharmaceutical composition comprising a BT compound antiseptic/
    wound-healing/ anti-biofilm/ skin tissue repair-promoting compound according
    to the herein described embodiments, to a target area, e.g., a skin wound such
    as an acute or chronic wound, and/or an at-risk area (e.g., for wound
25  dehiscence) of the skin, and the like. This amount will generally range from
    about 0.0001 mg to about 1 g of a compound of certain embodiments of the
    invention per application, depending upon the area to be treated, the severity of
    the wound (or of a past or contemplated surgical incision), and the nature of the
    topical vehicle employed. A preferred topical preparation is an ointment or
30  slow-release pellets, wherein about 0.001 to about 50 mg of active ingredient is
    used per cc of ointment base or pellet suspension. The pharmaceutical
    composition can be formulated as transdermal compositions or transdermal
    delivery devices ("patches"). Such compositions include, for example, a
    backing, active compound reservoir, a control membrane, liner and contact
35  adhesive. Such transdermal patches may be used to provide continuous
    pulsatile, or on demand delivery of the compounds of the present invention as
    desired.

   WO 20111097347                                                      PCT/US2011/023549
                                               87
                    The compositions of certain embodiments can be formulated so
    as to provide quick, sustained or delayed release of the active ingredient after
    administration to the patient by employing procedures known in the art.
    Controlled release drug delivery systems include osmotic pump systems and
 5  dissolutional systems containing polymer-coated reservoirs or drug-polymer .
    matrix formulations. Examples of controlled release systems are given in U.S.
    Pat. Nos. 3,845,770 and 4,326,525 and in P. J. Kuzma et al, Regional
    Anesthesia 22 (6): 543-551 (1997), all of which are incorporated herein by
    reference.
10                  The most suitable route will depend on the nature and severity of
    the condition being treated. Those skilled in the art are also familiar with
    determining topical administration methods (sprays, creams, open application,
    occlusive dressing, soaks, washes, etc.), dosage forms, suitable
    pharmaceutical excipients and other matters relevant to the delivery of the
15  compounds to a subject in need thereof.
                    Throughout this specification, unless the context requires
    otherwise, the words "comprise", "comprises" and "comprising" will be
    understood to imply the inclusion of a stated step or element or group of steps
    or elements but not the exclusion of any other step or element or group of steps
20  or elements. By "consisting of' is meant including, and limited to, whatever
    follows the phrase "consisting of." Thus, the phrase "consisting of' indicates
    that the listed elements are required or mandatory, and that no other elements
    may be present. By "consisting essentially of" is meant including any elements
    listed after the phrase, and limited to other elements that do not interfere with or
25  contribute to the activity or action specified in the disclosure for the listed
    elements. Thus, the phrase "consisting essentially of' indicates that the listed
    elements are required or mandatory, but that no other elements are required
    and may or may not be present depending upon whether or not they affect the
    activity or action of the listed elements.
30                  In this specification and the appended claims, the singular forms
      a "an" and "the" include plural references unless the content clearly dictates
    otherwise. As used herein, in particular embodiments, the terms "about" or
    "approximately" when preceding a numerical value indicates the value plus or
    minus a range of 5%, 6%, 7%, 8% or 9%. In other embodiments, the terms
35  "about" or "approximately" when preceding a numerical value indicates the
    value plus or minus a range of 10%, 11%, 12%, 13% or 14%. In yet other
    embodiments, the terms "about" or "approximately" when preceding a numerical

 WO 20111097347                                               PCT/US2011/023549
                                          88
   value indicates the value plus or minus a range of 15%, 16%, 17%, 18%, 19%
   or 20%.
                  The following Examples are presented by way of illustration and
5 not limitation.

   WO 20111097347                                                    PCT/US2011/023549
                                            89
                                       EXAMPLES
                                       EXAMPLE 1
                              PREPARATION OF BT COMPOUNDS
                   The following BT compounds were prepared either according to
 5 the methods of Domenico et al. (U.S. RE37,793, U.S. 6,248,371, U.S.
    6,086,921, U.S. 6,380,248) or as microparticles according to the synthetic
    protocol described below for BisEDT. Shown are atomic ratios relative to a
    single bismuth atom, for comparison, based on the stoichiometric ratios of the
    reactants used and the known propensity of bismuth to form trivalent
10 complexes with sulfur containing compounds. The numbers in parenthesis are
    the ratios of bismuth to one (or more) thiol agents (e.g. Bi:thioll/thiol2; see also
    Table 1).
               1) CPD 1B-1 Bis-EDT (1:1) BiC2H4S2
               2) CPD 1B-2 Bis-EDT (1:1.5) BiC 3 H6S3
15             3) CPD 1B-3 Bis-EDT (1:1.5) BiC 3 H6S3
               4) CPD 1C Bis-EDT (soluble Bi prep.) (1:1.5) BiC 3H6 S3
               5) CPD 2A Bis-Bal (1:1) BiC 3 H6 S2 0
               6) CPD 2B Bis-Bal (1:1.5) BiC 4-5 H9 O1.5 S3
               7) CPD 3A Bis-Pyr (1:1.5) BiC 7.5H6N1. 5 O1. 5 S. 5
20             8) CPD 3B Bis-Pyr (1:3) BiC 15 H12 N3 0 3 S3
               9) CPD 4 Bis-Ery (1:1.5) BiC 6 H12O3S3
              10) CPD 5 Bis-Tol (1:1.5) BiC 1 0 5 H9S 3
              11) CPD 6 Bis-BDT (1:1.5) BiC 6 H12 S3
              12) CPD 7 Bis-PDT (1:1.5) BiC 4 .5 H9 S3
25            13) CPD 8-1 Bis-Pyr/BDT (1:1/1)
              14) CPD 8-2 Bis-Pyr/BDT (1:1/0.5)
              15) CPD 9 Bis-2hydroxy, propane thiol (1:3)
              16) CPD 10 Bis-Pyr/Bal (1:1/0.5)
              17) CPD 11 Bis-Pyr/EDT (1:1/0.5)
30            18) CPD 12 Bis-Pyr/Tol (1:1/0.5)
             19) CPD 13 Bis-Pyr/PDT (1:1/0.5)
             20) CPD 14 Bis-Pyr/Ery (1:1/0.5)
             21) CPD 15 Bis-EDT/2hydroxy, propane thiol (1:1/1)

   WO 20111097347                                                     PCT/US2011/023549
                                                 90
                    Microparticulate bismuth- 1,2-ethanedith iol (Bis-EDT, soluble
     bismuth preparation) was prepared as follows:
                    To an excess (11.4 L) of 5% aqueous HNO 3 at room temperature
     in a 15 L polypropylene carboy was slowly added by dropwise addition 0.331 L
 5 (-0.575 moles) of an aqueous Bi(N0 3)3 solution (43% Bi(N0 3)3 (w/w), 5% nitric
     acid (w/w), 52% water (w/w), Shepherd Chemical Co., Cincinnati, OH, product
     no. 2362; 8 -1.6 g/mL) with stirring, followed by slow addition of absolute
     ethanol (4 L). Some white precipitate formed but was dissolved by continued
     stirring. An ethanolic solution (-1.56 L, -0.55 M) of 1,2-ethanedithiol (CAS 540
10 63-6) was separately prepared by adding, to 1.5 L of absolute ethanol, 72.19
     mL (0.863 moles) of 1,2-ethanedithiol using a 60 mL syringe, and then stirring
     for five minutes. The 1,2-ethanedithiol/ EtOH reagent was then slowly added
     by dropwise addition over the course of five hours to the aqueous Bi(N0 3)3 /
     HNO 3 solution, with continued stirring overnight. The formed product was
15   allowed to settle as a precipitate for approximately 15 minutes, after which the
     filtrate was removed at 300 mL/min using a peristaltic pump. The product was
     then collected by filtration on fine filter paper in a 15-cm diameter Buchner
     funnel, and washed sequentially with three, 500-mL volumes each of ethanol,
     USP water, and acetone to obtain BisEDT (694.51 gm/ mole) as a yellow
20   amorphous powdered solid. The product was placed in a 500 mL amber glass
     bottle and dried over CaCl 2 under high vacuum for 48 hours. Recovered
     material (yield -200 g) gave off a thiol-characteristic odor. The crude product
     was redissolved in 750 mL of absolute ethanol, stirred for 30 min, then filtered
     and washed sequentially with 3 x 50 mL ethanol, 2 x 50 mL acetone, and
25   washed again with 500 mL of acetone. The rewashed powder was triturated in
     1M NaOH (500 mL), filtered and washed with 3 x 220 mL water, 2 x 50 mL
     ethanol, and I x 400 mL acetone to afford 156.74 gm of purified BisEDT.
     Subsequent batches prepared in essentially the same manner resulted in yields
     of about 78-91%.
30                  The product was characterized as having the structure shown
     above in formula I by analysis of data from 1H and 13C nuclear magnetic
     resonance (NMR), infrared spectroscopy (IR), ultraviolet spectroscopy (UV),
     mass spectrometry (MS) and elemental analysis. An HPLC method was
     developed to determine chemical purity of BisEDT whereby the sample was
35   prepared in DMSO (0.5mg/mL). The Ama was determined by scanning a
     solution of BisEDT in DMSO between 190 and 600nm. Isocratic HPLC elution
     at 1 mL/min was performed at ambient temperature in a mobile phase of 0.1%

   WO 20111097347                                                    PCT/US2011/023549
                                               91
     formic acid in acetonitrile:water (9:1) on a Waters (Millipore Corp., Milford, MA)
     model 2695 chromatograph with UV detector monitoring at 265 nm (kmax), 2 pL
     injection volume, equipped with a YMC Pack PVC Sil NP, 5pm, 250X4.6 mm
     inner diameter analytical column (Waters) and a single peak was detected,
 5 reflecting chemical purity of 100 ±0.1%. Elemental analysis was consistent with
    the structure of formula (I).
                    The dried particulate matter was characterized to assess the
     particle size properties. Briefly, microparticles were resuspended in 2%
     Pluronic@ F-68 (BASF, Mt. Olive, NJ) and the suspension was sonicated for 10
10 minutes in a water bath sonicator at standard setting prior to analysis using a
     Nanosizer/Zetasizer Nano-S particle analyzer (model ZEN1600 (without zeta
    potential measuring capacity), Malvern Instruments, Worcestershire, UK)
    according to the manufacturer's recommendations. From compiled data of two
    measurements, microparticles exhibited a unimodal distribution with all
15 detectable events between about 0.6 microns and 4 microns in volumetric
    mean diameter (VMD) and having a peak VMD at about 1.3 microns. By
    contrast, when BisEDT was prepared by prior methods (Domenico et al., 1997
    Antimicrob. Agents Chemother. 41(8):1697-1703) the majority of particles were
    heterodisperse and of significantly larger size, precluding their characterization
20 on the basis of VMD.
                                           EXAMPLE 2
                    COLONY BIOFILM MODEL OF CHRONIC WOUND INFECTION:
                                  INHIBITION BY BT COMPOUNDS
                    Because bacteria that exist in chronic wounds adopt a biofilm
25  lifestyle, BTs were tested against biofilms for effects on bacterial cell survival
    using biofilms prepared essentially according to described methods (Anderl et
    al., 2003 Antimicrob Agents Chemother47:1251-56; Walters et al., 2003
    Antimicrob Agents Chemother 47:317; Wentland et al., 1996 Biotchnol. Prog.
    12:316; Zheng et al., 2002 Antimicrob Agents Chemother46:900).
30                  Briefly, colony biofilms were grown on 10% tryptic soy agar for 24
    hours, and transferred to Mueller Hinton plates containing treatments. After
    treatment the biofilms were dispersed into peptone water containing 2% w/v
    glutathione (neutralizes the BT), and serially diluted into peptone water before
    being spotted onto plates for counting. Two bacteria isolated from chronic
35  wounds were used separately in the production of colony biofilms for testing.

   WO 20111097347                                                    PCT/US2011/023549
                                               92
     These were Pseudomonas aeruginosa, a gram negative bacterial strain, and
     Methicillin Resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA), which is gram positive.
                    Bacterial biofilm colonies were grown on top of micro porous
     membranes resting on an agar plate essentially as described (Anderl et al.,
 5 2003 Antimicrob Agents Chemother47:1251-56; Walters et al., 2003
    Antimicrob Agents Chemother 47:317; Wentland et al., 1996 BiotchnoL. Prog.
     12:316; Zheng et al., 2002 Antimicrob Agents Chemother46:900) The colony
    biofilms exhibited many of the familiar features of other biofilm models, e.g.,
    they consisted of cells densely aggregated in a highly hydrated matrix. As also
10 reported by others (Brown et al., J Surg Res 56:562; Millward et al, 1989
    Microbios 58:155; Sutch et al., 1995 J Pharm Pharmacol47:1094; Thrower et
    al., 1997 J Med Microbiol 46:425) it was observed that bacteria in colony
    biofilms exhibited the same profoundly reduced anti-microbial susceptibility that
    has been quantified in more sophisticated in vitro biofilm reactors. Colony
15 biofilms were readily and reproducibly generated in large numbers. According
    to non-limiting theory, this colony biofilm model shared some of the features of
    an infected wound: bacteria grew at an air interface with nutrients supplied
    from beneath the biofilm and minimal fluid flow. A variety of nutrients sources
    was used to cultivate colony biofilms, including blood agar, which is believed to
20 mimic in vivo nutrient conditions.
                    Colony biofilms were prepared by inoculating 5 pl spots of
    planktonic bacterial liquid cultures onto a 25 mm diameter polycarbonate filter
    membrane. The membranes were sterilized prior to inoculation, by exposure to
    ultraviolet light for 10 min per side. The inocula were grown overnight in
25 bacterial medium at 370 C and diluted in fresh medium to an optical density of
    0.1 at 600 nm prior to deposition on the membrane. The membranes were then
    placed on the agar plate containing growth medium. The plates were then
    covered and placed, inverted, in an incubator at 37*C. Every 24 h, the
    membrane and colony biofilm were transferred, using sterile forceps, to a fresh
30 plate. Colony biofilms were typically used for experimentation after 48 hours of
    growth, at which time there were approximately 109 bacteria per membrane.
    The colony biofilm method was successfully employed to culture a wide variety
    of single species and mixed species biofilms.
                    To measure susceptibility to antimicrobial agents (e.g., BT
35  compounds including combinations of BT compounds; antibiotics; and BT
    compound-antibiotic combinations), colony biofilms were transferred to agar
    plates supplemented with the candidate antimicrobial treatment agent(s).

   WO 20111097347                                                     PCT/US2011/023549
                                              93
     Where the duration of exposure to antimicrobial treatment exceeded 24 hours,
     the colony biofilms were moved to fresh treatment plates daily. At the end of
     the treatment period, the colony biofilms were placed in tubes containing 10 ml
     of buffer and vortexed for 1-2 min to disperse the biofilm. In some cases, it was
 5 necessary to briefly process the sample with a tissue homogenizer to break up
     cell aggregates. The resulting cell suspensions were then serially diluted and
     plated to enumerate surviving bacteria, which were reported as colony forming
     units (CFU) per unit area. Survival data were analyzed using logio
    transformation.
10                  For each type of bacterial biofilm colony cultures (Pseudomonas
    aeruginosa, PA; methicilin resistant Staphylococcus aureus, MRSA or SA) five
    antibiotics and thirteen BT compounds were tested. Antimicrobial agents tested
    against PA included the BTs referred to herein as BisEDT and Compounds 2B,
    4, 5, 6, 8-2, 9, 10, 11 and 15 (see Table 1), and the antibiotics tobramycin,
15 amikacin, imipenim, cefazolin, and ciprofloxacin. Antimicrobial agents tested
    against SA included the BTs referred to herein as BisEDT and Compounds 2B,
    4, 5, 6, 8-2, 9, 10 and 11 (see Table 1), and the antibiotics rifampicin,
    daptomycin, minocycline, ampicillin, and vancomycin. As described above
    under "brief descriptions of the drawings", antibiotics were tested at
20 concentrations of approximately 10-400 times the minimum inhibitory
    concentrations (MIC) according to established microbiological methodologies.
                    Seven BT compounds exhibited pronounced effects on PA
    bacterial survival at the concentrations tested, and two BT compounds
    demonstrated pronounced effects on MRSA survival at the concentrations
25 tested; representative results showing BT effects on bacterial survival are
    presented in Figure 1 for BisEDT and BT compound 2B (tested against PA) and
    in Figure 2 for BT compounds 2B and 8-2 (tested against SA), in both cases,
    relative to the effects of the indicated antibiotics. As also shown in Figures 1
    and 2, inclusion of the indicated BT compounds in combination with the
30 indicated antibiotics resulted in a synergistic effect whereby the potency of
    reducing bacterial survival was enhanced relative to the anti-bacterial effects of
    either the antibiotic alone or the BT compound alone. In the PA survival assay,
    compound 15 (Bis-EDT/2hydroxy, propane thiol (1:1/1)) at a concentration of 80
    pg/mL exhibited an effect (not shown) that was comparable to the effect
35  obtained using the combination of 1600 pg/mL AMK plus 80 pg/mL BisEDT
    (Fig. 1).

   WO 20111097347                                                     PCT/US2011/023549
                                               94
                                          EXAMPLE 3
                   DRIP FLOW BIOFILM MODEL OF CHRONIC WOUND INFECTION:
                                 INHIBITION BY BT COMPOUNDS
                    Drip flow biofilms represent an art accepted authentic model for
 5 forming, and testing the effect of candidate anti-bacterial compounds against,
    bacterial biofilms. Drip flow biofilms are produced on coupons (substrates)
    placed in the channels of a drip flow reactor. Many different types of materials
    can be used as the substrate for bacterial biofilm formation, including frosted
    glass microscope slides. Nutritive liquid media enters the drip flow bioreactor
10 cell chamber by dripping into the chamber near the top, and then flows the
    length of a coupon down a 10 degree slope.
                    Biofilms are grown in drip flow bioreactors and exposed to BT
    compounds individually or in combinations and/or to antibiotic compounds
    individually or in combinations with other antibacterial agents, including BT
15 compounds, or to other conventional or candidate treatments for chronic
    wounds. BT compounds are thus characterized for their effects on bacterial
    biofilms in the drip-flow reactor. Biofilms in the drip-flow reactor are prepared
    according to established methodologies (e.g., Stewart et al., 2001 J App/
    Microbiol. 91:525; Xu et al., 1998 Appl. Environ. Microbiol. 64:4035). This
20 design involves cultivating biofilms on inclined polystyrene coupons in a
    covered chamber. An exemplary culture medium contains 1 g/il glucose, 0.5 g/l
    NH4 NO3, 0.25g/l KCl, 0.25 g/l KH2 PO4 , 0.25 g/l MgSO 4-7H 20, supplemented
    with 5% v/v adult donor bovine serum (ph 6.8) that mimics serum protein-rich,
    iron limited conditions that are similar to biofilm growth conditions in vivo, such
25  as in chronic wounds. This medium flows drop-wise (50ml/h) over four coupons
    contained in four separate parallel chambers, each of which measures 10cm x
    1.9cm by 1.9cm deep. The chambered reactor is fabricated from polysulfone
    plastic. Each of the chambers is fitted with an individual removable plastic lid
    that can be tightly sealed. The biofilm reactor is contained in an incubator at
30  370 C, and bacterial cell culture medium is warmed by passing it through an
    aluminum heat sink kept in the incubator. This method reproduces the
    antibiotic tolerant phenotype observed in certain biofilms, mimics the low fluid
    shear environment and proximity to an air interface characteristic of a chronic
    wound while providing continual replenishment of nutrients, and is compatible
35  with a number of analytical methods for characterizing and monitoring the
    effects of introduced candidate antibacterial regimens. The drip-flow reactor
    has been successfully employed to culture a wide variety of pure and mixed-

   WO 20111097347                                                      PCT/US2011/023549
                                              95
     species biofilms. Biofilms are typically grown for two to five days prior to
     application of antimicrobial agents.
                   To measure the effects of anti-biofilm agents on biofilms grown in
     drip-flow reactors, the fluid stream passing over the biofilm is amended or
 5 supplemented with the desired treatment formulation (e.g., one or more BT
     compounds and/or one or more antibiotics, or controls, and/or other candidate
     agents). Flow is continued for the specified treatment period. The treated
     biofilm coupon is then briefly removed from the reactor and the biofilm is
    scraped into a beaker containing 10 ml of buffer. This sample is briefly
10 processed (typically 30s to 1 min) with a tissue homogenizer to disperse
     bacterial aggregates. The suspension is serially diluted and plated to
    enumerate surviving microorganisms according to standard microbiological
    methodologies.
                                         EXAMPLE 4
15              WOUND BIOFILM INHIBITION OF KERATINOCYTE SCRATCH REPAIR:
                           BIOFILM SUPPRESSION BY BT COMPOUNDS
                   This Example describes a modification of established in vitro
    keratinocyte scratch models of wound healing, to arrive at a model having
    relevance to biofilm-associated wound pathology and wound healing, and in
20  particular to acute or chronic wounds or wounds containing biofilms as
    described herein. According to the keratinocyte scratch model of the effects of
    chronic wound biofilms, cultivation of mammalian (e.g., human) keratinocytes
    and bacterial biofilm populations proceeds in separate chambers that are in
    fluid contact with one another, to permit assessment of the effects of conditions
25  that influence the effects, of soluble components elaborated by biofilms, on
    keratinocyte wound healing events.
                   Newborn human foreskin cells are cultured as monolayers in
    treated plastic dishes, in which monolayers a controlled "wound" or scratch is
    formed by mechanical means (e.g., through physical disruption of the
30  monolayer such as by scraping an essentially linear cell-free zone between
    regions of the monolayer with a suitable implement such as a sterile scalpel,
    razor, cell scraper, forceps or other tool). In vitro keratinocyte monolayer model
    systems are known to undergo cellular structural and functional process in
    response to the wounding event, in a manner that simulates wound healing in
35  vivo. According to the herein disclosed embodiments, the influence of the
    presence of bacterial biofilms on such processes, for instance, on the healing

  WO 20111097347                                                     PCT/US2011/023549
                                               96
   time of the scratch, is observed, and in these and related embodiments the
   effects are also assessed of the presence of selected candidate antimicrobial
    (e.g., antibacterial and antibiofilm) treatments.
                   Wounded keratinocyte monolayers cultured in the presence of
 5 biofilms are examined according to morphological, biochemical, molecular
   genetic, cell physiologic and other parameters to determine whether
    introduction of BT comopunds alters (e.g., increases or decreases in a
   statistically significant manner relative to appropriate controls) the damaging
   effects of the biofilms. Wounds are first exposed to each BT compound alone,
10 and to contemplated combinations of BT compounds, in order to test the toxicity
   of each BT compound treatment prior to assessing the effects of such
   treatments on biofilm influences toward the model wound healing process.
                   In a representative embodiment, a three-day biofilm is cultured on
   a membrane (e.g., a TransWell membrane insert or the like) that is maintained
15 in a tissue culture well above, and in fluid communication with, a keratinocyte
   monolayer that is scratched to initiate the wound healing process. Biofilms
   cultured out of authentic acute or chronic wounds are contemplated for use in
   these and related embodiments.
                   Thus, an in vitro system has been developed for evaluating
20 soluble biofilm component effects on migration and proliferation of human
   keratinocytes. The system separates the biofilm and keratinocytes using a
   dialysis membrane. Keratinocytes are cultured from newborn foreskin as
   previously described (Fleckman et al., 1997 J Invest. Dermatol. 109:36;
   Piepkorn et al., 1987 J Invest. Dermatol. 88:215-219) and grown as confluent
25 monolayers on glass cover slips. The keratinocyte monolayers can then be
   scratched to yield "wounds" with a uniform width, followed by monitoring cellular
   repair processes (e.g., Tao et al., 2007 PLoS ONE 2:e697; Buth et al. 2007
   Eur. J Cell Biol. 86:747; Phan et al. 2000 Ann. Acad. Med. Singapore 29:27).
   The artificial wounds are then placed in the bottom of a sterile double-sided
30 chamber and the chamber is assembled using aseptic technique. Both sides of
   the chamber are filled with keratinocyte growth medium (EpiLife) with or without
   antibiotics and/or bismuth-thiols. Uninoculated systems are used as controls.
                   The system is inoculated with wound-isolated bacteria and
   incubated in static conditions for two hours to enable bacterial attachment to
35 surfaces in the upper chambers. Following the attachment period, liquid
   medium flow is initiated in the upper chamber to remove unattached cells. Flow
   of medium is then continued at a rate that minimizes the growth of planktonic

   WO 20111097347                                                    PCT/US2011/023549
                                              97
      cells within the upper chamber, by washout of unattached cells. After
      incubation periods ranging from 6 to 48 hours, the systems (keratinocyte
      monolayers on coverslips and bacterial biofilm on membrane substrate) are
     disassembled and the cover slips removed and analyzed. In related
 5 embodiments, mature biofilms are grown in the upper chamber prior to
     assembling the chamber. In other related embodiments, the separate co
     culturing of biofilms and scratch-wounded keratinocyte monolayers is
     conducted in the absence and presence of one or more BT compounds,
     optionally with the inclusion or exclusion of one or more antibiotics, in order to
10 determine effects of candidate agents such as BT compounds, or of potentially
     synergizing BT compound-plus-antibiotic combinations (e.g., a BT compound
     as provided herein such as a BT that is provided in microparticulate form, and
     one or more of amikacin, ampicillin, cefazolin, cefepime, chloramphenicol,
     ciprofloxacin, clindamycin (or another lincoasamide antibiotic), daptomycin
15 (Cubicin@),_doxycycline, gatifloxacin, gentamicin, imipenim, levofloxacin,
     linezolid (Zyvox@), minocycline, nafcilin, paromomycin, rifampin,
     sulphamethoxazole, tobramycin and vancomycin), on keratinocyte repair of the
     scratch wound, e.g., to identify an agent or combination of agents that alters
     (e.g., increases or decreases in a statistically significant manner relative to
20 appropriate controls) at least one indicator of scratch wound healing, such as
     the time elapsing for wound repair to take place or other wound-repair indicia
     (e.g., Tao et al., 2007 PLoS ONE 2:e697; Buth et al. 2007 Eur. J Cell Biol.
     86:747; Phan et al. 2000 Ann. Acad. Med. Singapore 29:27).
                                         EXAMPLE 5
25                WOUND BIOFILM INHIBITION OF KERATINOCYTE SCRATCH REPAIR
                     Isolated human keratinocytes were cultured on glass coverslips
    and scratch-wounded according to methodologies described above in Example
    4. Wounded cultures were maintained under culture conditions alone or in the
    presence of a co-cultured biofilm on a membrane support in fluid '
30  communication with the keratinocyte culture. The scratch closure time interval
    during which keratinocyte cell growth and/or migration reestablishes the
    keratinocyte monolayer over the scratch zone was then determined. Figure 3
    illustrates the effect that the presence in fluid communication (but without direct
    contact) of biofilms had on the healing time of scratched keratinocyte
35  monolayers.

   WO 20111097347                                                      PCT/US2011/023549
                                               98
                   Accordingly there are contemplated in certain embodiments a
     method of identifying an agent for treating a chronic wound, comprising
    culturing a scratch-wounded cell (e.g., keratinocyte or fibroblast) monolayer in
    the presence of a bacterial biofilm with and without a candidate anti-biofilm
 5  agent being present; and assessing an indicator of healing of the scratch
    wounded cell monolayer in the absence and presence of the candidate anti
    biofilm agent, wherein an agent (e.g., a BT compound such as a substantially
    monodisperse BT microparticle suspension as described herein, alone or in
    synergizing combination with an antibiotic, such as one or more of amikacin,
10  ampicillin, cefazolin, cefepime, chloramphenicol, ciprofloxacin, clindamycin,
    daptomycin (Cubicin@),.doxycycline, gatifloxacin, gentamicin, imipenim,
    levofloxacin, linezolid (Zyvox@), minocycline, nafcilin, paromomycin, rifampin,
    sulphamethoxazole, tobramycin and vancomycin) that promotes at least one
    indicator of healing is identified as a suitable agent for treating an acute or
15  chronic wound or a wound that contains a biofilm.
                                         EXAMPLE 6
                SYNERGIZING   BISMUTH-THIOL (BT)-ANTIBIOTIC     COMBINATIONS
                   This example shows instances of demonstrated synergizing
    effects by combinations of one or more bismuth-thiol compounds and one or
20  more antibiotics against a variety of bacterial species and bacterial strains,
    including several antibiotic-resistant bacteria.
                   Materials & Methods. Susceptibility studies were performed by
    broth dilution in 96-well tissue culture plates (Nalge Nunc International,
    Denmark) in accordance with NCCLS protocols (National Committee for Clinical
25  Laboratory Standards. (1997). Methods for Dilution Antimicrobial Susceptibility
    Tests for Bacteria that Grow Aerobically: Approved Standard M7-A2 and
    Informational Supplement M100-S10. NCCLS, Wayne, PA, USA).
                   Briefly, overnight bacterial cultures were used to prepare 0.5
    McFarland standard suspensions, which were further diluted 1:50 (-2 x 106
30  cfu/mL) in cation-adjusted Mueller-Hinton broth medium (BBL, Cockeysville,
    MD, USA). BTs (prepared as described above) and antibiotics were added at
    incremental concentrations, keeping the final volume constant at 0.2 mL.
    Cultures were incubated for 24 h at 37*C and turbidity was assessed by
    absorption at 630 nm using an ELISA plate reader (Biotek Instruments,
35  Winooski, VT, USA) according to the manufacturer's recommendations. The
    Minimum Inhibitory Concentration (MIC) was expressed as the lowest drug

   WO 20111097347                                                     PCT/US2011/023549
                                              99
    concentration inhibiting growth for 24 h. Viable bacterial counts (cfu/mL) were
    determined by standard plating on nutrient agar. The Minimal Bactericidal
    Concentrations (MBC) was expressed as the concentration of drug that
    reduced initial viability by 99.9% at 24 h of incubation.
 5                 The checkerboard method was used to assess the activity of
    antimicrobial combinations. The fractional inhibitory concentration index (FICI)
    and the fractional bactericidal concentration index (FBCI) were calculated,
    according to Eliopoulos et al. (Eliopoulos and Moellering, (1996) Antimicrobial
    combinations. In Antibiotics in Laboratory Medicine (Lorian, V., Ed.), pp. 330
10  96, Williams and Wilkins, Baltimore, MD, USA). Synergy was defined as an
    FICI or FBCI index of 50.5, no interaction at >0.5-4 and antagonism at >4
    (Odds, FC (2003) Synergy, antagonism, and what the chequerboard puts
    between them. Joumal of Antimicrobial Chemotherapy 52:1). Synergy was also
    defined conventionally as :4-fold decrease in antibiotic concentration.
15                 Results are presented in Tables 2-17.
                                           TABLE 2
                                  S. aureus Nafcilin resistant
                                              NAF/BE
                                 NAF MIC         MIC
          Strain                  (pg/ml)      (pg/ml)          A         Synergy
          60187-2                     10.00           0.6          16.7       +
          52446-3                    175.00          40.0           4.4       +
          M1978                      140.00          50.0           2.8
          W54793                     130.00          33.3           3.9
          S24341                     210.00          65.0           3.2
          H7544                       28.33          15.0           1.9
          H72751                     145.00          43.3           3.3
          W71630                     131.67          46.7           2.8
          X22831                     178.33          75.0           2.4
          X23660                     123.33          43.3           2.8
          036466                     191.67          93.3           2.1
       BE = 0.2 pg/ml BisEDT; Bacterial strains were obtained from the Clinical
       Microbiology Laboratory at Winthrop-University Hospital, Mineola, NY. Nafcillin
20     was obtained from Sigma (St. Louis, MO).

   WO 20111097347                                                     PCT/US2011/023549
                                              100
                                           TABLE 3
                                S. aureus Nafcilin resistant
                                                GMI/BE
                               GM MIC             MIC
          Strain                (pg/mi)         (pg/ml)          A        Synergy
          60187-2                     0.233         0.004          58.3       +
          52446-3                  10.667           1.500           7.1       +
          M1978                    32.500           4.000           8.1       +
          W54793                     0.250          0.080           3.1
          S24341                     0.250          0.058           4.3       +
          H7544                      0.383          0.093           4.1       +
          H72751                     0.200          0.072           2.8
          W71630                   17.667           3.800           4.6       +
          X22831                    -               0.085
          X23660                   22.500           4.000           5.6       +
          036466                     0.267          0.043           6.2       +
       BE = 0.2 pg/ml BisEDT; Bacterial strains were obtained from the Clinical
       Microbiology Laboratory at Winthrop-University Hospital, Mineola, NY. Nafcillin was
 5     obtained from Sigma.
                                           TABLE 4
                                           S. aureus
                            Rifampin/Neomycin/Paromomycin
                                  MIC          MIC + BE
          ATCC 25923            (pg/ml)         (pg/mi)         A         Synergy
          RIF                        0.033          0.003          13.0 +
          NEO                        0.500          0.200           2.5
          PARO                        1.080         0.188           5.7 +
          MRSA S2446-3
          RIF                        2.500          2.500           1.0
          NEO                      13.400           8.500           1.6
          PARO                    335.000        183.300            1.8
       BE = 0.2 pg/ml BisEDT; Strain S2446-3 was obtained from the Clinical
10     Microbiology Laboratory at Winthrop-University Hospital, Mineola, NY. Antibiotics
       were obtained from Sigma.

   WO 20111097347                                                         PCT/US2011/023549
                                                  101
                                              TABLE 5
                                 S. epidermidis - GM resistant
                              strain ATCC 35984                  strain S2400-1
           BisEDT              MIC               MBC           MIC           MBC
           (pg/ml)         (pg/ml GM) (pg/ml GM) (pg/ml GM) (pg/ml GM)
           0                        53.3            384.0          85.3          426.7
           0.005                    20.0             96.0          96.0          512.0
           0.01                     37.3            117.3          64.0          256.0
           0.02                     21.3             26.7          28.0          128.0
           0.04                       2.0            16.0           2.0          128.0
           0.08                       2.0            10.7           2.0           53.3
           0.16 (MIC)                                  3.0                        10.0
           0.32                                        2.0                         4.0
       GM = gentamicin; Strain S2400-1 was obtained from the Clinical Microbiology
       Laboratory at Winthrop-University Hospital, Mineola, NY. Gentamicin was obtained
 5     from the Pharmacy Department at Winthrop; synergy in bold
                                              TABLE 6
                                    S. epidermidis    - S2400-1
                                        Biofilm Prevention
                                  BisEDT (pg/ml)                    A
       Antibiotic           0            0.05            0.1    (0.05 BE)      Synergy
       cefazolin                28             10            1          2.8
       vancomycin              3.2            0.9          0.1          3.6
       gatifloxacin             1.6           0.1          0.1         16.0       ++
       rifampicin             0.03          0.04          0.04          0.7
       nafcillin                48             64            8          0.8
       clindamycin            1195             48           12         24.9     ++++
       gentamicin              555           144            12          3.9   borderline
       minocycline            0.85          0.73          0.08          1.2
       Data in pg/ml; Strain S2400-1 was obtained from the Clinical Microbiology
10     Laboratory at Winthrop-University Hospital, Mineola, NY. Antibiotics were obtained
       from the Pharmacy Department at Winthrop.

   WO 20111097347                                                           PCT/US2011/023549
                                                  102
                                              TABLE 7
                                    S. epidermidis - S2400-1
                                                 MIC
                                    BisEDT (pg/ml)                      A
        Antibiotic           0             0.05            0.1      (0.05 BE)    Synergy
        cefazolin                32               8            1          4.00       +
        vancomycin              3.2             2.3          0.3          1.40
        gatifloxacin             1.7            0.8          0.3          2.13
        rifampicin             0.03           0.04         0.04           0.75
        nafcillin               171            192            68          0.89
        clindamycin           2048            768             24          2.67
        gentamicin            2048            320             80          6.40       +
        minocycline            1.13           0.43         0.10           2.63
        Data in pg/ml; Strain S2400-1 was obtained from the Clinical Microbiology
 5      Laboratory at Winthrop-University Hospital, Mineola, NY. Antibiotics were obtained
       from the Pharmacy Department at Winthrop.
                                              TABLE 8
                                    S. epidermidis - S2400-1
                                  BisEDT (pg/ml)                    A
          Antibiotic              0.0              0.1          (0.1 BE)       Synergy
          cefazolin                     48              10              4.80 +
          vancomycin                   5.4             1.4              3.86 borderline
          gatifloxacin                 2.8             1.4              2.00
          rifampicin                 0.03           0.07                0.43
          nafcillin                   256             128               2.00
          clindamycin               2048             768                2.67
          gentamicin                1536             256                6.00 +
          minocycline                1.20            1.20               1.00
10     Data in pg/ml; Strain S2400-1 was obtained from the Clinical Microbiology
       Laboratory at Winthrop-University Hospital, Mineola, NY. Antibiotics were obtained
       from the Pharmacy Department at Winthrop.

   WO 20111097347                                                        PCT/US2011/023549
                                               103
                                             TABLE 9
                                          S. epidermidis
                                          ATCC 35984
                                               MIC
                                     BisEDT (pg/ml)
          Antibiotic                  0.0             0.05         A        Synergy
          Nafcillin                    16.00           5.00            3.2
          Clindamycin              2048.00         1024.00               2
          Gentamicin                 213.33           16.00           13.3     ++
          Minocycline                   0.13           0.04            3.3
          Rifampicin                   0.021         0.014             1.5
 5     Data in pg/ml; Antibiotics were obtained from the Pharmacy Department at
       Winthrop-University Hospital, Mineola, NY.
                                            TABLE 10
                        E coli - Ampicillin/Chloramphenicol resistant
                                                 MIC
                                 MIC AB        AB/BE                            MIC BE
      Strain                     (pg/ml)     (pg/mi AB)       A     Synergy     (pg/mi)
      MC4100/TN9 (CM)                 220            12.7    17.4 +                    0.6
      MC41OO/P9 (AM)                  285              49      5.8 +                   0.5
      MC4100 (AM)                   141.7              35      4.0 +                   0.6
       AB = antibiotic; CM = chloramphenicol; AM = ampicillin; BE = BisEDT at 0.3 pg/ml;
10     Strains were obtained from the laboratory of Dr. MJ Casadaban, Department of
       Molecular Genetics and Cell Biology, The University of Chicago, Chicago, IL.
       Antibiotics were obtained from the Pharmacy Department at Winthrop-University
       Hospital, Mineola, NY.
                                            TABLE 11
15                              E coli - Tetracycline-resistant:
                                    Doxycycline + BisEDT
                    DOX MIC        DOX/BE MIC                                 BE MIC
      Strain         (pg/mi)       (pg/mi DOX)           A       Synergy      (pg/ml)
      TET M               16.50               4.50         4.0       +              0.85
      TET D               20.50               0.03      820.0     ++++              0.85
      TET A               15.00              10.00         1.5       -              0.40
      TET B               20.13              10.33         2.0       -              0.60
       DOX = doxycycline; BE = BisEDT at 0.3 pg/ml; Strains were obtained from the
       laboratory of Dr. I Chopra, Department of Bacteriology, The University of Bristol,
       Bristol, UK. Antibiotics were obtained from the Pharmacy Department at Winthrop
20     University Hospital, Mineola, NY.

   WO 20111097347                                                       PCT/US2011/023549
                                               104
                                          TABLE 12
                            P. aeruginosa - Tobramycin-resistant:
                                       BisEDT Synergy
                              NN         NN+BE                                  BE MIC
      Strain               (pg/mi)     (pg/ml NN)        A      Synergy         (pglml)
      Xen5                   0.32          0.19        1.68         -              0.9
      Agr PA E                115           70         1.64         -              0.9
      Agr PA I               200            73        2.74          -               1
      Agr PA K                4.8            3         1.60         -             0.82
      Agr PA O                130         20.5        6.34          +             0.98
       Agr =aminoglycoside resistant; NN = tobramycin; PA = Pseudomonas aeruginosa;
 5     BE = BisEDT, 0.3 pg/ml; Strains were obtained from the laboratory of Dr. K. Poole,
       Department of Microbiology and Immunology, Queens University, Ontario, CN.
       Tobramycin was obtained from the Pharmacy Department at Winthrop-University
       Hospital, Mineola, NY.
                                          TABLE 13
10                                        B. cepacia
                                   Tobramycin+BE Synergy
                                               MIC
                           NN         NN+BE                                  BE MIC
         Strain          (pg/ml)    (pg/ml NN)       A       Synergy         (pg/ml)
         13945                 200             50        4 +                         2.4
         25416                 125             10    12.5    ++                      1.2
         H12229                 64              8        8 +                         0.8
         AU 0267               128              2      64    ++++                    0.8
         AU 0259             1024            256         4 +                         1.6
         H12255                 64              8        8   +                       1.6
         AU 0273               512             32       16 ++                        1.6
         HI 2253                64             16        4 +                         1.6
         HI 2147               512              8      64 ++++                       1.6
       NN = Tobramycin; BE = BisEDT, 0.4 pg/ml; Strains were obtained from the
       laboratory of Dr. J.J. LiPuma, Department of Pediatrics and Communicable
15     Diseases, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, Ml; also Veloira et al. 2003.
       Tobramycin was obtained from the Pharmacy Department at Winthrop-University
       Hospital, Mineola, NY.

   WO 20111097347                                                      PCT/US2011/023549
                                                105
                                            TABLE 14
                                            B. cepacia
                                     Tobramycin+BE Synergy
                                               MBC
                              NN          NN+BE                               BE MIC
        Strain             (pg/mi)      (pg/ml NN)     A       Synergy        (pg/ml)
        HI 2249                  256              8       32       ++                3.2
        H12229                   128             32        4       +                6.4
        AU 0267                  256             32        8       +                6.4
        AU 0259                1024           1024         1        -              12.8
        HI 2255                  128             32        4       +               12.8
        HI 2711                  512              8       64     ++++               6.4
        AU 0284                1024              64       16       ++                0.8
        AU 0273                  512             32       16       ++                1.6
        H12253                   128             64        2        -               3.2
        HI 2147                  512           128         4       +                6.4
 5     NN = Tobramycin; BE = BisEDT, 0.4 pg/ml; Strains were obtained from the
       laboratory of Dr. J.J. LiPuma, Department of Pediatrics and Communicable
       Diseases, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI; also Veloira et al. 2003.
       Tobramycin was obtained from the Pharmacy Department at Winthrop-University
       Hospital, Mineola, NY.
10                                          TABLE 15
                                  Tobramycin Resistant Strains
                                               MIC
                             NN          NN+BE                           Lipo-BE-NN
        Strain            (pg/ml)      (pg/ml NN)     A      Synergy     (pg/mi NN)
        M13637                 512              32     16       ++                 0.25
        M13642R                 128             64      2        -                 0.25
        PA-48913              1024            256       4       +                  0.25
        PA-48912-2               64               8     8       +                  0.25
        PA-10145                   1             4   0.25        -                 0.25
        SA-29213                   2              1     2        -                 0.25
       NN = Tobramycin; BE = BisEDT, 0.8 pg/ml; Lipo-BE-NN = liposomal BE-NN;
       Strains were obtained from the laboratory of Dr. A. Omri, Department of Chemistry
15     and Biochemistry, Laurentian University, Ontario, ON; (M strains are mucoid B.
       cepacia; PA=P. aeruginosa; SA=S. aureus). Tobramycin was obtained from the
       Pharmacy Department at Winthrop-University Hospital, Mineola, NY.

   WO 20111097347                                                        PCT/US2011/023549
                                              106
                                          TABLE 16
                                Tobramycin Resistant Strains
                                             MBC
                                                                              Lipo-BE
                            NN          NN+BE                                    NN
        Strain           (pg/ml)      (pg/ml NN)         A     Synergy      (pglml NN)
        M13637                1024             64          16      ++                  8
        M13642R                256            128            2      -                 16
        PA-48913              4096            512            8      +                  4
        PA-48912-2              128            32            4      +                0.5
        PA-10145                  1              8     0.125        -                  4
        SA-29213                  2              1           2      -              0.25
        NN = Tobramycin; BE = BisEDT, 0.8 pg/ml; Lipo-BE-NN = liposomal BE-NN;
 5     Strains were obtained from the laboratory of Dr. A. Omri, Department of Chemistry
       and Biochemistry, Laurentian University, Ontario, CN; (M strains are mucoid B.
       cepacia; PA=P. aeruginosa; SA=S. aureus). Tobramycin was obtained from the
       Pharmacy Department at Winthrop-University Hospital, Mineola, NY.
                                          TABLE 17
10                               BisEDT-Pyrithione Synergy
                                                                       S. aureus
                              P. aeruginosa            E. coli           ATCC
                 NaPYR         ATCC 27853         ATCC 25922             25923
                 (ug/mi)        (pg/ml BE)          (pglml BE)        (pg/mI BE)
                     0              0.25                 0.1              0.25
                  0.025                                  0.1             0.125
                   0.05                                 0.025            0.063
                    0.1            0.125               0.0125            0.063
                    0.2            0.125               0.0125            0.031
                    0.4                               0.00625               0
                    0.8            0.125              0.00625
                    1.6
                  (MIC)            0.063              0.00625
                    3.2            0.063                  0
                    6.4            0.063
                   12.8               0
       BE = BisEDT; NaPYR = sodium pyrithione; Chemicals were obtained from Sigma
       Aldrich; synergy in bold. Indicated bacterial strains were from American Type
       Culture Collection (ATCC, Manassas, VA).

   WO 20111097347                                                     PCT/US2011/023549
                                             107
                                        EXAMPLE 7
        COMPARATIVE BISMUTH-THIOL      (BT) AND ANTIBIOTIC EFFECTS AGAINST GRAM
         POSITIVE AND GRAM-NEGATIVE BACTERIA INCLUDING ANTIBIOTIC-RESISTANT
                                     BACTERIAL STRAINS
 5                 In this example the in vitro activities of BisEDT and comparator
    agents were assessed against multiple clinical isolates of Gram-positive and
     negative bacteria that are responsible for skin and soft tissue infections.
                   Materials and Methods. Test compounds and test concentration
     ranges were as follows: BisEDT (Domenico et al., 1997; Domenico et al.,
10  Antimicrob. Agents Chemother. 45(5):1417-1421. and Example 1), 16-0.015
     pg/mL; linezolid (ChemPacifica Inc., #35710), 64-0.06 pg/mL; Daptomycin
    (Cubist Pharmaceuticals #MCB2007), 32-0.03 pg/mL and 16-0.015 pg/mL;
    vancomycin (Sigma-Aldrich, St. Louis, MO, # V2002), 64-0.06 pg/mL;
    ceftazidime, (Sigma #C3809), 64-0.06 pg/mL and 32-0.03 pg/mL; imipenem
15  (United States Pharmacopeia, NJ, #1337809) 16-0.015 pg/mL and 8-0.008
    pg/mL; ciprofloxacin (United States Pharmacopeia, # 10C265), 32-0.03 pg/mL
    and 4-0.004 pg/mL; gentamicin (Sigma #G3632) 32-0.03 pg/mL and 16-0.015
    pg/mL. All test articles, except gentamicin, were dissolved in DMSO;
    gentamicin was dissolved in water. Stock solutions were prepared at 40-fold
20  the highest concentration in the test plate. The final concentration of DMSO in
    the test system was 2.5%.
                   Organisms. The test organisms were obtained from clinical
    laboratories as follows: CHP, Clarian Health Partners, Indianapolis, IN; UCLA,
    University of California Los Angeles Medical Center, Los Angeles, CA; GR
25  Micro, London, UK; PHRI TB Center, Public Health Research Institute
    Tuberculosis Center, New York, NY; ATCC, American Type Culture Collection,
    Manassas, VA; Mt Sinai Hosp., Mount Sinai Hospital, New York, NY; UCSF,
    University of California San Francisco General Hospital, San Francisco, CA;
    Bronson Hospital, Bronson Methodist Hospital, Kalamazoo, Ml; quality control
30  isolates were from the American Type Culture Collection (ATCC, Manassas,
    VA). Organisms were streaked for isolation on agar medium appropriate to
    each organism. Colonies were picked by swab from the isolation plates and put
    into suspension in appropriate broth containing a cryoprotectant. The
    suspensions were aliquoted into cryogenic vials and maintained at -800 C.
35  Abbreviations are: BisEDT, bismuth-1,2-ethanedithiol; LZD, linezolid; DAP,
    daptomycin; VA, vancomycin; CAZ, ceftazidime; IPM, imipenem; CIP,
    ciprofloxacin; GM, gentamicin; MSSA, methicillin-susceptible Staphylococcus

   WO 20111097347                                                     PCT/US2011/023549
                                             108
     aureus; CLSI QC, Clinical and Laboratory Standards Institute quality control
     strain; MRSA, methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus; CA-MRSA,
     community-acquired methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus; MSSE,
     methicillin-susceptible Staphylococcus epidermidis; MRSE, methicillin-resistant
 5 Staphylococcus epidermidis; VSE, vancomycin-susceptible Enterococcus.
                   The isolates were streaked from the frozen vials onto appropriate
     medium: Trypticase Soy Agar (Becton-Dickinson, Sparks, MD) for most
     organisms or Trypticase Soy Agar plus 5% sheep blood (Cleveland Scientific,
     Bath, OH) for streptococci. The plates were incubated overnight at 351C.
10 Quality control organisms were included. The medium employed for the MIC
     assay was Mueller Hinton Il Broth (MHB II- Becton Dickinson, # 212322) for
     most of the organisms. MHB II was supplemented with 2% lysed horse blood
     (Cleveland Scientific Lot # H13913) to accommodate the growth of
     Streptococcus pyogenes and Streptococcus agalactiae. The media were
15 prepared at 102.5% normal weight to offset the dilution created by the addition
     of 5 pL drug solution to each well of the microdilution panels. In addition, for
    tests with daptomycin, the medium was supplemented with an additional
    25mg/L Ca2 .
                   The MIC assay method followed the procedure described by the
20 Clinical and Laboratory Standards Institute (Clinical and Laboratory Standards
     Institute. Methods for Dilution Antimicrobial Susceptibility Tests for Bacteria
     That Grow Aerobically; Approved Standard-Seventh Edition. Clinical and
    Laboratory Standards Institute document M7-A7 [ISBN 1-56238-587-9].
    Clinical and Laboratory Standards Institute, 940 West Valley Road, Suite 1400,
25 Wayne, Pennsylvania 19087-1898 USA, 2006) and employed automated liquid
    handlers to conduct serial dilutions and liquid transfers. Automated liquid
    handlers included the Multidrop 384 (Labsystems, Helsinki, Finland), Biomek
    2000 and Multimek 96 (Beckman Coulter, Fullerton CA). The wells of Columns
    2-12 of standard 96-well microdilution plates (Falcon 3918) were filled with
30 150pL of DMSO or water for gentamicin on the Multidrop 384. The drugs (300
    pL) were dispensed into Column 1 of the appropriate row in these plates.
    These would become the mother plates from which the test plates (daughter
    plates) were prepared. The Biomek 2000 completed serial transfers through
    Column 11 in the mother plates. The wells of Column 12 contained no drug
35 and were the organism growth control wells in the daughter plates. The
    daughter plates were loaded with 185 pL of the appropriate test media
    (described above) using the Multidrop 384. The daughter plates were prepared

   WO 20111097347                                                    PCT/US2011/023549
                                             109
     on the Multimek 96 instrument which transferred 5 pL of drug solution from
     each well of a mother plate to each corresponding well of each daughter plate
     in a single step.
                    Standardized inoculum of each organism was prepared per CLSI
 5   methods (ISBN 1-56238-587-9, cited supra). Suspensions were prepared in
     MHB to equal the turbidity of a 0.5 McFarland standard. The suspensions were
     diluted 1:9 in broth appropriate to the organism. The inoculum for each
     organism was dispensed into sterile reservoirs divided by length (Beckman
     Coulter), and the Biomek 2000 was used to inoculate the plates. Daughter
10   plates were placed on the Biomek 2000 work surface reversed so that
     inoculation took place from low to high drug concentration. The Biomek 2000
    delivered 10 pL of standardized inoculum into each well. This yielded a final
    cell concentration in the daughter plates of approximately 5 x 105 colony
    forming-units/mL. Thus, the wells of the daughter plates ultimately contained
15   185 pL of broth, 5 pL of drug solution, and 10 pL of bacterial inoculum. Plates
    were stacked 3 high, covered with a lid on the top plate, placed in plastic bags,
    and incubated at 35 0C for approximately 18 hours for most of the isolates. The
    Streptococcus plates were read after 20 hours incubation. The microplates
    were viewed from the bottom using a plate viewer. For each of the test media,
20  an uninoculated solubility control plate was observed for evidence of drug
    precipitation. The MIC was read and recorded as the lowest concentration of
    drug that inhibited visible growth of the organism.
                    Results. All marketed drugs were soluble at all of the test
    concentrations in both media. BisEDT exhibited a trace precipitate at 32 pg/mL,
25  but MIC readings were not affected as the inhibitory concentrations for all
    organisms tested were well below that concentration. On each assay day, an
    appropriate quality control strain(s) was included in the MIC assays. The MIC
    values derived for these strains were compared to the published quality control
    ranges (Clinical and Laboratory Standards Institute. Performance Standards for
30  Antimicrobial Susceptibility Testing; Eighteenth Informational Supplement. CLSI
    document M100-S18 [ISBN 1-56238-653-0]. Clinical and Laboratory Standards
    Institute, 940 West Valley Road, Suite 1400, Wayne, Pennsylvania 19087-1898
    USA, 2008) for each agent, as appropriate.
                    On each assay day, an appropriate quality control strain(s) was
35  included in the MIC assays. The MIC values derived for these strains were
    compared to the published quality control ranges (Clinical and Laboratory
    Standards Institute. Performance Standards for Antimicrobial Susceptibility

   WO 20111097347                                                    PCT/US2011/023549
                                              110
     Testing, Eighteenth Informational Supplement. CLSI document Mi 00-SI 8
    [ISBN 1-56238-653-0]) for each agent, as appropriate. Of 141 values for quality
    control strains where quality control ranges are published, 140(99.3%) were
    within the specified ranges. The one exception was imipenem versus S. aureus
 5  29213 which yielded one value on a single run (5 0.008 pg/mL) that was one
    dilution below the published QC range. All other quality control results on that
    run were within the specified quality control ranges.
                   BisEDT demonstrated potent activity against both methicillin
    susceptible Staphylococcus aureus (MSSA), methicillin-resistant S. aureus
10  (MRSA), and community-acquired MRSA (CA-MRSA), inhibiting all strains
    tested at 1 pg/mL or less with an MIC90 values of 0.5 pg/mL for all three
    organism groups. BisEDT exhibited activity greater than that of linezolid and
    vancomycin and equivalent to that of daptomycin. Imipenem was more potent
    than BisEDT against MSSA (MIC90 = 0.03 pg/mL). However, MRSA and
15  CAMRSA were resistant to imipenem while BisEDT demonstrated activity
    equivalent to that shown for MSSA. BisEDT was highly-active against
    methicillin-susceptible and methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus epidermidis
    (MSSE and MRSE), with MIC90 values of 0.12 and 0.25 pg/mL, respectively.
    BisEDT was more active against MSSE than any of the other agents tested
20  except imipenem. BisEDT was the most active agent tested against MRSE.
                   BisEDT demonstrated activity equivalent to that of daptomycin,
    vancomycin, and imipenem against vancomycin-susceptible Enterococcus
    faecalis (VSEfc) with an MIC90 value of 2pg/mL. Significantly, BisEDT was the
    most active agent tested against vancomycin-resistant Enterococcus faecalis
25  (VREfc) with an MIC90 value of 1 pg/mL.
                   BisEDT was very active against vancomycin-susceptible
    Enterococcus faecium (VSEfm) with an MIC90 value of 2 pg/mL; its activity was
    equivalent to that or similar to that of daptomycin and one-dilution higher than
    that of vancomycin. BisEDT and linezolid were the most active agents tested
30  against vancomycin-resistant Enterococcus faecium (VREfm), each
    demonstrating an MIC90 value of 2 pg/mL. The activity of BisEDT against
    Streptococcus pyogenes (MIC90 value of 0.5 pg/mL) was equivalent to that of
    vancomycin, greater than that of linezolid, and slightly less than that of
    daptomycin and ceftazidime. The compound inhibited all strains tested at 0.5
35  pg/mL or less. In these studies, the species that was least sensitive to BisEDT
    was Streptococcus agalactiae where the observed MIC90 value was 16 pg/mL.
    BisEDT was less active than all of the agents tested except gentamicin.

   WO 20111097347                                                     PCT/US2011/023549
                                             111
                   The activity of BisEDT and comparators against Gram-negative
    bacteria included demonstrated BisEDT potency against Acinetobacter
    baumanii (MIC90 value of 2 pg/mL) making BisEDT the most active compound
    tested. Elevated MICs for a significant number of test isolates for the
 5  comparator agents resulted in off-scale MIC90 values for these agents.
    BisEDT was a potent inhibitor of Escherichia coli, inhibiting all strains at 2
    pg/mL or less (MIC90 = 2 pg/mL). The compound was less active than
    imipenem, but more active than ceftazidime, ciprofloxacin, and gentamicin.
    BisEDT also demonstrated activity against Klebsiella pneumoniae with an
10  MIC90 value of 8 pg/mL which was equivalent to that of imipenem. The
    relatively high MIC90 values exhibited by imipenem, ceftazidime, ciprofloxacin,
    and gentamicin indicated that this was a highly antibiotic-resistant group of
    organisms. BisEDT was the most active compound tested against
    Pseudomonas aeruginosa with an MIC90 value of 4 pg/mL. There was a high
15  level of resistance to the comparator agents for this group of test isolates.
                   In summary, BisEDT demonstrated broad-spectrum potency
    against multiple clinical isolates representing multiple species, including species
    commonly involved in acute and chronic skin and skin structure infections in
    humans. The activity of BisEDT and key comparator agents was evaluated
20  against 723 clinical isolates of Gram-positive and Gram-negative bacteria. The
    BT compound demonstrated broad spectrum activity, and for a number of the
    test organisms in this study, BisEDT was the most active compound tested in
    terms of anti-bacterial activity. BisEDT was most active against MSSA, MRSA,
    CA-MRSA, MSSE, MRSE, and S. pyogenes, where the MIC90 value was 0.5
25  pg/mL or less. Potent activity was also demonstrated for VSEfc, VREfc,VSEfm,
    VREfm, A. baumanii, E. coli, and P. aeruginosa where the MIC90 value was in
    the range of 1 - 4 pg/mL. MIC90 values observed were, for K. pneumoniae
    (MIC90 = 8 pg/mL), and for S. agalactiae (MIC90= 16 pg/mL).
                                         EXAMPLE 8
30      MICROPARTICULATE BT-ANTIBIOTIc ENHANCING AND SYNERGIZING ACTIVITIES
                   This example shows that microparticulate bismuth thiols (BTs)
    promote antibiotic activity through enhancing and/or synergizing interactions.
                   A major complicating factor in treating infections is the emerging
    resistance of bacteria to antibiotics. Methicillin resistance in S. epidermidis
35  (MRSE) and S. aureus (MRSA) actually reflects multiple drug resistance,
    making these pathogens very difficult to eradicate. However, no staphylococci

   WO 20111097347                                                      PCT/US2011/023549
                                              112
    from hundreds of strains tested showed resistance to BTs. Furthermore, BTs at
     subinhibitory (subMIC) concentrations reduced resistance to several important
    antibiotics.
                    Staphylococcus aureus. A graphic demonstration of the
 5 antibiotic-resensitizing effects of subMIC bismuth ethanedithiol (BisEDT)
    against MRSA is provided (Figure 4) showing enhanced antibiotic action of
    several classes of antibiotics, including gentamicin, cefazolin, cefepime,
    imipenim, sulphamethoxazole, and levofloxacin. Thus, BisEDT nonspecifically
    enhanced the activity of most antibiotics.
10                  Broth dilution antimicrobial susceptibility studies were performed
    against 12 MRSA strains using several antibiotics combined with subMIC levels
    of BisEDT (Table 18). Both the biofilm-prevention concentration (BPC) and the
    minimum inhibitory concentration (MIC) were determined in a special biofilm
    culture medium (BHIG/X). The MIC and BPC for gentamicin and cefazolin were
15 reduced by subMIC BisEDT (BisEDT MIC, 0.2-0.4 pg/ml), but not below the
    breakpoint for sensitivity. subMIC BisEDT enhanced the sensitivity of MRSA to
    gatifloxacin and cefepime close to the breakpoint for sensitivity. These strains
    were already sensitive to vancomycin, but were made considerably moreso in
    the presence of subMIC BisEDT. Generally, the MIC and BPC were reduced 2
20 to 5-fold with subMIC BisEDT.
                                          TABLE 18.
            Antimicrobial Activity of BT-Antibiotic Combinations against MRSA
                                                                    MIC Standards
           Antibiotic                 BisEDT (pg/mL)                     (pg/ml)
                               0       0.025     0.05       0.1        S         R
           Gentamicin
           BPC              81±41     63±30     53±31     33±25
           MIC              81±40     60±27     58±30     48±31        4         16
           Cefazolin
           BPC             109±86     76±86    76±105     34±28
           MIC              93±75     99±76     90±60     45±32         8        32
           Gatifloxacin
           BPC             3.6±2.6 2.6±0.9 2.4±1.1 0.9±0.8
           MIC             3.6±2.6 4.0±2.8 4.0±2.8 2.4±1.1              2      >8
           Vancomycin
           BPC             2.5±1.7 1.5±0.6 1.3±0.5       0.7±0.4
           MIC             2.5±1.7 2.5±1.7 1.5±0.6       1.3±0.5       4         32
           Cefepime
           BPC              24±37     27±28     18±16    5.0±7.3
           MIC              45±32     32±28     37±24    9.3±6.1       8         32

   WO 20111097347                                                         PCT/US2011/023549
                                                113
         12 MRSA clinical isolates were grown in BHIG/X and exposed to serial dilutions of
         antibiotics in the presence of 0-0.1 pg/ml BisEDT. The MIC and BPC, calculated in
         pg/ml, are the means standard deviations from at least three trials. The right hand
         column lists the Standard MIC for antibiotic senstivity (S) and resistance (R)
 5
                     A broth dilution study of cefepime-resistant MRSA isolates is
     shown in Table 19. BisEDT at 0.1 pg/mI significantly enhanced the inhibitory
     activity of cefepime in 11 of 12 isolates. In this particular study, the data
     indicated synergy between BisEDT and cefepime (FIC < 0.5), with many of the
10   isolates at the breakpoint for sensitivity.
                                             TABLE 19
                         Cefepime-resistant MRSA Sensitized by BisEDT
                           MIC for Cefepime (ug/mL) in subMIC BisEDT
                                    BE                BE                    BE
                                  0 pg/mL         0.05 pg/mL           0.1 pg/mL
                  MRSA              MIC               MIC                  MIC
                Strain #
                         4              256                256                    16
                         6              256                256                    32
                         7              128                256                    32
                       10               128                 32                    16
                       18               256                128                     8
                       24               256                 64                     8
                       28               256                128                     8
                       35               256                256                     8
                       37               128                128                     8
                       41               128                256                     8
                       46               256                256                  256
                       47                32                   8                    8
         Twelve cefepime-resistant MRSA were tested in BHIG/X medium in polystyrene
         plates for sensitivity to cefepime combined with subMIC BisEDT at 37*C for 48h.
15
                     Results for combination studies with nafcillin or gentamicin are
     shown in Table 20. Combined with nafcillin, BisEDT (0.2 pig/ml) reduced the
     MIC90 for nafcillin by over 4-fold against MRSA (FIC, 0.74). Combined with
     gentamicin, BisEDT reduced the MIC90 for gentamicin over 10-fold against
20   MRSA (FIC, 0.6). BTs reversed the resistance of all four gentamicin-resistant
     isolates tested to clinically relevant concentrations [Domenico et al., 2002]. The

   WO 20111097347                                                    PCT/US2011/023549
                                              114
     MICs for these antimicrobial agents was reduced substantially, especially for
    gentamicin. The broth used in these studies was Trypticase Soy Broth (TSB)
    with 2% glucose, which showed results similar to that seen in Mueller-Hinton II
     broth fortified with 1% sheep's blood.
 5                                        TABLE 20
                      MRSA: Nafcillin or Gentamicin + BisEDT Synergy
                          NAF     NAF+BE                     GM     GM+BE
            Strain        MIC        MIC           A        MIC       MIC        A
         60187-2           10.00         0.60     16.67       0.23     0.00 58.33
         52446-3         175.00        40.00       4.38     10.67      1.50    7.11
         M1978           140.00        50.00       2.80     32.50      4.00    8.13
         W54793          130.00        33.33       3.90       0.25     0.08    3.13
         S24341          210.00        65.00       3.23      0.25      0.06    4.29
         H7544             28.33       15.00       1.89      0.38      0.09    4.11
         H72751          145.00        43.33       3.35      0.20      0.07    2.79
         W71630          131.67        46.67       2.82     17.67      3.80    4.65
         X22831          178.33        75.00       2.38
         X23660          123.33        43.33       2.85     22.50      4.00    5.63
         036466          191.67        93.33       2.05      0.27      0.04    6.15
                                 AVG A             4.21            AVG A      10.43
        NAF or GM in pg/ml; BE at 0.2 pg/mi
                     Staphylococcus epidermidis. The activities of most classes of
10  antibiotic were promoted in the presence of BisEDT. With regard to the BPC,
    clindamycin and gatifloxacin showed significantly more antibiofilm activity
    against S. epidermidis when combined with BisEDT (Figure 5). Stated in
    different terms, the BPC for clindamycin, gatifloxacin and gentamicin were
    reduced 50-fold, 10-fold and 4-fold, respectively, in the presence of subMIC
15  BisEDT.
                     Only modest decreases in the biofilm prevention concentration
    (BPC) were noted for minocycline, vancomycin, and cefazolin, while rifampicn
    and nafcillin remained unaffected at 0.05 pg/ml BisEDT. At 0.1 pig/ml BisEDT
    no biofilm was detected, regardless of antibiotic employed, signifying that no
20  antagonism occurred. This BisEDT concentration was close to the MIC for S.
    epidermidis [Domenico et al., 2003] (See Figure 5).

   WO 20111097347                                                      PCT/US2011/023549
                                              115
                    With regard to growth inhibition, seven of eight antibiotics tested
    were significantly enhanced in the presence of 0.1 pg/ml (0.5 pM) BisEDT
    against S. epidermidis (Figure 6). The MIC change was most pronounced for
    clindamycin and gentamicin, followed by vancomycin, cefazolin, minocycline,
 5  gatifloxacin and nafcillin, with rifampicin unaffected. Of the antibiotics this strain
    was resistant to (NC, CZ, GM, CM), only cefazolin resistance was reversed to
    clinically relevant levels by BisEDT.
                    Minimum bactericidal concentration (MBC) for most antibiotics
    tested against S. epidermidis decreased slightly with subMIC BisEDT.
10  Gentamicin showed the greatest reduction in MBC (4- to 16-fold), followed by
    cefazolin (4- to 5-fold), vancomycin and nafcillin (3- to 4-fold), minocycline and
    gatifloxacin (2- to 3-fold), while clindamycin and rifampicin MBC remained
    largely unaffected. Clindamycin is a bacteriostatic agent, which explains its
    lack of bactericidal activity. Cefazolin resistance was reversed with respect to
15  the MBC [Domenico et al., 2003]. These effects were additive.
                   The potentiation of antimicrobial agents was also demonstrated in
    vivo in a graft infection rat model (Table 21). BisEDT levels as low as 0.1 pg/ml
    were able to promote the prevention of resistant S. epidermidis biofilm for 7
    days.
20                 As summarized in Table 21, implants impregnated with 0.1 ptg/ml
    BisEDT, 10 ptg/ml RIP and 10 ptg/ml rifampin, alone or combined were
    implanted s.c. into rats. Physiological solution (1 ml) containing the MS and MR
    strains at 2x10 7 cfu/ml was inoculated onto the graft surface using a tuberculin
    syringe. All grafts were explanted at 7 days following implantation and
25  sonicated for 5 minutes in sterile saline solution to remove the adherent
    bacteria. Quantitation of viable bacteria was obtained by culturing dilutions on
    blood agar plates. The limit of detection was approximately 10 cfu/cm 2.
                                           TABLE 21
         RIP, BTs, and rifampin against S. epidermidis in a graft infection model
                                                         Quantitative graft culture
                Group"           Graft-bonded drug                (cfu/cm 2)
              No MSSE                                                <10
          Untreated MSSE                   -               5.0 x 107 ±7.7 x 10'
                MSIC                      RIP              4.3 x 102 ± 1.2 x 102
                MS2c                      BTs              5.8 x 102 g 0.9 x 102
                MS3c                   Rifampin            5.9 x 103 ± 1.8 x 103

   WO 20111097347                                                        PCT/US2011/023549
                                                116
                                                           Quantitative graft culture
               Group              Graft-bonded drug                 (cfu/cm 2 )
                MSCd                 RIP plus BTs                      <10
                MS5cd              RIP plus rifampin          2.0 x 101 ± 0.6 x 101
                MS6cd              BTs plus rifampin          1.9 x 101 ± 0.4 x 101
             No MRSE                                                   <10
          Untreated MRSE                    -                 7.8 x 107 ±2.0 x 107
                MRI1                       RIP                6.7 x 102 ±2.1 x 102
                MR2c                       BTs                6.2 x 102 ± 2.3 x 102
                MR3c                   Rifampin               7.6 x 104 ±2.1    x 104
                MR4ce                RIP plus BTs                      <10
                MR5"               RIP plus rifampin          4.3 x 101 ± 1.1 x 101
                MR6c               BTs plus rifampin          3.0 x 101 ± 1.1 x 101
     a Each group had 15 animals; MS, methicillin-susceptible S. epidermidis; MR,
       methicillin-resistant S. epidermidis
     b Dacron graft segments impregnated with 0.1 mg/I of BTs, 10 mg/I of RIP, 10 mg/I of
       rifampin
 5   c Statistically significant when compared with control groups MS and MR
     d Statistically significant when compared with MS3 group
     * Statistically significant when compared with MR1, MR2, and MR3 groups
                    Gram-negative Bacteria. Tobramycin activity against resistant
10  Pseudomonas aeruginosa was enhanced several-fold with subMIC BisEDT
    (Table 22). In these trials, the MIC was defined more precisely as the IC24.
                                            TABLE 22
                     Tobramyci n-resistant P. aeruginosa: BisEDT Effect
                                   NN MIC     BE MIC    NN+BE MIC
                    Strain         (pg/ml)     (pg/ml)     (pg/ml)          A
               PA Xen5                  0.3         0.9            0.2       1.7
               Agr PA E               115.0         0.9           70.0       1.6
               Agr PA I               200.0         1.0           73.0       2.7
               Agr PA K                 4.8       0.86             3.0       1.6
               Agr PA O               130.0       0.98            20.5       6.3
                                                                                        0
       Resistant strains of P. aeruginosa were cultured in Mueller-Hinton 11broth at 37 C
15     in the presence of tobramycin (NN) and BisEDT (BE; 0.33 pg/ml). The MIC was
       determined as the antibiotic concentration that inhibited growth for 24±1 h.

   WO 20111097347                                                      PCT/US2011/023549
                                              117
                   Against tobramycin-resistant Burkholderia cepacia, 0.4 tg/ml
    BisEDT rendered seven of 10 isolates tobramycin sensitive (mean FIC; 0.48),
    and reduced the MIC 9o by 10-fold (Table 23). Both the MIC and MBC of
    tobramycin were reduced significantly to achievable levels against 50 clinical
 5  Burkholderia cepacia isolates with subMIC BisEDT [Veloira et al., 2003].
    BisEDT and tobramycin in liposomal form have proven highly synergistic
    against P. aeruginosa. (Halwani et al., 2008; Halwani et al., 2009).
                                           TABLE 23
                         Tobramycin and BisEDT versus B. cepacia
                                                      MIC for
       Strain              Tobramycin      BisEDT           Tobramycin             FIC
                              (pg/ml)      (pg/ml)     (BisEDT at 0.4 pg/ml)      Index
       B. multivorans
            HI 2249             256          0.4                  a                  a
            HI 2229              64          0.8                  8                0.63
            AU 0267             128          0.8                  2                0.52
            AU 0259            1024          1.6                256                0.50
            HI 2255              64          1.6                  8                0.38
       B. cenocepacia
            H1 2711             256          0.4                  a                  a
            AU 0284             512          0.4                  a                  a
            AU 0273             512          1.6                 32                0.31
            H12253               64          1.6                 16                0.50
            HI 2147             512          1.6                  8                0.27
10   a  The three strains inhibited by BisEDT at 0.4 pg/ml were excluded from further
        study.
        FIC Index 0.5 indicates synergy: FICI >0.5 and <1.0 indicates enhancement.
                   Chloramphenicol and ampicillin resistant Escherichia coli were
15  made sensitive to these drugs by the addition of subMIC BisEDT (Table 24).

   WO 20111097347                                                          PCT/US2011/023549
                                                118
                                            TABLE 24
               Chloramphenicol/Ampicillin Resistant E coli: BisEDT Effect
                                                                      Drug + BE
                                     Drug MIC         BE MIC              MIC
             Strain        Drug        (pg/ml)         (pg/ml)          (pg/ml)         A
       MC4100/TN9          CM           220.0            0.6              12.7        17.4
       MC4100/P9           AMP          285.0            0.5             49.0          5.8
       MC4100              AMP          141.7            0.6              35.0         4.0
        Resistant strains of E coli were cultured in Mueller-Hinton II broth at 37*C in the
       presence of chloramphenicol (CM) or ampicillin (AMP) and BisEDT alone or in
 5     combination (BE; 0.33 pg/ml). The MIC was determined as the antibiotic
       concentration that inhibited growth for 24±1 h.
                   Tetracycline resistant Escherichia coli were made sensitive to
    doxycycline by the addition of subMIC BisEDT (Table 25). The combination
10  exhibited synergy against the TET M and TET D strains (FIC s 0.5), with
    additive effects against the TET A and TET B strains.
                                            TABLE 25
                        Tetracycline Resistant E. Coli: BisEDT Effect
                           DOX MIC            BE MIC       DOX+BE MIC
             Strain          (pg/ml)          (pg/ml)          (pg/ml)            A
            TET M          16.5 ± 1.3          0.85           4.5   2.7          4.0
            TET D          20.5 ± 1.1          0.85          0.03 0.0           820.0
            TET A          15.0 ± 1.8          0.40          10.0    1.0         1.5
            TET B          20.1 ± 2.4          0.60          10.3 ± 3.2          2.0
                                                                                  0
       Resistant strains of Ecoli were cultured in Mueller-Hinton II broth at 37 C in the
15     presence of doxycycline (DOX) and BisEDT alone or in combination (BE; 0.33
       pg/ml). The MIC was determined as the antibiotic concentration that inhibited
       growth for 24±1 h.
    References
                   Domenico P, R O'Leary, BA Cunha. 1992. Differential effect of
20  bismuth and salicylate compounds on antibiotic sensitivity of Pseudomonas
    aeruginosa. Eur J Clin Microbiol Infec Dis 11:170-175; Domenico P, D Parikh,
    BA Cunha. 1994. Bismuth modulation of antibiotic activity against
    gastrointestinal bacterial pathogens. Med Microbiol Lett 3:114-119; Domenico
    P, Kazzaz JA, Davis JM, Niederman MS. 2002. Subinhibitory bismuth
25  ethanedithiol (BisEDT) sensitizes resistant Staphylococcus aureus to nafcillin or

   WO 20111097347                                                      PCT/US2011/023549
                                             119
    gentamicin. Annual Meeting, ASM, Salt Lake City, UT; Domenico P, Kazzaz JA,
    Davis JM. 2003. Combating antibiotic resistance with bismuth-thiols. Research
    Advances in Antimicrob Agents Chemother 3:79-85; Domenico P, E Gurzenda,
    A Giacometti, 0 Cirioni, R Ghiselli, F Orlando, M Korem, V Saba, G Scalise, N
 5  Balaban. 2004. BisEDT and RIP act in synergy to prevent graft infections by
    resistant staphylococci. Peptides 25:2047-2053; Halwani M, Blomme S,
    Suntres ZE, Alipour M, Azghani AO, Kumar A, Omri A. 2008. Liposomal
    bismuth-ethanedithiol formulation enhances antimicrobial activity of tobramycin.
    Intl J Pharmaceut 358:278-84; Halwani M, Hebert S, Suntres ZE, Lafrenie RM,
10  Azghani AO, Omri A. 2009. Bismuth-thiol incorporation enhances biological
    activities of liposomal tobramycin against bacterial biofilm and quorum sensing
    molecules production by Pseudomonas aeruginosa. Int J Pharmaceut 373:141
    6; Veloira WG, Gurzenda EM, Domenico P, Davis JM, Kazzaz JA. 2003.
    Synergy of tobramycin and bismuth thiols against Burkholderia cepacia. J
15  Antimicrob Chemother 52:915-919.
                                         EXAMPLE 9
         MICROPARTICULATE BT-ANTIBIOTIc ENHANCING       AND SYNERGIZING ACTIVITIES
                     This example shows that the microparticulate bismuth thiol
    BisEDT promotes antibiotic activity through enhancing and/or synergizing
20  interactions with specific antibiotics against specific microbial target organisms.
    Single-point data for each indicated combination in Table 26 were generated
    essentially according to the methods used in Example 8.

WO 20111097347                                                                                 PCTIUS2Ol11023549
                                                           120
                                                                        co                                 LOnCO
                        woo                                                     )                      (    C)--N((NN
                             (N        0)             r- )(ON    N   CN(0)qC4
                             (N)       CN               O    DC                                        0)0
                    0                             M- 0       N  r-    N      N )co(M
            o  <co                                                                                               co
                    CD-      r-
                             o          C                   c6o~o )m0)U)C
         a          co       (D)         w                                                               Nou   NCl 0 -0
        0           V-       (N        6         6     o
               a.            (N        CD0(NNO                      ) N      CNN                      0
                                                                O
   (D~           UJN4c                                                        -     -T
   C'4              CMJ      T-         r                -    -
   ww
       _1.n             0CV  t         r-        (N-  "'             N      r     I
                        0.0) ~               C      0                                     )
                (j)                    V-                                   (T-                                  L
            (            0   *T-         N'-                Q0L             Iz (O       ' O0C       JNr
              > Uci0~"6                                                     C5         C5O-:
                                    co     co   c~~ ~       co           LO                 0O()CV   0N V
                            aNco                                                       (DN0(N(N  C
                                 U)V             o0
                                 C)C
                                       U?     ~~ C0 ~            l:   qCC0N!C\               2
               U    _                            C50                  0                       -   T

   WO 20111097347                                                    PCT/US2011/023549
                                             121
                    SA, Staphylococcus aureus; MRSA, methicillin-resistant
    Staphylococcus aureus; E Fc, Enterococcus faecalis; SP, Streptococcus
    pneumoniae; PRSP, penicillin-resistant Streptococcus pneumoniae; EC,
 5  Escherichia coli; KP, Klebsiella pneumoniae; PA, Pseudomonas aeruginosa;
    Bcep, Burkholderia cepacia; Bmult, Bukholderia multivorans; Abau,
    Acinetobacter baumanii; Msmeg, Mycobacterium smegmatis.
                                       EXAMPLE 10
        MICROPARTICULATE BT-ANTIBIOTIc ENHANCING AND SYNERGIZING ACTIVITIES
10                  The effects of combinations of microparticulate Bis-EDT and four
    Bis-EDT analogs prepared as described above, and other agents against
    representative strains of several Gram-negative pathogenic bacteria were
    tested. A modification of a common laboratory method was used to determine
    synergism (FICI < 0.5), enhancement (0.5 < FICI < 1.0), antagonism (FICI >
15  4.0) and indifference (1.0 < FICI < 4.0) used fractional inhibitory concentrations
    (FICs) and FIC indices (FICI) (Eliopoulos G and R Moellering. 1991.
    Antimicrobial combinations. In Antibiotics in Laboratory Medicine, Third Edition,
    edited by V Lorian. Williams and Wilkins, Baltimore, MD, pp. 432-492; Odds,
    2003 J. Antimicrob. Chemother. 52(1):1). The checkerboard technique was
20  used to determine FIC indices and was employed in this study.
                                         TABLE 27
                                     Test Components
                                                 FIC Highest Stock Conc. Range
           Test Cpd         Lot No.    Solvent     Concentration       Tested in FIC
                                                      (pg/mL)              (pg/mL)
      Bis-EDT               MB-1 B-3   DMSO              320                0.12-8
      Bis-EDT    (analog)    MB-2B     DMSO              320                0.12-8
      Bis-EDT   (analog)     MB-8-2    DMSO              320                0.12-8
      Bis-EDT   (analog)     MB-11     DMSO              320                0.12-8
      Bis-EDT   (analog)     MB-15     DMSO              320                0.12-8
                           095K1324      10%            2,560              0.06-64
     Aztreonam
                            (Sigma)    DMSO
                            GOD116      dH20            2,560              0.06-64
      Cefepime HCI
                             (USP)
                           084K0674     dH 20            640              0.015-16
      Cefotaxime
                            (Sigma)
      Piperacillin         0141<1362    dH2 O           2,560              0.06-64
                            (Sigma)              _________________

   WO 20111097347                                                     PCT/US2011/023549
                                               122
                    Stock solutions of all test articles were prepared at 40X the final
     target concentration in the appropriate solvent. All test articles were in solution
     under these conditions. The final drug concentrations in the FIC assay plates
  5 were set to bracket the MIC value of each agent for each test organism, unless
     the strain was totally resistant to the test agent. The concentration ranges
     tested are displayed in Table 27. The test organisms were originally received
     from clinical sources, or from the American Type Culture Collection. Upon
     receipt, the isolates were streaked onto Tryptic Soy Agar Il (TSA). Colonies
10 were harvested from these plates and a cell suspension was prepared in an
     appropriate broth growth medium containing cryoprotectant. Aliquots were then
    frozen at -800 C. The frozen seeds of the organisms to be tested in a given
     assay were thawed, streaked for isolation onto TSA plates, and incubated at
     350C. All organisms were tested in Mueller Hinton Il Broth (Becton Dickinson,
15   Lot No.9044411). The broth was prepared at 1.05X normal weight/volume to
    offset the 5 % volume of the drugs in the final test plates.
                    Minimal Inhibitory Concentration (MIC) values were previously
    determined using the broth microdilution method for aerobic bacteria (Clinical
    and Laboratory Standards Institute (CLSI). Methods for Dilution Antimicrobial
20  Susceptibility Tests for Bacteria That Grow Aerobically; Approved Standard
    Eighth Edition. CLSI document M07-A8 [ISBN 1-56238-689-1]. Clinical and
    Laboratory Standards Institute, 940 West Valley Road, Suite 1400, Wayne,
    Pennsylvania 19087-1898 USA, 2009.).
                    FIC values were determined using a broth microdilution method
25  previously described (Sweeney et al., 2003 Antimicrob. Agents Chemother.
    47(6):1902-1906). To prepare the test plates, automated liquid handlers
    (Multidrop 384, Labsystems, Helsinki, Finland; Biomek 2000 and Multimek 96,
    Beckman Coulter, Fullerton CA) were used to conduct serial dilutions and liquid
    transfers.
30                  The appropriate wells of standard 96-well microdilution plates
    (Falcon 3918) were filled with 150 pL of the appropriate solvent in columns 2-12
    using the Multidrop 384. Three hundred microliters of each secondary test drug
    was added to each well in Column 1 of the plates. These plates were used to
    prepare the drug "mother plates" which provided the serial drug dilutions for the
35  drug combination plates. The Biomek 2000 was used to transfer 150 pL of
    each secondary drug solution (40X) from the wells in Column I of the mother
    plate and to make eleven 2-fold serial dilutions. Mother plates of Bis-EDT (and

   WO 20111097347                                                     PCT/US2011/023549
                                               123
     analogs) were serial diluted top to bottom by hand, using a multichannel
     pipette. Two mother plates, one for each secondary drug and one for Bis-EDT
     (or analogs), were combined to form a "checkerboard" pattern by transfer of
     equal volumes (using a multi-channel pipette) to the drug combination plate.
  5 Row H and Column 12 each contained serial dilutions of one of the agents
     alone for determination of the MIC.
                    The "daughter plates" were loaded with 180 pL of test medium
     using the Multidrop 384. Then, the Multimek 96 was used to transfer 10 p.L of
     drug solution from each well of the drug combination mother plate to each
 10 corresponding well of the daughter plate in a single step. Finally, the daughter
     plates were inoculated with test organism. Standardized inoculum of each
     organism was prepared per published guidelines (CLSI, 2009). For all isolates,
    the inoculum for each organism was dispensed into sterile reservoirs divided by
     length (Beckman Coulter), and the Biomek 2000 was used to inoculate the
15 plates. The instrument delivered 10 ptL of standardized inoculum into each well
    to yield a final cell concentration in the daughter plates of approximately 5 x 105
    colony-forming-units/mL.
                    The test format resulted in the creation of an 8 x 12 checkerboard
    where each compound was tested alone (Column 12 and Row H) and in
20  combination at varying ratios of drug concentration. All organism plates were
    stacked three high, covered with a lid on the top plate, placed in plastic bags,
    and incubated at 35"C for approximately 20 hours. Following incubation, the
    microplates were removed from the incubators and viewed from the bottom
    using a ScienceWare plate viewer. Prepared reading sheets were marked for
25  the MIC of drug 1 (row H), the MIC of drug 2 (column 12) and the wells of the
    growth-no growth interface.
                   An Excel program was used to determine the FIC according to the
    formula: (MIC of Compound 1 in combination/MIC of Compound 1 alone) +
    (MIC of Compound 2 in combination/MIC of Compound 2 alone). The FICI for
30  the checkerboard was calculated from the individual FICs by the formula: (FIC 1
    + FIC 2 + ... FlCn)/n, where n = number of individual wells per plate for which
    FICs were calculated. In instances where an agent alone yielded an off-scale
    MIC result, the next highest concentration was used as the MIC value in the
    FIC calculation.
35                  Microparticulate Bis-EDT, the four microparticulate BT analogs,
    and all of the other agents (and combinations of agents) were soluble at all final

   WO 20111097347                                                      PCT/US2011/023549
                                                 124
     test concentrations. The MIC and FICI values that were determined are
     presented in the Tables below.
                                             TABLE 28
          Summary of Minimum Inhibitory Concentration and Fractional Inhibitory
 5                    Concentration Results for MB-1 B-3 and Piperacillin
                                       Compound 1             Compound 2           FlC12
              Organism1                           MIC1                    MIC
                                     Name       (pg/mL)     Name        (pg/mL)
                                                 Alone                   Alone
        P. aeruginosa 1381                          1                     >64      0.83
        P. aeruginosa 1384                          1                       8      0.96
        P. aeruginosa 1474                          1                       8      0.71
        P. aeruginosa 1479          MB-1 B-3       0.5    Piperacillin      8      1.12
        P. aeruginosa 2566                         0.5                     32      1.37
        P. aeruginosa 2568                          1                       8      0.71
        P. aeruginosa 103                           1                       8      0.79
         1MIC,  Minimum Inhibitory Concentration
        2FICI,  Fractional Inhibitory Concentration Index
                                             TABLE 29
          Summary of Minimum Inhibitory Concentration and Fractional Inhibitory
10                    Concentration Results for MB-1 B-3 and Aztreonam
                                       Compound I             Compound 2
                                                  MIC1                    MIC
              Organism'              Name       (pg/mL)     Name        (pg/mL)    FIC12
                                                 Alone                   Alone
       P. aeruginosa 1381                           1                      32       1.04
       P. aeruginosa 1384                           1                       8      0.71
       P. aeruginosa 1474                           1                       8      0.71
       P. aeruginosa 1479           MB-1 B-3      0.5     Aztreonam         8      0.87
       P. aeruginosa 2566                         0.5                      16       1.37
       P. aeruginosa 2568                           1                       8      0.71
       P. aeruginosa 103                            1                       4      1.29
        1MIC,   Minimum Inhibitory Concentration
        2
          FICI, Fractional Inhibitory Concentration Index

   WO 20111097347                                                        PCT/US2011/023549
                                                  125
                                             TABLE 30
           Summary of Minimum Inhibitory Concentration and Fractional Inhibitory
                        Concentration Results for MB-15 and Piperacillin
                                        Compound 1              Compound 2
                                                   MIC'                      MIC
               Organism'              Name      (pg/mL)        Name        (pg/mL)    FIC12
                                                  Alone                     Alone
       P. aeruginosa 1381                            1                       >64      1.29
       P. aeruginosa 1384                            1                        16      0.71
       P. aeruginosa 1474                            1                         8      1.12
       P. aeruginosa 1479             MB-15          1      Piperacillin       8      1.29
       P. aeruginosa 2566                            1                        32      1.04
       P. aeruginosa 2568                            1                         8      1.12
       P. aeruginosa 103                             2                         8      0.73
         1MIC,   Minimum Inhibitory Concentration
         2
 5         FICI, Fractional Inhibitory Concentration Index
                                             TABLE 31
           Summary of Minimum Inhibitory Concentration and Fractional Inhibitory
                        Concentration Results for MB-15 and Aztreonam
                                       Compound I              Compound 2
                                                  MIC'                      MIC
               Organism'              Name     (pg/mL)       Name         (pg/mL)    FIC12
                                                Alone                      Alone
        P. aeruginosa 1381                          2                        32      1.11
        P. aeruginosa 1384                          1                         8      0.79
        P. aeruginosa 1474                          1                         8      0.71
        P. aeruginosa 1479           MB-15          2      Aztreonam          8      0.67
        P. aeruginosa 2566                         0.5                       16      1.12
        P. aeruginosa 2568                          1                        8       0.79
        P. aeruginosa 103                           2                        4       1.23
         1MIC,   Minimum Inhibitory Concentration
         2
10         FICI, Fractional Inhibitory Concentration Index

   WO 20111097347                                                       PCT/US2011/023549
                                                126
                                           TABLE 32
          Summary of Minimum Inhibitory Concentration and Fractional Inhibitory
                      Concentration Results for MB-8-2 and Piperacillin
                                     Compound I               Compound 2
                                                MIC,                      MIC
            Organism'              Name      (pgimL)         Name       (pgimL) FIC12
                                               Alone                     Alone
      P. aeruginosa 1381                          2                       >64      1.23
      P. aeruginosa 1384                          2                         16     0.73
      P. aeruginosa 1474                         2                          8      1.23
      P. aeruginosa 1479          MB-8-2         2        Piperacillin      8      1.23
      P. aeruginosa 2566                         2                         32      1.23
      P. aeruginosa 2568                         2                          8      0.98
      P. aeruginosa 103                          4                          8      1.19
        1MIC,  Minimum Inhibitory Concentration
       2
 5       FICI, Fractional Inhibitory Concentration Index
                                            TABLE33
         Summary of Minimum Inhibitory Concentration and Fractional Inhibitory
                      Concentration Results for MB-8-2 and Aztreonam
                                     Compound I               Compound 2
                                               MIC1                       MIC
            Organism'              Name      (pgimL)        Name       (pgimL) FIC12
                                              Alone                      Alone
      P. aeruginosa 1381                         2                         32      1.11
      P. aeruginosa 1384                         2                          8      1.11
      P. aeruginosa 1474                         2                          8     0.73
      P. aeruginosa 1479          MB-8-2         2       Aztreonam          8     0.98
      P. aeruginosa 2566                         2                         16      1.23
      P. aeruginosa 2568                         2                          8     0.98
      P. aeruginosa 103                          4                          8      1.19
       1MIC,   Minimum Inhibitory Concentration
       2
10       FICI, Fractional Inhibitory Concentration Index

   WO 20111097347                                                       PCT/US2011/023549
                                                    127
                                               TABLE 34
           Summary of Minimum         Inhibitory  Concentration and Fractional Inhibitory
                        Concentration Results for MB-1 1 and Piperacillin
                                       Compound 1               Compound 2
                                                   MIC1                    MIC
               Organism'             Name        (pgimL)      Name       (pgimL)     FIC12
                                                  Alone                   Alone
        P. aeruginosa 1381                           1                     >64        1.12
        P. aeruginosa 1384                           1                      16       0.71
        P. aeruginosa 1474                           1                       8        1.12
        P. aeruginosa 1479           MB-11           1     Piperacillin      8        1.29
        P. aeruginosa 2566                          0.5                     32        1.12
        P. aeruginosa 2568                           1                       8        1.12
        P. aeruginosa 103                            2                       8        1.11
         1MIC,   Minimum Inhibitory Concentration
         2
 5         FICI, Fractional Inhibitory Concentration Index
                                               TABLE 35
           Summary of Minimum Inhibitory Concentration and Fractional Inhibitory
                        Concentration Results for MB-1 I and Aztreonam
                                       Compound 1              Compound 2
                                                   MIC'                    MIC
              Organism'              Name       (pgimL)       Name       (pg/mL)     FIC12
                                                  Alone                   Alone
        P. aeruginosa 1381                           2                      32       0.92
        P. aeruginosa 1384                           1                       8       0.96
        P. aeruginosa 1474                           1                       8       0.71
        P. aeruginosa 1479          MB-11            1     Aztreonam         8       0.79
        P. aeruginosa 2566                         0.5                      16        1.12
        P. aeruginosa 2568                           1                       8       0.96
        P.aeruginosa 103                             2                       8        1.11
         1MIC,   Minimum Inhibitory Concentration
10      2
           FICI, Fractional Inhibitory Concentration Index

   WO 20111097347                                                      PCT/US2011/023549
                                                  128
                                              TABLE 36
          Summary      of Minimum    Inhibitory  Concentration and Fractional Inhibitory
                        Concentration Results for MB-2B and Piperacillin
                                      Compound I               Compound 2
                                                 MIC,                     MIC
              Organism'             Name       (pgimL)       Name       (pg/mL)     FIC12
                                                Alone                    Alone
        P. aeruginosa 1381                         2                      >64        1.02
        P. aeruginosa 1384                         8                       16       0.79
        P. aeruginosa 1474                         8                        8       0.91
        P. aeruginosa 1479          MB-2B          8      Piperacillin      8        1.08
        P. aeruginosa 2566                         8                       32        1.04
        P. aeruginosa 2568                         8                        8       0.97
        P. aeruginosa 103                          8                        8        1.16
         1MIC,  Minimum Inhibitory Concentration
        2
 5        FICI, Fractional Inhibitory Concentration Index
                                              TABLE 37
          Summary of Minimum Inhibitory Concentration and Fractional Inhibitory
                       Concentration Results for MB-2B and Aztreonam
                                      Compound 1              Compound 2
                                                 MIC'                     MIC
             Organism'              Name       (pg/mL)       Name       (pgimL)     FIC12
                                                Alone                    Alone
        P. aeruginosa 1381                         8                       64       0.89
        P. aeruginosa 1384                         8                        8       0.91
        P. aeruginosa 1474                         8                        8       0.54
        P. aeruginosa 1479         MB-2B           8      Aztreonam         8       0.87
        P. aeruginosa 2566                        8                        16       0.91
        P. aeruginosa 2568                        8                         8       0.87
        P. aeruginosa 103                         8                         8       1.08
        'MIC, Minimum Inhibitory Concentration
10      2FICI,  Fractional Inhibitory Concentration Index

   WO 20111097347                                                    PCT/US2011/023549
                                                 129
                                            TABLE 38
           Summary of Minimum Inhibitory Concentration and Fractional Inhibitory
                      Concentration Results for MB-1 B-3 and Cefotaxime
                                       Compound 1             Compound 2
                                                  MIC                    MIC
             Organism'               Name      (pg/mL)      Name       (pg/mL)   FIC12
                                                Alone                   Alone
       K. pneumoniae 1346                          2                     0.06     1.23
       K. pneumoniae 1355                          1                     0.06     2.29
       K. pneumoniae 2238                          1                      16      1.29
       K. pneumoniae 2541          MB-1B-3         2      Cefotaxime     0.12     1.23
       K. pneumoniae 2546                          1                     0.25     1.12
       K. pneumoniae 2549                           1                    0.12     0.79
       P. aeruginosa 103                           1                      16      0.96
         1MIC, Minimum Inhibitory Concentration
 5      2
          FICI, Fractional Inhibitory Concentration Index
                                            TABLE 39
          Summary of Minimum Inhibitory Concentration and Fractional Inhibitory
                       Concentration Results for MB-1 B-3 and Cefepime
                                      Compound I             Compound 2
                                                 MIC,                   MIC
             Organism'              Name       (pg/mL)     Name       (pgimL)    FIC12
                                                Alone                  Alone
       P. aeruginosa 1381                          1                     32      1.29
       P. aeruginosa 1384                          1                      2      0.79
       P. aeruginosa 1474                          1                      2      0.79
       P. aeruginosa 1479          MB-1 B-3        1      Cefepime        4      1.12
       P. aeruginosa 2566                         0.5                     8      1.37
       P. aeruginosa 2568                          1                      2      0.79
       P. aeruginosa 103                           1                      2      0.71
        1MIC, Minimum Inhibitory Concentration
10      2
          FICI, Fractional Inhibitory Concentration Index

   WO 20111097347                                                       PCT/US2011/023549
                                                  130
                                             TABLE 40
         Summary      of Minimum    Inhibitory  Concentration and Fractional Inhibitory
                      Concentration Results for MB-15 and Cefotaxime
                                       Compound 1              Compound 2
                                                  MIC1                     MIC
              Organism'              Name       (pg/mL)      Name        (pg/mL)    FIC12
                                                 Alone                    Alone
     K. pneumoniae 1346                             2                      0.06      1.23
     K. pneumoniae 1355                             1                      0.12     2.37
     K. pneumoniae 2238                             2                       16       1.23
     K. pneumoniae 2541             MB-15           2      Cefotaxime      0.12      1.23
     K. pneumoniae 2546                             2                      0.25     0.97
     K. pneumoniae 2549                             2                      0.06      1.23
     P. aeruginosa 103                              1                       16      0.96
       'MIC, Minimum Inhibitory Concentration
       2
 5       FICI, Fractional Inhibitory Concentration Index
                                             TABLE 41
         Summary of Minimum Inhibitory Concentration and Fractional Inhibitory
                       Concentration Results for MB-1 5 and Cefepime
                                      Compound 1              Compound 2
                                                 MIC1                      MIC
             Organism'              Name       (pg/mL)       Name       (pg/mL)     FIC12
                                                Alone                     Alone
     P. aeruginosa 1381                            1                        32       1.29
     P. aeruginosa 1384                            1                         2       0.79
     P. aeruginosa 1474                            1                         2       1.12
     P. aeruginosa 1479            MB-15           1       Cefepime          4       1.12
     P. aeruginosa 2566                           0.5                        8       1.37
     P. aeruginosa 2568                            1                         2       1.12
     P. aeruginosa 103                             1                         1       1.12
       1MIC,   Minimum Inhibitory Concentration
10     2
         FICI, Fractional Inhibitory Concentration Index

  WO 20111097347                                                     PCT/US2011/023549
                                                 131
                                            TABLE 42
          Summary of Minimum Inhibitory Concentration and Fractional Inhibitory
                       Concentration Results for MB-8-2 and Cefotaxime
                                       Compound 1             Compound 2
                                                  MIC,                    MIC
              Organism                Name     (pg/mL)      Name       (pg/mL)    FIC12
                                                 Alone                   Alone
      K. pneumoniae 1346                           0.5                    0.06    1.37
      K. pneumoniae 1355                           0.5                    0.06    1.37
      K. pneumoniae 2238                           0.5                     16     1.37
      K. pneumoniae 2541             MB-8-2         1     Cefotaxime      0.12    1.12
      K. pneumoniae 2546                            1                     0.25    1.29
      K. pneumoniae 2549                            1                     0.06    1.12
      P. aeruginosa 103                             2                      16     1.11
        1MIC,   Minimum Inhibitory Concentration
 5      2FICI,  Fractional Inhibitory Concentration Index
                                            TABLE 43
          Summary of Minimum Inhibitory Concentration and Fractional Inhibitory
                        Concentration Results for MB-8-2 and Cefepime
                                       Compound I             Compound 2
                                                  MIC'                     MIC
              Organism'               Name      (pg/mL)      Name       (pg/mL)   FlCl 2
                                                 Alone                   Alone
      P. aeruginosa 1381                            2                       32     1.23
      P. aeruginosa 1384                            2                        2    0.80
      P. aeruginosa 1474                            2                        2     1.11
      P. aeruginosa 1479             MB-8-2         2      Cefepime         4      1.23
      P. aeruginosa 2566                            2                        8     1.23
      P. aeruginosa 2568                            2                        2    0.98
      P. aeruginosa 103                             2                        1     1.11
        1MIC,   Minimum Inhibitory Concentration
10      2
          FICI, Fractional Inhibitory Concentration Index

   WO 20111097347                                                    PCT/US2011/023549
                                                132
                                            TABLE 44
          Summary of Minimum Inhibitory Concentration and Fractional Inhibitory
                      Concentration Results for MB-11 and Cefotaxime
                                      Compound I             Compound 2
                                               MIC'                    MIC
              Organism'             Name     (pgimL)       Name     (pg/mL)    FIC12
                                              Alone                   Alone
       K. pneumoniae 1346                       0.5                    0.06     1.37
       K. pneumoniae 1355                       0.5                    0.06     1.87
      K. pneumoniae 2238                        0.5                      8      1.37
      K. pneumoniae 2541            MB-11       0.5      Cefotaxime    0.25    0.73
      K pneumoniae 2546                         0.5                    0.25     1.37
      K. pneumoniae 2549                        0.5                    0.06     1.37
      P. aeruginosa 103                          1                      16      1.12
        1MIC,  Minimum Inhibitory Concentration
       2
 5       FICI, Fractional Inhibitory Concentration Index
                                           TABLE 45
         Summary of Minimum Inhibitory Concentration and Fractional Inhibitory
                       Concentration Results for MB-1 1 and Cefepime
                                       Compound 1             Compound 2
                                                  MIC 1                 MIC
              Organism'               Name      (pgimL)      Name    (pg/mL)   FIC12
                                                 Alone                Alone
      P. aeruginosa 1381                            1                   32      1.12
      P. aeruginosa 1384                            1                    2      1.12
      P. aeruginosa 1474                           0.5                   2      1.12
      P. aeruginosa 1479             MB-11         0.5     Cefepime      8      0.87
      P. aeruginosa 2566                           0.5                  16      0.93
      P. aeruginosa 2568                           0.5                   2      0.87
      P. aeruginosa 103                             1                    1      0.12
       1MIC,   Minimum Inhibitory Concentration
       2
10       FICI, Fractional Inhibitory Concentration Index

   WO 20111097347                                                        PCT/US2011/023549
                                                  133
                                              TABLE 46
          Summary of    Minimum      Inhibitory Concentration and Fractional Inhibitory
                      Concentration Results for MB-2B and Cefotaxime
                                       Compound 1              Compound 2
                                                  MIC'                      MIC
              Organism'               Name      (pglmL)      Name        (pglmL) FIC12
                                                 Alone                    Alone
      K. pneumoniae 1346                            4                      0.06      1.19
      K. pneumoniae 1355                            4                      0.06      1.19
      K. pneumoniae 2238                            4                         8      1.64
      K. pneumoniae 2541             MB-2B          8      Cefotaxime      0.25      0.64
      K. pneumoniae 2546                            8                      0.25      1.16
      K. pneumoniae 2549                            8                      0.12      0.83
      P. aeruginosa 103                             2                        16      1.11
       1MIC, Minimum Inhibitory Concentration
 5     2
         FICI, Fractional Inhibitory Concentration Index
                                              TABLE 47
         Summary of Minimum         Inhibitory  Concentration and Fractional Inhibitory
                       Concentration Results for MB-2B and Cefepime
                                       Compound I             Compound 2
                                                  MIC,                    MIC
              Organism'               Name      (pglmL)      Name       (pig/mL)   FIC12
                                                 Alone                   Alone
      P. aeruginosa 1381                            4                      32       1.09
      P. aeruginosa 1384                            4                       2       0.94
      P. aeruginosa 1474                            2                       2       0.98
      P. aeruginosa 1479             MB-2B          2      Cefepime         4       1.11
      P. aeruginosa 2566                            2                       8       1.23
      P. aeruginosa 2568                            2                       2       1.11
      P. aeruginosa 103                             2                       2       0.61
       1MIC,   Minimum Inhibitory Concentration
10     2
         FICI, Fractional Inhibitory Concentration Index

   WO 20111097347                                                       PCT/US2011/023549
                                                134
                                          EXAMPLE 11
            THE EFFECT OF BISMUTH THIOLS ON INFECTION IN A RATTUS NORVEGICUS
                                      FEMUR CRITICAL DEFECT
                     The current standard of care for open fractures is irrigation,
 5 debridement and antibiotics; this is intended to reduce the bacterial load in the
     wound to the point that infection does not occur. Despite these treatments,
     infections still complicate up to 75% of severe combat open tibia fractures.
     Interestingly, even though early infections are often caused by gram negative
     bacteria, late infections that are implicated in healing problems and amputation
10 are due to gram positive infections, frequently Staphylococci species (Johnson
     2007).
                     One of the reasons that S. aureus are resistant to standard
     treatment is their ability to form a biofilm. Bacteria in biofilms are able to resist
     concentrations of antimicrobial compounds which would kill similar organisms in
15 a culture medium (Costerton 1987).
                     The aim of this study was to determine whether BTs will reduce
     infection in a contaminated open fracture model either on their own or with
     antibiotics. The contaminated rat femur critical defect model is a well-accepted
     model and was used for the experiments described in this Example. This
20 model offers a standardized model for comparing various possible treatments
     and their effects on reducing infection and/or improving healing.
                     Compounds (CPD) CPD-8-2 (bismuth pyrithione/ butanedithiol;
    Table 1) and CPD-11 (bismuth pyrithione/ ethanedithiol; Table 1) are two
    analogues of BIS-Bis that have shown potential against Biofilm secreting
25 bacteria in vitro, though with a different spectrum of activity than Bis-EDT.
                     The three BT formulations, Bis-EDT, CPD-1 1 and CPD-8-2 (see
    Table 1) demonstrated inhibitory effects on S. aureus strains in vitro when used
    with and without Tobramicin and Vancomycin in a Poly Methyl Methacrylate
    (PMMA) cement bead vehicle. Three formulations of microparticulate BTs were
30 produced in a clinically useful hydrogel gel form as described herein. These
    BTs were tested suspended in a gel at a concentration of 5mg/ml 1 as has been
    found to be an appropriate concentration for gel delivery. The gel formulations
    conformed to the wound contours, and did not require removal following
    application.
35                  Two treatment arms were used: in the first arm, BT was used
    singularly; in the second arm BT was used in conjunction with a systemic
    antibiotic (ABx).

  WO 20111097347                                                      PCT/US2011/023549
                                             135
                   (a)    BT Singularly.
                   Six hours after inoculation with S. aureus, the wound was
    debrided, irrigated with saline and 1iml of BT gel inserted within the defect.
                   (b) BT with Systemic Antibiotics (ABx).
 5                 Six hours after inoculation with S. aureus, the wound was
    debrided, irrigated with saline and 1ml of BT gel added inserted within the
    defect. The antibiotic used was Cefazolin at a dose equivalent to 5mgKg'
    delivered via sub-cutaneous injection twice daily for a total of 3-days following
    the injury. The first dose was administered immediately prior to debridement.
10 Previous data suggested that this dose would result in a reduction in bacteria
    levels from =106 to =10 4 and therefore still allow the relative effect of different
    BTs to be measured.
                   (c)    Control
                   Six hours after inoculation with S. aureus, the wound was
15 debrided and irrigated with saline. The control animals were also treated with
    Cefazolin as per the regime described above.
            PROCEDURE:
                   The procedure for the in vivo rat injury model was performed as
   described by Chen et al. (2002 J. Orthop. Res. 20:142; 2005 J. Orthop. Res.
20 23:816; 2006 J. Bone Joint Surg. Am. 88:1510; 2007 J. Orthop. Trauma
   21:693). The rats were anesthetized and prepped for surgery. The
   anterolateral aspect of the femoral shaft was exposed through a 3-cm incision.
   The periosteum and attached muscle was stripped from the bone. A polyacetyl
   plate (27 x 4 x 4 mm) was placed on the anterolateral surface of the femur. The
25 plates were predrilled to accept 0.9-mm diameter threaded Kirschner wires.
   The bases of these plates were formed to fit the contour of the femoral shaft.
   Pilot holes were drilled through both cortices of the femur using the plate as a
   template and threaded Kirschner wire was inserted through the plate and
   femur. The notches that were 6 mm apart on the plate served as a guide for
30 bone removal. A small oscillating saw was used to create the defect while the
   tissue was cooled by continuous irrigation in an effort to prevent thermal
   damage.
                   Several groups of 10 animals each were inoculated with 1x105
   CFU of S. aureus and treated with BT alone or in combination with antibiotics 6
35 hours post-inoculation as described above. The groups were as follows: Bis
   EDT gel; MB-I 1 gel; MB-8-2 gel; Bis-EDT gel & Abx; MB-11 gel & Abx; MB-8-2
   gel & Abx; Control (Abx alone).

   WO 20111097347                                                      PCT/US2011/023549
                                              136
                   Animals were euthanized 14 days after surgery and bone and
      hardware sent for microbiological analysis, the results of which are shown in
      Figure 7.
                   Based on the power analysis, 10 animals per group will give a
 5   power of 80% to detect a 25% difference between the treatment and control
     groups. This is with an expected standard deviation of 35% and alpha of 0.05.
                   As shown in Figure 7, in combination with Bis-EDT, MB-1 1 and
     MB-8-2, Cefazolin antibiotic activity was enhanced as compared to Cefazolin or
     any of the Bis compounds alone to reduce S. aureus infection of injured bone.
10   Cefazolin in combination with MB-11 and MB-8-2 showed enhanced antibiotic
     activity as compared to Cefazolin alone to reduce S. aureus infection detected
     on hardware. Bis-EDT did not appear to affect Cefazolin activity in this capacity.
     References:
                   Costerton JW, Cheng KJ, Geesey GG, et al. Bacterial Biofilms in
15   Nature and Disease. Ann Rev Microbiol. 1987; 41:435-64
                   Domenico P, Baldassarri L, Schoch PE, Kaehler K, Sasatsu M,
     Cunha BA. Activities of Bismuth Thiols against Staphylococci and
     Staphyloccocal Biofilms. Antimicrob Agents and Chemother. 2001; 45(5):1417
     21
20                 Halwani M, Blomme S, Suntres ZE, et al. Liposomal bismuth
     ethanedithol formulation enhances antimicrobial activity of tobramycin. Int J
     Pharm. 2008; 358:278-84
                   Johnson EN, Burns TC, Hayda RA, Hospenthal DR, Murray CK.
     Infection complications of open type Ill tibial fractures among combat
25   casualties. Clin Infect Dis. 2007; 45(4):409-415
     Other Cited Documents and Related Documents
                   Domenico et al., Canadian J. Microbio/. 31:472-78 (1985);
     Domenico et al., Reduction of capsular polysaccharides and potentiation of
     aminoglycoside inhibition in gram-negative bacteria with bismuth subsalicylate.
30   JAntimicrob Chemo 1991;28:801-810; Domenico et al., Infection 20:66-72
     (1992); Domenico et al., Infect. Immun. 62:4495-99 (1994); Domenico et al., J.
    Antimicrol. Chemother. 38:1031-40 (1996); Domenico et al., Enhancement of
     bismuth antibacterial activity with lipophilic thiol chelators. Antimicrob Agents
     Chemother 1997;41:1697-703; Domenico et al., Surface antigen exposure by
35   bismuth-dimercaprol suppression of Kiebsiella pneumoniae capsular

   WO 20111097347                                                    PCT/US2011/023549
                                             137
     polysaccharide. Infect Immun 67:664-669 (1999); Domenico et al., 2000. The
     potential of bismuth-thiols for treatment and prevention of infection. Infect Med
     17:123-127; Domenico et al., Activities of bismuth thiols against staphylococci
     and staphylococcal biofilms. Antimicrob Agents Chemother 2001;45:1417-21;
 5 Domenico et al., Combating antibiotic resistance with bismuth-thiols. Research
     Advances in Antimicrob Agents Chemother2003;3:79-85; Domenico et al.,
     Reduction of capsular polysaccharides and potentiation of aminoglycoside
     inhibition in gram-negative bacteria with bismuth subsalicylate. JAntimicrob
     Chemo 1991;28:801-810; Domenico et al., BisEDT and RIP act in synergy to
10 prevent graft infections by resistant staphylococci. Peptides 2004.;25:2047-53;
     Domenico et al., 2005. Pyrithione enhanced antimicrobial activity of bismuth.
    Antibiotics for Clinicians 9:291-297; U.S. Patent No. 6,582,719; U.S. RE37,793
       U.S. Patent No. 6,248,371; U.S. Patent No. 6,086,921; U.S. Patent No.
    6,380,248; U.S. Patent No. 6,582,719; U.S. Patent No. 6,380,248; U.S. Patent
15 No. 6,875,453.
                    The various embodiments described above can be combined to
    provide further embodiments. All of the U.S. patents, U.S. patent application
    publications, U.S. patent applications, foreign patents, foreign patent
20  applications and non-patent publications referred to in this specification and/or
    listed in the Application Data Sheet are incorporated herein by reference, in
    their entirety. Aspects of the embodiments can be modified, if necessary to
    employ concepts of the various patents, applications and publications to
    provide yet further embodiments.
25                  These and other changes can be made to the embodiments in
    light of the above-detailed description. In general, in the following claims, the
    terms used should not be construed to limit the claims to the specific
    embodiments disclosed in the specification and the claims, but should be
    construed to include all possible embodiments along with the full scope of
30  equivalents to which such claims are entitled. Accordingly, the claims are not
    limited by the disclosure.

WO 20111097347                                                      PCT/US2011/023549
                                             138
                                         CLAIMS
 What is claimed is:
                 1.      A bismuth-thiol composition, comprising:
                 a plurality of microparticles that comprise a bismuth-thiol (BT)
 compound, substantially all of said microparticles having a volumetric mean
 diameter of from about 0.4 ptm to about 5 pim, wherein the BT compound
 comprises bismuth or a bismuth salt and a thiol-containing compound.
                 2.      A bismuth-thiol composition, comprising:
                 a plurality of microparticles that comprise a bismuth-thiol (BT)
 compound, substantially all of said microparticles having a volumetric mean
 diameter of from about 0.4 4m to about 5 tm and being formed by a process
 that comprises:
                 (a)     admixing, under conditions and for a time sufficient to
 obtain a solution that is substantially free of a solid precipitate, (i) an acidic
 aqueous solution that comprises a bismuth salt comprising bismuth at a
 concentration of at least 50 mM and that lacks a hydrophilic, polar or organic
 solubilizer, with (ii) ethanol in an amount sufficient to obtain an admixture that
 comprises about 25% ethanol by volume; and
                 (b)     adding to the admixture of (a) an ethanolic solution
 comprising a thiol-containing compound to obtain a reaction solution, wherein
 the thiol-containing compound is present in the reaction solution at a molar ratio
 of from about 1:3 to about 3:1 relative to the bismuth, under conditions and for a
 time sufficient for formation of a precipitate which comprises the microparticles
 comprising the BT compound.
                 3.      The bismuth-thiol composition of claim 2 wherein the
 bismuth salt is Bi(N0 3)3.
                4.       The bismuth-thiol composition of claim 2 wherein the acidic
 aqueous solution comprises at least 5%, 10%, 15%, 20%, 22% or 22.5%
 bismuth by weight.

WO 20111097347                                                     PCT/US2011/023549
                                          139
                 5.     The bismuth-thiol composition of claim 2 wherein the acidic
 aqueous solution comprises at least 0.5%, 1%, 1.5%, 2%, 2.5%, 3%, 3.5%, 4%,
 4.5% or 5% nitric acid by weight.
                 6.     The bismuth-thiol composition of claim 2 wherein the thiol
 containing compound comprises one or more agents selected from the group
 consisting of 1,2-ethane dithiol, 2,3-dimercaptopropanol, pyrithione,
 dithioerythritol, 3,4-dimercaptotoluene, 2,3-butanedithiol, 1,3-propanedithiol, 2
 hydroxypropane thiol, 1-mercapto-2-propanol, dithioerythritol, alpha-lipoic acid,
 dithiothreitol, methanethiol (CH 3SH [m-mercaptan]), ethanethiol (C2 H5SH [e
 mercaptan]), 1-propanethiol (C3H7SH [n-P mercaptan]), 2-propanethiol
 (CH3CH(SH)CH 3 [2C 3 mercaptan]), butanethiol (C4 H9 SH ([n-butyl mercaptan]),
 tert-butyl mercaptan (C(CH 3)3SH [t-butyl mercaptan]), pentanethiol (C5 H1 1SH
 [pentyl mercaptan]), coenzyme A, lipoamide, glutathione, cysteine, cystine, 2
 mercaptoethanol, dithiothreitol, dithioerythritol, 2-mercaptoindole,
 transglutaminase, (11 -mercaptoundecyl)hexa(ethylene glycol), (11
 mercaptoundecyl)tetra(ethylene glycol), (11 -mercaptoundecyl)tetra(ethylene
 glycol) functionalized gold nanoparticles, 1,1',4', 1"-terphenyl-4-thiol, 1,11
 undecanedithiol, 1,16-hexadecanedithiol, 1,2-ethanedithiol technical grade,
 1,3-propanedithiol, 1,4-benzenedimethanethiol, 1,4-butanedithiol, 1,4
 butanedithiol diacetate, 1,5-pentanedithiol, 1,6-hexanedithiol, 1,8
 octanedithiol, 1,9-nonanedithiol, adamantanethiol, 1-butanethiol, 1
 decanethiol, I-dodecanethiol, 1-heptanethiol, 1-heptanethiol purum, 1
 hexadecanethiol, 1-hexanethiol, 1-mercapto-(triethylene glycol), 1-mercapto
 (triethylene glycol) methyl ether functionalized gold nanoparticles, 1-mercapto
 2-propanol, 1-nonanethiol, 1-octadecanethiol, 1-octanethiol, 1-octanethiol, 1
 pentadecanethiol, I-pentanethiol, 1-propanethiol, 1-tetradecanethiol, 1
 tetradecanethiol purum, 1-undecanethiol, 11-(1H-pyrrol-1-yl)undecane-1-thiol,
 11-amino-1-undecanethiol hydrochloride, 11-bromo-1-undecanethiol, 11
 mercapto-l-undecanol, 11-mercapto-1-undecanol, 11-mercaptoundecanoic
 acid, 11-mercaptoundecanoic acid, 11-mercaptoundecyl trifluoroacetate, 11
 mercaptoundecylphosphoric acid, 12-mercaptododecanoic acid, 12
 mercaptododecanoic acid, 15-mercaptopentadecanoic acid, 16
 mercaptohexadecanoic acid, 16-mercaptohexadecanoic acid, 1H,1H,2H,2H
 perfluorodecanethiol, 2,2'-(ethylenedioxy)diethanethiol, 2,3-butanedithiol, 2
 butanethiol, 2-ethylhexanethiol, 2-methyl-1-propanethiol, 2-methyl-2
 propanethiol, 2-phenylethanethiol, 3,3,4,4,5,5,6,6,6-nonafluoro-1-hexanethiol

WO 20111097347                                                       PCT/US2011/023549
                                            140
   purum, 3-(dimethoxymethylsilyl)-1-propanethiol, 3-chloro-1-propanethiol, 3
   mercapto-1-propanol, 3-mercapto-2-butanol, 3-mercapto-N
   nonylpropionamide, 3-mercaptopropionic acid, 3-mercaptopropyl
  functionalized silica gel, 3-methyl-1-butanethiol, 4,4'
  bis(mercaptomethyl)biphenyl, 4,4'-dimercaptostilbene, 4-(6
  mercaptohexyloxy)benzyl alcohol, 4-cyano-1-butanethiol, 4-mercapto-1
  butanol, 6-(ferrocenyl)hexanethiol, 6-mercapto-1-hexanol, 6
  mercaptohexanoic acid, 8-mercapto-1-octanol, 8-mercaptooctanoic acid, 9
  mercapto-1-nonanol, biphenyl-4,4'-dithiol, butyl 3-mercaptopropionate,
  copper(I) 1-butanethiolate, cyclohexanethiol, cyclopentanethiol, decanethiol
  functionalized silver nanoparticles, dodecanethiol functionalized gold
  nanoparticles, dodecanethiol functionalized silver nanoparticles, hexa(ethylene
  glycol)mono-11-(acetylthio)undecyl ether, mercaptosuccinic acid, methyl 3
  mercaptopropionate, nanoTether BPA-HH, NanoThinks" 18, NanoThinksM 8,
  NanoThinksW* ACID1 1, NanoThinksT " ACID16, NanoThinksT " ALCO1 1,
  NanoThinksMT TH108, octanethiol functionalized gold nanoparticles, PEG
  dithiol average Mn 8,000, PEG dithiol average mol wt 1,500, PEG dithiol
  average mol wt 3,400, S-(1 1-bromoundecyl)thioacetate, S-(4
  cyanobutyl)thioacetate, thiophenol, triethylene glycol mono-1 1
  mercaptoundecyl ether, trimethylolpropane tris(3-mercaptopropionate), [11
  (methylcarbonylthio)u ndecyl]tetra(ethylene glycol), m-carborane-9-thiol, p
 terphenyl-4,4"-dithiol, tert-dodecylmercaptan, and tert-nonyl mercaptan.
                 7.      A method for preparing a bismuth-thiol composition that
 comprises a plurality of microparticles that comprise a bismuth-thiol (BT)
 compound, substantially all of said microparticles having a volumetric mean
 diameter of from about 0.4 tm to about 5 pim, said method comprising the steps
 of:
                 (a)     admixing, under conditions and for a time sufficient to
 obtain a solution that is substantially free of a solid precipitate, (i) an acidic
 aqueous solution that comprises a bismuth salt comprising bismuth at a
 concentration of at least 50 mM and that lacks a hydrophilic, polar or organic
 solubilizer, with (ii) ethanol in an amount sufficient to obtain an admixture that
 comprises about 25% ethanol by volume; and
                 (b)     adding to the admixture of (a) an ethanolic solution
 comprising a thiol-containing compound to obtain a reaction solution, wherein
 the thiol-containing compound is present in the reaction solution at a molar ratio

WO 20111097347                                                      PCT/US2011/023549
                                           141
 of from about 1:3 to about 3:1 relative to the bismuth, under conditions and for a
 time sufficient for formation of a precipitate which comprises the microparticles
 comprising the BT compound.
                 8.      The method of claim 7 further comprising recovering the
  precipitate to remove impurities.
                 9.      The method of claim 7 wherein the bismuth salt is Bi(NO 3)3.
                 10.     The method of claim 7 wherein the acidic aqueous solution
 comprises at least 5%, 10%, 15%, 20%, 22% or 22.5% bismuth by weight.
                 11.     The method of claim 7 wherein the acidic aqueous solution
 comprises at least 0.5%, 1%, 1.5%, 2%, 2.5%, 3%, 3.5%, 4%, 4.5% or 5% nitric
 acid by weight.
                 12.     The method of claim 7 wherein the thiol-containing
 compound comprises one or more agents selected from the group consisting of
  1,2-ethane dithiol, 2,3-dimercaptopropanol, pyrithione, dithioerythritol, 3,4
 dimercaptotoluene, 2,3-butanedithiol, 1,3-propanedithiol, 2-hydroxypropane
 thiol, 1-mercapto-2-propanol, dithioerythritol, dithiothreitol, alpha-lipoic acid,
 methanethiol (CHaSH [m-mercaptan]), ethanethiol (C2 H5SH [e- mercaptan]), 1
 propanethiol (C3H7 SH [n-P mercaptan]), 2-propanethiol (CH3CH(SH)CH 3 [2C 3
 mercaptan]), butanethiol (C4 H9SH ([n-butyl mercaptan]), tert-butyl mercaptan
 (C(CH 3)3SH [t-butyl mercaptan]), pentanethiol (C5H1,SH [pentyl mercaptan]),
 coenzyme A, lipoamide, glutathione, cysteine, cystine, 2-mercaptoethanol,
 dithiothreitol, dithioerythritol, 2-mercaptoindole, transglutaminase, (11
 mercaptoundecyl)hexa(ethylene glycol), (11 -mercaptoundecyl)tetra(ethylene
 glycol), (11-mercaptoundecyl)tetra(ethylene glycol) functionalized gold
 nanoparticles, 1,1',4',1"-terphenyl-4-thiol, 1,11-undecanedithiol, 1,16
 hexadecanedithiol, 1,2-ethanedithiol technical grade, 1,3-propanedithiol, 1,4
 benzenedimethanethiol, 1,4-butanedithiol, 1,4-butanedithiol diacetate, 1,5
 pentanedithiol, 1,6-hexanedithiol, 1,8-octanedithiol, 1,9-nonanedithiol,
 adamantanethiol, 1-butanethiol, 1-decanethiol, 1-dodecanethiol, 1
 heptanethiol, 1-heptanethiol purum, 1-hexadecanethiol, 1-hexanethiol, 1
 mercapto-(triethylene glycol), 1-mercapto-(triethylene glycol) methyl ether
 functionalized gold nanoparticles, 1-mercapto-2-propanol, 1-nonanethiol, 1-

WO 20111097347                                                  PCT/US2011/023549
                                        142
  octadecanethiol, 1-octanethiol, 1-octanethiol, 1-pentadecanethiol, 1
  pentanethiol, 1-propanethiol, 1-tetradecanethiol, 1-tetradecanethiol purum, 1
  undecanethiol, 11-(1H-pyrrol-1-yl)undecane-1-thiol, 11-amino-1-undecanethiol
  hydrochloride, 11-bromo-1-undecanethiol, 11-mercapto-1-undecanol, 11
  mercapto-1-undecanol, 11-mercaptoundecanoic acid, 11-mercaptoundecanoic
  acid, 11-mercaptoundecyl trifluoroacetate, 11-mercaptoundecylphosphoric
  acid, 12-mercaptododecanoic acid, 12-mercaptododecanoic acid, 15
  mercaptopentadecanoic acid, 16-mercaptohexadecanoic acid, 16
  mercaptohexadecanoic acid, 1H,1H,2H,2H-perfluorodecanethiol, 2,2'
  (ethylenedioxy)diethanethiol, 2,3-butanedithiol, 2-butanethiol, 2
 ethylhexanethiol, 2-methyl-1-propanethiol, 2-methyl-2-propanethiol, 2
  phenylethanethiol, 3,3,4,4,5,5,6,6,6-nonafluoro-1-hexanethiolpurum, 3
  (dimethoxymethylsilyl)-1-propanethiol, 3-chloro-1-propanethiol, 3-mercapto-1
  propanol, 3-mercapto-2-butanol, 3-mercapto-N-nonylpropionamide, 3
  mercaptopropionic acid, 3-mercaptopropyl-functionalized silica gel, 3-methyl
  1-butanethiol, 4,4'-bis(mercaptomethyl)biphenyl, 4,4'-dimercaptostilbene, 4
 (6-mercaptohexyloxy)benzyl alcohol, 4-cyano-1-butanethiol, 4-mercapto-1
 butanol, 6-(ferrocenyl)hexanethiol, 6-mercapto-1-hexanol, 6
 mercaptohexanoic acid, 8-mercapto-1-octanol, 8-mercaptooctanoic acid, 9
 mercapto-1-nonanol, biphenyl-4,4'-dithiol, butyl 3-mercaptopropionate,
 copper(I) 1-butanethiolate, cyclohexanethiol, cyclopentanethiol, decanethiol
 functionalized silver nanoparticles, dodecanethiol functionalized gold
 nanoparticles, dodecanethiol functionalized silver nanoparticles, hexa(ethylene
 glycol)mono-11-(acetylthio)undecy ether, mercaptosuccinic acid, methyl 3
 mercaptopropionate, nanoTether BPA-HH, NanoThinks" 18, NanoThinksM              8,
 NanoThinks TM ACID1 1, NanoThinks' ACID16, NanoThinksTm ALCO1 1,
 NanoThinksTm THIO8, octanethiol functionalized gold nanoparticles, PEG
 dithiol average Ma 8,000, PEG dithiol average mol wt 1,500, PEG dithiol
 average mol wt 3,400, S-(11-bromoundecyl)thioacetate, S-(4
 cyanobutyl)thioacetate, thiophenol, triethylene glycol mono-11
 mercaptoundecyl ether, trimethylolpropane tris(3-mercaptopropionate), [11
 (methylcarbonylthio)undecyl]tetra(ethylene glycol), m-carborane-9-thiol, p
 terphenyl-4,4"-dithiol, tert-dodecylmercaptan, and tert-nonyl mercaptan.

WO 20111097347                                                          PCT/US2011/023549
                                            143
                 13.     A method for protecting a natural surface against one or
  more of a bacterial pathogen, a fungal pathogen and a viral pathogen,
 comprising:
                 contacting the surface with an effective amount of a BT
 composition under conditions and for a time sufficient for one or more of:
                         (i)   prevention of infection of the surface by the
 bacterial, fungal or viral pathogen,
                         (ii)  inhibition of cell viability or cell growth of
 substantially all planktonic cells of the bacterial, fungal or viral pathogen,
                         (iii) inhibition of biofilm formation by the bacterial, fungal
 or viral pathogen, and
                         (iv)  inhibition of biofilm viability or biofilm growth of
 substantially all biofilm-form cells of the bacterial, fungal or viral pathogen,
                 wherein the BT composition comprises a plurality of microparticles
 that comprise a bismuth-thiol (BT) compound, substantially all of said
 microparticles having a volumetric mean diameter of from about 0.4 pm to
 about 5 pm.
                 14.    The method of claim 13 wherein the bacterial pathogen
 comprises at least one of:
                         (i)   one or more gram-negative bacteria;
                         (ii)  one or more gram-positive bacteria;
                        (iii)  one or more antibiotic-sensitive bacteria;
                        (iv)   one or more antibiotic-resistant bacteria;
                        (v)    a bacterial pathogen that is selected from the group
 consisting of Staphylococcus aureus (S. aureus), MRSA (methicillin-resistant S.
 aureus), Staphylococcus epidermidis , MRSE (methicillin-resistant S.
 epidermidis), Mycobacterium tuberculosis, Mycobacterium avium,
 Pseudomonas aeruginosa, drug-resistant P. aeruginosa, Escherichia coli,
 enterotoxigenic E. col, enterohemorrhagic E. coli, Klebsiella pneumoniae,
 Clostridium difficile, Heliobacter pylori, Legionella pneumophila, Enterococcus
 faecalis, methicillin-susceptible Enterococcus faecalis, Enterobacter cloacae,
 Salmonella typhimurium, Proteus vulgaris, Yersinia enterocolitica, Vibrio
 cholera, Shigella flexneri, vancomycin-resistant Enterococcus (VRE),
 Burkholderia cepacia complex, Francisella tularensis, Bacillus anthracis,
 Yersinia pestis, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, Streptococcus pneumonia,
 penicillin-resistant Streptococcus pneumonia, Escherichia coli, Burkholderia

WO 20111097347                                                        PCT/US2011/023549
                                           144
  cepacia, Bukholderia multivorans, Mycobacterium smegmatis and
 Acinetobacter baumannii.
                 15.    The method of claim 13 wherein the bacterial pathogen
 exhibits antibiotic resistance.
                 16.    The method of claim 13 wherein the bacterial pathogen
 exhibits resistance to an antibiotic that is selected from the group consisting of
  methicillin, vancomycin, naficilin, gentamicin, ampicillin, chloramphenicol,
 doxycycline and tobramycin.
                 17.    The method of claim 13 in which the surface comprises an
 epithelial tissue surface that is selected from the group consisting of epidermis,
 dermis, respiratory tract, gastrointestinal tract and glandular linings.
                 18.    The method of claim 13 in which the step of contacting is
 performed one or a plurality of times.
                 19.    The method of claim 18 in which at least one step of
 contacting comprises one of spraying, irrigating, dipping and painting the
 surface.
                 20.    The method of claim 18 in which at least one step of
 contacting comprises one of inhaling, ingesting and orally irrigating.
                 21.    The method of claim 18 in which at least one step of
 contacting comprises administering to a subject by a route that is selected from
 topically, intraperitoneally, orally, parenterally, intravenously, intraarterially,
 transdermally, sublingually, subcutaneously, intramuscularly, transbuccally,
 intranasally, via inhalation, intraoccularly, intraauricularly, intraventricularly,
 subcutaneously, intraadiposally, intraarticularly and intrathecally.
                 22.    The method of claim 13 wherein the BT composition
 comprises one or more BT compounds selected from the group consisting of
 BisBAL, BisEDT, Bis-dimercaprol, Bis-DTT, Bis-2-mercaptoethanol, Bis-DTE,
 Bis-Pyr, Bis-Ery, Bis-Tol, Bis-BDT, Bis-PDT, Bis-Pyr/Bal, Bis-Pyr/BDT, Bis-

WO 20111097347                                                           PCT/US2011/023549
                                             145
  Pyr/EDT, Bis-Pyr/PDT, Bis-Pyr/Tol, Bis-Pyr/Ery, bismuth-1-mercapto-2
  propanol, and Bis-EDT/2-hydroxy-1-propanethiol.
                 23.     The method of claim 13 wherein the bacterial pathogen
 exhibits antibiotic resistance.
                 24.    The method of any one of claims 13-23 which further
 comprises contacting the surface with at least one of (i) a synergizing antibiotic
 and (ii) a cooperative antimicrobial efficacy enhancing antibiotic, simultaneously
 or sequentially and in any order with respect to the step of contacting the
 surface with the BT composition.
                25.     The method of claim 24 wherein the synergizing antibiotic
 or the cooperative antimicrobial efficacy enhancing antibiotic comprises an
 antibiotic that is selected from the group consisting of an aminoglycoside
 antibiotic, a carbapenem antibiotic, a cephalosporin antibiotic, a fluoroquinolone
 antibiotic, a glycopeptide antibiotic, a lincosamide antibiotic, a penicillinase
 resistant penicillin antibiotic, and an aminopenicillin antibiotic.
                26.     The method of claim 25 wherein the synergizing antibiotic
 or the cooperative antimicrobial efficacy enhancing antibiotic is an
 aminoglycoside antibiotic that is selected from the group consisting of amikacin,
 arbekacin, gentamicin, kanamycin, neomycin, netilmicin, paromomycin,
 rhodostreptomycin, streptomycin, tobramycin and apramycin.
                27.     A method for overcoming antibiotic resistance on a natural
 surface where an antibiotic-resistant bacterial pathogen is present, comprising:
                contacting the epithelial tissue surface contacting simultaneously
 or sequentially and in any order with an effective amount of (1) at least one
 bismuth-thiol (BT) composition and (2) at least one antibiotic that is capable of
 enhancing or acting synergistically with the at least one BT composition, under
 conditions and for a time sufficient for one or more of:
                        (i)     prevention of infection of the epithelial tissue surface
 by the bacterial pathogen,
                        (ii)    inhibition of cell viability or cell growth of
 substantially all planktonic cells of the bacterial pathogen,

WO 20111097347                                                          PCT/US2011/023549
                                            146
                         (iii) inhibition of biofilm formation by the bacterial
 pathogen, and
                         (iv)  inhibition of biofilm viability or biofilm growth of
 substantially all biofilm-form cells of the bacterial pathogen,
                wherein the BT composition comprises a plurality of microparticles
 that comprise a bismuth-thiol (BT) compound, substantially all of said
 microparticles having a volumetric mean diameter of from about 0.4 ptm to
 about 5 pim; and thereby overcoming antibiotic resistance on the epithelial
 tissue surface.
                28.     The method of claim 27 wherein the bacterial pathogen is
 selected from the group consisting of Staphylococcus aureus (S. aureus),
 MRSA (methicillin-resistant S. aureus), Staphylococcus epidermidis , MRSE
 (methicillin-resistant S. epidermidis), Mycobacterium tuberculosis,
 Mycobacterium avium, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, drug-resistant P. aeruginosa,
 Escherichia coli, enterotoxigenic E. co/i, enterohemorrhagic E. coli, Klebsiella
 pneumoniae, Clostridium difficile, Heliobacter pylori, Legionella pneumophila,
 Enterococcus faecalis, meth ici li n-susceptible Enterococcus faecalis,
 Enterobacter cloacae, Salmonella typhimurium, Proteus vulgaris, Yersinia
 enterocolitica, Vibrio cholera, Shigella flexneri, vancomycin-resistant
 Enterococcus (VRE), Burkholderia cepacia complex, Francisella tularensis,
 Bacillus anthracis, Yersinia pestis, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, Streptococcus
 pneumonia, penicillin-resistant Streptococcus pneumonia, Escherichia coli,
 Burkholderia cepacia, Bukholderia multivorans, Mycobacterium smegmatis and
 Acinetobacter baumannii.
                29.     The method of claim 27 wherein the bacterial pathogen
 exhibits resistance to an antibiotic that is selected from the group consisting of
 methicillin, vancomycin, naficilin, gentamicin, ampicillin, chloramphenicol,
 doxycycline, tobramycin, clindamicin and gatifloxacin.
                30.     The method of claim 27 in which the surface comprises an
 epithelial surface of a tissue that is selected from the group consisting of
 epidermis, dermis, respiratory tract, gastrointestinal tract and glandular linings.
                31.     The method of claim 27 in which the step of contacting is
 performed one or a plurality of times.

WO 20111097347                                                        PCT/US2011/023549
                                           147
                 32.     The method of claim 31 in which at least one step of
  contacting comprises one of spraying, irrigating, dipping, coating and painting
 the surface.
                 33.     The method of claim 31 in which at least one step of
 contacting comprises one of inhaling, ingesting and orally irrigating.
                 34.     The method of claim 31 in which at least one step of
 contacting comprises administering to a subject by a route that is selected from
 topically, intraperitoneally, orally, parenterally, intravenously, intraarterially,
 transdermally, sublingually, subcutaneously, intramuscularly, transbuccally,
 intranasally, via inhalation, intraoccularly, intraauricularly, intraventricularly,
 subcutaneously, intraadiposally, intraarticularly and intrathecally.
                 35.     The method of claim 27 wherein the BT composition
 comprises one or more BT compounds selected from the group consisting of
 BisBAL, BisEDT, Bis-dimercaprol, Bis-DTT, Bis-2-mercaptoethanol, Bis-DTE,
 Bis-Pyr, Bis-Ery, Bis-Tol, Bis-BDT, Bis-PDT, Bis-Pyr/Bal, Bis-Pyr/BDT, Bis
 Pyr/EDT, Bis-Pyr/PDT, Bis-Pyr/Tol, Bis-Pyr/Ery, bismuth-1-mercapto-2
 propanol, and Bis-EDT/2-hydroxy-1-propanethiol.
                 36.     The method of claim 35 wherein the synergizing or
 enhancing antibiotic comprises an antibiotic that is selected from the group
 consisting of clindamicin, gatifloxacin, an aminoglycoside antibiotic, a
 carbapenem antibiotic, a cephalosporin antibiotic, a fluoroquinolone antibiotic, a
 penicillinase-resistant penicillin antibiotic, and an aminopenicillin antibiotic.
                 37.     The method of claim 36 wherein the synergizing or
 enhancing antibiotic is an aminoglycoside antibiotic that is selected from the
 group consisting of amikacin, arbekacin, gentamicin, kanamycin, neomycin,
 netilmicin, paromomycin, rhodostreptomycin, streptomycin, tobramycin and
 apramycin.
                 38.     An antiseptic composition for treating a natural surface
 that contains bacterial biofilm, comprising:
                 (a) at least one BT composition that comprises a plurality of
 microparticles that comprise a bismuth-thiol (BT) compound, substantially all of

WO 20111097347                                                        PCT/US2011/023549
                                             148
 said microparticles having a volumetric mean diameter of from about 0.4 pm to
 about 5 ptm; and (b) at least one antibiotic compound that is capable of acting
 synergistically with, or enhancing, the BT compound.
                 39.    The composition of claim 38 wherein the BT compound is
 selected from the group consisting of BisBAL, BisEDT, Bis-dimercaprol, Bis
 DTT, Bis-2-mercaptoethanol, Bis-DTE, Bis-Pyr, Bis-Ery, Bis-Tol, Bis-BDT, Bis
 PDT, Bis-Pyr/Bal, Bis-Pyr/BDT, Bis-Pyr/EDT, Bis-Pyr/PDT, Bis-Pyr/Tol, Bis
 Pyr/Ery, bismuth-1-mercapto-2-propanol, and Bis-EDT/2-hydroxy-1
 propanethiol.
                 40.    The composition of claim 38 wherein the BT compound is
 selected from the group consisting of BisEDT and BisBAL.
                 41.    The composition of claim 38 wherein the antibiotic
 compound comprises an antibiotic that is selected from methicillin,_vancomycin,
 naficilin, gentamicin, ampicillin, chloramphenicol, doxycycline, tobramycin,
 clindamicin, gatifloxacin, cefazolin and an aminoglycoside antibiotic.
                 42.    The composition of claim 41 wherein the aminoglycoside
 antibiotic is selected from the group consisting of amikacin, arbekacin,
 gentamicin, kanamycin, neomycin, netilmicin, paromomycin,
 rhodostreptomycin, streptomycin, tobramycin and apramycin.
                 43.    The composition of claim 41 wherein the aminoglycoside
 antibiotic is amikacin.
                 44.    A method for treating a natural surface that contains
 bacterial biofilm, comprising:
                 (a)    identifying a bacterial infection in or on the surface as
 comprising one of (i) gram positive bacteria, (ii) gram negative bacteria, and (iii)
 both (i) and (ii); and
                 (b)    administering a formulation that comprises one or more
 bismuth thiol (BT) compositions to the surface, wherein:
                        (i)     if the bacterial infection comprises gram positive
 bacteria, then the formulation comprises effective amounts of at least one BT
 compound and at least one antibiotic that is rifamycin,

WO 20111097347                                                      PCT/US2011/023549
                                           149
                        (ii)   if the bacterial infection comprises gram negative
 bacteria, then the formulation comprises effective amounts of at least one BT
 compound and amikacin,
                        (iii)  if the bacterial infection comprises both gram
 positive and gram negative bacteria, then the formulation comprises effective
 amounts of one or a plurality of BT compounds, rifamycin and amikacin,
                 and thereby treating the surface.
                 45.    The method of claim 44 wherein the bacterial infection
 comprises one or a plurality of antibiotic-resistant bacteria.
                 46. The method of claim 45 wherein treating comprises at least
 one of: (i) eradicating the bacterial biofilm, (ii) reducing the bacterial biofilm, and
 (iii) impairing growth of the bacterial biofilm.
                 47. The method of any one of claims 44-46 wherein the BT
 composition comprises a plurality of microparticles that comprise a bismuth
 thiol (BT) compound, substantially all of said microparticles having a volumetric
 mean diameter of from about 0.4 ptm to about 5 pm.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
