                            HAND-HELD SURGICAL DEVICES
                                          ABSTRACT
        A surgical system for performing a surgical procedure is disclosed. The surgical
system comprises: a surgical device (10) including: a housing; a drive motor disposed in the
housing; a power source disposed in the housing and configured to provide electrical power
to the drive motor; and a control circuit coupled to the power source and the drive motor and
including a resistor having a resistance associated with a voltage of the electrical power
being delivered to the drive motor by the power source, the control circuit configured to
calculate a current across the resistor. The surgical system further comprises at least one
loading unit (20) configured for selective connection to the housing of the surgical device
(10), the drive motor configured to actuate the at least one loading unit from a first condition
to a second condition. The current across the resistor changes when the at least one loading
unit (20) is in the second condition.
11438792_1

                                                  1
HAND-HELD SURGICAL DEVICES
CROSS REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATION
[0001]          The present application is a divisional application of Australian Patent
Application No. <removed-apn>, filed on 27 June 2016, which in turn is a divisional application of
Australian Patent Application No. 2014204542, filed on 22 July 2014.             Australian Patent
Application No. 2014204542, is a divisional application of Australian Patent Application No.
2011201182 filed on April 16, 2011.         The contents of the aforementioned applications are
incorporated herein by reference, in entirety.
BACKGROUND
1. Technical Field
[0002]          The present disclosure relates to surgical devices and/or systems. More
specifically, the present disclosure relates to hand-held surgical devices and/or systems
configured for use with removable disposable loading units and/or single use loading units for
clamping, cutting and/or stapling tissue.
2. Background ofRelated Art
[0003]          A number of surgical device manufacturers have developed product lines with
proprietary drive systems for operating and/or manipulating the surgical device. In many
instances the surgical devices include a handle assembly, which is reusable, and disposable
loading units and/or single use loading units or the like that are selectively connected to the
handle assembly prior to use and then disconnected from the handle assembly following use in
order to be disposed of or in some instances sterilized for re-use.
[0004]          In intelligent surgical devices, intelligent disposable loading units and/or single
use loading units include an identification element which communicates with a reader element
disposed within an intelligent powered handle assembly. In this manner, when the intelligent
disposable loading units and/or single use loading units are connected to the intelligent handle
assembly, the reader element of the intelligent handle assembly communicates with the

                                                   2
identification element of the intelligent disposable loading units and/or single use loading units
to thereby indicate to the intelligent handle assembly which particular loading unit is attached
thereto. Once the particular loading unit, attached to the handle assembly is identified, operative
parameters for the powered handle assembly may be set in accordance with predetermined
values.
[0005]           A need exists for a system that is able to detect particular parameters (e.g., length
of a staple cartridge, indication that a staple cartridge has been fired) of non-intelligent (i.e., not
including an identification member) disposable loading units and/or single use loading units
when such non-intelligent disposable loading units and/or single use loading units are connected
to intelligent handle assemblies.
SUMMARY
[0006]      The present disclosure relates to hand-held surgical devices and/or systems configured
for use with removable disposable loading units and/or single use loading units for clamping,
cutting and/or stapling tissue.
[0006a]     It is an object of the present disclosure to substantially overcome, or at least
ameliorate, at least one disadvantage described above.
[0006b]     One aspect of the present disclosure provides a surgical system for performing a
surgical procedure, the surgical system comprising: a surgical device including: a housing; a
drive motor disposed in the housing; a power source disposed in the housing and configured to
provide electrical power to the drive motor; and a control circuit coupled to the power source and
the drive motor and including a resistor having a resistance associated with a voltage of the
electrical power being delivered to the drive motor by the power source, the control circuit
configured to calculate a current across the resistor; and at least one loading unit configured for
selective connection to the housing of the surgical device, the drive motor configured to actuate
the at least one loading unit from a first condition to a second condition, wherein the current
across the resistor changes when the at least one loading unit is in the second condition.
[0006c]     Another aspect of the present disclosure provides a surgical system for performing a
surgical procedure, the surgical system comprising: a surgical device including: a housing; a

                                                   3
drive motor disposed in the housing; a power source disposed in the housing and configured to
provide electrical power to the drive motor; and a control circuit coupled to the power source and
the drive motor; and a plurality of loading units configured for selective connection to the
housing of the surgical device and actuatable by the drive motor from a first condition to a
second condition; wherein the control circuit is configured to detect when a selected loading unit
of the plurality of loading units is in the second condition based on the electrical power provided
to the drive motor by the power source.
[0007] According to another aspect of the present disclosure, a surgical system for performing a
surgical procedure is provided. The surgical system includes an intelligent surgical device having
a housing; a power source supported in the housing; at least one drive motor supported in the
housing and being in electrical communication with the power source; and control circuitry
interfacing with the power source and the at least one drive motor. The control circuitry includes
a feedback system for monitoring at least one condition of the surgical device during a use
thereof and for changing an operative parameter of the surgical device when a change in the at
least one monitored condition occurs. The surgical system includes at least one non-intelligent
loading unit configured for selective connection to the housing of the surgical device and which
is actuatable by the at least one drive motor, the loading unit having at least a first condition and
a second condition. During operation of the surgical device, the at least one drive motor actuates
the loading unit from the first condition to at least the second condition; and when the loading
unit achieves the second condition, a change in the at least one monitored condition occurs and
an operative parameter of the surgical device is changed.
[0008]          The at least one condition monitored by the feedback system may be a voltage
being delivered to the at least one drive motor. The feedback system may include a resistor of a
known quantity associated with the voltage being delivered to the at least one drive motor. The
feedback system may calculate a current level across the resistor.
[0009]          The operative parameter of the surgical device may be changed when the
feedback system determines a current level across the resistor exceeds a threshold current level.
[0010]          The second condition of the loading unit may be an end of a firing stroke thereof.
[0011]          The current level across the resistor may exceed the threshold current level when
the end of the firing stroke of the loading unit is reached.

4
[00121          The operative parameter of the surgical device that is changed when the
feedback system determines that the current level across the resistor exceeds the threshold
current level may be a voltage that is delivered to the at least one drive motor.
[00131          The operative parameter of the surgical device that is changed may be a power
delivered to the at least one motor.
[0014]          The second condition of the loading unit may be an end of a firing stroke
thereof.
[0015]          The surgical system may further include a plurality of non-intelligent loading
units, wherein each loading unit includes a different unique second condition. The second
condition of each loading unit may correspond to a different unique length of a firing stroke
of each loading unit. The at least one condition monitored by the feedback system may be a
voltage being delivered to the at least one drive motor, wherein the feedback system may
include a resistor of a known quantity associated with the voltage being delivered to the at
least one drive motor, and wherein the feedback system may calculate a current level across
the resistor, and wherein the operative parameter of the surgical device may be changed when
the feedback system determines a current level across the resistor exceeds a threshold current
level.
[00161          The current level across the resistor may exceed the threshold current level
when the end of the firing stroke of any of the plurality of loading units is reached. The
operative parameter of the surgical device that is changed when the feedback system
determines that the current level across the resistor exceeds the threshold current level may be
a voltage that is delivered to the at least one drive motor.
                                                  4

BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[00181           Embodiments of the present disclosure are described herein with reference to
the accompanying drawings, wherein:
[0019]          FIG. 1 is a rear, perspective view of an exemplary intelligent surgical device
and/or handle assembly supporting an adapter assembly and illustrating an exemplary loading
unit supported on an end of the adapter assembly;
[0020]           FIG. 2 is a side, elevational view of the intelligent surgical device, adapter
assembly and loading unit shown in FIG. 1;
[0021]          FIG. 3 is a perspective view of the intelligent surgical device of FIGS. 1 and 2,
illustrating the adapter assembly connected thereto and illustrating the loading unit
disconnected from the adapter assembly;
[0022]          FIG. 4 is a perspective vlew of the intelligent surgical device of FIGS. 1-3,
illustrating the adapter assembly disconnected therefrom and illustrating the loading unit
disconnected from the adapter assembly;
[0023] FIG. 5 is a schematic of a circuit diagram of a feedback system according to an
embodiment of the present disclosure;
[0024] FIG. 6 is a chart illustrating a normal operating profile of current v. time for an
intelligent surgical device operating an intelligent loading unit; and
[0025] FIG. 7 is a chart illustrating an operating profile of current v. time for an intelligent
surgical device operating a non-intelligent loading unit.
                                                 5

DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF EMBODIMENTS
[00261          Embodiments of the presently disclosed surgical device are described in detail
with reference to the drawings, in which like reference numerals designate identical or
corresponding elements in each of the several views. As used herein the term "distal" refers
to that portion of the surgical device, or component thereof, farther from the user, while the
term "proximal" refers to that portion of the surgical device, or component thereof, closer to
the user.
[0027]          Referring initially to FIGS. 1-4, a hand-held powered surgical device in
accordance with an embodiment of the present disclosure is shown and generally designated
10.   Reference may be made to International Application No. PCTIUS2008/077249, filed
September 22, 2008 (Inter. Pub. No. WO 2009/039506) and U.S. Patent Application Serial
No. 12/622,827, filed on November 20, 2009, the entire content of each of which is
incorporated herein by reference, for a detailed description of the construction and operation
of exemplary surgical devices 10.
[0028]          Surgical device 10 includes a housing having lower portion 12 forming a base,
and an intermediate portion 14, which includes several finger-actuated control buttons 17 and
18 and rocker device 2 7. Lower portion 12 is configured to selectively store a power source
in the form of a battery or the like (not shown). Intermediate portion 14 is configured and
adapted to house at least one drive motor (not shown) that is powered by the power source.
Surgical device 10 further includes control circuitry (not shown) therein which controls the
operation of surgical device 10 based on input from a user and/or feedback obtained prior to,
during or after operation of surgical device 10.
                                                 6

[00291          Control buttons 17 and 18 and rocker device 27 are located at a front location
of the intermediate portion 14 of surgical device 1 0. Each one of the control buttons 17, 18,
and rocker device 27 includes a respective magnet that is moved by the actuation of a user, or
operator. In addition, a circuit board (not shown) disposed within surgical device 10 includes,
for each one of the control buttons 17, 18 and rocker device 27, respective Hall-effect
switches that are actuated by the movement of the magnets in the control buttons 17, 18 and
rocker device 27. The actuation of the Hall-effect switch causes the circuit board to provide
appropriate signals to a function selection module and an actuator or input drive component
to actuate or operate loading unit 20.
[0030]          Surgical devices 10 may include at least one drive motor, at least one power
source "PS" (see FIG. 5) for powering the at least one drive motor, and at least one rotatable
drive shaft connected to the drive motor.
[0031]          In accordance with the present disclosure, surgical device I 0 includes a first
and a second drive motor, and a first and a second rotatable drive member or shaft,
respectively connected to the first and second drive motors. In use, as the first drive motor is
activated, the first drive motor will cause the first drive shaft to selectively rotate along its
axis in either a first or clock-wise direction, or in a second or counter clock-wise direction.
Additionally, as the second drive motor is activated, the second drive motor will cause the
second drive shaft to selectively rotate along its axis in either a first or clock-wise direction,
or in a second or counter clock-wise direction.
[0032]          Surgical device 10 is shown in FIGS. 1-4 interfacing with an adapter assembly
100 configured to interconnect surgical device 10 with disposable loading units (DLUs)
and/or single use loading units (SULUs) (hereinafter, "loading units"). Reference may be
made to U.S. Provisional Application Serial No. 61/308,045, filed on February 25, 2010, the
                                                7

entire content of which is incorporated herein by reference, for a detailed description of the
construction and operation of exemplary adapter assemblies 100.
[00331          As seen in FIGS. 1-4, adapter assembly 100 is configured and adapted to
operatively interconnect and couple any one of a number of loading units to surgical device
10. For example, adapter assembly 100 is configured and adapted to operatively interconnect
and couple an endo-gastrointestinal anastomosis loading unit 20 including a staple line length
of 30mm, 45mm or 60mm.
[0034]          Reference may be made to U.S Patent Publication No. 2009/0145947, filed
January 14, 2009, the entire content of which is incorporated herein by reference for a
detailed discussion of the construction and operation of the endo-gastrointestinal anastomosis
loading unit 20.
[0035]          Loading units 20 include at least one axially translatable drive member therein
that is configured and adapted to at least one of open and close jaw assemblies thereof by
approximating or separating an anvil assembly and a cartridge assembly to/away from one
another, and to fire the loading unit to expel staples contained in the cartridge assembly for
formation against the anvil assembly and possibly to actuate a knife blade along the staple
line. Loading units 20 may further include an axially translatable drive member therein that is
configured and adapted to cause an articulation thereof.
[0036]          Loading units 20 are non-intelligent in that loading units 20 typically do not
include any identification members, in the form of sensors or the like, which interact with
reader elements disposed in surgical device 10 for identification thereof and for identification
of parameters (e.g., length of a staple cartridge, indication that a staple cartridge has been
fired) thereof.
                                               8

[00371           In accordance with the present disclosure, in order for intelligent surgical
device 10 to identify the parameters of non-intelligent loading units 20, intelligent surgical
device 10 includes, as seen in FIG. 5, a feedback system incorporated into or associated with
the drive circuit or control circuit "CC" of the first drive motor "M" or second drive motor
"M" of intelligent surgical device 10.
[0038]           It is contemplated, in accordance with an embodiment of the present
disclosure, the feedback system incorporates a highly toleranced resistor "R" with an
extremely low resistance, about 0.05 ohms, that is added to a low side of an H-bridge
responsible for driving the first drive motor or the second drive motor. In operation, the
feedback system measures a voltage "V" across resistor "R." By measuring the voltage "V"
drop across resistor "R," the feedback system may calculate an amount of current "I" flowing
through resistor "R" using Ohm's Law:
[00391           V=IR
[0040]           In a DC electric motor, such as first drive motor or second drive motor, current
"I" is directly related to the amount of torque "r" being developed by using a relation, e.g., the
Torque Constant (Km). Accordingly, the feedback system calculates the amount of torque "T"
being applied to first drive motor or second drive motor according to the following equation:
[0041]           r = (Km)(I)
[0042]           By factoring in the reductions in a transmission of surgical device 10 and of a
screw drive of surgical device 10, the feedback system may determine an amount of linear
force being applied to a firing rod in loading unit 20. Additionally, the feedback system needs
to determine a linear position of the firing rod of loading unit 20 in order to ultimately
                                                 9

determine if the torque being applied to first drive motor or second drive motor corresponds
to a particular length of a staple cartridge loaded in loading unit 20. It is contemplated that an
optical or magnetic encoder, a linear variable differential transformer (LVDT) or other
method may be used to determine the linear position of the firing rod.
[0043]          During a normal operating condition of surgical device 10, a certain or
predetermined force profile is expected to be seen by the feedback system in the control
circuitry of surgical device 10, e.g., either a current v. time profile (see FIG. 6) or a current v.
distance profile (not shown). In operation, with the control circuitry monitoring current "I,"
when the firing rod of surgical device 10 is at a linear position corresponding with an end of a
stroke for a particular staple cartlidge length (i.e., 30mm, 45mm or 60mm) and the feedback
system of the control circuitry determines a higher than expected current "I"or current spike
(as seen in FIG. 7), the control circuitry can reasonably assume that a firing sled of loading
unit 20 has reached an end or a stop of the staple cartridge and/or loading unit 20.
[0044]           As seen in FIG. 7, a first current spike "Ii" is illustrated at a location when the
firing sled of loading unit 20 has reached an end or a stop of the staple cartridge and/or
loading unit 20 corresponding to approximately 30mm. As also seen in FIG. 7, a second
current spike "12" is illustrated at a location when the firing sled of loading unit 20 has
reached an end or a stop of the staple cartridge and/or loading unit 20 corresponding to
approximately 45mm.
[0045]          Each current spike "Ii" or "12" exceeds a predetermined threshold level "IT" for
current "I."The predetermined threshold level "IT" for current "I"is selected so that if there is
an increase in current "I"during the firing sequence, at a location prior to 30mm for a 30mm
staple cartridge, prior to 45mm for a 45mm staple cartridge, or prior to 60mm for a 60mm
staple cartridge, that surgical device 10 will continue to fire until the end or stop of the staple
                                                 10

cartridge and/or loading unit 20 has been achieved, as described above. Premature increases
in current "I,"during the firing of surgical device 10, may be experienced if the path through
the tissue through which loading unit 20 is acting on includes a segment of denser tissue, a
change in the type of tissue, a prior deployed fastener or the like.
[0046]           Additionally or alternatively, the control circuitry of surgical device 10 may
also monitor a slope of current v. time (dI/dt) or current v. distance (dI/dx) to determine if an
end of the staple cartridge has been reached. For example, if the feedback system determines
that a rise in the slope has become excessively large, the control circuitry can also reasonably
assume that a firing sled of loading unit 20 has reached an end or a stop of the staple cartridge
and/or loading unit 20.
[00471           In accordance with the present disclosure, the control circuitry of surgical
device 10 includes a loading unit lockout recognition system that functions and/or operates
according to the same or similar principles to the feedback system described above. The
loading unit lockout recognition system functions to determine whether a mechanical lockout
of a staple cartridge loaded into loading unit 20 has been or has not been activated.
[0048]           In use, the first time that a staple cartridge is loaded into loading unit 20 and
the loading unit 20 is clamped by surgical device 10, surgical device 10 continues to drive
forward slightly further than a clamped position for loading unit 20. If the loading unit
lockout recognition system measures a sudden spike in current "I,"corresponding to a rapid
increase in torque ",r" the loading unit lockout recognition system of the control circuitry
determines that a hard stop for the mechanical lockout of the staple cartridge in the loading
unit 20 has been reached. Surgical device 10 may then relay the information to the user and
the control circuitry will not allow surgical device 10 to be fired.
                                                  11

[00491          If the loading unit lockout recognition system does not measure a sudden spike
in current "1," the loading unit lockout recognition system of the control circuitry concludes
that the mechanical lockout of the staple cartridge in the loading unit 20 has not been
activated. If the loading unit lockout recognition system concludes that the mechanical
lockout of the staple cartridge in the loading unit 20 has not been activated, the control
circuitry indicated to the surgical device 10 the presence of an un-fired staple cartridge and
operation of surgical device 10 may continue as normal to fire loading unit 20.
[0050]          It will be understood that various modifications may be made to the
embodiments of the presently disclosed adapter assemblies. Therefore, the above description
should not be construed as limiting, but merely as exemplifications of embodiments. Those
skilled in the art will envision other modifications within the scope and spirit of the present
disclosure.
                                                12

                                                 13
CLAIMS
1.     An intelligent surgical device configured to selectively couple with and operate a non
intelligent loading unit, wherein the non-intelligent loading unit is configured for actuation by
the surgical device, and wherein the non-intelligent loading unit has at least a first condition
and a second condition, the surgical device comprising:
       a housing;
       a power source supported in the housing;
       at least one drive motor supported in the housing and being in electrical communication
with the power source, wherein the at least one drive motor operably connects with the non
intelligent loading unit when the non-intelligent loading unit is connected to the housing;
       an H-bridge configured to drive the at least one drive motor; and
       control circuitry interfacing with the power source and the at least one drive motor,
wherein the control circuitry includes a feedback system for monitoring a voltage being
delivered to the at least one drive motor during a use thereof and for changing an operative
parameter of the surgical device when a change in the voltage being
       delivered to the at least one drive motor occurs, the feedback system including a resistor
associated with the H-bridge, the resistor having a known quantity associated with the voltage
being delivered to the at least one drive motor, the feedback system configured to calculate a
current level across the resistor; and
       wherein, during operation of the surgical device, the at least one drive motor actuates
the non-intelligent loading unit from the first condition to at least the second condition; and
       wherein, during operation of the surgical device, when the non-intelligent loading unit
achieves the second condition, a change in the voltage being delivered to the at least one
drive motor occurs and an operative parameter of the surgical device is changed, the
operative parameter of the surgical device being changed when the feedback system
determines a current level across the resistor exceeds a threshold current level.
2.     The surgical device according to claim 1, wherein, during operation of the surgical
device, the second condition of the non-intelligent loading unit is an end of a firing stroke
thereof.

                                                14
3.     The surgical device according to claim 2, wherein the current level across the resistor
exceeds the threshold current level when the end of the firing stroke of the non-intelligent
loading unit is reached.
4.     The surgical device according to claim 1, wherein the operative parameter of the
surgical device that is changed is a power delivered to the at least one drive motor.
5.     The surgical device according to claim 1, wherein the surgical device is compatible
with a plurality of non-intelligent loading units, wherein each non-intelligent loading unit
includes a different unique second condition.
6.     The surgical device according to claim 5, wherein the second condition of each non
intelligent loading unit corresponds to a different unique length of a firing stroke of each
non-intelligent loading unit.
7.     The surgical device according to claim 6, wherein the current level across the resistor
exceeds the threshold current level when the end of the firing stroke of any of the
plurality of non-intelligent loading units is reached.
                                          Covidien LP
                  Patent Attorneys for the Applicant/Nominated Person
                                  SPRUSON & FERGUSON

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
