                                                  5
                                                  ABSTRACT
       The innovation herein described provides a new and more effective audible alarm for smoke
       alarms installed in residential properties. Most other available residential smoke alarms
       employ an audible alarm of 3000 Hz which has been proven inefficient at alerting some sectors
       of the population.
       The innovative Improved Residential Smoke Alarm will employ an audible warning which shall
       be a 520Hz square wave. This sound has been proven more effective at alerting children, the
       elderly, hearing impaired, sleeping, alcohol impaired or drug impaired individuals; thus, saving
       more lives.
       The innovative 520 Hz square waveform shall be digitally created inside the Micro-Controller
       Unit (MCU) and sent to a digital-to-analogue converter (DAC). The output of the DAC shall be
       connected to a speaker. The DAC can also be used to convey speech or other audible
       waveforms if required.
watchGenFeb18

                                1
                          AUSTRALIA
                        Patents Act 1990
                       Innovation Patent
                          Application
              Improved Residential Smoke Alarms
               The innovation is described in the
                     following statement:
watchGenFeb18

                                          2
                       Improved Residential Smoke Alarms
The purpose of a residential smoke alarm is to alert the home occupants of the presence of a
fire by the means of an audible siren. Existing residential smoke alarms employ a 3000 Hz
audible alarm.
This improved Residential Smoke Alarm employs a 520 Hz square wave audible alarm that has
been proven more effective at alerting children, elderly, hearing impaired, sleeping, alcohol
impaired or drug impaired individuals; thus, saving more lives.
The audible alarm may also incorporate voice warnings to further enhance the effectiveness
of the warning device.

watchGenFeb18
                                                    3
       The Improved Residential Smoke Alarm will detect smoke by the means of a photoelectric
       sensor. This is common for many residential smoke alarms in use. The innovation described
       involves the use of a better speaker and sound system. The audible warning shall be a 520Hz
       square wave. The waveform shall be digitally created inside the MCU and sent to a digital-to
       analogue converter (DAC). The output of the digital to analogue converter shall be connected
       to a speaker. The DAC can also be used to convey speech or other audible waveforms if
       required.
watchGenFeb18

                                                 4
The claims defining the innovation are as follows:
    1. An improved residential smoke alarm, providing more effective audible alarms by
        employing a 520 Hz square wave audible alarm that is digitally generated inside a Micro
        Controller Unit (MCU) that is connected to a digital-to-analogue converter (DAC), the output
        of which is sent to a speaker.
    2. An improved residential smoke alarm, as claimed in Claim 1, may also employ speech or other
        waveforms to provide an improved audible alarm.
watchGenFeb18

