ABSTRACT
A method for reduction of the process time for concentrating a brine solution
by the use of artificial heating system that activates during the absence or
lack of the natural heat energy from the sun comprising of heating elements
(10,15) and optional forced draft fans (13) to induce evaporation thereby
reducing the time required for the brine to reach a certain level of
concentration. The heating elements (10,15) are integrated into the brine
pool which delivers the heat energy required for heating up the brine. The
method for activating the additional heating system could be automatic,
utilising temperature sensors or manually operated. The forced draft fans
(13) ensure that there is enough air flow above the surface of the brine pool,
mainly to carry away the water vapour and to keep the saturation level of
the air above the brine pool surface low for continuous evaporation.

                                        I
IMPROVED BRINE EVAPORATION PROCESS WITH THE USE OF BRINE POOL
HEATING ELEMENTS
TECHNICAL FIELD
[0001] The innovation directly relates to a method and system for
concentrating a brine solution. More particularly, the innovation directly
relates to a method and system to reduce the overall time for concentrating
a brine solution which contain variety of elements and/or compounds such
as lithium, potash, boron, and rock salt, using evaporation.
BACKGROUND
[0002] The current duration for concentrating a brine solution using
evaporation, as part of the process to extract element and/or compound
such as lithium, usually takes up to 12-18 months. The brine concentration
process involves pumping out the brine solution from its natural reservoir to
a series of large solar evaporation ponds where it is left exposed to natural
environmental conditions for the brine solution to evaporate naturally. Solar
radiation, brine temperature, ambient temperature, humidity and wind are
the primary environmental factors affecting the evaporation rate of the brine
solution, with solar radiation as the most impactful as it is the only source of
heat energy to enable evaporation. This suggests that during night time or
on a cloudy day, the evaporation rate is very minimal, and on the
occurrence of a rain, the process goes into reverse as the brine pond collects
additional water, thus reducing the brine concentration level. The
dependency on the sunlight and the effect of rain is what typically controls
the duration of the brine evaporation process.
[0003] Getting the brine solution to its optimum concentration level is one of
the key process for extracting the elements and/or compounds such as
lithium but the step usually takes more than 50% of the overall extraction
process duration. Reducing the time required for the brine solution to reach

                                          z
its desired concentration level will have great effect in reducing the overall
extraction process duration, meaning production rate can be significantly
increased. It is therefore beneficial to device a method and a system to
decrease the brine evaporation process.
[0004] Throughout the description and claims of this specification, the word
"comprise", and variations of the word, such as " comprising" and
"comprises", is not intended to exclude other additives, components,
integers or steps.
[0005] The discussion of documents, acts, materials, devices, articles and
the like included in this specification is solely for the purpose of providing a
context for the present innovation. It is not suggested or represented that
any or all of these matters formed part of the prior art base or were
common general knowledge in the field relevant to the present invention as
it existed before the priority date of each claim of this application.
SUMMARY
[0006] The first aspect of the innovation provides an additional heating
system to reduce the time for concentrating a brine solution comprising; a
modified High-Density Polyethylene (HDPE) pool floor and wall liner
containing slots to provide space for the electric heat trace cable; the heat
trace cable, imbedded either on top or under the pool liner, converting
electric energy into heat energy as means to provide the secondary heat
source; temperature control and regulator for the heat trace cables
comprising of programmable electronic thermostat equipped with
temperature sensors; an electric power source to provide the required
electric energy, preferably generated from a renewable energy source such
as solar; and an optional electric driven fan, preferably for indoor or small
scale setup, to provide sufficient airflow above the brine pool surface.

                                        j
[0007] The system may be configured as such that the heat trace cables
may be installed and held in place by cable floats in which can be variably
configured to keep the cable at the desired depth, anywhere between the
surface of the brine pool and the brine pool floor. With this configuration, the
HDPE liner does not need modification and that the system can be deployed
as an add-on to existing brine evaporation pools.
[0008] The system may include a fan operation control system comprising
of; fan speed controller; and at least one relative humidity sensor placed at
a certain height above the pool surface. The fan speed controller comprises
of a microcontroller or a programmable logic control which controls a
mechanical relay or a solid-state relay that turns ON or OFF the fan and/or
variably control the fan speed using pulse width modulation (PWM),
depending on the input signal from the relative humidity sensor. The
minimum and maximum relative humidity can be set to get the maximum
efficiency of the fan system, taking in mind that the maximum relative
humidity should be less than 100%. The fan control system operates in a
manner such as the higher the relative humidity, the closer the fan gets to
its maximum operating speed. Configuration of the operation of the fan
system, such as setting the minimum and the maximum relative humidity
trigger points, can be changed via a built-in user interface or an external
device such as a computer which can communicate with the microcontroller
or programmable logic controller.
[0009] The described method for concentrating the brine solution includes
activating the added heating system during the absence or lack of the
primary source of heat, the sun, such as during night time or during cloudy
day. Adding the artificial heating system in the brine solution concentrating
process allows a continuous evaporation thus reducing the required time for
the solution to reach a desirable concentration level. The method for
activating the additional heating system could be automatic, utilising
temperature sensors or manually operated. The minimum temperature
(CUT-IN) at which the heat trace cable will start to operate may be set at a

                                         4
fixed brine solution temperature, for example 16 degrees Celsius. Any
temperature below the threshold (16 degrees Celsius) will cause the heat
trace cable to operate and will continue to operate until the brine solution
reaches its set target temperature (CUT-OUT), say 20 degrees Celsius. At
this stage, the heat trace cable will stop to operate (turn OFF) and will only
start to operate (turn ON) again once the brine solution temperature falls
below the 16 degrees Celsius. The temperature values provided are given as
an exam ple only, the CUT-IN and CUT-OUT can be freely configured.
BRIEF DESCRI PTI ON OF THE DRAW NGS
FIGURE 1: Conventional brine evaporation pool.
FIGURE 2: Brine evaporation pool setup with heating elements and force
draft fans.
FIGURE 3: Brine evaporation pool profile showing details improved
evaporation system.
FIGURE 4: Modified brine pool liner with heating elements installed under
the liner.
FIGURE 5: Modified brine pool liner with heating elements installed over the
liner.
FIGURE 6: Brine evaporation pool profile showing details improved
evaporation system with the use of floating heating elements.
FIGURE 7: Brine evaporation pool profile showing details improved
evaporation system with the use of floating heating elements and heating
elements built into the pool liner.
DESCRIPTION OF EMBODIMENTS
[0010] The directional terms such as "top", "bottom", "upwards",
"downwards" "vertically" and "laterally" are used in the following description
for the purpose of providing relative reference only and are not intended to

                                        5
suggest any limitations on how any article is to be positioned during use, or
to be mounted in an assembly or relative to an environment. In addition,
drawings are not drawn to scale.
[0011] The current process for brine evaporation, as shown in Figure 1, is by
pumping brine into a pool (1) where it is left to naturally evaporate utilising
the heat energy (2) from the sun. This natural evaporation process usually
takes up to 18 months before the brine solution reaches its desired
concentration level.
[0012] In a preferred embodiment, shown in Figure 2, the brine solution
pool (3) is installed with an array of heating elements (4) and forced draft
fans (5) to induce evaporation. The additional system is connected to a
control house (6) to provide automated monitoring and control. For the
electric energy source, a solar farm, consisting of array of solar panels (7),
battery grid (8), and a power house (9), provides the power needed by the
system.
[0013] Figure 3 shows a brine pool profile to provide better perspective of
the embodiment. The heating elements (10) are installed under the liner
(11)  to provide the needed heating to bring the brine to the desired
temperature. As the brine reaches its desired temperature suitable for
evaporation, water vapour starts to escape from the surface of the brine and
into the air above the brine's surface. The forced draft fan (12) ensures that
there is a continuous flow of air above the brine's surface mainly for two
reasons. First is to keep the air below a saturation level which is needed for
continuous evaporation, and second, is to ensure that the water vapour is
carried away from the surface of the brine. Sensors (13) placed at different
locations and depths around the pool monitor and feed information to the
control house (6) which automatically regulates the system.
[0014] Figure 4 shows the modified pool lining (11)    with DETAIL A showing
the modifications. The lining (11)  is modified to have notches (14) to give

                                         b
room for the heating element cable (10) that is installed under the liner
(11). Heat energy from the heating element (10) is transferred to the liner
(11)  surface via thermal conduction heating up the brine directly in contact
with it. Heat energy is then transferred to the rest of the brine via thermal
convection. The heat energy from the heating element is automatically
controlled utilising the inputs from the sensors to ensure everything is in the
optimum condition.
[0015] A different variation of the liner modification is shown in Figure 5
wherein the notches (14) are designed so that the heating elements (10) are
installed over the liner (11). This variation allows direct exposure of the
heating elements to the brine to allow more efficient heat transfer but
requires a more robust, anti-corrosion cable insulation.
[0016] Figure 6 shows an alternative setup of the embodiment described in
paragraph [0013]. Heating elements in form of submerged heating cables
(15), kept at a specific depth with the use of cable floats (16), are used
instead of the built-in heating elements installed on the pool liners. This type
of heating elements can be integrated easily into an existing brine
evaporation pool as it does not require modification of the pool liners.
[0017] Figure 7 shows another setup of the embodiment. As shown in the
figure, heating cables (15) with cable floats (16) and heating elements (10)
built into the pool liner (11) are integrated together into the brine
evaporation pool. With this setup, the desired brine evaporation temperature
can be achieved and maintained quicker resulting in a faster evaporation
rate. One advantageous use of this type of setup is on small brine
evaporation pools used for pilot plants as results can be achieved faster.

CLAI MS
1.     A method for reduction of the process time for concentrating a brine
solution by the use of artificial heating system that activates during the
absence or lack of the natural heat energy from the sun comprising; a
modified High-Density Polyethylene (HDPE) pool floor and wall liner
containing slots; the heat trace cable, imbedded either on top or under the
pool liner; temperature control and regulator for the heat trace cables
comprising of programmable electronic thermostat equipped with
temperature sensors; an electric power source; and an optional electric
driven fan.
2.     The system of claim 1, wherein the heat trace cables may be installed
and held in place by cable floats.
3.     The system of claim 1 or 2, wherein the fan includes a control system
comprising of; fan speed controller in a form of either a microcontroller or
programmable logic controller; a mechanical or solid-state relay; and a
relative humidity sensor.

                           1/4
              DRAWINGS
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
                         Figure 1
                         Figure 2

                      <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                                 2/4
Figure 4   Figure 3

           <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                      3/4
Figure 6   Figure 5

           <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                      4/4
Figure 7

