                                            ABSTRACT
         A drug storage and dispensing system that includes a packaging unit and an injection
device for pre- filled containers having a needle shield and containing a medication is disclosed.
The drug storage and dispensing system of the present disclosure provides for drug
administration while minimizing the space occupied by such containers in the cold chain. The
packaging unit minimizes the risk of a needle-stick injury, as a healthcare worker does not have
to manually remove the needle shield. The injection device provides a novel way of auto
disabling a container, such as a syringe, as a plunger rod is not engaged with the container until
the container is actually used. The drug storage and dispensing system provides for a reduction
in the number of steps required to perform an injection, and thus a productivity and efficiency
gain in mass immunization campaigns.

     3/37
 :>R
          CA       C
                 C
  CA           a
FIG.4        >

      DRUG STORAGE AND DISPENSING SYSTEM FOR PRE-FILLED CONTAINERS
                       CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATION
[0001]    This application claims priority to United States Provisional Application Serial No.
62/104,130, filed January 16, 2015, and is a divisional application of AU<removed-apn> which is a
national phase application from PCT/US2016/013631. Each of the aforementioned applications
are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety.
                               BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
1.        Field of the Disclosure
[0002]    The present disclosure relates generally to a drug storage and dispensing system. More
particularly, the present disclosure relates to a drug storage and dispensing system for pre-fiUed
containers.
2.        Description of the Related Art
[0003]    Conventional syringes are well known in the medical field to be used in connection with
a vial of a medication, where the user collects or draws the fluid into the syringe immediately
prior to injection and delivery of the fluid to the patient. Commonly, hypodermic syringes may
be packaged as "pre-filled" devices, wherein the syringe is pre-filled with medication prior to
being packaged and delivered to the patient. In this manner, the need for the user to fill the
device prior to injection is eliminated, thereby saving time and maintaining consistent volumes
for delivery.
[0004]    However, packaging of such pre-filled syringes tends to be bulky and difficult to ship
and store. A pre-filled syringe is typically packaged with the opening at the front end of the
barrel including a cap thereover and with the plunger rod retracted out of the back end of the
syringe barrel, with the fluid pre-filled within the syringe barrel. Such packaging creates an
elongated package that can be awkward for shipping and storage.
[0005]    Pre-filled syringes and pre-filled metered dose syringes are often filled with fluids, such
as a medication, at a production facility, packaged, and then shipped to a medical facility. Once
at the facility, these syringes are often placed in controlled storage and/or locked cabinets to
reduce theft of the syringes themselves and/or of the contents of these syringes. The space within
these controlled storage locations is often limited, thus there is a need for a storage format for
pre-filled drug containers that minimizes the space occupied by such containers in the cold chain.
Cold chain space is one of the inhibitors against conversion to pre-filled containers especially in
developing regions.

[00061    Further, drug containers need to include information to help medical professionals
identify the contents of the drug containers. Errors such as giving an incorrect medication or
an incorrect dose can easily be made if the contents of the drug containers cannot be positively
identified from the point of time that a medication is transferred to a drug container up to the
moment of its administration.
[0007]    The results of missed and unintended medication include adverse effects to patients
and significant costs to the healthcare industry. Potential causes for these errors include unclear
drug container contents due to unlabeled or poorly labeled drug containers and poor record
keeping of which drugs were administered and the concentration and quantity of the
administered drug.
[0008]    Identifying the content of a drug container based on the appearance of that content is
unreliable.   Visual identification of the medication is very difficult since several of the
medications are identical or nearly identical in appearance.
100091     Furthermore, the protection of used needle tips of a syringe is important to reduce the
risk of incurring an accidental needle-stick wound.          With concern about infection and
transmission of diseases, methods and devices to enclose the used needle have become very
important and in great demand.
                               SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
[00101     The present disclosure provides a drug storage and dispensing system having a
packaging unit and an injection device for pre-filled containers having a needle shield and
containing a medication. The drug storage and dispensing system of the present disclosure
provides for drug administration while minimizing the space occupied by such containers in
the cold chain. The packaging unit of the drug storage and dispensing system includes a
container holding portion adapted to automatically remove the needle shield of a pre-filled
container upon removal of the pre-filled container from the packaging unit. In this manner, the
drug storage and dispensing system minimizes the risk of a needle-stick injury, as a healthcare
worker does not have to manually remove the needle shield. The injection device of the drug
storage and dispensing system provides a novel way of auto-disabling a container, such as a
syringe, as a plunger rod is not engaged with the container until the container is actually used.
The drug storage and dispensing system provides for a reduction in the number of steps
required to perform an injection, and thus a productivity and efficiency gain in mass
immunization campaigns. The drug storage and dispensing system provides an automated and
secure way to record, store, and transmit the information relative to each injection. The drug
                                               2

storage and dispensing system also provides real-time reconciliation of patient ID, vaccine
container ID, vaccination location and time, and the ability to transmit the above information
in real-time to a central repository. The drug storage and dispensing system of the present
disclosure is especially useful in a pandemic situation where timely and frequent reports of
immunization progress over a large population are required.
[0011]     In accordance with an embodiment of the present invention, a packaging unit for a
plurality of pre-filled containers each having a needle shield includes a tub member defining a
receiving cavity sized and adapted to receive the plurality of pre-filled containers therein; and
a nest member securable within the tub member and having a plurality of container holding
portions adapted to receive respective pre-filled containers therein, each of the container
holding portions having an engagement member adapted to automatically remove the needle
shield of a respective pre-filled container upon removal of the respective pre-filled container
from the container holding portion of the packaging unit.
100121     In one configuration, the packaging unit further includes a sealing member
removably securable to the tub member. In another configuration, the sealing member is a
cover. In yet another configuration, each of the pre-filled containers includes a medication
disposed therein.     In one configuration, the engagement member includes a plurality of
elastically deformable fins.
100131     In accordance with another embodiment of the present invention, a drug storage and
dispensing system for a plurality of pre-filled containers each having a needle shield and
containing a medication includes a packaging unit including a tub member defining a receiving
cavity sized and adapted to receive the plurality of pre-filled containers therein; and a nest
member securable within the tub member and having a plurality of container holding portions
adapted to receive respective pre-filled containers therein, each of the container holding
portions having an engagement member adapted to automatically remove the needle shield of
a respective pre-filled container upon removal of the respective pre-filled container from the
container holding portion of the packaging unit; and an injection device for automatic injection
of the medication from respective pre-filled containers, the injection device having an
engagement portion adapted to be removably engageable to each of the respective pre-filled
containers, the injection device having a plunger rod movably disposed within the injection
device, wherein, with the injection device engaged with a respective pre-filled container, the
injection device is adapted to automatically actuate the plunger rod to expel the medication
from the respective pre-filled container.
                                              3

[00141     In one configuration, each of the pre-filled containers includes a readableinformation
portion.    In another configuration, at least a part of the readable information portion is a
barcode.     In one configuration, at least a part of the readable information portion is a
radiofrequency identification tag. In yet another configuration, the injection device includes a
scanner portion adapted to read the readable information portion of respective pre-filled
containers.    In one configuration, each of the pre-filled containers includes a safety shield
adapted to automatically shield a needle tip of a respective pre-filled container after an injection
is completed. In another configuration, the engagement portion of the injection device includes
a threaded portion.
[0015]     In accordance with another embodiment of the present invention, a drug storage and
dispensing system for a first pre-filled container having a first needle shield and containing a
first medication and a second pre-filled container having a second needle shield and containing
a second medication includes a packaging unit including a tub member defining a receiving
cavity sized and adapted to receive the first pre-filled container and the second pre-filled
container therein; and a nest member securable within the tub member and having a first
container holding portion adapted to receive the first pre-filled container therein and a second
container holding portion adapted to receive the second pre-filled container therein, the first
container holding portion having a first engagement member adapted to automatically remove
the first needle shield of the first pre-filled container upon removal of the first pre-filled
container from the first container holding portion of the packaging unit, the second container
holding portion having a second engagement member adapted to automatically remove the
second needle shield of the second pre-filled container upon removal of the second pre-filled
container from the second container holding portion of the packaging unit; and an injection
device for automatic injection of the first medication from the first pre-filled container and the
second medication from the second pre-filled container, the injection device having an
engagement portion adapted to be removably engageable to the first pre-filled container and
the second pre-filled container, the injection device having a plunger rod movably disposed
within the injection device, wherein, with the injection device engaged with the first pre-filled
container, the injection device is adapted to automatically actuate the plunger rod to expel the
first medication from the first pre-filled container, and with the injection device engaged with
the second pre-filled container, the injection device is adapted to automatically actuate the
plunger rod to expel the second medication from the second pre-filled container.
[0016]     In one configuration, the first pre-filled container and the second pre-filled container
each include a readable information portion. In another configuration, at least a part of the
                                                4

readable information portion is a barcode. In yet another configuration, the injection device
includes a scanner portion adapted to read the readable information portion of the first pre
filled container and the second pre-filled container. In one configuration, the first pre-filled
container and the second pre-filled container each include a safety shield adapted to
automatically shield a respective needle tip of the first pre-filled container and the second pre
filled container after an injection is completed.       In another configuration, the engagement
portion of the injection device includes a threaded portion. In yet another configuration, at
least a part of the readable information portion is a radiofr-equency identification tag.
100171      In accordance with another embodiment of the present invention, an injection device
for a first pre-filled container having a first medication and a second pre-filled container having
a second medication, the injection device comprising an engagement assembly adapted to be
removably engageable to the first pre-filled container and the second pre-filled container, the
injection device having a plunger rod movably disposed within the injection device, wherein,
with the injection device engaged with the first pre-filled container, the injection device is
configured to automatically actuate the plunger rod to expel the first medication from the first
pre-fi lied container, and wherein, with the injection device engaged with the second pre-filled
container, the injection device is adapted to automatically actuate the plunger rod to expel the
second medication from the second pre-filled container.
100181      In one configuration, the engagement assembly comprises a plurality of syringe grip
members.      In another configuration, the plurality of syringe grip members are elastically
deformable. In yet another configuration, the injection device includes a retraction assembly
adapted to retract a pre-filled container into the injection device.     In one configuration, the
retraction assembly is transitionable between a first position in which the plurality of syringe
grip members are outside the injection device to engage the pre-filled container and a second
position in which the pre-filled container is contained within the injection device. In another
configuration, the retraction assembly comprises a rail and a carriage movably attached to the
rail. In yet another configuration, with the retraction assembly in the second position with the
pre-filled container within the injection device, the injection device further comprises a locking
assembly adapted to lock the plurality of syringe grip members to the pre-filled container. In
one configuration, the pre-filled container includes a barcode and the injector device further
comprises a scan assembly adapted to scan the barcode with the pre-filled container in the
second position. In another configuration, the injection device includes a rotation assembly for
rotating the pre-filled container with the pre-filled container in the second position. In yet
another configuration, the injection device includes an actuator assembly, wherein, with the

injection device engaged with the first pre-filled container, the actuator assembly automatically
actuates the plunger rod to expel the first medication from the first pre-filled container, and
wherein, with the injection device engaged with the second pre-filled container, the actuator
assembly automatically actuates the plunger rod to expel the second medication from the
second pre-filled container. In one configuration, the injection device includes an ejection
assembly adapted to automatically eject a pre-filled container from the injection device.
[0019]     In accordance with another embodiment of the present invention, a system comprises
an injection device for a pre-filled container having a medication and a barcode containing
information, the injection device comprising an engagement assembly adapted to be removably
engageable to the pre-filled container, a scan assembly adapted to scan the barcode with the
pre-filled container contained within the injection device, and a transmitter for transmitting the
information; and an electronic database that receives the information transmitted from the
injection device, the electronic database adapted to verify the information and transmit a signal
to the injection device providing positive feedback for injection using the injection device.
                         BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
100201     The above-mentioned and other features and advantages of this disclosure, and the
manner of attaining them, will become more apparent and the disclosure itself will be better
understood by reference to the following descriptions of embodiments of the disclosure taken
in conjunction with the accompanying drawings, wherein:
[00211     FIG. 1 is an exploded, perspective view of a packaging unit of a drug storage and
dispensing system for a plurality of pre-filled containers in accordance with an embodiment of
the present invention.
[0022]     FIG. 2 is an assembled, perspective view of a packaging unit of a drug storage and
dispensing system for a plurality of pre-filled containers in accordance with an embodiment of
the present invention.
100231     FIG. 3 is an assembled, perspective view of a packaging unit of a drug storage and
dispensing system for a plurality of pre-filled containers with a sealing member secured to the
packaging unit in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention.
[00241     FIG. 4 is a perspective view of a packaging unit and an injection device of a drug
storage and dispensing system for a plurality of pre-filled containers in accordance with an
embodiment of the present invention.
                                              6

[00251    FIG. 5A is a side elevation view of a pre-filled container in accordance with an
embodiment of the present invention.
[00261    FIG. 5B is a cross-sectional view of a pre-filled container in accordance with another
embodiment of the present invention.
100271     FIG. 6 is a cross-sectional view of an injection device of a drug storage and
dispensing system engaged with a pre-filled container in accordance with an embodiment of
the present invention.
[00281    FIG. 7A is a side elevation view of a container holding portion of a packaging unit
of a drug storage and dispensing system in accordance with an embodiment of the present
invention.
[0029]    FIG. 7B is a cross-sectional view of a container holding portion of a packaging unit
of a drug storage and dispensing system engaged with a needle shield of a pre-filled container
in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention.
100301     FIG. 8 is a cross-sectional view of an injection device of a drug storage and
dispensing system engaged with a pre-filled container having a safety shield protectively
surrounding a needle tip of the pre-fi lied container before an injection in accordance with an
embodiment of the present invention.
100311     FIG. 9 is a cross-sectional view of an injection device of a drug storage and
dispensing system engaged with a pre-filled container having a safety shield during an injection
in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention.
[00321    FIG. 10 is a cross-sectional view of an injection device of a drug storage and
dispensing system engaged with a pre-filled container having a safety shield protectively
surrounding a needle tip of the pre-filled container after an injection is completed in accordance
with an embodiment of the present invention.
[0033]    FIG. 11 is a perspective view of an injection device in accordance with an
embodiment of the present invention.
[00341     FIG. 12 is an elevation view of an injection device in accordance with an
embodiment of the present invention.
[0035]    FIG. 13 is an elevation view of an injection device in accordance with an
embodiment of the present invention.
[00361    FIG. 14 is an elevation view of an injection device in accordance with an
embodiment of the present invention.
[0037]    FIG. 15 is an elevation view of an injection device in accordance with an
embodiment of the present invention.
                                              7

[00381     FIG. 16 is an elevation view of an injection device in accordance with an
embodiment of the present invention.
[00391     FIG. 17 is an elevation view of an injection device in accordance with an
embodiment of the present invention.
100401     FIG. 18 is a perspective view of an injection device with a portion of a housing
removed in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention.
[0041]     FIG. 19 is a perspective view of a first step of using an injection device of the present
disclosure in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention
100421     FIG. 20 is a perspective view of a second step of using an injection device of the
present disclosure in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention.
[0043]     FIG. 21 is a perspective view of a third step of using an injection device of the present
disclosure in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention.
[00441     FIG. 22 is a perspective view of a fourth step of using an injection device of the
present disclosure in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention.
[0045]     FIG. 23 is a perspective view of a first step of using an injection device of the present
disclosure in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention
[00461     FIG. 24 is a perspective view of a second step of using an injection device of the
present disclosure in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention.
100471     FIG. 25 is a perspective view of an injection device in accordance with an
embodiment of the present invention.
[00481     FIG. 26 is an elevation view of an injection device in accordance with an
embodiment of the present invention.
100491     FIG. 27 is a partial cross-sectional view of a portion of an engagement assembly of
an injection device in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention.
[0050]     FIG. 28 is a perspective view of an engagement assembly of an injection device in
accordance with an embodiment of the present invention.
[00511     FIG. 29 is a perspective view of an engagement assembly of an injection device in
accordance with an embodiment of the present invention.
[0052]     FIG. 30 is a perspective view of an engagement assembly of an injection device
engaging a container in a packaging unit in accordance with an embodiment of the present
invention.
100531     FIG. 31 is a perspective view of an injection device in a first position with a housing
hidden to illustrate a retraction assembly in accordance with an embodiment of the present
invention.
                                               8

[00541     FIG. 32 is a perspective view of an injection device in a second position with a
housing hidden to illustrate a retraction assembly in accordance with an embodiment of the
present invention.
[00551     FIG. 33 is a perspective view of an injection device in a first position with a housing
hidden to illustrate a retraction assembly in accordance with an embodiment of the present
invention.
[0056]     FIG. 34 is a perspective view of an injection device in a second position with a
housing hidden to illustrate a retraction assembly in accordance with an embodiment of the
present invention.
[0057]     FIG. 35 is a partial cross-sectional perspective view of an injection device in a first
position with a housing hidden to illustrate a locking assembly in accordance with an
embodiment of the present invention.
[00581     FIG. 36 is a partial cross-sectional perspective view of an injection device in a second
position with a housing hidden to illustrate a locking assembly in accordance with an
embodiment of the present invention.
[0059]     FIG. 37 is a partial cross-sectional perspective view of an injection device in a third
position with a housing hidden to illustrate a locking assembly in accordance with an
embodiment of the present invention.
100601     FIG. 38 is a cross-sectional view of a scan assembly of an injection device in
accordance with an embodiment of the present invention.
[00611     FIG. 39 is a perspective view of a rotation assembly of an injection device in
accordance with an embodiment of the present invention.
100621     FIG. 40 is a perspective view of a rotation assembly of an injection device in
accordance with an embodiment of the present invention.
[0063]     FIG. 41 is a side partial cross-sectional view of a rotation assembly of an injection
device in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention.
[00641     FIG. 42 is an exploded, perspective view of a rotation assembly of an injection device
in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention.
[0065]     FIG. 43 is a perspective view of an actuator assembly of an injection device in
accordance with an embodiment of the present invention.
[00661     FIG. 44 is a partial cross-sectional view of a plunger rod of an injection device in
accordance with an embodiment of the present invention.
[0067]     FIG. 45 is a cross-sectional view of an actuator assembly of an injection device in
accordance with an embodiment of the present invention.
                                                9

[00681     FIG. 46 is a cross-sectional view of an actuator assembly of an injection device in
accordance with an embodiment of the present invention.
[00691     FIG. 47 is a partial perspective view of an ejection assembly of an injection device
in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention.
100701     FIG. 48 is a perspective view of a system in accordance with an embodiment of the
present invention.
[00711     FIG. 49A is a side view of a first container for an injection device in accordance with
an embodiment of the present invention.
100721     FIG. 49B is a side view of a second container for an injection device in accordance
with an embodiment of the present invention.
[0073]     FIG. 50A is a perspective view of a first container for an injection device in
accordance with an embodiment of the present invention.
[00741     FIG. 50B is a perspective view of a second container for an injection device in
accordance with an embodiment of the present invention.
[0075]     Corresponding reference characters indicate corresponding parts throughout the
several views. The exemplifications set out herein illustrate exemplary embodiments of the
disclosure, and such exemplifications are not to be construed as limiting the scope of the
disclosure in any manner.
                                   DETAILED DESCRIPTION
[00761     The following description is provided to enable those skilled in the art to make and
use the described embodiments contemplated for carrying out the invention.                 Various
modifications, equivalents, variations, and alternatives, however, will remain readily apparent
to those skilled in the art.     Any and all such modifications, variations, equivalents, and
alternatives are intended to fall within the spirit and scope of the present invention.
[00771     For purposes of the description hereinafter, the terms "upper", "lower", "right",
"left", "vertical", "horizontal", "top", "bottom", "lateral". "longitudinal", and derivatives
thereof shall relate to the invention as it is oriented in the drawing figures. However, it is to be
understood that the invention may assume various alternative variations, except where
expressly specified to the contrary.       It is also to be understood that the specific devices
illustrated in the attached drawings, and described in the following specification, are simply
exemplary embodiments of the invention.            Hence, specific dimensions and other physical
characteristics related to the embodiments disclosed herein are not to be considered as limiting.
                                                10

[00781     Figs. 1-10 illustrate an exemplary embodiment of the present disclosure. Referring
to Figs. 1-10, a drug storage and dispensing system 10 for a plurality of pre-filled containers
12 includes a packaging unit 14 and an injection device 16 as will be described in more detail
below. The drug storage and dispensing system 10 of the present disclosure provides for drug
storage and administration while minimizing the space occupied by such containers in the cold
chain. The packaging unit 14 of the drug storage and dispensing system 10 includes a container
holding portion adapted to automatically remove a needle shield of a pre-filled container 12
upon removal of the pre-filled container 12 from the packaging unit 14. In this manner, the
drug storage and dispensing system 10 minimizes the risk of a needle-stick injury, as a
healthcare worker does not have to manually remove the needle shield. The injection device
16 of the drug storage and dispensing system 10 provides a novel way of auto-disabling a
container 12, such as a syringe 100, as a plunger rod is not engaged with the container 12 until
the container 12 is actually used. The drug storage and dispensing system 10 provides for a
reduction in the number of steps required to perform an injection, and thus a productivity and
efficiency gain in mass immunization campaigns.
[0079]     The drug storage and dispensing system 10 provides an automated and secure way to
record, store, and transmit the information relative to each injection. The drug storage and
dispensing system 10 also provides real-time reconciliation of patient I[), vaccine container ID,
vaccination location and time, and the ability to transmit the above information in real-time to
a central repository. The drug storage and dispensing system 10 of the present disclosure is
especially useful in a pandemic situation where timely and frequent reports of immunization
progress over a large population are required.
100801     The drug storage and dispensing system 10 of the present disclosure is compatible
with a plurality of different pre-filled containers. In one embodiment, the drug storage and
dispensing system 10 is compatible with syringes 100. For example, the drug storage and
dispensing system 10 is compatible with conventionally available syringe from Becton,
Dickinson and Company. In some embodiments, the drug storage and dispensing system 10
may be compatible with staked needle syringes and/or luer lock syringes commercially
available from Becton, Dickinson and Company. In other embodiments, the drug storage and
dispensing system 10 is compatible with other forms of pre-filled containers.
[00811     The drug storage and dispensing system 10 of the present disclosure may be used for
subcutaneous, intramuscular, or intradermal injection, as well as nasal administration, in the
case of Accuspray-equipped syringes, or may be used for other types of injections, for example.
                                             11

[00821     As discussed above, in one embodiment, the pre-filled containers 12 are syringes
100. In one embodiment, the plurality of syringes 100 each include a needle shield 102 and
contain a medication 104 disposed therein. Referring to Figs. 5A and 7B, in one embodiment,
the needle shield 102 includes an opening 106 for engagement with a portion of the packaging
unit 14 as will be described in more detail below.
[0083]     Referring to Figs. 5A and 5B, in one embodiment, syringe 100 includes a syringe
barrel 124, a needle hub 126, a cannula 128 having a sharp tip 129, needle shield 102 having
opening 106, and a safety shield 108. The safety shield 108 is adapted to automatically shield
a needle tip of a respective pre-filled container after an injection is completed. Syringe 100 is
adapted for dispensing and delivery of a fluid. For example, syringe 100 may be used for
injection or infusion of fluid such as a medication into a patient.
[00841     Referring to Figs. 5A and 5B, syringe barrel 124 generally includes a sidewall 130
extending between a first or distal end 132 and a second or proximal end 134. Sidewall 130
defines an elongate aperture or interior chamber 136 of syringe barrel 124. In one embodiment,
interior chamber 136 may span the extent of syringe barrel 124 so that syringe barrel 124 is
cannulated along its entire length. In one embodiment, syringe barrel 124 may be in the general
form of an elongated cylindrical barrel as is known in the art in the general shape of a
hypodermic syringe. In alternative embodiments, syringe barrel 124 may be in other forms for
containing a fluid for delivery, such as in the general form of an elongated rectangular barrel,
for example. Syringe barrel 124 may be formed of glass, or may be injection molded from
thermoplastic material such as polypropylene and polyethylene according to techniques known
to those of ordinary skill in the art, though it is to be appreciated that syringe barrel 124 may
be made from other suitable materials and according to other applicable techniques. In certain
configurations, syringe barrel 124 may include an outwardly extending flange 140 about at
least a portion of proximal end 134.
[00851     Distal end 132 of syringe barrel 124 includes an outlet opening 138 which is in fluid
communication with chamber 136.           Outlet opening 138 may be sized and adapted for
engagement with a cannula 128. In one embodiment, cannula 128 includes a needle hub 126
for engagement to distal end 132 of syringe barrel 124.
[00861     Proximal end 134 of syringe barrel 124 is generally open-ended, but is intended to
be closed off and sealed to the external environment as discussed herein. Syringe barrel 124
may also include markings, such as graduations located on sidewall 130, for providing an
indication as to the level or amount of fluid contained within interior chamber 136 of syringe
barrel 124. Such markings may be provided on an external surface of sidewall 130, an internal
                                              12

surface of sidewall 130, or integrally formed or otherwise within sidewall 130 of syringe barrel
124. In other embodiments, alternatively, or in addition thereto, the markings may also provide
a description of the contents of the syringe or other identifying information as may be known
in the art. such as maximum and/or minimum fill lines.
100871      Syringe 100 of the present disclosure may be a pre-filled syringe, and, therefore, may
be provided for end use with a fluid, such as a medication or drug, contained within interior
chamber 136 of syringe barrel 124, pre-filled by the manufacturer. In this manner, syringe 100
can be manufactured, pre-filled with a medication, sterilized, and packaged in packaging unit
14 for delivery, storage, and use by the end user. In such embodiments, syringe 100 may
include a sealing member disposed at proximal end 134 of syringe barrel 124 to seal a fluid,
such as a medication, within interior chamber 136 of syringe barrel 124.
[00881     In some embodiments, syringe barrel 124 may include a stopper which is moveably
or slidably disposed within interior chamber 136, and in sealing contact with the internal
surface of sidewall 130 of syringe barrel 124. The stopper may be sized relative to syringe
barrel 124 to provide sealing engagement with the interior surface of sidewall 130 of syringe
barrel 124. Additionally, the stopper may include one or more annular ribs extending around
the periphery of the stopper to increase the sealing engagement between the stopper and the
interior surface of sidewall 130 of syringe barrel 124. In alternate embodiments, a singular 0
ring or a plurality of O-rings may be circumferentially disposed about the stopper to increase
the sealing engagement with the interior surface of sidewall 130.
[00891     In other embodiments, a stopper may be engaged with a plunger rod 64 movably
disposed within the injection device 16.
100901      Referring to Figs. 5A and 5B, syringe 100 includes a needle shield 102 which
protectively surrounds and covers sharp tip 129 of cannula 128. In this manner, no portion of
cannula 128 is exposed thereby significantly reducing the risk of accidental needle stick
injuries. The needle shield 102 is engageable with a portion of packaging unit 14 to allow for
automatic removal of the needle shield 102 of a respective pre-filled container 12 upon removal
of the respective pre-filled container 12 from the packaging unit 14 as described in more detail
below.
[00911     The syringe 100 also includes a safety mechanism that is automatically triggered once
an injection is completed so that the sharp tip 129 of the cannula 128 cannot be accessed, thus
preventing needle-associated injuries. In one embodiment, the safety mechanism is a part of
the syringe 100. For example, referring to Figs. 5B and 8-10, syringe 100 includes a safety
shield 108 which is coupled to the syringe 100 and is adapted to automatically shield a sharp
                                              13

tip 129 of cannula 128 of a respective pre-filled container after an injection is completed. The
safety shield 108 protectively surrounds and covers sharp tip 129 of cannula 128. In this
manner, no portion of cannula 128 is exposed thereby significantly reducing the risk of
accidental needle stick injuries. In one embodiment, the safety shield 108 is engaged with a
spring 110. In this manner, as the sharp tip 129 of cannula 128 is removed from a skin surface
S of a patient, the spring 110 exerts a biasing force on the safety shield 108 to move the safety
shield 108 to protectively surround and cover sharp tip 129 of cannula 128 simultaneously with
the cannula 128 exiting the skin surface S of the patient as shown in Figs. 8-10.
100921     In another embodiment, the safety mechanism may be a part of the injection device
16.
[0093]     In one embodiment, each of the pre-filled containers 12 includes a readable
information portion. In one embodiment, at least a part of the readable information portion is
a barcode. In other embodiments, the readable information portion may include any unique
identifier, such as but not limited to, a bar code, QR code, datamatrix, radiofrequency
identification (RFID) tag, or other identifier. For example, in one embodiment, at least a part
of the readable information portion is an RFID tag. An RFID tag may contain an integrated
circuit chip that can provide information such as a container identification number, temperature
information, detection of shock or abuse, or similar information.          In some embodiments,
readable information portions may be placed on a portion of the packaging unit 14.
[0094]     The injection device 16 may include a scanner portion adapted to read the readable
information portion of respective pre-filled containers 12. In this manner, the injection device
16 is able to read the information contained therein, e.g., type of drug, lot number, expiration
date, or other identifying information of the pre-filled container 12, and either store it in its on
board non-volatile memory, or transmit it to a nearby smartphone or to a distant data
management system. Similarly, prefilled containers 12 may be equipped with sensors such as
temperature/humidity or shock/abuse sensors. Signals from those sensors can be read by the
injection device 16 upon pick-up. If an abnormal condition is detected, an indicator present on
the injection device 16 will alert the user and an optional interlock can prevent from proceeding
with the injection. Once the syringe 100 is picked-up and no abnormal container condition is
detected, the healthcare worker proceeds with the injection.
[00951     The drug storage and dispensing system 10 may also include a data management
platform that stores and processes the data transmitted from the injection device.
[0096]     The packaging unit 14 of the drug storage and dispensing system 10 provides for
drug storage and administration while minimizing the space occupied by such containers in the
                                               14

cold chain and minimizes the risk of a needle-stick injury, as a healthcare worker does not have
to manually remove the needle shield 102 when removing a pre-filled container 12 from the
packaging unit 14. In this manner, the packaging unit 14 provides for a productivity and
efficiency gain in mass immunization campaigns.
100971     Referring to Figs. 1-3, the packaging unit 14 includes a tub member 20, a nest
member 22, and a sealing member 24. The tub member 20 defines a receiving cavity 26 that
is sized and adapted to receive the plurality of pre-filled containers 12 therein. The tub member
20 generally includes a first or top end 28, a second or bottom end 30, and a sidewall 32
extending between top end 28 and bottom end 30. Sidewall 32 defines the receiving cavity 26
of tub member 20.
[0098]     Referring to Fig. 1, tub member 20 includes a locking lip 34 at top end 28. Disposed
below locking lip 34 is an upper tray portion 36 having a cross-section that has a greater area
than a cross-section disposed below upper tray portion 36, i.e.,. a receiving cavity portion 38,
such that a shoulder 40 is defined therebetween. Upper tray portion 36 receives and supports
nest member 22 as will be described in more detail below.
[0099]     The nest member 22 generally includes a nest plate 42 having a superior surface 44
and an inferior surface 46 and a plurality of container holding portions 48 adapted to receive
respective pre-filled containers 12 therein. The nest member 22 is securable within the tub
member 20 such that nest plate 42 abuts upper tray portion 36 of tub member 20 as shown in
Fig. 2. Each of the container holding portions 48 includes an engagement member 50 (Figs.
7A and 7B) adapted to automatically remove the needle shield 102 of a respective pre-filled
container 12 upon removal of the respective pre-filled container 12 from the container holding
portion 48 of the packaging unit 14.
[001001     Referring to Figs. 7A and 7B, in one embodiment, the engagement member 50
comprises a plurality of elastically deformable fins 52. The deformable fins 52 allow for
automatic removal of a needle shield 102 of a respective pre-filled container 12 upon removal
of the respective pre-filled container 12 from the container holding portion 48 of the packaging
unit 14. With a respective pre-filled container 12 placed within a respective container holding
portion 48 of the packaging unit 14, the deformable fins 52 engage within the opening 106 of
the needle shield 102 of the pre-filled container 12 as shown in Fig. 7B. In this manner, the
pre-filled container 12 is secured within the container holding portion 48 of the packaging unit
14. Also, the engagement of the deformable fins 52 within the opening 106 of the needle shield
102 allows for automatic removal of the needle shield 102 when the pre-filled container 12 is
removed from a respective container holding portion 48 of the packaging unit 14. When the
                                               15

pre-filled container 12 is removed from the packaging unit 14, the needle shield 102 is
automatically removed from the pre-fil led container 12 via the deformable fins 52 and retained
within the container holding portion 48. In this manner, the packaging unit 14 minimizes the
risk of a needle-stick injury, as a healthcare worker does not have to manually remove the
needle shield 102 when removing a pre-filled container 12 from the packaging unit 14.
[001011      Sealing member 24 is removably securable to tub member 20 and provides a
mechanism to securely seal and protect the plurality of pre-filled containers 12 within tub
member 20 of packaging unit 14. In one embodiment, the sealing member 24 comprises a
cover 54 (Fig. 3).
[001021     The packaging unit 14 may include a temperature control unit. In one embodiment,
the packaging unit 14 may have a temperature control unit specifically designed to fit a single
tub member 20. This type of temperature control unit may be used together with the tub to
limit (either passively or actively) temperature excursions for the pre-filled drug containers 12
inside the tub member 20. This type of temperature control unit may be best used when the
drug storage and dispensing system 10 is used outside of a traditional healthcare setting.
[001031     In another embodiment, the packaging unit 14 may have a temperature control unit
specifically designed to fit multiple tub members 20. This type of temperature control unit is
used to store multiple tub members 20 in a temperature controlled environment.                 This
temperature control unit may be best used when the drug storage and dispensing system 10 is
used in a traditional healthcare setting.
[001041     The drug storage and dispensing system 10 of the present disclosure can be used
either in a traditional healthcare setting or outside of a traditional healthcare setting to deliver
drugs on demand in a safe and quick manner. The drug storage and dispensing system 10 can
also be used by patients suffering from chronic diseases who self-administer their injectable
medication.
[001051     The injection device 16 of the drug storage and dispensing system 10 provides for
a smart injection assist device that is used to perform drug administration together with a pre
filled drug container 12.      The injection device 16 allows for automatic injection of the
medication from respective pre-filled containers 12 and includes an engagement portion 58
(Figs. 6 and 8-10) adapted to be removably engageable to each of the respective pre-filled
containers 12. With the injection device 16 engaged with a respective pre-filled container 12,
the injection device 16 is adapted to automatically actuate a plunger rod 64 to expel the
medication from the respective pre-filled container 12.         Such automatic actuation can be
                                               16

accomplished by means of either a mechanical or electromechanical actuator residing in the
injection device 16. For example, an electric motor 68 (Figs. 6 and 8-10) may be used.
[001061     Referring to Figs. 6 and 8-10, the injection device 16 includes a housing 60 having
a first end 62 and a second end 63, a plunger rod 64 movably disposed within the housing 60
of the injection device 16, a lead screw 66, an electric motor 68, a rigid axial coupler 70, and
an engagement portion 58 adapted to be removably engageable to each of the respective pre
filled containers 12.    In one embodiment, the engagement portion 58 comprises a locking
member 72 that secures a portion of a pre-filled container 12 to the injection device 16. In
another embodiment, the engagement portion 58 comprises a threaded portion that secures a
portion of a pre-filled container 12 to the injection device 16. In one embodiment, the plunger
rod 64 may include a threaded portion 74. In one embodiment., the injection device 16 may
include a scanner portion adapted to read the readable information portion of respective pre
filled containers 12 as described above.
1001071     The plunger rod 64 may be attached to the injection device 16 and movably disposed
within the injection device 16. The plunger rod 64 may be permanently attached to the injection
device 16 or may be inserted in the injection device 16 by a healthcare worker before each
syringe pick-up. In use, a healthcare worker may secure or snap the injection device 16 onto a
selected syringe 100 and activate the injection device 16 by pushing an actuation button that
deploys the plunger rod 64 and secures or screws it to a portion of the syringe 100. In some
embodiments, the plunger rod 64 may be a reusable part. In other embodiments, the plunger
rod 64 may be a disposable part.
[001081     The injection device 16 is a smart device and can capture, store, and transmit
information about its usage. The injection device 16 is equipped with an on-board electronic
module comprising a non-volatile memory that can record and store container unique
identification information, as well as time stamping information relative to the usage of the
pre-filled container 12. The injection device electronic module is also equipped with a global
positioning system (GPS) receiver that can record and store latitude and longitude coordinates
of usage location. When used indoor, the injection device electronic module is compatible
with existing indoor positioning systems using triangulation from wireless signal receivers.
[001091     The injection device electronic module is also equipped with a wireless
communication module able to establish distant communication by way of one or several of
the following methods: near field communication (NFC), Bluetooth low energy (BLE), Wi-Fi,
ZigBee, and/or GSM. The injection device electronic module comprises an embedded piece
of software which can encrypt the collected information prior to its transmission.           The
                                               17

information collected by the injection device can therefore be securely transmitted to a distant
recipient by any of the above means. Examples of recipients are: a smartphone, a tablet, and/or
a data management platform. In order to visualize transmitted data, application software is
developed for all of the above hardware platforms. In case the information is sent to a distant
data management platform, the visualization can happen either on a smartphone, a tablet, or a
web portal that can also be accessed from an internet-connected computer.
[001101     In one embodiment, the injection device could incorporate a motorized-darting
mechanism that inserts the selected syringe 100 into the skin surface of a patient at the right
pre-set depth. The pre-set depth of insertion is derived from reading the syringe identifier that
bears information on the type of injection associated with the syringe.
[001111     R-eferring to Figs. 1-10, the use of drug storage and dispensing system 10 will now
be described.
[001121     Referring to Figs. 1-3, a healthcare worker ready to administer a treatment may first
peel off a sealing member 24 of the packaging unit 14 to expose pre-filled drug containers 12.
The injection device 16 may then be used to pick-up and remove an individual pre-filled
container 12, e.g., a pre-filled syringe 100. During removal of the pre-filled container 12 from
the container holding portion 48 of the packaging unit 14, the defornable fins 52 of the nest
member 22 of the packaging unit 14 allow for automatic removal of a needle shield 102 of a
respective pre-filled container 12. In this manner, the packaging unit 14 allows for the needle
shield 102 to be automatically removed and may remain inside the nest member 22 when
picking up the pre-filled container 12, e.g., syringe 100.
[001131     As discussed above, the plunger rod 64 is attached to the injection device 16. In
use, a healthcare worker may secure or snap the injection device 16 onto a selected syringe 100
and activate the injection device 16 by pushing an actuation button that deploys the plunger rod
64 and secures or screws it to a portion of the syringe 100. The healthcare worker may then
remove the selected syringe 100 from the tub member 20 of the packaging unit 14 and proceed
with the injection. As previously discussed, the needle shield 102 is automatically removed
and remains inside the nest member 22 when removing the selected syringe 100 from the
packaging unit 14.
[001141     As discussed above, the syringe may include a unique identifier that the injection
device 16 can read the information contained therein and either store it in its on-board non
volatile memory, or transmit it to a nearby smartphone or to a distant data management system.
Similarly, prefilled containers may be equipped with sensors such as temperature/humidity or
shock/abuse sensors. Signals from those sensors can be read by the injection device 16 upon
                                              18

pick-up. If an abnormal condition is detected, an indicator present on the injection device 16
will alert the user and an optional interlock can prevent from proceeding with the injection.
Once the syringe is picked-up and no abnormal container condition is detected, the healthcare
worker proceeds with the injection using the injection device 16.
1001151     As described above, the injection device 16 allows for automatic injection of the
medication from a selected pre-filled container 12. With the injection device 16 engaged with
a respective pre-fil led container 12, the injection device 16 is adapted to automatically actuate
a plunger rod 64 to expel the medication from the respective pre-filled container 12.
100116]     The injection completion can optionally be sensed by the injection device 16, and
the corresponding event can either be stored in its on-board non-volatile memory or transmitted
to a nearby smartphone or to a distant data management system.
[001171     Once injection is completed, a safety mechanism is triggered so that the sharp tip
129 of the cannula 128 cannot be accessed, thus preventing needle-associated injuries. For
example, referring to Figs. 8-10, the safety shield 108 is adapted to automatically shield a
needle tip, e.g., sharp tip 129 of cannula 128, of a respective pre-filled container 12 after an
injection is completed.
[001181     The drug storage and dispensing system 10 of the present disclosure can be used
either in a traditional healthcare setting or outside of a traditional healthcare setting to deliver
drugs on demand in a safe and quick manner. The drug storage and dispensing system 10 can
also be used by patients suffering from chronic diseases who self-administer their injectable
medication.
[001191     The drug storage and dispensing system 10 of the present disclosure is especially
useful when used to perform vaccinations.         Vaccination campaigns can be performed in a
traditional healthcare setting, e.g., a doctor's office, hospitals, clinics, minute clinics,
pharmacies, vaccination center, or similar settings, or in non-traditional settings, e.g., retail
outlets such as supermarkets, schools, or offices, or in no particular setting and directly in
contact with the targeted population as it is often the case in developing countries.
1001201      Pandemic situations require a medical practitioner to be able to vaccinate a large
number of people in a very short amount of time. In all non-traditional vaccination settings,
the drug storage and dispensing system 10 of the present disclosure is especially useful for the
following reasons: (1) the drug storage and dispensing system 10 provides a faster and safe
way of vaccinating more people per unit of time; (2) the drug storage and dispensing system
10 provides a means to optimize cold chain space by offering a denser packaging compared to
other packaging systems for pre-filled containers; and (3) the drug storage and dispensing
                                               19

system 10 provides an automated capture and real-time transmission of vaccination data, thus
enabling the precise tracking of vaccination coverage at a population level or accurate
information in an individual vaccination log or electronic medical record at an individual level.
[001211     The drug storage and dispensing system 10 is envisioned to be a part of a novel
service of an on-demand, mobile vaccination system. People wishing to be vaccinated can
place their order online after responding to a short questionnaire on their current health status.
Dispatching units that may be housed in nearby pharmacies would then prepare and group
orders coming from their area of responsibility. Orders could then be loaded on a van or truck
driven by a healthcare worker who goes on a vaccine delivery. A delivery itinerary and
schedule could be optimized by a specific software and updated on-the-fly to account for any
last minute change requests by a customer.
[001221     Figs. 11-50B illustrate another exemplary embodiment of an injection device 200
of the present disclosure. The injection device 200 provides a novel way of auto-disabling a
container 12, such as a syringe 100, as a plunger rod is not engaged with the container 12 until
the container 12 is actually used.
[001231     The injection device 200 of the drug storage and dispensing system 10 provides for
a smart injection assist device that is used to perform drug administration together with a pre
filled drug container 12.     The injection device 200 allows for automatic injection of the
medication from respective pre-filled containers 12 and includes an engagement assembly 210
adapted to be removably engageable to each of the respective pre-filled containers 12. With
the injection device 200 engaged with a respective pre-filled container 12, the injection device
200 is adapted to automatically actuate a plunger rod 264 to expel the medication from the
respective pre-fil led container 12. Such automatic actuation can be accomplished by means of
either a mechanical or electromechanical actuator residing in the injection device 200. For
example, an electric motor 268 (Fig. 42) may be used.
[001241     Referring to Figs. 11-50B, the injection device 200 includes an engagement
assembly 210, a retraction assembly 212, a locking assembly 214, a scan assembly 216, a
rotation assembly 218, an actuator assembly 220, and an ejection assembly 222.
[001251     Referring to Figs. 11-26, the injection device 200 includes a housing 260 having a
first end 262 and a second end 263, a plunger rod 264 movably disposed within the housing
260 of the injection device 200, a top or first button 270, a side or second button 272, a battery
compartment 274 (Fig. 38), a transparent window 276, an indicator portion 278, a gripping
portion 280, an angled portion 282, and a bottom contour 284.
                                              20

[001261     In one embodiment, the housing 260 may include a top housing portion 266 and a
bottom housing portion 268. The top housing portion 266 may be removably securable to the
bottom housing portion 268.
[001271     In one embodiment, the top or first button 270 is a container retract and/or eject
button on the back end, e.g., the second end 263, of the injection device 200. In this manner,
the location of the first button 270 is ideal for preventing unintentional actuation of the first
button 270. In one embodiment, the side or second button 272 is an injection button.
[001281     Referring to Figs. 25 and 26, the transparent window 276 provides a user with a
viewing window to view a container 12 within the injection device 200 before injection. In
one embodiment, the indicator portion 278 comprises an LED to indicate to a user the injector
status.  In one embodiment, the injection device 200 includes a gripping portion 280 that
provides an easy to grip surface and configuration for a user of the injection device 200. For
example, in one embodiment, the gripping portion 280 includes an overmolded rubber or soft
touch bottom for an enhanced grip for a user of the injection device 200. In one embodiment,
the injection device 200 includes an angled portion 282 at a front end, e.g., the first end 262, to
allow a better view and/or less obstructed view of an injection site during injection. In one
embodiment, the injection device 200 includes a bottom contour 284 that is designed to match
a shape of a hand of a user gripping the injection device 200 during injection.
1001291     Referring to Fig. 38, in one embodiment, the battery compartment 274 may be
located at a bottom portion of the injection device 200. In other embodiments, the battery
compartment 274 may be located at a back end, e.g., the second end 263, to allow a less
obstructed line of sight for a barcode scanner 350 of the scan assembly 216 of the injection
device 200.
[001301     Referring to Figs. 27-30, the injection device 200 includes an engagement assembly
210 adapted to be removably engageable to each of the respective pre-filled containers 12.
With the injection device 200 engaged with a respective pre-filled container 12, the injection
device 200 is adapted to automatically actuate a plunger rod 264 to expel the medication from
the respective pre-filled container 12.
[001311     Referring to Figs. 27-30, in one embodiment, the engagement assembly 210
includes a connection element 300 comprising a body portion 302 defining a cavity 303
therethrough and a connection ring 304 including a plurality of syringe grip members 306 each
having a locking hook protrusion 308 and an angled wall 310.
[001321     Referring to Figs. 27-30, in one embodiment, the plurality of syringe grip members
306 each have a locking hook protrusion 308 and an angled wall 310. In one embodiment,
                                              21

syringe grip members 306 are elastically deformable. For example, the syringe grip members
306 can snap around a flange 140 of a container 12 to securely grip and/or engage a respective
container 12. Syringe grip members 306 are attachable to a container 12 to secure a container
12 to the injection device 200 via the connection element 300. Each syringe grip member 306
includes a locking hook protrusion 308 arranged to engage a corresponding flange 140 (Figs.
5A and 5B) on a container 12 as shown in Figs. 28 and 30.
[001331     Connection element 300 of engagement assembly 210 of injection device 200 may
be dimensioned to be attached to containers of any size and volume. In other embodiments,
connection element 300 of engagement assembly 210 of injection device 200 may include other
connection mechanisms for securing a container 12 to the injection device 200 such as a
threaded portion, a snap fit mechanism, locking tabs, or other similar mechanism.
[001341     Referring to Fig. 27, each syringe grip member 306 includes an angled wall 310
arranged to provide a first lead-in surface 312 to center and align the connection element 300
on a container 12 during initial engagement of the container 12 to the injection device and a
second lead-in surface 314 for ejection of a container 12 after injection is complete.
[001351     Referring to Figs. 29 and 30, in one embodiment, the number of syringe grip
members 306 are designed to fit into the gaps 316 between respective containers 12 in a
packaging unit 14 (Fig. 4). The number of syringe grip members 306 are also designed to grip
containers with round and cut flanges. Connection element 300 of engagement assembly 210
of injection device 200 allows the injection device 200 to be secured to a container 12 while a
container 12 is contained within the packaging unit 14 (Fig. 4). Additionally, the container 12
can be removed from the packaging unit 14 easily using the injection device 200.
1001361     Referring to Figs. 31-34, the injection device 200 includes a retraction assembly
212. After a container 12 is removed from the packaging unit 14 using the injection device
200 via the securement engagement of the container 12 to the engagement assembly 210 of the
injection device 200, the retraction assembly 212 is adapted to retract a pre-filled container 12
into the injection device 200.
1001371     In one embodiment, the retraction assembly 212 is transitionable between a first
position (Figs. 31 and 33) in which the plurality of syringe grip members 306 are outside the
injection device 200 to engage a pre-filled container 12 and a second position (Figs. 32 and 34)
in which the pre-filled container 12 is contained within the injection device 200.         In one
embodiment, actuation of the retraction assembly 212 between the first and second positions is
activated by a user pressing the top or first button 270 (Fig. 20).
                                              22

[001381      Referring to Figs. 31-34, in one embodiment, the retraction assembly 212 includes
a rail 320, a carriage 322, connection elements 324, a carriage lead screw 326, an adapter 328,
a motor 330, and limit switches 332.
[001391      In one embodiment, the rail 320 is positioned between a top housing portion 266
and a bottom housing portion 268. In one embodiment, the rail 320 is linear and provides
guidance for the components of the retraction assembly 212 that are movable to retract a
container 12 within the injection device 200.
[001401      The carriage 322 is movably attached to the rail 320.          For example, in one
embodiment, the carriage 322 is movably attached to the rail 320 via the connection elements
324 that are slidable on the rail 320. In one embodiment, motion for the carriage 322 along the
rail 320 is provided by the carriage lead screw 326. In one embodiment, the adapter 328 is in
communication with the carriage lead screw 326 and the motor 330. In this manner, the motor
330 is able to turn the carriage lead screw 326 that moves the carriage 322 between the first
and second positions. In one embodiment, the limit switches 332 are provided to control how
far the carriage 322 can travel within the injection device 200.
[001411      In one embodiment, a portion of the engagement assembly 210 is connected to a
portion of the retraction assembly 212. In this manner, retraction of the carriage 322 from the
first position (Figs. 31 and 33) to the second position (Figs. 32 and 34) retracts a container 12
secured to the engagement assembly 210 within the injection device 200.
[001421      Referring to Figs. 35-37, the injection device 200 includes a locking assembly 214.
After a container 12 is removed from the packaging unit 14 using the injection device 200 via
the securement engagement of the container 12 to the engagement assembly 210 of the injection
device 200 and the retraction assembly 212 is used to retract a pre-filled container 12 into the
injection device 200, the locking assembly 214 is adapted to lock the plurality of syringe grip
members 306 to the container 12.
[001431      The locking assembly 214 is adapted to lock the plurality of syringe grip members
306 to the container 12 with the retraction assembly 212 in the second position (Figs. 32 and
34), e.g., with the container 12 within the injection device 200.
[001441      Referring to Figs. 35-37, in one embodiment, the locking assembly 214 includes a
locking ring 340, a boss 342, and a compression spring 344. Referring to Fig. 35, in one
embodiment, the boss 342 located within the injection device 200 stops and/or abuts the locking
ring 340. Referring to Fig. 35, with the retraction assembly 212 in the first position (Figs. 31
and 33), e.g., in which the plurality of syringe grip members 306 are outside the injection device
200 to engage a pre-fi lied container 12, the locking ring 340 is stopped against the boss 342.
                                               23

In this manner, the syringe grip members 306 are outside the injection device 200 and are free
to flex to engage a pre-filled container 12.
[001451     Referring to Figs. 36 and 37, with the retraction assembly 212 being moved to the
second position, the compression spring 344 moves the locking ring 340 over the syringe grip
members 306 of the engagement assembly 210. In this manner, with the locking ring 340
engaged with the syringe grip members 306, the syringe grip members 306 are prevented from
flexing outward thereby locking the plurality of syringe grip members 306 to a container 12.
This keeps the container 12 from inadvertently getting pulled out of the injection device 200
by a user or pushed out of the injection device 200 due to the force applied to the plunger rod
264 during injection.
[001461     Referring to Figs. 38-42, the injection device 200 includes a scan assembly 216 and
a rotation assembly 218.      Referring to Figs. 38-42 and 49A-49B, in one embodiment, a
container 12 includes a barcode 290 containing information and the injector device 200
includes a scan assembly 216 adapted to scan the barcode 290 with the container 12 in the
second position. The injection device 220 also includes a rotation assembly 218 for rotating
the container 12 with the container 12 in the second position. The rotation assembly 218
ensures that no matter an initial position of a container 12 securely received within an injection
device 200, the rotation assembly 218 is adapted to rotate the container 12 until the scan
assembly 216 is able to properly scan the barcode 290 of a container 12. Because the barcode
290 of a container 12 could be at any position around the perimeter of a container 12, the
rotation assembly 218 is able to rotate the container 12 at least one (1) revolution during the
barcode scanning process to ensure that the barcode 290 is able to be seen by the scan assembly
216.
[001471     Referring to Figs. 39 and 40, in one embodiment, the rotation assembly 218 includes
a rotational gear 360 in communication with a motor 362. The rotational gear 360 is also in
communication with the engagement assembly 210. In this manner, when the motor 362 is
actuated, the rotational gear 360 is rotated thereby rotating the engagement assembly 210 and
the container 12. Referring to Figs. 41 and 42, in one embodiment, the rotation assembly 218
is rotatable while the engagement assembly 210 is securely held so that the container 12
remains stable and does not rattle or vibrate.
[001481     After a container 12 is locked within the injection device 200, the scan assembly
216 is able to scan the barcode 290 of a container 12. In one embodiment, the scan assembly
216 includes a barcode scanner 350, a mirror 352, a scanner optical path 354, and a transmitter
356 for transmitting the information scanned from the barcode 290. In this manner, after the
                                              24

barcode scanner 350 of the scan assembly 216 scans the barcode 290 of a container 12, the
transmitter 356 of the scan assembly 216 is able to transmit the information from the barcode
290 to a remote system or electronic database, such as a computer 500 (Fig. 48). The electronic
database and/or computer 500 receives the information transmitted from the transmitter 356 of
the scan assembly 216 of the injection device 200. Next, the electronic database and/or
computer 500 is adapted to verify the information contained on the barcode 290 and transmit a
signal to the injection device 200 that provides positive feedback for injection using the
injection device 200. In one embodiment, the injection device 200 is not able to inject a
medication contained within a container 12 until the positive feedback is received from the
electronic database and/or computer 500. This provides an important safety feature of the
present disclosure. The electronic database and/or computer 500 is able to determine if a
medication is incorrect or expired, and in such a case, the electronic database and/or computer
500 would not send positive feedback to the injection device 200 thereby preventing an
unwanted medication from being injected into a patient.
[001491     The scan assembly 216 of the injection device 200 allows the injection device 200
to be a smart device that can capture, store, and transmit information about its usage. In one
embodiment, the injection device 200 is equipped with an on-board electronic module
comprising a non-volatile memory that can record and store container unique identification
information, as well as time stamping information relative to the usage of a pre-filled container
12. The injection device electronic module is also equipped with a global positioning system
(GPS) receiver that can record and store latitude and longitude coordinates of usage location.
When used indoor, the injection device electronic module is compatible with existing indoor
positioning systems using triangulation from wireless signal receivers.
[001501     In one embodiment, the injection device electronic module is also equipped with a
wireless communication module able to establish distant communication by way of one or
several of the following methods: near field communication (NFC), Bluetooth low energy
(BLE), Wi-Fi, ZigBee, and/or GSM. The injection device electronic module comprises an
embedded piece of software which can encrypt the collected information prior to its
transmission. The information collected by the injection device can therefore be securely
transmitted to a distant recipient by any of the above means. Examples of recipients are: a
smartphone, a tablet, and/or a data management platform. In order to visualize transmitted
data, application software is developed for all of the above hardware platforms. In case the
information is sent to a distant data management platform, the visualization can happen either
                                            25

on a smartphone, a tablet, or a web portal that can also be accessed from an internet-connected
computer.
[001511      As discussed above, the container 12 may include a unique identifier, e.g., a barcode
290, that the injection device 200 can read the information contained therein and either store it
in its on-board non-volatile memory, or transmit it to a nearby smartphone or to a distant data
management system, e.g., computer 500. Similarly, prefilled containers may be equipped with
sensors such as temperature/humidity or shock/abuse sensors. Signals from those sensors can
be read by the injection device 200 upon pick-up. If an abnormal condition is detected, an
indicator present on the injection device 200 will alert the user and an optional interlock can
prevent from proceeding with the injection. Once the container is picked-up and no abnormal
container condition is detected, the healthcare worker proceeds with the injection using the
injection device 200.
[001521      Referring to Figs. 43-46, the injection device 200 includes an actuator assembly
220. Once positive feedback regarding the contents of a container 12 is received by the
injection device 200, the actuator assembly 220 automatically actuates the plunger rod 264 of
the injection device 200 to expel a medication from a pre-filled container 12.
[001531      Referring to Figs. 43-46, in one embodiment, the actuator assembly 220 includes a
plunger rod 264, a plunger lead screw 370, a plunger lead screw nut 372, a plunger lead screw
gear 374, and a motor 376. The plunger lead screw 370 is in communication with the plunger
rod 264. Referring to Fig. 43, in one embodiment, the plunger lead screw 370 is secured to a
portion of the plunger rod 264. For example, the plunger lead screw 370 may be glued to a
portion of the plunger rod 264.
1001541      In one embodiment, the motor 376 drives the gear 374 which turns the nut 372.
Referring to Figs. 45 and 46, as the nut 372 turns, the nut 372 moves the plunger lead screw
370 linearly to actuate the plunger rod 264 to expel a medication from a container 12. Referring
to Figs. 45 and 46, the plunger rod 264 travels linearly through the center of the engagement
assembly 210.
1001551      Referring to Figs. 49A-B and 50A-B, a first pre-filled container 400 includes a first
medication 402 and a first barcode 404 and a second pre-filled container 410 includes a second
medication 412 and a second barcode 414. Although Figs. 49A-B and 50A-B illustrate a
general container, any container can be used in connection with an injection device of the
present disclosure for an injection procedure. For example, a container and/or syringe as shown
in Figs. 1, 4, 5A, 5B, or similar container or syringe, can be used in connection with an injection
device of the present disclosure.
                                               26

[001561     The engagement assembly 210 of the injection device 200 is adapted to be
removably engageable to the first pre-filled container 400 and the second pre-filled container
410.
[001571     With the injection device 200 engaged with the first pre-filled container 400, the
injection device 200 is configured to automatically actuate the plunger rod 264 to expel the
first medication 402 from the first pre-filled container 400.
[001581     With the injection device 200 engaged with the second pre-filled container 410, the
injection device 200 is adapted to automatically actuate the plunger rod 264 to expel the second
medication 412 from the second pre-filled container 410.
[001591     With the first container 400 contained within the injection device 200, the scan
assembly 216 is adapted to scan the first barcode 404.
[001601     With the second container 410 contained within the injection device 200, the scan
assembly 216 is adapted to scan the second barcode 414.
1001611     Referring to Fig. 47, the injection device 200 includes an ejection assembly 222
adapted to automatically eject a container 12 from the injection device 200. After an injection
is complete, the injection device 200 has the ability to automatically eject a container 12 after
it is moved back to the first position. In this manner, a user does not have to grab any portion
of the container 12 to manually remove the container 12. In one embodiment, once a container
12 is positioned outside of the injector device 200 as shown in Fig. 47, the plunger rod 264 is
extended a little farther pushing the container 12 out of engagement with the syringe grip
members 306 thereby automatically ejecting the container 12 from the injection device 200.
[001621     Referring to Figs. 19-24, a use of the injection device 200 will now be described.
1001631     Referring to Figs. 4 and 19, a user or a healthcare worker ready to administer a
treatment may first select a pre-filled drug container 12 contained within the packaging unit
14 for injection using the injection device 200.       A downward vertical motion is used for
container loading to the injection device 200. As described above, the engagement assembly
210 is used to securely engage a container 12 to the injection device 200. Once the container
12 is securely engaged with the injection device 200, the injection device 200 is used to pick
up and remove the container 12 from the packaging unit 14.
[001641     In one embodiment, as described above, during removal of the pre-filled container
12 from the container holding portion 48 of the packaging unit 14, the deformable fins 52 of
the nest member 22 of the packaging unit 14 allow for automatic removal of a needle shield
102 of a respective pre-filled container 12. In this manner, the packaging unit 14 allows for
                                              27

the needle shield 102 to be automatically removed and may remain inside the nest member 22
when picking up the pre-filled container 12, e.g., syringe 100.
[001651      Next, referring to Fig. 20, a user may press the first or top button 270 to activate the
retraction assembly 212 (Figs. 31-34) to automatically retract a container 12 into the injection
device 200 as described above. Subsequently, with the retraction assembly 212 in the second
position (Figs. 32 and 34) with the pre-filled container 12 within the injection device 200, the
locking assembly 214 (Figs. 35-37) locks the plurality of syringe grip members 306 to the pre
filled container 12.
1001661      Next, the scan assembly 216 (Figs. 38-42) and rotation assembly 218 (Figs. 38-42)
automatically scan a barcode of the container 12 as described above. In this manner, after the
barcode scanner 350 of the scan assembly 216 scans the barcode 290 of a container 12, the
transmitter 356 of the scan assembly 216 is able to transmit the information from the barcode
290 to a remote system or electronic database, such as a computer 500 (Fig. 48). The electronic
database and/or computer 500 receives the information transmitted from the transmitter 356 of
the scan assembly 216 of the injection device 200. Next, the electronic database and/or
computer 500 is adapted to verify the information contained on the barcode 290 and transmit a
signal to the injection device 200 that provides positive feedback for injection using the
injection device 200. In one embodiment, the injection device 200 is not able to inject a
medication contained within a container 12 until the positive feedback is received from the
electronic database and/or computer 500. This provides an important safety feature of the
present disclosure. For example, referring to Fig. 21, in one embodiment, after positive
feedback is received by the injection device 200, the indicator portion 278, such as an indicator
light, is activated to notify the user of a correct barcode scan and injector status. The electronic
database and/or computer 500 is able to determine if a medication is incorrect or expired, and
in such a case, the electronic database and/or computer 500 would not send positive feedback
to the injection device 200 thereby preventing an unwanted medication from being injected
into a patient.
1001671      The scan assembly 216 of the injection device 200 allows the injection device 200
to be a smart device that can capture, store, and transmit information about its usage. In one
embodiment, the injection device 200 is equipped with an on-board electronic module
comprising a non-volatile memory that can record and store container unique identification
information, as well as time stamping information relative to the usage of a pre-filled container
12. The injection device electronic module is also equipped with a global positioning system
(GIPS) receiver that can record and store latitude and longitude coordinates of usage location.
                                                28

When used indoor, the injection device electronic module is compatible with existing indoor
positioning systems using triangulation from wireless signal receivers.
[001681     Referring to Fig. 21, after positive feedback is received by the injection device 200,
the transparent window 276 allows a user to present to a patient the injection device 200 with
container 12 for viewing before injection.
[001691     Next, referring to Fig. 22, in one embodiment, after successful reading of the
barcode 290 of a container 12, the container may be translated into a needle
attachment/injection position. The user may then remove a safety cap and attach a needle to a
container, such as a syringe. In this manner, having a container, such as a syringe, extended
from the injection device 200 during injection reduces a risk of splash back contamination.
[001701     Referring to Fig. 23, the configuration of a user's hand to the injection device 200
during injection is shown. In this position, the injection device 200 can be securely held and
the side or second button 272 pushed to activate the actuator assembly 220 (Figs. 43-46) for
injection of a medication or vaccine.
[001711     Referring to Fig. 24, after injection is complete, the top or first button 270 may be
pushed to activate the ejection assembly 222 (Fig. 47) to eject a container from the injection
device 200.
1001721     In one embodiment, the injection device 200 could incorporate a motorized-darting
mechanism that inserts the selected syringe into the skin surface of a patient at the right pre-set
depth. The pre-set depth of insertion is derived from reading the syringe identifier that bears
information on the type of injection associated with the syringe.
[001731     In one embodiment, as discussed above, the syringe or container may include a
unique identifier that the injection device 200 can read the information contained therein and
either store it in its on-board non-volatile memory, or transmit it to a nearby smartphone or to
a distant data management system. Similarly, prefilled containers may be equipped with
sensors such as temperature/humidity or shock/abuse sensors. Signals from those sensors can
be read by the injection device 200 upon pick-up. If an abnormal condition is detected, an
indicator present on the injection device 200 will alert the user and an optional interlock can
prevent from proceeding with the injection. Once the syringe is picked-up and no abnormal
container condition is detected, the healthcare worker proceeds with the injection using the
injection device 200.
1001741     The injection completion can optionally be sensed by the injection device 200, and
the corresponding event can either be stored in its on-board non-volatile memory or transmitted
to a nearby smartphone or to a distant data management system.
                                              29

[001751      The drug storage and dispensing system 10 of the present disclosure can be used
either in a traditional healthcare setting or outside of a traditional healthcare setting to deliver
drugs on demand in a safe and quick manner. The drug storage and dispensing system 10 can
also be used by patients suffering from chronic diseases who self-administer their injectable
medication.
[001761     The drug storage and dispensing system 10 of the present disclosure is especially
useful when used to perform vaccinations.         Vaccination campaigns can be performed in a
traditional healthcare setting, e.g., a doctor's office, hospitals, clinics, minute clinics,
pharmacies, vaccination center, or similar settings, or in non-traditional settings, e.g., retail
outlets such as supermarkets, schools, or offices, or in no particular setting and directly in
contact with the targeted population as it is often the case in developing countries.
[001771     As described above, the injection device 200 allows for automatic injection of a
medication from a selected pre-filled container 12. With the injection device 200 engaged with
a respective pre-filled container 12, the injection device 200 is adapted to automatically actuate
a plunger rod 264 to expel the medication from the respective pre-filled container 12.
[001781     In one embodiment, the injection completion can optionally be sensed by the
injection device 200, and the corresponding event can either be stored in its on-board non
volatile memory or transmitted to a nearby smartphone or to a distant data management system.
1001791     Once injection is completed, a safety mechanism is triggered so that a sharp tip 129
of a cannula 128 cannot be accessed, thus preventing needle-associated injuries. For example,
referring to Figs. 8-10, the safety shield 108 is adapted to automatically shield a needle tip,
e.g., sharp tip 129 of cannula 128, of a respective pre-filled container 12 after an injection is
completed.
[001801     The drug storage and dispensing system 10 of the present disclosure can be used
either in a traditional healthcare setting or outside of a traditional healthcare setting to deliver
drugs on demand in a safe and quick manner. The drug storage and dispensing system 10 can
also be used by patients suffering from chronic diseases who self-administer their injectable
medication.
[001811     The drug storage and dispensing system 10 of the present disclosure is especially
useful when used to perform vaccinations.         Vaccination campaigns can be performed in a
traditional healthcare setting, e.g., a doctor's office, hospitals, clinics, minute clinics,
pharmacies, vaccination center, or similar settings, or in non-traditional settings, e.g., retail
outlets such as supermarkets, schools, or offices, or in no particular setting and directly in
contact with the targeted population as it is often the case in developing countries.
                                               30

[001821     Pandemic situations require a medical practitioner to be able to vaccinate a large
number of people in a very short amount of time. In all non-traditional vaccination settings,
the drug storage and dispensing system 10 of the present disclosure is especially useful for the
following reasons: (1) the drug storage and dispensing system 10 provides a faster and safe
way of vaccinating more people per unit of time; (2) the drug storage and dispensing system
10 provides a means to optimize cold chain space by offering a denser packaging compared to
other packaging systems for pre-filled containers; and (3) the drug storage and dispensing
system 10 provides an automated capture and real-time transmission of vaccination data, thus
enabling the precise tracking of vaccination coverage at a population level or accurate
information in an individual vaccination log or electronic medical record at an individual level.
[001831     The drug storage and dispensing system 10 is envisioned to be a part of a novel
service of an on-demand, mobile vaccination system. People wishing to be vaccinated can
place their order online after responding to a short questionnaire on their current health status.
Dispatching units that may be housed in nearby pharmacies would then prepare and group
orders coming from their area of responsibility. Orders could then be loaded on a van or truck
driven by a healthcare worker who goes on a vaccine delivery.            A delivery itinerary and
schedule could be optimized by a specific software and updated on-the-fly to account for any
last minute change requests by a customer.
1001841     While this disclosure has been described as having exemplary designs, the present
disclosure can be further modified within the spirit and scope of this disclosure.            This
application is therefore intended to cover any variations, uses, or adaptations of the disclosure
using its general principles. Further, this application is intended to cover such departures from
the present disclosure as come within known or customary practice in the art to which this
disclosure pertains and which fall within the limits of the appended claims.
                                              31

Claims
         1.       A drug storage and dispensing system for a first pre-filled container having a first
needle shield and containing a first medication and a second pre-filled container having a second
needle shield and containing a second medication, the drug storage and dispensing system
comprising:
         a packaging unit, comprising:
                  a tub member defining a receiving cavity sized to receive the first pre-filled
container and the second pre-filled container therein; and
                  a nest member securable within the tub member and having a first container
holding portion configured to receive the first pre-filled container therein and a second container
holding portion adapted to receive the second pre-filled container therein, the first container
holding portion having a first engagement member adapted to automatically remove the first
needle shield of the first pre-filled container upon removal of the first pre-filled container from
the first container holding portion of the packaging unit, the second container holding portion
having a second engagement member adapted to automatically remove the second needle shield
of the second pre-filled container upon removal of the second pre-filled container from the
second container holding portion of the packaging unit; and
         an injection device for automatic injection of the first medication from the first pre-filled
container and the second medication from the second pre-filled container, the injection device
having an engagement portion adapted to be removably engageable to the first pre-filled
container and the second pre-filled container, the injection device having a plunger rod movably
disposed within the injection device,
         wherein, with the injection device engaged with the first pre-filled container, the injection
device is configured to automatically actuate the plunger rod to expel the first medication from
the first pre-filled container, and
         wherein, with the injection device engaged with the second pre-filled container, the
injection device is adapted to automatically actuate the plunger rod to expel the second
medication from the second pre-filled container.
                                                  32

         2.       The drug storage and dispensing system of claim 1, wherein the first pre-filled
container and the second pre-filled container each include a readable information portion.
         3.       The drug storage and dispensing system of claim 2, wherein at least a part of the
readable information portion is a barcode.
         4.       The drug storage and dispensing system of claim 2, wherein the injection device
includes a scanner portion adapted to read the readable information portion of the first pre-filled
container and the second pre-filled container.
         5.       The drug storage and dispensing system of claim 1, wherein the first pre-filled
container and the second pre-filled container each include a safety shield adapted to
automatically shield a respective needle tip of the first pre-filled container and the second pre
filled container after an injection is completed.
         6.       The drug storage and dispensing system of claim 1, wherein the engagement
portion of the injection device comprises a threaded portion.
         7.       The drug storage and dispensing system of claim 1, wherein at least a part of the
readable information portion is a radiofrequency identification tag.
         8.       An injection device for a first pre-filled container having a first medication and a
second pre-filled container having a second medication, the injection device comprising an
engagement assembly adapted to be removably engageable to the first pre-filled container and
the second pre-filled container, the injection device having a plunger rod movably disposed
within the injection device,
         wherein, with the injection device engaged with the first pre-filled container, the injection
device is configured to automatically actuate the plunger rod to expel the first medication from
the first pre-filled container, and
                                                    33

         wherein, with the injection device engaged with the second pre-filled container, the
injection device is adapted to automatically actuate the plunger rod to expel the second
medication from the second pre-filled container.
         9.      The injection device of claim 8, wherein the engagement assembly comprises a
plurality of syringe grip members.
         10.     The injection device of claim 9, wherein the plurality of syringe grip members are
elastically deformable.
         11.     The injection device of claim 9, further comprising a retraction assembly adapted
to retract a pre-filled container into the injection device.
         12.     The injection device of claim 11, wherein the retraction assembly is transitionable
between a first position in which the plurality of syringe grip members are outside the injection
device to engage the pre-filled container and a second position in which the pre-filled container
is contained within the injection device.
         13.     The injection device of claim 11, wherein the retraction assembly comprises a rail
and a carriage movably attached to the rail.
         14.     The injection device of claim 12, wherein, with the retraction assembly in the
second position with the pre-filled container within the injection device, the injection device
further comprises a locking assembly adapted to lock the plurality of syringe grip members to the
pre-filled container.
         15.     The injection device of claim 12, wherein the pre-filled container includes a
readable information portion and the injector device further comprises a scan assembly adapted
to scan the readable information portion with the pre-filled container in the second position.
                                                    34

        16.     The injection device of claim 15, further comprising a rotation assembly for
rotating the pre-filled container with the pre-filled container in the second position.
        17.     The injection device of claim 15, wherein the readable information portion is at
least one of a barcode, QR code, datamatrix and an RFID tag.
        18.     The injection device of claim 8, further comprising an actuator assembly,
        wherein, with the injection device engaged with the first pre-filled container, the actuator
assembly automatically actuates the plunger rod to expel the first medication from the first pre
filled container, and
        wherein, with the injection device engaged with the second pre-filled container, the
actuator assembly automatically actuates the plunger rod to expel the second medication from
the second pre-filled container.
        19.     The injection device of claim 8, further comprising an ejection assembly adapted
to automatically eject a pre-filled container from the injection device.
        20.     A system comprising:
        an injection device for a pre-filled container having a medication and a readable
information portion containing information, the injection device comprising an engagement
assembly adapted to be removably engageable to the pre-filled container, a scan assembly
adapted to scan the readable information portion with the pre-filled container contained within
the injection device, and a transmitter for transmitting the information; and
        an electronic database that receives the information transmitted from the injection device,
the electronic database adapted to verify the information and transmit a signal to the injection
device providing positive feedback for injection using the injection device.
        21.     The system of claim 20, wherein the readable information portion is at least one
of a barcode, QR code, datamatrix and an RFID tag.
                                                   35

        22.     The system of claim 20, wherein the injection device includes a plunger rod
movably disposed within the injection device and wherein, with the injection device engaged
with the pre-filled container, the injection device is configured to automatically actuate the
plunger rod to expel the medication from the pre-filled container.
        23.     The system of claim 20, wherein the electronic database is adapted to verify the
information contained on the readable information portion and transmit a signal to the injection
device that provides positive feedback for injection.
        24.     The system of claim 23, wherein the injector includes an indicator portion that is
capable of being activated to notify a user of a correct scan and/or injector status.
        25.     The system of claim 24, wherein the injector includes a transparent window to
allow a user to present to a patient the injection device for viewing before injection.
        26.     The system of claim 20, wherein the injection device is equipped with an on
board electronic module comprising memory that can record and store container unique
identification information and stamping information relative to the usage of the pre-filled
container.
        27.     The system of claim 26, wherein the on-board electronic module includes a global
positioning system receiver that can record and store latitude and longitude coordinates of usage
location.
        28.     The system of claim 27, wherein the electronic module is compatible with indoor
positioning systems using triangulation from wireless signal receivers.
                                                   36

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
