   Abstract
   The present invention relates to an arrangement comprising a supporting
   structure 1 having a surface consisting of one or more faces 2a, 2b, 2c,
 5 wherein a bore 3 runs from at least one face into an inner region of the
   supporting structure, and this bore is filled with an adhesive 12 and with a
   portion of a fibre bundle 4 projecting beyond said face, wherein, on the at
   least one face 2a, from which the bore runs into an inner region of the
   supporting structure 1, the supporting structure is provided with at least
10 one groove 5 which, starting from the bore 3, extends in at least one
   direction on the surface, and the projecting part of the fibre bundle 4 is
   located, at least in part, in the at least one groove 5 and is fastened
   therein by way of the adhesive 12.

                                              1
   ARRANGEMENT AND METHOD FOR REINFORCING SUPPORTING
   STRUCTURES
   Technical Field
 5 The invention relates to the field of reinforcing supporting structures, preferably
   by attaching a surface reinforcement, in particular by introducing force into the
   surface reinforcement.
   Prior Art
10 Methods for increasing the supporting resistance of existing supporting
   structures, typically reinforced concrete components, have already been used
   for many years. This often takes place by means of an additional reinforcement
   attached on the surface. Reinforcements which are predominantly adhesively
   bonded on the surface and are composed of fiber composite materials have
15 become largely accepted here. The effectiveness of said surface reinforcement
   is normally limited by the maximum force which can be transmitted from the
   concrete to the reinforcement.
   A very wide variety of methods for improving the transmission of force from the
   supporting structure to the surface reinforcement are known. A widespread
20 method consists in introducing fiber bundles into a bore in the supporting
   structure and anchoring said fiber bundles there and in spreading or fanning
   out an end of the fiber bundle protruding over the surface and in adhesively
   bonding same on the surface. The surface reinforcement can subsequently
   then be adhesively bonded onto the reinforced supporting framework surface.
25 Alternatively, the surface reinforcement can first of all also be adhesively
   bonded onto the supporting framework surface such that, when an anchor
   consisting of a fiber bundle is then attached, the protruding end of said fiber
   bundle is adhesively bonded onto the surface of the surface reinforcement. In
   the case of surface reinforcements having a plurality of layers, it is frequently
30 recommended, for better transmission of force, to spread the anchor between
   the woven fabric layers.
   The effectiveness of this measure has been demonstrated experimentally, but
   remains limited for various reasons.

                                               2
   Firstly, the potential area of fracture in the vicinity of the surface is pierced by
   each anchor only at one location (in the shaft). The resistance of said potential
   area of fracture is therefore increased only to a limited extent. Secondly, the
   transmission of force from those fibers of the fiber bundle which are spread on
 5 the surface to the fibers of the woven fabric is not optimum. The very thin fiber
   composite material formed on the surface by the fibers of the fiber bundle can
   be substantially loaded only in the tension direction. When subjected to a
   compressive load, the fiber composite material buckles, and when subjected to
   a shearing and bending load, only very low forces can be transmitted.
10 Therefore, only the fibers lying approximately in the tension direction of the
   surface reinforcement are completely effective. Said fibers make up only a
   small part of the cross section of the fiber bundle and cover only a small part of
   the width of the surface reinforcement.
   A further disadvantage of the known method consists in that that end of the
15 fiber bundle which protrudes over the surface is spread on the surface itself
   and therefore protrusions cause protruding deformations on the surface, which
   can firstly interfere with the visual appearance of a structure, but secondly may
   also cause technical disadvantages. For example, elevations in an otherwise
   flat surface may result in water, in particular rain water, or snow, and also dirt,
20 accumulating at said elevations and impairing the long-term effect.
   Summary of the Invention
   It is therefore the object of the present invention to provide an arrangement and
   a method, according to which the introduction of force into a surface
25 reinforcement is intended to be improved.
   It is furthermore the object of the present invention to improve the transmission
   of force by fiber bundles which are attached to a supporting framework, in
   particular into a surface region or into a region in the vicinity of the surface.
30 It has surprisingly been found that this object can be achieved by means of an
   arrangement as claimed in claim 1.
   Accordingly, the essence of the invention is an arrangement comprising a
   supporting structure with a surface consisting of one or more faces, wherein a

                                              3
   bore runs from at least one face into an inner region of the supporting
   structure, and said bore is filled with an adhesive and with a portion of a fiber
   bundle projecting beyond said bore, wherein, on the at least one face from
   which the bore runs into an inner region of the supporting structure, the
 5 supporting structure is provided with at least one groove which extends from
   the bore in at least one direction on the surface, and the projecting part of the
   fiber bundle is at least partially located in the at least one groove and is
   fastened therein with the adhesive.
10 An element or a part of an element which is exposed to forces is designated
   the supporting structure here. The supporting structure is typically a structure
   or a constituent part of a structure, for example a plate, a covering, a wall, a
   pillar, a rib, a beam or the like. The supporting structure is typically composed
   here of concrete, in particular of reinforced concrete, but may also be
15 composed of bricks or other building stones, of wood, of steel or of other
   materials and also of any combinations of said materials. The structures are
   typically building construction and underground construction structures, such
   as houses, bridges, tunnels, barrages, sports installations, etc.
20 The fiber bundle is a loose arrangement of substantially uniformly directed
   individual fibers or filaments, in particular of carbon, glass, basalt, aramid, steel
   or other inorganic or organic materials. The fibers are preferably carbon fibers.
   The thickness of the fiber bundle is dependent on the region of use and on the
   forces which are intended to be transmitted by the fiber bundle. If the fiber
25 bundle consists of carbon fibers, said fiber bundle comprises in particular 1,000
   to 50,000 individual fibers which in each case themselves have a diameter
   within the range of 5 to 10 pm. A typical fiber bundle preferably has a cross
   sectional area of 20 to 70 mm2, in particular of 25 to 40 mm 2 .
30 The fiber bundle is attached to the supporting structure typically by a bore
   which serves for receiving a portion of the fiber bundle being provided, in a first
   step, at the desired location. The bore can be provided here using any means,
   wherein such means are very well known to a person skilled in the art. The

                                              4
   dimensions of the bore arise from the thickness and the length of the fiber
   bundle and the thickness and length arise in turn from the requirements
   imposed on the arrangement according to the invention. A suitable bore
   typically has a diameter of 1 to 5 cm, in particular of 1.5 to 3 cm, and a depth of
 5 5 to 30 cm, in particular of 7 to 20 cm.
   In a further step, one or more grooves are provided starting from the bore or
   from the entry point of the bore into the surface of the supporting structure. The
   grooves can also be provided using any means, for example using an angle
   grinder.
10 The groove or the grooves is or are dimensioned here in such a manner that
   said grooves, in the entirety thereof, can receive the fiber bundle which, in the
   event of a plurality of grooves being present, can be divided up into individual
   fiber strands. The number and arrangement of the grooves is dependent here
   on the region of use of the arrangement according to the invention.
15
   After the bore and the at least one groove are provided, the fiber bundle is
   inserted into bore and groove and adhesively bonded therein. For this purpose,
   first of all an adhesive is placed into the bore and into the at least one groove.
   The fiber bundle, which has been impregnated previously preferably with a
20 resin, is then placed into the bore in such a manner that a portion of the fiber
   bundle projects beyond the bore. During the course of attaching the
   arrangement according to the invention to a supporting framework, that portion
   of the fiber bundle which projects beyond the bore generally also projects
   beyond the surface of the supporting structure. That portion of the fiber bundle
25 which, however, is located in a groove in the mounted arrangement then no
   longer projects beyond the surface of the supporting structure, as a result of
   which a uniform and smooth surface can be ensured.
   Said projecting portion of the fiber bundle is at least partially inserted into the
30 groove provided with adhesive, or is uniformly divided up into a number of fiber
   strands corresponding to the number of grooves and inserted into the grooves.
   The entire fiber bundle or all of the fiber strands is or are generally preferably
   inserted into one or more grooves such that the fiber bundle does not project

                                             5
   beyond the surface of the supporting structure at any point. After the fiber
   bundle is inserted into the at least one groove, the fiber bundle can be held
   down therein. Adhesive running out of the drill hole or out of the groove is
   subsequently removed or is distributed uniformly in the region of the surface
 5 affected by the arrangement. If, after the fiber bundle is inserted, there are still
   cavities in the bore or in the at least one groove, said cavities can be filled with
   adhesive.
   The introduction of the fiber bundle into the bore takes place in particular with a
   needle-like object. For better guidance with the needle-like object, a clamp, a
10 cable connector or the like, on which the needle-like object can be hooked, can
   be attached to the fiber bundle.
   The impregnation of the fiber bundle with a resin before being inserted into
   bore and groove has the advantage that the entire fiber bundle can be wetted
   with resin, even in the inner region. In order to ensure optimum adhesion
15 between fiber bundle and supporting structure, the resin for the impregnation of
   the fiber bundle has in particular the same chemical basis as the adhesive for
   fastening the fiber bundle in bore and groove. In particular, both the resin and
   the adhesive are epoxy resin compositions. It is possible for the adhesive and
   the resin to be the same composition, wherein, in the case of the resin, the
20 viscosity is typically set somewhat lower than in the case of the adhesive,
   which, in turn, serves for better wetting of the fibers.
   Both in the case of the adhesive for fastening the fiber bundle into bore and
   groove and in the case of the resin for the possible impregnation of the fiber
   bundle, use is preferably made of a two-pack epoxy resin composition. Suitable
25 epoxy resin compositions are commercially available from Sika Schweiz AG,
   for example under the trade name Sikadur*.
   The adhesive bonding points on the supporting structure are preferably clean,
   dry and free from dust and grease. Suitable cleaning measures or preliminary
30 treatments may be used depending on the materials of which the supporting
   structure is composed.

                                             6
   The arrangement according to the invention can be attached to a supporting
   structure for different purposes. In particular, the arrangement itself serves as a
   reinforcement for the supporting structure and/or serves as an anchor or as an
   anchorage for a surface reinforcement attached to the supporting structure.
 5
   If the arrangement serves as an anchorage for a surface reinforcement
   attached to the supporting structure, said arrangement preferably has a
   plurality of grooves which extend along the surface from the bore. In this case,
   the number of grooves per bore is preferably 2 to 16, in particular 6 to 10.
10 The grooves are arranged here in particular in a circular manner and at regular
   intervals around the bore. In particular, the grooves are arranged in a circular
   sector around the bore, wherein the circular sector preferably has a center
   point angle of 60 to 3600. The arrangement of the grooves is generally aligned
   in accordance with the load direction of the surface reinforcement which is
15 adhesively bonded via the arrangement according to the invention to the
   supporting structure as an anchor or anchorage. In particular, the grooves in
   this case spread out in the tension direction of the surface reinforcement.
   In a further embodiment, the arrangement itself can serve for reinforcing a
20 supporting structure. In this case, in particular, a plurality of the described
   arrangements are attached at regular intervals to a supporting structure. Also
   in this case, the arrangement according to the invention can have a plurality of
   grooves, as described previously. The arrangement in this case preferably has
   a second bore which runs into an inner region of the supporting structure,
25 wherein the second bore can be located on the same face or on another face
   of the surface. The at least one groove runs here from the inlet location of the
   one bore, i.e. the first bore, along the surface of the supporting structure toward
   the inlet location of the second bore; the two bores are therefore connected to
   each other in the surface region of the supporting structure via the at least one
30 groove.
   If the two bores are not located on the same face of the surface of the
   supporting structure, i.e. if, for example, one or more edges or corners are

                                              7
   therefore located between the faces, the at least one groove also runs over
   said edges or corners.
   If the two bores are located on mutually averted faces of a supporting structure,
 5 it is possible for the two bores to be connected to each other in the extension of
   the respective bore axes thereof.
   For example, this is the case if the arrangement according to the invention is
   intended to be attached in the region of the end side of a wall which is
   free-standing at least on one side. In this case, the two bores can be provided
10 by the wall being bored through at one point. A groove is then provided in
   particular in such a manner that said groove connects the inlet location and the
   outlet location of the bore in the wall to each other beyond the end side. The
   outlet location of the one bore in the wall constitutes the inlet location of the
   second bore.
15 Also in the case of such a use of the arrangement according to the invention, a
   surface reinforcement can be attached to the surface of the supporting
   structure.
   Irrespective of the structure of the arrangement according to the invention, the
   surface reinforcement is preferably attached in such a manner that said surface
20 reinforcement covers that portion of the fiber bundle which runs on the surface
   of the supporting structure in at least one groove and the bore or the inlet
   location of the bore into the surface as a whole and is adhesively bonded over
   said entire region to the surface of the supporting structure.
25 Lamellas or woven fabrics which run along the surface of a supporting
   structure and are adhesively bonded thereto, in particular over the full surface
   area, are particularly suitable as the surface reinforcement. Suitable lamellas
   include in particular uni-directionally fiber-reinforced plastics flat ribbon
   lamellas. The fiber reinforcement customarily takes place by means of carbon
30 fibers, but, as in the case of the fiber bundle, can also take place by means of
   glass, basalt or aramid. In particular, an epoxy resin matrix serves as the
   plastics matrix. Equally suitably, a plastics matrix can be based on
   polyurethane, vinyl esters, polyacrylate or other compositions which have

                                              8
   structural properties. Suitable fiber-reinforced plastics flat ribbon lamellas are
   commercially available from Sika Schweiz AG, for example under the trade
   name Sika* CarboDur*.
   An, in particular uni-directional, carbon fiber woven fabric is preferably suitable
 5 as the woven fabric, wherein said woven fabric can also be composed of glass
   fibers, basalt fibers or aramid fibers. In contrast to the fiber-reinforced plastics
   flat ribbon lamellas, the woven fabric is typically not applied to the surface
   already in a cured plastics matrix, but rather is provided with a curable
   composition before or after attachment to the surface. The curable composition
10 is in particular an epoxy resin composition, wherein polyurethane or
   polyacrylate could also be used here.
   A suitable woven fabric is in particular a carbon fiber woven fabric, as is
   commercially available from Sika Schweiz AG, for example under the
   designation SikaWrap@.
15
   Preferably, two-pack epoxy resin compositions, as are commercially available
   from Sika Schweiz AG, for example under the trade name Sikadur*, are used
   both as the plastics matrix for the fiber-reinforced plastics flat ribbon lamellas
   and for the adhesive bonding of said plastics matrix or of the woven fabric to
20 the supporting structure.
   As already described previously, it is possible for the fiber bundle to run in the
   at least one groove over edges and/or corners which connect different faces of
   the surface of the supporting structure to one another. If an edge is involved
25 here, said edge preferably has a rounded portion in the interior of the groove.
   The radius of the rounded portion is in particular approximately 0.5 to 10 cm, in
   particular 1 to 5 cm.
   The rounded portion of the edge protects the fiber bundle which is placed into
   bore and groove, as a result of which fewer breakages of the fibers occur and
30 an improved transmission of force is possible. Irrespective of the respective
   embodiment of the present invention, all edges of the supporting structure over
   which a groove with fiber bundle is intended to run are generally preferably
   rounded within the groove.

                                              9
   Furthermore, it is also possible for the transition from the bore into the groove
   also to have a rounded portion in accordance with the preceding description.
   The arrangement according to the invention and a method for application
 5 thereof are typically used in the reinforcement of existing supporting structures,
   for example in the case of renovation, repair or in the case of earthquake
   reinforcement attached retrospectively to supporting structures. If the
   supporting structure is a reinforced concrete structure, the reinforcement takes
   place, for example, wherever the steel reinforcement is inadequate or where
10 the latter has incurred damage due to an unforeseen event.
   A method according to the invention for reinforcing a supporting structure with
   a surface consisting of one or more faces accordingly comprises the following
   steps:
15       - providing at least one bore from a face of the supporting structure into
            an inner region of the supporting structure,
         - providing at least one groove from the bore in at least one direction on
            the surface of the supporting structure,
         - placing an adhesive into the at least one bore,
20       - introducing a fiber bundle into the bore such that a portion of the fiber
             bundle projects beyond the bore,
         - at least partially inserting the projecting portion of the fiber bundle into
            the at least one groove,
         - fastening the projecting portion of the fiber bundle in the groove by
25           means of adhesive.
   According to the preceding description of the arrangement according to the
   invention, the method may comprise further steps. In particular, the fiber
   bundle is impregnated with a resin before being introduced into the bore and
30 inserted into the at least one groove.
   If a surface reinforcement is provided on the supporting structure, the method
   furthermore comprises a step of attaching a surface reinforcement to the
   surface of the supporting structure, wherein a surface reinforcement, in

                                             10
   particular a lamella or a woven fabric, is attached over that portion of the fiber
   bundle which has been fastened in the groove by means of adhesive and is
   adhesively bonded to the surface of the supporting framework at least in the
   region of that portion of the fiber bundle which has been fastened in the groove
 5 by means of adhesive.
   Brief Description of the Drawings
   Exemplary embodiments of the invention are explained in more detail with
   reference to the drawings. Identical elements are provided with the same
10 reference signs in the various figures. Of course, the invention is not limited to
   exemplary embodiments which are shown and described.
   In the drawings:
   Figures 1A to 2C show: supporting structures with bores and grooves and fiber
15 bundles or fiber strands adhesively bonded therein;
   Figures 3A to 4B show: supporting structures with bores and grooves and fiber
   bundles or fiber strands adhesively bonded therein, and also a surface
   reinforcement;
   Figures 5A to 6F show: embodiments of supporting structures with bores and
20 grooves and fiber bundles or fiber strands adhesively bonded therein;
   Figures 7A and 7B show: detailed views of supporting structures with rounded
   edges within the groove.
   Only the elements essential for direct comprehension of the invention are
25 shown in the figures.
   Ways of Implementing the Invention
   Figure 1A shows a section through a supporting structure 1 with a surface
   consisting of a plurality of faces 2a, 2b, 2c, wherein a bore 3 runs from the face
30 2a into an inner region of the supporting structure. Said bore is filled with an
   adhesive 12 and with a portion of a fiber bundle 4 projecting beyond said bore.
   On the face 2a, the supporting structure 1 is provided with a groove 5 which
   extends from the bore 3 or the inlet location of the bore into the face in one

                                             11
   direction on the surface. That part of the fiber bundle 4 which projects beyond
   the bore is located in the groove 5 and is fastened therein with adhesive 12.
   Figure 1B shows a top view of the arrangement shown in Figure 1A, wherein a
   single groove 5 runs from the bore 3 in one direction on the surface.
 5 Furthermore, the entire projecting part of the fiber bundle is located in the
   groove and is fastened therein with adhesive 12.
   Figure 1C likewise shows a top view of the arrangement shown in figure 1A,
   wherein, in this embodiment, a plurality of grooves 5 run from the bore 3 in
   various directions on the surface. The projecting part of the fiber bundle 4 is
10 divided up according to fiber strands, wherein said fiber strands preferably
   have approximately the same thickness, and the fiber strands are located in
   the grooves and are fastened therein with adhesive 12.
   Figure 2A and 2B essentially show an analogous embodiment to the one
15 shown in Figures 1A and 1C, wherein the plurality of grooves 5 run from the
   bore 3 radially on the surface of the supporting structure 1.
   Irrespective of the above-described embodiments, that portion of the fiber
   bundle which is located in the bore constitutes in particular one of the two loose
20 ends of the fiber bundle. The other loose end of the fiber bundle constitutes
   that part of the fiber bundle which projects beyond the bore or which is located
   in the groove or the grooves and is fastened there.
   In another, less preferred embodiment, it is also possible to fold over a fiber
   bundle, in particular in the region of the center thereof or geometric center of
25 gravity thereof, and thus to place the two loose ends of the fiber bundle one
   above the other. The fiber bundle is then introduced into the bore, preferably by
   the folded end, and the two loose ends are placed into the groove or divided up
   between a plurality of grooves. In both cases, that portion of the fiber bundle
   which is located in the bore is in each case in particular approximately the
30 same length as that portion which projects beyond the bore.
   Figure 2C shows an embodiment of the invention in which a central portion of
   the fiber bundle is located in the bore. The supporting structure 1 shown here

                                             12
   has a surface consisting of a plurality of faces 2a, 2b, 2c, etc., and a first bore
   3a which runs from the face 2a into the inner region of the supporting structure.
   The second bore 3b runs from the face 2b into the inner region of the
   supporting structure. The face 2b faces away from the face 2a, and the two
 5 bores 3a and 3b are arranged in such a manner that they are connected to
   each other in the extension of the respective bore axes thereof. Of course, in
   the case shown, the two bores can be provided by the supporting structure
   being bored through from one face and the second bore therefore constituting
   the outlet point of the first bore. The bores 3a and 3b are filled with an adhesive
10 12 and with a portion of a fiber bundle 4. In particular, in this embodiment, a
   fiber bundle is arranged in the bore in such a manner that the central portion
   thereof is located in the bore and that the loose ends thereof each protrude
   beyond the surface of the supporting structure. A plurality of grooves 5 run in
   each case from the bores 3a and 3b in various directions on the surface, for
15 example in the manner as illustrated in Figure 2B. The projecting parts of the
   fiber bundle 4 are divided up according to fiber strands, and the fiber strands
   are located in the grooves and are fastened therein with adhesive.
   Figures 3A (cross section) and 3B (top view) show a possible embodiment of
20 the arrangement according to the invention. In this case, a face 2a of the
   surface of a supporting structure 1 has a plurality of bores 3 which run into the
   inner region of the supporting structure 1, and, in each case per bore, a single
   groove 5 which extends along the surface (cf. also figure 1B). The bores 3 and
   the grooves 5 are offset with respect to one another, but are provided in the
25 entirety thereof linearly on the surface. A lamella 6 as a surface reinforcement
   is attached over the grooves 5 with the portions of the fiber bundles 4, wherein
   said lamella is adhesively bonded at least in this region to the surface of the
   supporting structure. In particular, a lamella of this type is adhesively bonded to
   the surface of the supporting structure over the entire surface area.
30 Arrangements as are shown in figures 3A and 3B occur in particular in the
   region of the end portions, for example in the final 0.5 to 1 meter, of the
   lamellas and serve for improved transmission of force between supporting
   structure and lamella, that is to say for surface reinforcement.

                                              13
   Figure 3C shows a top view of an arrangement which substantially
   corresponds to that from Figure 1C, wherein a woven fabric 7 is attached as a
   surface reinforcement over the grooves 5, which emerge from the bore 3 and
 5 are provided with fiber strands of the fiber bundle 4 and with adhesive. Such a
   woven fabric is also adhesively bonded to the surface of the supporting
   structure preferably over the entire surface area. The bonding over the area of
   the fiber bundle which is adhesively bonded into the grooves leads to an
   improved transmission of force between supporting structure and woven fabric,
10 i.e. to surface reinforcement.
   An embodiment of the arrangement according to the invention as shown in
   figures 1C and 3C is furthermore illustrated in figure 3D. In this case, the bore
   3 which runs into the inner region of the supporting structure is located at a
15 junction between two sheet-like elements of a supporting structure, for example
   at a junction between two walls or between wall and floor plate. Also in this
   case, a surface reinforcement in the form of a woven fabric 7 is attached via
   the anchor region.
   A further embodiment of the invention is shown in figure 3E. The supporting
20 structure 1 shown here has a surface consisting of a plurality of faces 2a, 2b,
   2c, and a first bore 3a which runs from the face 2a into the inner region of the
   supporting structure. The second bore 3b runs from the face 2b into the inner
   region of the supporting structure. The face 2b faces away from the face 2a,
   and the two bores 3a and 3b are arranged in such a manner that they are
25 connected to each other in the extension of the respective bore axes thereof.
   Of course, in the case shown, the two bores can be provided by the supporting
   structure being bored through from one face and the second bore therefore
   constituting the outlet point of the first bore. The bores 3a and 3b are filled with
   an adhesive (not illustrated) and with a portion of a fiber bundle 4. In particular,
30 in this embodiment, a fiber bundle is arranged in the bore in such a manner
   that the central portion thereof is located in the bore and that the loose ends
   thereof each protrude over the surface of the supporting structure. A plurality of
   grooves 5 run in each case from the bores 3a and 3b in various directions on

                                             14
   the surface. The projecting parts of the fiber bundle 4 are divided up according
   to fiber strands, and the fiber strands are located in the grooves and are
   fastened therein with adhesive. A woven fabric 7 which runs over the end side
   of the supporting structure and is adhesively bonded to the supporting structure
 5 in a manner running in the region of the grooves from the inlet point of the bore
   3a toward that of bore 3b, is attached over the arrangements described.
   An embodiment of the present invention, in which there are also two bores
   which are connected to each other in the extension of the bore axes thereof is
10 illustrated in figures 3F (cross section) and 3G (top view). A T-shaped
   supporting structure here with a surface comprising a plurality of faces 2a, 2b,
   etc., has, at the junction between the two sheet-like elements thereof, two
   bores 3a and 3b which connect the faces 2a and 2b to each other. The fiber
   bundle 4 is arranged in the bore in such a manner that the central portion
15 thereof is located in the bore and that the loose ends thereof each protrude
   over the surface of the supporting structure. A plurality of grooves 5 run in each
   case from the bores in various directions on the surface. The projecting parts of
   the fiber bundle 4 are divided up according to fiber strands, and the fiber
   strands are located in the grooves and are fastened therein with adhesive.
20
   One possible application of the arrangement shown in figures 3F and 3G is
   shown in figures 3H and 31. The supporting structure 1 here is a concrete slab
   10 which has a plurality of reinforcing ribs 11, i.e. T-shaped portions. The
   reinforcing ribs 11 have bores 3 in the region of the junctions thereof with the
25 concrete slab 10, wherein said bores are positioned in such a manner that in
   each case two bores are connected to each other in the extension of the bore
   axes thereof. A plurality of grooves run from the inlet point of the respective drill
   hole 3 along the surface of the concrete slab. Analogously to the above
   described embodiments, drill holes and grooves are filled with a fiber bundle or
30 with fiber strands of the fiber bundle, and adhesive. A surface reinforcement in
   the form of a woven fabric 7 is attached over the surfaces of the concrete slab,
   which surfaces are located between the reinforcing ribs 11. Said woven fabric

                                             15
   is adhesively bonded to the surface located therebelow, in particular over the
   entire surface area.
   Figures 4A (cross section) and 4B (top view) show a further embodiment of the
 5 invention, in which arrangements, as are shown, for example, in figures 2A and
   2B, are attached at regular distances to a supporting structure 1. The
   arrangements can be attached here on one face of the surface of the
   supporting structure or on a plurality of faces. Furthermore, a woven fabric 7 is
   adhesively bonded over the arrangements at least to the arrangements, but in
10 particular over the full surface area to the surface of the supporting structure.
   The woven fabric can run here continuously over corners and edges in the
   surface of the supporting structure.
   Figure 5A shows a section through an embodiment of a supporting structure 1
15 with a surface consisting of a plurality of faces 2a, 2b, 2c, etc., and a first bore
   3a which runs from the face 2a into the inner region of the supporting structure.
   The second bore 3b runs from the face 2b into the inner region of the
   supporting structure. The face 2b faces away from the face 2a. A groove 5 runs
   from the one bore 3a along the surface of the supporting structure toward the
20 inlet location of the other bore into the supporting structure. The groove which
   therefore connects the two inlet holes of the bores to each other runs in
   particular on the shortest route between the two bores. However, depending on
   requirements imposed on the reinforcement of the supporting structure, it is
   also conceivable for the groove to adopt a different profile between the bores,
25 for example in order to ensure as uniform as possible a distribution of force. A
   fiber bundle 4 which leads with the loose ends thereof into the two bores 3a
   and 3b runs in the groove 5. Adhesive 12 for the fastening of the fiber bundle is
   located both in the bores and in the groove.
   A similar embodiment as in figure 5A is also illustrated in figure 5B, wherein the
30 fiber bundle here helically reinforces a reinforcing rib 11 of a supporting
   framework 1.

                                              16
   Figure 6A shows a section through a further embodiment of the invention,
   which embodiment corresponds to a modification of the embodiment from
   figure 5A. In contrast thereto, the embodiment in figure 6A has two bores 3a,
   3b in different mutually averted faces 2a, 2b of the surface of the supporting
 5 structure, wherein the two bores 3a and 3b are arranged in such a manner that
   they are connected to each other in the extension of the respective bore axes
   thereof. The inlet holes of the two bores 3a and 3b are connected to each other
   via a groove 5 as in figure 5A. Both the bores 3a, 3b and the groove 5 contain
   an adhesive 12 and a fiber bundle 4. The fiber bundle is arranged here in
10 particular in such a manner that the two ends thereof overlap. Said overlap can
   be located in the bore or at any location in the groove. The length of the
   overlapping region of the fiber bundle is selected here in particular in such a
   manner that as gap-free a transmission of force as possible is ensured, and is
   approximately 5 to 50 cm. Depending on the requirements imposed on the
15 supporting structure, it is also possible to repeatedly wind the fiber bundle
   around the supporting structure.
   In general and in particular also with regard to the embodiments of the
   invention, as are shown in figures 5A and 5B and in figures 6A to 6D, those
20 embodiments are preferred in which the two bores 3a and 3b are arranged in
   such a manner that they are connected to each other in the extension of the
   respective bore axes thereof, and the fiber bundle is arranged in such a
   manner that the two ends thereof at least overlap. The fiber bundle thereby
   forms a closed loop, as a result of which the transmission of the shearing
25 forces takes place between the two ends of the fiber bundle, i.e. in a critical
   manner in terms of contact within the same material. In comparison to
   embodiments in which the ends of the fiber bundle are inserted into separate
   bores and the transmission of the shearing force therefore takes place between
   the supporting structure and the fiber bundle, i.e. in a manner critical for the
30 bond, the preferred embodiments permit greater efficiency of the reinforcement
   and a significantly better utilization of the fiber bundle.

                                            17
   Figures 6B and 6C show modifications of the embodiment as described in
   figure 6A. Arrangements according to the invention as can be used, for
   example, for reinforcing a rectangular pillar as a constituent part of a
   supporting structure are shown here. Figure 6C shows here that it is also
 5 possible for the fiber bundle 4 to be guided repeatedly through a bore, but to
   run in two different grooves from the inlet location of the first bore to that of the
   second bore. Secondly, the embodiment from figure 6C can also be provided
   by that part of the fiber bundle which projects beyond the bore being divided up
   into two fiber strands which then run in different grooves.
10 Figure 6D shows a modification of the embodiment as illustrated in figure 5B,
   wherein the fiber bundle 4 here helically reinforces the reinforcing rib 11
   completely.
   Figure 6E shows a side view of a supporting structure which comprises the
   variants of the arrangement according to the invention that are illustrated in
15 figures 6A, 6B and 6C. Depending on requirements, the various variants can
   be combined with one another, or a plurality of identical arrangements are
   attached throughout to a supporting structure.
   Figure 6G shows a supporting structure 1 comprising a base plate 10 and a
   wall provided on the latter, wherein the wall is provided in the lower region
20 thereof with a plurality of arrangements according to the invention which
   correspond to those from figure 6A. A woven fabric can optionally also be
   attached over said arrangements to additionally reinforce the supporting
   structure (not illustrated here).
   Figure 6F shows a cylindrical pillar which comprises a plurality of arrangements
25 according to the invention.
   Figure 7A shows a detailed view of a detail of a supporting structure 1 with a
   surface consisting of a plurality of faces 2a, 2b, 2c, wherein a bore 3 runs from
   a face 2a into an inner region of the supporting structure. On the face 2a, from
30 which the bore runs into an inner region of the supporting structure, the
   supporting structure 1 is provided with a groove 5 which extends from the bore
   in one direction on the surface.

                                            18
   The groove 5 runs here over a respective edge 8 which connects the two faces
   2a and 2c or 2c and 2b of the surface of the supporting framework to each
   other, and said one edge 8 has a rounded portion 9 in the interior of the
   groove 5.
 5
   Figure 7B shows a section through a region of a supporting structure 1 that has
   two bores 3a, 3c in different mutually averted faces 2a, 2c of the surface of the
   supporting structure, wherein the two bores 3a and 3c are arranged in such a
   manner that they are connected to each other in the extension of the
10 respective bore axes thereof. The inlet holes of the two bores 3a and 3b are
   connected to each other via a groove 5. The edges 8 within the groove 5 each
   have a rounded portion 9. The respective transitions from the bore into the
   groove can also have a rounded portion here in accordance with the preceding
   description.
15
   Examples
   Exemplary embodiments which will explain the described invention in more
   detail are cited below. Of course, the invention is not limited to these described
20 exemplary embodiments.
   Test Pieces
   Concrete cubes with an edge length of 20 cm were produced as test pieces,
   wherein concrete from the same batch was used for all the cubes. The
25 concrete cubes were stored for 28 days at 230C and 50% relative air humidity.
   The concrete cubes were ground on one side in order to free them from
   cement slurry. A bore with a diameter of 20 mm and a depth of 100 mm was
   provided in the center of the treated face. Two concrete cubes were left without
   a bore. Starting from the bore 8 grooves were provided in each case uniformly
30 around the bore in the concrete cubes with an angle grinder. The grooves had
   a width of 5 mm and a depth of 5 mm and extended over a length of 8 cm. The
   angle between the grooves was in each case 45*. In the case of four concrete
   cubes, only five grooves were in each case provided in a semicircular manner.

                                            19
   The edges at the transition from the bore into the grooves were slightly
   rounded. No grooves were provided in the case of two cubes. The concrete
   cubes were subsequently repeatedly cleaned on the machined surface and in
   the interior of the bore with compressed air and a brush and thus substantially
 5 freed from dust.
   Sikadur@-330, commercially available from Sika Schweiz AG, was applied to
   the machined surface of the concrete cubes without the bore with an average
   layer thickness of approx. 1 mm by means of a notched trowel. In the case of
10 the concrete cubes with a bore, the bore was filled from below upward, and
   also the grooves were filled with Sikadur@-330. Care had to be taken here to
   ensure that no air remained enclosed in the bore.
   A fiber bundle of a length of 20 cm and a fiber cross-sectional area of
   approximately 25 mm2 was completely impregnated with Sikadur@ 300 from
15 Sika Schweiz AG with the aid of a paint brush. Subsequently, a cable
   connector was attached to a loose end of the impregnated fiber bundle and
   firmly tightened and cut to size. With the aid of a knitting needle which was
   hooked onto the cable binder, the fiber bundle was introduced into the bore as
   far as the stop. The protruding end of the fiber bundle was divided up into fiber
20 strands, wherein the number of fiber strands had to correspond to that of the
   previously provided grooves, and the fiber strands were placed into the
   grooves. In the case of the concrete cubes without grooves, the protruding end
   of the fiber bundle was uniformly fanned out and spread over the machined
   surface of the concrete cube.
25 On the machined surface of the concrete cube, Sikadur@-330 was then
   distributed uniformly over the grooves with the fiber bundle, and therefore the
   entire machined surface was covered with sufficient adhesive.
   A prepared woven fabric composed of SikaWrap@ 300 C NW (width 20 cm,
   length 180 cm) was laminated in the region of the final 20 cm of the loose ends
30 thereof with Sikadur@-300 by means of a paint roller. A laminated loose end
   was placed onto the machined face of the concrete cube and pressed on there
   with a paint roller. Sikadur@-330 was applied over the attached woven fabric by
   means of a notched trowel. The woven fabric was folded in a loop, and the

                                           20
   other loose and laminated end was placed onto the same location of the
   concrete cube such that the two ends of the woven fabric came to lie one
   above the other. The woven fabric was pressed on in turn with the paint roller.
   Excess adhesive was removed from the test piece with a spatula of the width
 5 of the concrete cube.
   The test pieces produced in such a manner were left for 7 days at 230C and
   50% relative air humidity so that the adhesive could cure. Test pieces with fiber
   bundles made from glass fibers with a fiber cross-sectional area of
10 approximately 25 mm2 were also produced in the same manner.
   Two identical test bodies of each type were produced in each case. The results
   of the measurements represent the mean value of the measurements on the
   two identical test pieces.
15
   Measurement Method
   The combined tension and shear resistance of different test pieces was
   measured in accordance with ISO 527-4/EN 2561 at a measurement speed of
   2 mm/min at 230C and a relative air humidity of 50%.
20
   The combined tension and shear resistance of the adhesive bond was tested
   by the loop formed by the SikaWrap-300C NW woven fabric being placed
   around a steel tube connected to the movable frame of the test machine. The
   concrete cube was connected to the fixed frame of the test machine via a steel
25 tie-bar placed thereon and threaded rods.

                           21
Results
Bore    Grooves  Material of   Maximum   Mean value
        (number) fiber bundles load (kN) (kN)
No      None                   36.1      37.1
                               40.3
                               34.9
Yes     None     Carbon fibers 47.6      44.6
                               39.0
                               47.2
Yes     None     Glass fibers  54.9      52.6
                               50.6
                               52.2
Yes     8        Carbon fibers 61.9      64.3
                               66.8
                               64.3
Yes     8        Glass fibers  70.9      63.8
                               56.8
                               63.7

                                        22
   List of Reference Numbers
   1      Supporting structure
   2      Faces (2a, 2b, 2c)
 5 3      Bore (3a, 3b, 3c)
   4      Fiber bundle or fiber strands
   5      Groove
   6      Lamella
   7      Woven fabric
10 8      Edge
   9      Rounded portion
   10     Concrete slab
   11     Reinforcing rib
   12     Adhesive

                                              23
   Claims:
   1.     An arrangement comprising a supporting structure with a surface
          consisting of more faces, wherein a first bore runs from at least one first
 5        face into an inner region of the supporting structure, and said first bore is
          filled with an adhesive and with a portion of a fiber bundle projecting
          beyond said first bore, characterized in that, on the at least one first face
          from which the first bore runs into an inner region of the supporting
          structure, the supporting structure is provided with at least one groove
10        which extends from the first bore in at least one direction on the surface,
          and the projecting part of the fiber bundle is at least partially located in
          the at least one groove and is fastened therein with adhesive, wherein a
          second bore runs from a second face of the surface of the supporting
          structure into an inner region of the supporting structure, which second
15        face faces away from the first face, and the at least one groove runs
          from the inlet location of the first bore along the surface of the supporting
          structure toward the inlet location of the second bore, and in that the
          projecting portion of the fiber bundle leads into the second bore and is
          fastened therein with adhesive, and in that the first bore and the second
20        bore are connected to each other in the extension of the respective bore
          axes thereof.
   2.   The arrangement as claimed in claim 1, characterized in that two ends of
        the fiber bundle overlap, so that the fiber bundle forms a closed loop.
25
   3.   The arrangement as claimed in claim 2, characterized in that said overlap
        is located in the first bore or in the second bore.
   4.   The arrangement as claimed in claim 2, characterized in that said overlap
30      is located at any location in the groove.
   5.   The arrangement as claimed in one of the preceding claims 2 to 4,
        characterized in that the length of the overlapping region of the fiber
        bundle is 5 to 50 cm.

                                           24
   6.  The arrangement as claimed in one of the preceding claims 2 to 4,
       characterized in that the fiber bundle is repeatedly wound around the
       supporting structure.
 5
   7.  The arrangement as claimed in one of the preceding claims 1 to 4,
       characterized in that on the at least one first face, the supporting structure
       is provided with a plurality of grooves which extend from the first bore in a
       region of at least one circular sector, and the projecting portion of the fiber
10     bundle, divided up according to fiber strands, is located in the grooves
       and is fastened therein with adhesive.
   8.  The    arrangement    as    claimed    in claim   7,   characterized   in  that
       characterized in that the number of grooves which emerge from the first
15     bore is 2 to 16.
   9.  The arrangement as claimed in claim 7, characterized in that the circular
       sector has a center point angle of 600 to 3600.
20 10. The arrangement as claimed in one of the preceding claims 1 to 4,
       characterized in that the groove runs over at least one edge which
       connects two faces of the surface of the supporting framework to each
       other, and said at least one edge has a rounded portion in the interior of
       the groove.
25
   11. The arrangement as claimed in one of the preceding claims 1 to 4,
       characterized in that the surface of the supporting structure is at least
       partially connected to at least one surface reinforcement, wherein the
       surface reinforcement is adhesively bonded to the surface of the
30     supporting framework at least in the region of that portion of the fiber
       bundle which has been fastened in the groove by means of adhesive.
   12.   The arrangement as claimed in claim 11, characterized in that the
         surface reinforcement is a lamella and/or to at least one woven fabric.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
