                                          ABSTRACT
        Embodiments described herein relate to compositions, devices, and methods for
storage of energy (e.g., electrical energy) involving polyacetylene-containing polymers.

   WO 2013/154724                                                          PCT/US2013/030738
                DEVICES AND METHODS INCLUDING POLYACETYLENES
                                       Related Applications
            This application claims priority under 35 U.S.C. § 119(e) to co-pending United
 5  States Provisional Application Serial No. 61/623,887, filed April 13, 2012, the contents
    of which are incorporated herein by reference in its entirety for all purposes.
                                       Field of the Invention
            Devices for storage of electrical energy are described, as well as related methods.
10
                                   Background of the Invention
            Supercapacitors, or electrochemical double-layer capacitors, have been shown to
    achieve higher power and longer cycles than other energy storage devices including
    batteries. Supercapacitors have the potential to be useful in a wide range of applications
15  including automobiles (e.g., hybrid cars), electronics, and other applications requiring a
    power source. However, their widespread use has been limited due to the use of
    expensive materials and complex handling procedures in manufacturing.
                                     Summary of the Invention
20          Electrical energy storage device are provided, as well as related methods. In
    some embodiments, the electrical energy storage device comprises a first electrode
    comprising a polymer comprising a substituted or unsubstituted polyacetylene; a second
    electrode in electrochemical communication with the first electrode; a porous separator
    material arranged between the first and second electrodes; and an electrolyte in
25  electrochemical communication with the first and second electrodes.
            Methods for fabricating an electrical energy storage device are also provided.
    The method may comprise forming a conductive material comprising a polymer
    comprising a substituted or unsubstituted polyacetylene on the surface of a substrate.
            Methods for storing electrical energy are also provided. The method may
30  comprise applying an electric field to a device comprising a polymer comprising a
    substituted or unsubstituted polyacetylene.

   WO 2013/154724                                                            PCT/US2013/030738
                                                   -2
                                  Brief Description of the Drawings
             FIG. 1A shows a schematic representation of an energy storage device.
             FIG. lB shows another schematic representation of an energy storage device.
 5           FIG. 2 shows the chemical structure of an exemplary unsubstituted
    polyacetylene.
             FIG. 3 shows a graph of the voltage of a device including polyacetylene at
    various charging states.
             FIG. 4 shows a graph of the estimated capacitance of a device including
10  polyacetylene on the first discharging curve.
             FIG. 5 shows a graph of the integrated energy input and output during
    charging/discharging of a device including polyacetylene.
             FIG. 6 shows a schematic representation of a single-cell supercapacitor with
    polyacetylene as a positive electrode.
15           FIG. 7 shows a schematic representation of a multi-cell supercapacitor with three
    cells connected in parallel (e.g., a triple stack) with polyacetylene as a positive electrode.
             Other aspects, embodiments and features of the invention will become apparent
    from the following detailed description when considered in conjunction with the
    accompanying drawings. The accompanying figures are schematic and are not intended
20  to be drawn to scale. For purposes of clarity, not every component is labeled in every
    figure, nor is every component of each embodiment of the invention shown where
    illustration is not necessary to allow those of ordinary skill in the art to understand the
    invention. All patent applications and patents incorporated herein by reference are
    incorporated by reference in their entirety. In case of conflict, the present specification,
25  including definitions, will control.
                                          Detailed Description
             Embodiments described herein relate to compositions, devices, and methods for
    storage of energy (e.g., electrical energy). In some cases, devices including relatively
30  inexpensive and readily available conductive materials such as polyacetylene-containing
    polymers are described.
             In some embodiments, devices for energy storage are provided. For example, the
    device may be an electrochemical double-layer capacitor, also known as a

   WO 2013/154724                                                           PCT/US2013/030738
                                                  -3
    supercapacitor, supercondenser, electrochemical double-layer capacitor, or ultracapacitor.
    Typically, the device may store energy (e.g., electric energy) in an electric field that is
    established by charge separation at an interface between two electroactive materials (e.g.,
    electrode and electrolyte). A general embodiment of an energy storage device can
 5  include a first electrode, a second electrode in electrochemical communication with the
    first electrode, and a separator material (e.g., a porous separator material) arranged
    between the first and second electrodes. In some embodiments, the first electrode is a
    cathode and the second electrode is an anode. In some embodiments, the first electrode
    is an anode and the second electrode is a cathode. The device includes an electrolyte or
10  other mobile phase that can dissociate into anions and cations in contact with both
    electrodes. The components of the device may be assembled such that the electrolyte is
    arranged between the first and second electrodes.
             FIG. 1A shows an illustrative embodiment of a device as described herein. In the
    embodiment shown, single-cell device 10 includes a first electrode 20, which includes a
15  conductive material 22 in contact with a substrate 24. A separator material 40 can be
    formed adjacent to electrode 20. A second electrode 30 may be arranged in
    electrochemical communication with the first electrode. For example, as shown in FIG.
    1, electrode 30 includes a conductive material 32 in contact with a substrate 34,
    conductive material 32 being in contact with a surface of separator material 40 that is
20  opposed to the surface of the separator material that is in contact with conductive
    material 22. An electrolyte may be arranged in contact with both electrode 20 and
    electrode 30.
             In some cases, the device may be a single-cell device. That is, the device may
    include two conductive materials, each formed on different substrates and each
25  conductive material arranged on an opposing side of a separator material, as shown in
    FIGS. lA-B. In some cases, the device may be a multi-cell device, for example, as
    shown in FIG. 7. It should be understood that there are other embodiments in which the
    number and orientation of the components is varied. In some embodiments, one or more
    of the device components can be formed as thin films.
30           In one embodiment, the first and second electrodes may be placed on opposite
    surfaces of a substantially planar separator material wherein the thickness of the
    separator material determines the distance between the electrodes.

   WO 2013/154724                                                           PCT/US2013/030738
                                                  -4
             Some embodiments described herein involve the use of a polymer comprising a
    substituted or unsubstituted polyacetylene, as described more fully below. In some
    cases, the polymer may have a substituted or unsubstituted polyacetylene backbone. In
    some cases, the polymer may be a copolymer (e.g., random copolymer, block copolymer,
 5  etc.), a portion of which may have a substituted or unsubstituted polyacetylene backbone.
    In some cases, the substituted or unsubstituted polyacetylene polymer may be arranged
    in a device as an n-type material within a device. The term "n-type material" is given its
    ordinary meaning in the art and refers to a material that has more negative carriers
    (electrons) than positive carriers (holes). In some cases, the substituted or unsubstituted
10  polyacetylene polymer may be arranged in a device as a p- type material within a device.
    The term "p-type material" is given its ordinary meaning in the art and refers to a
    material that has more positive carriers (holes) than negative carriers (electrons). Those
    of ordinary skill in the art would be capable of selecting the particular polyacetylene
    polymer suitable for use in a particular application. In some embodiments, the
15  polyacetylene polymer may be selected to include various electron-withdrawing groups.
    Examples of electron-withdrawing groups include, but are not limited to, fluoro, nitro,
    cyano, carbonyl groups, sulfonyl, haloaryl (e.g., fluorinated aryls), and haloalkyl (e.g.,
    fluorinated alkyls). In some embodiments, the polyacetylene polymer may be selected to
    include various electron-donating groups. Examples of electron-donating groups
20  include, but are not limited to, alkyl, amino, methoxy, and the like.
             In some cases, the first electrode includes the polymer comprising the substituted
    or unsubstituted polyacetylene. In some cases, the second electrode includes the
    polymer comprising the substituted or unsubstituted polyacetylene. In some cases, both
    the first and second electrodes include polymers comprising substituted or unsubstituted
25  polyacetylenes. In some cases, the polymer may be a polyacetylene polymer substituted
    with carbon monoxide groups. The polymer may, in some cases, be arranged as a
    component of a composite material. For example, the composite material may include
    the polymer comprising the substituted or unsubstituted polyacetylene in combination
    with other components, such as carbon nanotubes, activated carbon, or a metal oxide.
30           In some embodiments, the first electrode includes a polymer comprising a
    substituted or unsubstituted polyacetylene. In some cases, the first electrode may include
    a composite material including the polyacetylene-containing polymer. The first
    electrode may include additional components, such as a charge collector material in

   WO 2013/154724                                                           PCT/US2013/030738
                                                 -5
    physical contact with the polymer. For example, the polymer may be formed on the
    surface of a substrate comprising the charge collector material, i.e., the polymer may be
    formed on a conducting plate substrate. The charge collector material may be any
    material capable of facilitating the separation of charge within a double-layer capacitor.
 5  In some cases, the charge collector material includes a metal and/or a carbon-based
    material. Examples of charge collector materials include aluminum, polyacetylene, and
    glassy carbon.
            In some embodiments, the second electrode may include a conductive material,
    including a carbon-based material or a conducting polymer. For example, the second
10  electrode may include carbon, activated carbon, graphite, graphene, carbon nanotubes,
    and/or a conducting polymer such as polythiophene, polypyrrole, and the like. In some
    cases, the second electrode includes a polymer comprising a substituted or unsubstituted
    polyacetylene as the conductive material, or in addition to the conductive material. In
    some cases, the second electrode may include a composite material including the
15  polyacetylene-containing polymer. The second electrode may include additional
    components, such as a charge collector material in physical contact with the conductive
    material. For example, the conductive material may be formed on the surface of a
    substrate comprising the charge collector material. In some cases, the charge collector
    material includes a metal, and/or a carbon-based material. Examples of charge collector
20  materials include aluminum, polyacetylene, and glassy carbon.
            Electrodes described herein, including electrodes which comprise polyacetylene
    containing polymers, may include additional components that may improve the
    performance, stability and/or other properties of the polyacetylene-containing polymer or
    electrode. For example, the electrode may include a conductive material in powder form,
25  and may further include a material that binds the powder particles together. Examples of
    other additives or modifiers include metal salts, metal oxides, polydimethylsiloxane,
    polystyrene, polypropylene, silicone oil, mineral oil, paraffin, a cellulosic polymer,
    polybutadiene, polyneopropene, natural rubber, polyimide, or other polymers.
            In some cases, at least a portion of an electrode may be fabricated from a mixture
30  containing the polymer comprising the substituted or unsubstituted polyacetylene and a
    fluid carrier. For example, the mixture may be used to form a film or layer containing
    the substituted or unsubstituted polyacetylene via a casting method, or other methods.
    The film or layer may be used as part of an active layer within an electrode. In some

   WO 2013/154724                                                           PCT/US2013/030738
                                                 -6
    cases, the film or layer may be used as an active layer in the first electrode. In some
    cases, the film or layer may be used as an active layer in the second electrode. In some
    cases, the films or layers may have a thickness in the range of about 0.001 mm to about
    100 mm, 0.01 mm to about 100 mm, 0.01 mm to about 10 mm, or, in some cases, about
 5  0.01 mm to about 1 mm.
            In some cases, the polyacetylene-containing polymer may be combined with one
    or more polymers having a different chemical structure, molecular weight, polymer
    length, polymer morphology, and/or other polymer characteristic relative to the
    polyacetylene-containing polymer. For example, a polymer blend which includes the
10  polyacetylene-containing polymer may be utilized in devices described herein. In some
    cases, the polyacetylene-containing polymer may be combined with a conducting
    polymer. For example, the conducting polymer may be a derivative of polyaniline,
    polyphenylene, polyarylene, poly(bisthiophene phenylene), a ladder polymer,
    poly(arylene vinylene), or poly(arylene ethynylene), any of which is optionally
15  substituted. In some embodiments, the conducting polymer is an optionally substituted
    polythiophene or a copolymer thereof with other conjugated aromatic or alkene units. In
    some embodiments, the conducting polymer is an optionally substituted polypyrrole or a
    copolymer thereof with other conjugated aromatic or alkene units.
            The separator material (e.g., porous separator material) may be any material
20  capable of physically separating the first and second electrodes, while also allowing
    fluids and/or charged species (e.g., electrolyte) to travel from one electrode to another.
    The separator material may also be selected to be chemically inert to other components
    of the device, so as to not interfere with device performance (e.g., charge/discharge of
    the device). In some cases, the separator material is paper. In some cases, the separator
25  material comprises a polymer. For example, the polymer may include polypropylene,
    polyethylene, cellulose, a polyarylether, or a fluoropolymer. In some cases, the separator
    material is a porous separator material.
            Any component of the device, or portion thereof, may be porous or may have a
    sufficient number of pores or interstices such that the component, or portion thereof, is
30  readily crossed or permeated by, for example, a fluid. In some cases, a porous material
    may improve the performance of the device by advantageously facilitating the diffusion
    of charged species to electroactive portions of the device. In some cases, a porous
    material may improve the performance of the device by increasing the surface area of an

   WO 2013/154724                                                              PCT/US2013/030738
                                                    -7
    electroactive portion of the device. In some embodiments, a portion of an electrode may
    be modified to be porous. In some embodiments, at least a portion of the separator
    material may be selected to be porous.
            The device may further include an electrolyte arranged to be in electrochemical
 5  communication with the first and second electrodes. The electrolyte can be any material
    capable of transporting either positively or negatively charged ions or both between two
    electrodes and should be chemically compatible with the electrodes. In some cases, the
    electrolyte is selected to be capable of supporting high charge stabilization. In some
    embodiments, the electrolyte comprises a liquid. In one set of embodiment, the
10  electrolyte is an ionic liquid. Other examples of electrolytes include ethylene carbonate
    solutions or propylene carbonate solutions, either of which include at least one salt
    having the formula, [(R) 4N*] [X-], wherein X is (PF 6)-, (BF 4 )-, (SO 3 Ra)-, (RaSO 2-N
    SO 2 Ray, CF 3 COO-, (CF 3 ) 3 CO- or (CF 3) 2CHO)-, wherein R is alkyl and Ra is alkyl, aryl,
    fluorinated alkyl, or fluorinated aryl. In some embodiments the nitrogen of the
15  ammonium ion may be part of a ring system. In another embodiment, the electrolyte
    may include a quaternary nitrogen species in which the nitrogen has an sp 2 electronic
    configuration, such as an imidazolium cation.
            In some embodiments, the electrolyte may selected to be substantially free of
    metal-containing species (e.g., metals or metal ions), or may include less than about 1%,
20  less than about 0.1%, less than about 0.01%, less than about 0.001%, or less than about
    0.0001% of metals and/or metal ions, based on the total amount of electrolyte. In some
    embodiments, the electrolyte may be selected to be substantially free of lithium
    containing species or lithium ion-containing species. In some embodiments, the
    electrolyte does not include metal-containing species.
25          Methods for storing electrical energy using any of the devices described herein
    are also provided. For example, the method may involve application of an electric field
    to a device as described herein. In some embodiments, the device may exhibit a specific
    capacitance of about 50 Farad/g, about 100 Farad/g, about 150 Farad/g, about 200
    Farad/g (e.g., about 220 Farad/g), about 300 Farad/g, about 400 Farad/g, or, in some
30  cases, about 500 Farad/g. For example, the device may exhibit a specific capacitance in
    the range of about 50 Farad/g to about 500 Farad/g, about 100 Farad/g to about 500
    Farad/g, about 200 Farad/g to about 500 Farad/g, about 300 Farad/g to about 500
    Farad/g, or about 400 Farad/g to about 500 Farad/g.

   WO 2013/154724                                                           PCT/US2013/030738
             In some embodiments, the device may store about 50 kJ/kg, about 100 kJ/kg,
    about 200 kJ/kg, about 300 kJ/kg, about 400 kJ/kg, about 500 kJ/kg, about 600 kJ/kg, of
    electrical energy. In some cases, the device may store between about 50 kJ/kg and about
    600 kJ/kg of electrical energy.
 5           In some cases, the device is charged to about 1.5 V, about 2.0 V, about 2.5 V
    (e.g., about 2.7 V), about 3.0 V, or, about 3.5 V.
             Devices and methods disclosed herein may capable of achieve relatively high
    specific energy density. In some embodiments, the device may achieve specific energy
    densities beyond those which are produced by devices limited by thermodynamic
10  reduction/oxidation potentials, such as batteries (e.g., lithium-containing or lithium ion
    containing batteries). Devices and methods disclosed herein can supply individual cell
    voltages that exceed the thermodynamic limits that would result in batteries made from
    the similar materials. In some embodiments, the device has a specific energy density of
    about 100 kJ/kg, about 200 kJ/kg, about 300 kJ/kg, about 400 kJ/kg, about 500 kJ/kg, or
15  about 600 kJ/kg, based on the total weight of conductive material and, if present,
    polyacetylene-containing materials within the electrodes. For example, in embodiments
    where an electrode includes a composite material comprising a polymer comprising a
    substituted or unsubstituted polyacetylene and a conductive material, the specific energy
    density is based on the total weight of the conductive material and the polymer
20  comprising the substituted or unsubstituted polyacetylene.
             At least some of the devices disclosed herein provide an energy storage
    mechanism that includes both (1) electrostatic storage of electrical energy achieved by
    separation of charge in a Helmholtz double layer at the surface of a conductor electrode
    and an electrolytic solution electrolyte; and (2) electrochemical storage of electrical
25  energy achieved by redox reactions on the surface of at least one of the electrodes or by
    specifically adsorbed ions that results in a reversible Faradaic charge-transfer on the
    electrode.
             Methods for fabricating the devices described herein are also provided. The
    method may involve forming a conductive material that includes a polymer comprising a
30  substituted or unsubstituted polyacetylene on the surface of a substrate, such as a charge
    collector substrate (e.g., conducting plate). The method may further involve arranging a
    separator material in contact with the conductive material. For example, a device may be
    fabricated by forming a first conductive material including a polyacetylene-containing

   WO 2013/154724                                                            PCT/US2013/030738
                                                 -9
    polymer the surface of a first substrate, and arranging a first surface of a separator
    material in contact with the first conductive material. A second, conductive material
    may then be arranged in contact with a second, opposing side of the separator material,
    such that the first conductive material is in electrochemical communication with the
 5  second conductive material. The separator material may also be arranged to physically
    separate the first and second conductive materials. The method may further involve
    arranging an electrolyte in contact with the first and second electrodes. FIGS. lA-B
    show illustrative embodiments of devices as described herein.
            Conductive materials described herein may be formed on a substrate using
10  various methods, including evaporation, direct polymerization, inkjet printing, casting
    methods including drop-casting and spin-casting, and the like. In some cases, the
    conductive material is in the form of a solid, which is then arranged/assembled on a
    substrate. For example, the conductive material (e.g., polyacetylene-containing polymer)
    may be in the form of a powder and arranged between the substrate and another device
15  component (e.g., the porous separator material). In other cases, the conductive material
    is combined with a fluid carrier or solvent to form a solution, dispersion, or suspension,
    and the conductive material is formed on the substrate via a casting method (e.g., spin
    casting, drop-casting, etc.) or by printing (e.g., inkjet printing). For example, a mixture
    comprising the polymer comprising the substituted or unsubstituted polyacetylene and a
20  fluid carrier may be provided and then formed into a film. In some cases, films having a
    thickness in the range of about 0.01 mm to about 1 mm may be formed using such
    methods. In other cases, the polyacetylene-containing polymer is directly synthesized on
    the substrate. The conductive material may be treated by various methods to improve
    processability, physical and/or mechanical stability, and/or device performance. In some
25  cases, the conductive material may be subjected to application of high pressure prior to
    formation on a substrate. For example, the conductive material (e.g., polyacetylene
    containing polymer) may be in the form of a powder, which is then placed into a
    hydraulic press to form a pellet, film, or other shape. In some cases, the conductive
    material may be subjected to crosslinking conditions and/or solvent treatments.
30          As described herein, the device may include a polyacetylene-containing polymer.
    In some cases, the devices includes a substituted or an unsubstituted polyacetylene. In
    some cases, the devices includes a copolymer comprising polyacetylene. The polymer

   WO 2013/154724                                                           PCT/US2013/030738
                                                  - 10
    backbone may include cis double bonds, trans double bonds, or combinations thereof. In
    some embodiments, the polymer may include the structure,
                                            R1          R3
                                                    2         4
                                                 R2          R
             wherein:
 5           R , R2 , R , and R4 can be the same or different and each is H, alkyl, heteroalkyl,
    aryl, heteroaryl, heterocyclyl, halo, cyano, sulfonyl, sulfate, phosphonyl, phosphate, or
    carbonyl group (e.g., carboxylate, ketones such as alkylcarbonyl or arylcarbonyl, etc.),
    any of which is optionally substituted; and
             m and n are each greater than 1.
10           In some embodiments, R , R2 , R , and R4 are each H. In some embodiments,
    at least one of R , R2 , R , and R4 is halo (e.g., fluorine).
             In some embodiments, the polymer has the structure,
                                                    m             n,
             wherein m and n are greater than 1.
15           In some embodiments, the polymer has the structure,
                                           R3
                                     R2          R4                   R4
             wherein:
             R , R2 , R , and R4 can be the same or different and each is H, alkyl, aryl, halo,
    cyano, sulfonyl, sulfate, phosphonyl, phosphate, or carbonyl group (e.g., carboxylate,
20  ketones such as alkylcarbonyl or arylcarbonyl, etc.), any of which is optionally
    substituted; and
             m, m', n, and n' are each greater than 1.
             In some embodiments, the polymer has the structure,

   WO 2013/154724                                                           PCT/US2013/030738
                                          R3
                                       -m'-,      n' -      -M -           -n
                                     R2        R4
                                                                0-11
            wherein:
            R , R2 , R3 , and R4 can be the same or different and each is H, alkyl, aryl, halo,
    cyano, sulfonyl, sulfate, phosphonyl, phosphate, or carbonyl group (e.g., carboxylate,
 5  ketones such as alkylcarbonyl or arylcarbonyl, etc.), any of which is optionally
    substituted; and
            m, m', n, n', and o are each greater than 1.
            In any of the embodiments disclosed herein, n, n', m, m' and o are the same or
    different and are an integer between 2 and 10,000, or between 10 and 10,000, or between
10  100 and 10,000, or between 100 and 1,000. The molecular weight of the polyacetylene
    containing polymer may be between about 500 and about 1,000,000, or between about
    500 and about 100,000, or between about 10,000 and about 100,000, or the like.
            Methods described herein may involve the synthesis of polymers including a
    substituted or unsubstituted polyacetylene. In some cases, the polymers may be
15  synthesized in the presence of a fluid carrier, such as toluene. For example, the polymer
    may be produced using cationic methods, metal catalyzed insertion reactions, or metal
    alkylidene reactions proceeding through metallocyclobutene intermediates (also known
    as a ring opening metathesis polymerization if the acetylene is considered to be a two
    membered cyclic alkene), and the like. Typically, monomeric species, or a combination
20  of monomeric species, are exposed to a catalyst or catalyst mixture under appropriate
    conditions in a reaction vessel to produce the polymer. In some cases, the monomeric
    species includes a carbon-carbon triple bond. In some cases, the monomeric species
    includes a carbon-carbon double bond. In some cases, the monomeric species includes a
    carbonyl or C=O group. The monomeric species may be in vapor phase or in solution
25  phase, and may optionally be combined with a fluid carrier or solvent (e.g., organic
    solvent) in the reaction vessel. In an illustrative embodiment, acetylene gas may be
    introduced to the reaction vessel containing a catalyst or catalyst mixture. In some cases,

   WO 2013/154724                                                           PCT/US2013/030738
                                                 - 12
    the polymer may be synthesized in a gel form, i.e., swollen with solvent and/or other
    additives. In some cases, the polymer (e.g., polyacetylene) may be synthesized directly
    onto a substrate, e.g., as a film.
            In some cases, the method involves polymerizing at least one monomeric species
 5  including a carbon-carbon triple bond to form a polyacetylene-containing polymer. The
    carbon-carbon triple bond may be unsubstituted (e.g., acetylene) or substituted with one
    or more substituents. In some cases, the monomeric species may be polymerized in the
    presence of additional monomers (e.g., to form a copolymer). Examples of additional
    monomeric species include carbon monoxide, carbon disulfide, and the like. In one set
10  of embodiments, a monomeric species including a carbon-carbon triple bond and carbon
    monoxide are copolymerized to form a polymer including alpha, beta-unsaturated
    carbonyl moieties.
            Those of ordinary skill in the art would be able to select a catalyst or catalyst
    mixture suitable for use in the synthesis of polymers described herein. The catalyst may
15  be in solid form (e.g., particles), or combined with a solvent to form a solution,
    suspension, or dispersion. In some cases, the catalyst is a metal-containing catalyst or
    catalyst mixture. For example, the catalyst or catalyst mixture may include aluminum,
    titanium, tungsten, ruthenium, rhodium, molybdenum, or combinations thereof. In some
    cases, the catalyst may be a mixture including titanium and aluminum (e.g., Ziegler
20  Natta catalyst). In some embodiments, the catalyst or catalyst mixture may comprise
    ruthenium, rhodium, tungsten, or molybdenum. Examples of catalyst and catalyst
    mixtures include, but are not limited to, the Ziegler-Natta catalyst (e.g., prepare from,
    benzylidene-bis(tricyclohexylphosphine)dichloro-ruthenium (Grubbs' first generation
    catalyst), benzylidene[1,3-bis(2,4,6-trimethylphenyl)-2-imidazolidinylidene]dichloro
25  (tricyclohexylphosphine)ruthenium (Grubbs' second generation catalyst), and Schrock
    catalysts (e.g., tris(t-butoxy)(2,2-dimethylpropylidyne)(VI)tungsten).
            In some cases, the catalyst or catalyst mixture is in the form of particles. For
    example, the particles may be aerosol-generated catalyst particles.
            In some cases, polymers as described here may be produced as highly crystalline
30  polymers. In some cases, the polymers may form a solid state structure that is
    substantially fixed.
            The polymerization step may be performed in the presence of additional
    components. For example, monomeric species may be polymerized in the presence of an

   WO 2013/154724                                                              PCT/US2013/030738
                                                   - 13
    additive, such that the additive is entrapped or dispersed throughout the resulting
    polymer material. Such additives may be selected to be electroactive materials (e.g.,
    polymers) that can enhance performance of the device, e.g., enhance charging,
    discharging, and/or stabilization of a charged state.
 5           In some cases, the additive may be a passive material that can be removed post
    polymerization. For example, monomeric species may be polymerized in the presence of
    an additive, wherein at least some of the additive is removed post-polymerization to
    produce a porous polymer material. In some cases, the additive may be removed by
    treatment with heat. In some cases, the additive may be removed by treatment with a
10  solvent.
              For example, the polymerization may be performed in the presence of a phase
    separating polymer that can be removed after polymerization to yield a porous material.
    Without wishing to be bound by any theory, since the capacitance of the device may be
    proportional to the surface area of the interface between an electrode and electrolyte,
15  increasing the surface area of the interface can increase the amount of energy stored in
    the device.
             Other examples of additives that may be used during polymerization include
    other polymers and/or modifiers, such as polydimethylsiloxane, polystyrene,
    polyethylene, polypropylene, silicone oil, mineral oil, paraffin, cellulosic polymers,
20  polybutadiene, polyneopropene, natural rubber, or polyimide.
             Those of ordinary skill in the art would be able to select a set of conditions
    appropriate for a particular polymerization reaction. For example, the conditions may be
    selected based on the chemical structure(s) of the monomeric species (e.g., selection of
    catalyst, solvents, etc.), the stability of the catalyst in the presence of air and/or water,
25  and/or the compatibility (e.g., solubility) of various reaction components with one
    another. Exemplary methods for synthesizing polymers which include a substituted or
    unsubstituted polyacetylene are described in, for example, Liu et al., "Acetylenic
    Polymers: Syntheses, Structure, and Functions," Chem. Rev. 2009, 109, 5799; MacInnes
    et al., "Organic Batteries: Reversible n- and p- Type Electrochemical Doping of
30  Polyacetylene, (CH)x," J.C.S. Chem. Comm. 1981, 371; and Ito et al., "Simultaneous
    Polymerization and Formation of Polyacetylene Film on the Surface of Concentrated
    Soluble Ziegler-Type Catalyst Solution," J. Polymer Science 1974, 12, 11, the contents

   WO 2013/154724                                                           PCT/US2013/030738
                                                 - 14
    of which documents are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety for all
    purposes.
              The polyacetylene-containing polymer may be treated before and/or after
    fabrication of the electrodes, or prior to, during, or after the polymerization step, to
 5  improve the performance, stability, and/or other property of the device. In some cases,
    the polymer may be treated to enhance the charge storage ability of the device. In some
    cases, the polymer may be treated to stabilize the polymer material.     Such treatments
    may include treatment with dichloroketene (Cl 2C=C=O), aromatic diazonium salts (Ar
    N 2 ), disulfides (R-S-S-R), organic sulfur chlorides (RS-Cl), sulfur chlorides (SCl 2 and
10  S 2Cl 2), metal salts and oxides including MnO 2 or Mn(OAc) 2 , silicon hydrides (e.g.,
    RaSH 4 where R can be alkyl, aryl, vinyl, alkoxy, phenoxy, carboxylate and n=0-4) and
    disilanes, compounds having one or more silicon hydride group (e.g., SiH) including
    oligomers and cyclic compounds, polymers containing silicon hydrides such as
    copolymers with polydimethylsiloxane, phenols including sterically hindered phenols
15  (e.g., butylated hydroxyl toluene (BHT) and derivatives thereof), and other radical
    scavengers. For example, the polymerization step may be performed in the presence of a
    stabilizing agent, such that that stabilizing agent is dispersed throughout the resulting
    polymer material.
              Methods described herein may allow for simplified methods for manufacturing
20  materials and devices including polyacetylene-containing polymers. In some
    embodiments, a continuous method for the formation of the polyacetylene-containing
    particles, films, or other materials may be provided. The continuous process may
    involve polymerization of a monomer dissolved in a condensed phase (e.g., solution
    phase) or direct polymerization of a vapor-phase monomer.
25            For example, the method may involve continuously moving a plurality of
    substrates through various reaction zones to form a polyacetylene-containing material.
    In some cases, a substrate may be passed through a first reaction zone, wherein a catalyst
    material (e.g., catalyst particles) may be formed on the substrate. The substrate
    containing the catalyst material may then pass through a second reaction zone containing
30  a monomeric species (e.g., acetylene gas), wherein polymerization takes place at the
    surface of the substrate on the catalyst material. Such methods may allow for the
    production of large quantities of polyacetylene-containing materials and/or formation of
    polyacetylene-containing materials on relatively large surface areas.

   WO 2013/154724                                                           PCT/US2013/030738
                                                 - 15
             The substrate can be any material capable of supporting an electrode and
    electrolyte, as described herein. The substrate may be selected to have a thermal
    coefficient of expansion similar to those of the other components of the device to
    promote adhesion and prevent separation of the components at various temperatures. In
 5  some cases, the substrate may include materials capable of facilitating the separation of
    charge within, for example, a double-layer capacitor, i.e., the substrate may function as a
    charge collector. Examples of substrates include metal (e.g., aluminum) or metal
    containing substrates, polymer substrates, and carbon-based (e.g., carbon, glassy carbon,
    activated carbon, graphene, graphite, carbon nanotubes, etc.) substrates. The dimensions
10  of the substrate may be any length, width, and thickness that is desired for a particular
    end use and may be square, rectangular, circular, or otherwise shaped.
             Various fluid carriers or solvents may be suitable for use in embodiments
    described herein. In some cases, the fluid carrier may be an organic solvent. In some
    cases, the fluid carrier may be an aqueous solvent. Examples of fluid carriers and
15  solvents include, but are not limited to, water, chloroform, carbon dioxide, toluene,
    benzene, hexane, dichloromethane, tetrahydrofuran, ethanol, acetone, or acetonitrile.
             The term "polymers," as used herein, is given its ordinary meaning in the art and
    refers to extended molecular structures comprising a backbone (e.g., non-conjugated
    backbone, conjugated backbone) which optionally contain pendant side groups, where
20  "backbone" refers to the longest continuous bond pathway of the polymer. Polymers
    may also include oligomers. In some embodiments, the polymer comprises a non
    conjugated polymer backbone. In some embodiments, at least a portion of the polymer
    is conjugated, i.e. the polymer has at least one portion along which electron density or
    electronic charge can be conducted, where the electronic charge is referred to as being
25  "delocalized." In some cases, the polymer is a pi-conjugated polymer, where p-orbitals
    participating in conjugation can have sufficient overlap with adjacent conjugated p
    orbitals. In some cases, the polymer is a sigma-conjugated polymer. In one
    embodiment, at least a portion of the backbone is conjugated. In one embodiment, the
    entire backbone is conjugated and the polymer is referred to as a "conjugated polymer."
30  Polymers having a conjugated pi-backbone capable of conducting electronic charge may
    also be referred to as "conducting polymers." In some cases, the conjugated pi-backbone
    may be defined by a plane of atoms directly participating in the conjugation, wherein the

   WO 2013/154724                                                            PCT/US2013/030738
                                                  - 16
    plane arises from a preferred arrangement of the p-orbitals to maximize p-orbital overlap,
    thus maximizing conjugation and electronic conduction.
            As used herein, the term "alkyl" refers to the radical of saturated aliphatic groups,
    including straight-chain alkyl groups, branched-chain alkyl groups, cycloalkyl (alicyclic)
 5  groups, alkyl substituted cycloalkyl groups, and cycloalkyl substituted alkyl groups. In
    some embodiments, a straight chain or branched chain alkyl may have 30 or fewer
    carbon atoms in its backbone, and, in some cases, 20 or fewer. In some embodiments, a
    straight chain or branched chain alkyl has 12 or fewer carbon atoms in its backbone (e.g.,
    Ci-C 12 for straight chain, C 3-C 12 for branched chain), or, in some cases, 6 or fewer, or 4
10  or fewer. Likewise, some cycloalkyls have from 3-10 carbon atoms in their ring
    structure, or have 5, 6 or 7 carbons in the ring structure. Examples of alkyl groups
    include, but are not limited to, methyl, ethyl, propyl, isopropyl, cyclopropyl, butyl,
    isobutyl, tert-butyl, cyclobutyl, hexyl, cyclohexyl, and the like.
            The term "heteroalkyl" refers to an alkyl group as described herein in which one
15  or more carbon atoms is replaced by a heteroatom. Suitable heteroatoms include oxygen,
    sulfur, nitrogen, phosphorus, and the like. Examples of heteroalkyl groups include, but
    are not limited to, alkoxy, amino, thioester, and the like.
            The term "aryl" refers to aromatic carbocyclic groups, optionally substituted,
    having a single ring (e.g., phenyl), multiple rings (e.g., biphenyl), or multiple fused rings
20  in which at least one is aromatic (e.g., 1,2,3,4-tetrahydronaphthyl, naphthyl, anthryl, or
    phenanthryl). That is, at least one ring may have a conjugated pi electron system, while
    other, adjoining rings can be cycloalkyls, cycloalkenyls, cycloalkynyls, aryls and/or
    heterocyclyls. The aryl group may be optionally substituted, as described herein.
    "Carbocyclic aryl groups" refer to aryl groups wherein the ring atoms on the aromatic
25  ring are carbon atoms. Carbocyclic aryl groups include monocyclic carbocyclic aryl
    groups and polycyclic or fused compounds (e.g., two or more adjacent ring atoms are
    common to two adjoining rings) such as naphthyl groups.
            The term "heteroaryl" refers to aryl groups comprising at least one heteroatom as
    a ring atom.
30          The term "heterocyclyl" refers to refer to cyclic groups containing at least one
    heteroatom as a ring atom, in some cases, 1 to 3 heteroatoms as ring atoms, with the
    remainder of the ring atoms being carbon atoms. Suitable heteroatoms include oxygen,
    sulfur, nitrogen, phosphorus, and the like. In some cases, the heterocycle may be 3- to

   WO 2013/154724                                                           PCT/US2013/030738
                                                - 17
    10-membered ring structures, or in some cases 3- to 7-membered rings, whose ring
    structures include one to four heteroatoms. The term "heterocycle" may include
    heteroaryl groups (e.g., aromatic heterocycles), saturated heterocycles (e.g.,
    cycloheteroalkyl) groups, or combinations thereof. The heterocycle may be a saturated
 5  molecule, or may comprise one or more double bonds. In some case, the heterocycle is
    an aromatic heterocycle, such as pyrrole, pyridine, and the like. In some cases, the
    heterocycle may be attached to, or fused to, additional rings to form a polycyclic group.
    In some cases, the heterocycle may be part of a macrocycle. The heterocycle may also
    be fused to a spirocyclic group. In some cases, the heterocycle may be attached to a
10  compound via a nitrogen or a carbon atom in the ring.
            Heterocycles include, for example, thiophene, benzothiophene, thianthrene,
    furan, tetrahydrofuran, pyran, isobenzofuran, chromene, xanthene, phenoxathiin, pyrrole,
    dihydropyrrole, pyrrolidine, imidazole, pyrazole, pyrazine, isothiazole, isoxazole,
    pyridine, pyrazine, pyrimidine, pyridazine, indolizine, isoindole, indole, indazole, purine,
15  quinolizine, isoquinoline, quinoline, phthalazine, naphthyridine, quinoxaline,
    quinazoline, cinnoline, pteridine, carbazole, carboline, triazole, tetrazole, oxazole,
    isoxazole, thiazole, isothiazole, phenanthridine, acridine, pyrimidine, phenanthroline,
    phenazine, phenarsazine, phenothiazine, furazan, phenoxazine, pyrrolidine, oxolane,
    thiolane, oxazole, oxazine, piperidine, homopiperidine (hexamnethyleneimine),
20  piperazine (e.g., N-methyl piperazine), morpholine, lactones, lactams such as
    azetidinones and pyrrolidinones, sultams, sultones, other saturated and/or unsaturated
    derivatives thereof, and the like. The heterocyclic ring can be optionally substituted at
    one or more positions with such substituents as described herein. In some cases, the
    heterocycle may be bonded to a compound via a heteroatom ring atom (e.g., nitrogen).
25  In some cases, the heterocycle may be bonded to a compound via a carbon ring atom. In
    some cases, the heterocycle is pyridine, imidazole, pyrazine, pyrimidine, pyridazine,
    acridine, acridin-9-amine, bipyridine, naphthyridine, quinoline, benzoquinoline,
    benzoisoquinoline, phenanthridine- 1,9-diamine, or the like.
            As used herein, the term "halo" designates -F, -Cl, -Br, or -I.
30          The terms "carboxyl group," "carbonyl group," and "acyl group" are recognized
    in the art and can include such moieties as can be represented by the general formula:
                                                     O
                                                    W

   WO 2013/154724                                                            PCT/US2013/030738
                                                  - 18
    wherein W is H, OH, 0-alkyl, 0-alkenyl, or a salt thereof. Where W is O-alkyl, the
    formula represents an "ester." Where W is OH, the formula represents a "carboxylic
    acid." The term "carboxylate" refers to an anionic carboxyl group. In general, where the
    oxygen atom of the above formula is replaced by sulfur, the formula represents a
 5  "thiolcarbonyl" group. Where W is a S-alkyl, the formula represents a "thiolester."
    Where W is SH, the formula represents a "thiolcarboxylic acid." On the other hand,
    where W is alkyl or aryl, the above formula represents a "ketone" group (e.g.,
    alkylcarbonyl, arylcarbonyl, etc.). Where W is hydrogen, the above formula represents
    an "aldehyde" group.
10          Any of the above groups may be optionally substituted. As used herein, the term
    "substituted" is contemplated to include all permissible substituents of organic
    compounds, "permissible" being in the context of the chemical rules of valence known to
    those of ordinary skill in the art. It will be understood that "substituted" also includes
    that the substitution results in a stable compound, e.g., which does not spontaneously
15  undergo transformation such as by rearrangement, cyclization, elimination, etc. In some
    cases, "substituted" may generally refer to replacement of a hydrogen with a substituent
    as described herein. However, "substituted," as used herein, does not encompass
    replacement and/or alteration of a key functional group by which a molecule is
    identified, e.g., such that the "substituted" functional group becomes, through
20  substitution, a different functional group. For example, a "substituted phenyl group"
    must still comprise the phenyl moiety and cannot be modified by substitution, in this
    definition, to become, e.g., a pyridine ring. In a broad aspect, the permissible
    substituents include acyclic and cyclic, branched and unbranched, carbocyclic and
    heterocyclic, aromatic and nonaromatic substituents of organic compounds. Illustrative
25  substituents include, for example, those described herein. The permissible substituents
    can be one or more and the same or different for appropriate organic compounds. For
    purposes of this invention, the heteroatoms such as nitrogen may have hydrogen
    substituents and/or any permissible substituents of organic compounds described herein
    which satisfy the valencies of the heteroatoms.
30          Examples of substituents include, but are not limited to, halogen, azide, alkyl,
    aralkyl, alkenyl, alkynyl, cycloalkyl, hydroxyl, alkoxyl, amino, nitro, sulfhydryl, imino,
    amido, phosphonate, phosphinate, carbonyl, carboxyl, silyl, ether, alkylthio, sulfonyl,
    sulfonamido, ketone, aldehyde, ester, heterocyclyl, aromatic or heteroaromatic moieties,

   WO 2013/154724                                                          PCT/US2013/030738
                                                - 19
    -CF 3 , -CN, aryl, aryloxy, perhaloalkoxy, aralkoxy, heteroaryl, heteroaryloxy,
    heteroarylalkyl, heteroaralkoxy, azido, amino, halide, alkylthio, oxo, acylalkyl, carboxy
    esters, -carboxamido, acyloxy, aminoalkyl, alkylaminoaryl, alkylaryl, alkylaminoalkyl,
    alkoxyaryl, arylamino, aralkylamino, alkylsulfonyl, -carboxamidoalkylaryl,
 5  -carboxamidoaryl, hydroxyalkyl, haloalkyl, alkylaminoalkylcarboxy-,
    aminocarboxamidoalkyl-, cyano, alkoxyalkyl, perhaloalkyl, arylalkyloxyalkyl, and the
    like.
                                EXAMPLES AND EMBODIMENTS
10                                           Example 1
             The following example describes the preparation of a polyacetylene polymer. To
    a 100 mL Schlenk flask purged with dry nitrogen was added dry toluene (30 mL),
    followed by tetrabutoxytitanium (5.2 g, 15 mmol). Triethylaluminum solution in toluene
    (31 mL, 1.9 M, 60 mmoL) was slowly added, and the resulting mixture was stirred for 4h
15  at room temperature to form the catalyst solution, which was stored under nitrogen.
             In a separate flask was added dry toluene (40 mL) and small amount of the
    catalyst solution (0.6 mL). Acetylene gas, which was purified by passing through a dry
    ice trap, was introduced via a syringe needle. The polymerization was allowed to
    continue for 16 h. The polymer was suspended in isopropanol, and the precipitates were
20  collected by filtration, washed with isopropanol, and dried under vacuum to yield
    polyacetylene (3.4 g).
                                             Example 2
             In the following example, a supercapacitor device was assembled according to
25  FIG. 1B. The negative electrode was Spectracarb Activated Carbon Fabric Type 2225
    from Engineered Fibers Technology, LLC. In a representative experiment,
    polyacetylene (5.9 mg) was ground into fine particles and evenly spread on the surface of
    half of the 2.5x2.5 cm 2 glassy carbon, and the polyacetylene was then completely
    covered with a piece of filter paper (Whatman #6). On top of the filter paper was placed
30  the carbon cloth cut into rectangular shape, just enough to cover the polyacetylene area
    (the weight of the carbon cloth was 50 mg). On top of the carbon cloth was placed
    another 2.5x2.5 cm 2 glassy carbon square. The completed assembly was then clamped
    together with bind clips, and electrolyte (prepared by mixing tetraethyammonium

   WO 2013/154724                                                          PCT/US2013/030738
                                                 - 20
    hexafluorophosphate, propylene carbonate, and ethylene carbonate in a weight ratio of
    2:1:1) was then added through the edge of the device.
                                              Example 3
 5           The following example describes the performance of the supercapacitor device
    described in Example 2. The device was analyzed by charging at constant current
    (0.002A) until the voltage reached 2.7 V, and then discharging at constant current (0.002
    A) until the voltage reached 0. The device voltage was monitored continuously every
    microsecond during the charging discharging process. The charging/discharging process
10  was repeated three times. FIG. 3 shows the voltage charging state relationship during the
    first three cycles. The capacitance of the device was estimated as 1.53 by calculating the
    reciprocal of the line passing the both ends of the curve. (FIG. 4) The specific
    capacitance based on polyacetylene was calculated to be 259 kF/kg. The specific energy
    based on polyacetylene was calculated by integrate the energy released during the first
15  discharging (FIG. 5, the total energy released during the first discharging was 5.2 J) and
    dividing the total by the mass of the polyacetylene. The calculated specific energy
    density was 882 kJ/kg.
                                              Example 4
20           In the following example, various electrode materials were prepared.
             In one exemplary procedure, polyacetylene films were prepared using a binder
    such as polytetrafluoroethylene (PTFE). In a representative procedure, polyacetylene (1
    g) was ground into fine powder and mixed with polytetrafluoroethylene (PTFE, 60%
    suspension in water, 0.167 g), and further diluted with water (2 g). The resulting dough
25  like material was rolled into 200 micron film on a rolling mill. The resulting film was
    then dried under vacuum and cut into desirable sizes to be used as positive electrodes in
    supercapacitor devices.
             In another exemplary procedure, polyacetylene films using hydraulic press,
    without addition of any binders. In a representative procedure, polyacetylene (4 g) was
30  ground into fine powder, and was evenly loaded onto a 5x5 cm 2 square shaped press die.
    12 Tons of force was applied to result in a 5x5 cm 2 polyacetylene film, which was then
    cut into desirable sizes to be used as electrodes in supercapacitor devices.

   WO 2013/154724                                                           PCT/US2013/030738
                                                 - 21
            In another exemplary procedure, activated carbon films were prepared using
    polytetrafluoroethylene (PTFE) as binder. In a representative procedure, activated
    carbon (2.0 g) was mixed with polytetrafluoroethylene (PTFE, 60% suspension in water,
    0.5 g) and water (4.5 mL). The resulting mixture was kneaded into a dough-like material
 5  and rolled into 200 micron film on a rolling mill. The film was then cut into desirable
    sizes to be used as electrodes in supercapacitor devices.
                                              Example 5
            In the following example, single-cell capacitors were prepared using
10  polyacetylene films as positive electrodes. The films were prepared with a
    polytetrafluoroethylene (PTFE) binder, according to the procedure described in Example
    4.
            A polyacetylene film (168.2 mg), activated carbon film (213.4 mg), and cellulose
    separator, all saturated with electrolyte (1-Ethyl-3-methylimidazolium tetrafluoroborate),
15  were assembled with aluminum foil as shown in FIG. 6. The interfaces between
    aluminum foil/polyacetylene film and aluminum foil/activated carbon film were dusted
    with activated carbon powder (6.9 mg and 5.1 mg respectively) to enhance conductivity.
    The completed assembly was then pressed between two glass slides held together by
    binder clip.
20          The performance of this device was tested by passing a constant current into
    polyacetylene film from the activated carbon film, until the potential difference between
    the two electrodes reached 3.5 V, and then the direction of the current was reversed. The
    energy density of the completed device based on energy released during first cycle was
    65 kJ/kg (245 kJ/kg based on the total weight of carbon and polyacetylene materials on
25  the electrodes).
                                              Example 6
            In the following example, single-cell capacitors were prepared using pressed
    polyacetylene films as positive electrodes. The films were prepared with a
30  polytetrafluoroethylene (PTFE) binder, according to the procedure described in Example
    4. A polytetrafluoroethylene film, binder (198.0 mg), activated carbon film (217.5 mg),
    and cellulose separator, all saturated with electrolyte (1 -ethyl-3-methylimidazolium
    tetrafluoroborate), were assembled with aluminum foil according to FIG. 6. The

   WO 2013/154724                                                            PCT/US2013/030738
                                                 - 22
    interfaces between aluminum foil/polyacetylene film and aluminum foil/activated carbon
    film were dusted with activated carbon powder (10.3 mg and 10.2 mg respectively) to
    enhance conductivity. The completed assembly was then pressed between two glass
    slides held together by binder clip.
 5          The performance of this device was tested by passing a constant current into
    polyacetylene film from the activated carbon film, until the potential difference between
    the two electrodes reached 3.5 V, and then the direction of the current was reversed. The
    energy density of the completed device based on energy released during first cycle was
    81 kJ/kg (256 kJ/kg based on the total weight of carbon and polyacetylene materials on
10  the electrodes).
                                               Example 7
            In the following example, multi-cell capacitors were prepared using
    polyacetylene films as positive electrodes. Three polyacetylene films (220.2 mg, 227.3
15  mg, and 216.8 mg), three activated carbon films (219.9 mg, 249.5 mg, 297.4 mg), and
    cellulose separators, all saturated with electrolyte (1 -ethyl-3-methylimidazolium
    tetrafluoroborate), were assembled with aluminum foils according to FIG. 7. The
    interfaces between aluminum foil/polyacetylene film and aluminum foil/activated carbon
    film were dusted with activated carbon powder (9.9-11.2 mg) to enhance conductivity.
20  The completed assembly was then pressed between two glass slides held together by
    binder clip.
            The performance of this device was tested by passing a constant current into
    polyacetylene film from the activated carbon film, until the potential difference between
    the two electrodes reached 3.5 V, and then the direction of the current was reversed. The
25  energy density of the completed device based on energy released during first cycle was
    60 kJ/kg (242 kJ/kg based on the total weight of carbon and polyacetylene materials on
    the electrodes).
            Having thus described several aspects of some embodiments, it is to be
30  appreciated various alterations, modifications, and improvements will readily occur to
    those skilled in the art. Such alterations, modifications, and improvements are intended
    to be part of this disclosure, and are intended to be within the spirit and scope of the

  WO 2013/154724                                                      PCT/US2013/030738
                                            - 23
   invention. Accordingly, the foregoing description and drawings are by way of example
   only.
           What is claimed:
5

   WO 2013/154724                                                            PCT/US2013/030738
                                                  - 24
    1.       An electrical energy storage device, comprising:
             a first electrode comprising a polymer comprising a substituted or unsubstituted
    polyacetylene;
             a second electrode in electrochemical communication with the first electrode;
 5           a porous separator material arranged between the first and second electrodes; and
             an electrolyte in electrochemical communication with the first and second
    electrodes.
    2.       An electrical energy storage device as in any preceding claim, wherein the
10  electrolyte is a substantially free of metal-containing species.
    3.         An electrical energy storage device as any preceding claim, wherein the
    polymer comprising the substituted or unsubstituted polyacetylene is synthesized in the
    presence of a fluid carrier.
15
    4.         An electrical energy storage device as in claim 3, wherein the polymer
    comprising the substituted or unsubstituted polyacetylene is formed into a film.
    5.         An electrical energy storage device as in any preceding claim2, wherein the first
20  electrode includes an active layer having a thickness in the range of about 0.01 mm to
    about 1 mm.
    6.       An electrical energy storage device as in any preceding claim, wherein the
    electrolyte is a substantially free of lithium-containing species or lithium ion-containing
25  species.
    7.       An electrical energy storage device as in any preceding claim, wherein the
    electrolyte is in liquid form.
30  8.       An electrical energy storage device as in any preceding claim, wherein the
    electrolyte is an ionic liquid.
    9.       An electrical energy storage device as in any preceding claim, wherein the

   WO 2013/154724                                                               PCT/US2013/030738
                                                  - 25
    electrolyte is an ethylene carbonate solution or a propylene carbonate solution, the
    solution comprising a salt having the formula, [(R) 4 N*] [X-], wherein X is (PF 6 )-, (BF 4)-,
    (SO 3 Ray, (RaSO 2 -N-SO 2 Ray, CF 3 CO2 , (CF 3 ) 3 CO-, or (CF 3) 2CHO)-, wherein R is alkyl
    and Ra is alkyl, aryl, fluorinated alkyl, or fluorinated aryl.
 5
    10.     An electrical energy storage device as in any preceding claim, wherein the
    substituted or unsubstituted polyacetylene polymer is arranged as an n-type material.
    11.     An electrical energy storage device as in any preceding claim, wherein the
10  substituted or unsubstituted polyacetylene polymer is arranged as a p-type material.
    12.     An electrical energy storage device as in any preceding claim, wherein the first
    electrode is a cathode and the second electrode is an anode.
15  13.     An electrical energy storage device as in any preceding claim, wherein the second
    electrode comprises a polymer comprising a substituted or unsubstituted polyacetylene.
    14.     An electrical energy storage device as in any preceding claim, wherein the second
    electrode comprises a polymer comprising a substituted or unsubstituted polyacetylene
20  and a conductive material.
    15.     An electrical energy storage device as in any preceding claim, wherein the second
    electrode comprises a composite material comprising a polymer comprising a substituted
    or unsubstituted polyacetylene and a conductive material.
25
    16.     An electrical energy storage device as in any preceding claim, wherein the
    conductive material comprises a carbon-based material.
    17.     An electrical energy storage device as in claim 14, wherein the carbon-based
30  material comprises carbon, activated carbon, graphite, graphene, or carbon nanotubes.
    18.     An electrical energy storage device as in any preceding claim, wherein the
    conductive material comprises a conducting polymer.

   WO 2013/154724                                                          PCT/US2013/030738
                                                -  26
    19.     An electrical energy storage device as in any preceding claim, wherein the
    polymer is a substituted or an unsubstituted polyacetylene.
 5  20.     An electrical energy storage device as in any preceding claim, wherein the
    polymer is a copolymer comprising polyacetylene.
    21.     An electrical energy storage device as in any preceding claim, wherein the
    polymer comprises the structure,
                                          R1          R3
                                                    m          n
                                                 2
10                                             R          R
            wherein:
            R , R2 , R , and R4 can be the same or different and each is H, alkyl, heteroalkyl,
    aryl, heteroaryl, heterocyclyl, halo, cyano, sulfonyl, sulfate, phosphonyl, phosphate, or
    carbonyl group, any of which is optionally substituted; and
15          m and n are each greater than 1.
    22.     An electrical energy storage device as in claim 19, wherein R , R2 , R , and R4 are
    each H.
20  23.     An electrical energy storage device as in claim 19, wherein at least one of R , R 2
    R , and R 4 is fluorine.
    24.     An electrical energy storage device as in any preceding claim, wherein the
    polymer has the structure,
25                                               -m          -n,
            wherein m and n are greater than 1.

   WO 2013/154724                                                          PCT/US2013/030738
                                               - 27
    25.    An electrical energy storage device as in any preceding claim, wherein the
    polymer has the structure,
                                           R3
                                      -m'-        n' -    -m               n
                                    R2        R4                   R4
           wherein:
 5         R , R2 , R , and R4 can be the same or different and each is H, alkyl, aryl, halo,
    cyano, sulfonyl, sulfate, phosphonyl, phosphate, or carbonyl group, any of which is
    optionally substituted; and
           m, m', n, and n' are each greater than 1.
10  26.    An electrical energy storage device as in any preceding claim, wherein the
    polymer has the structure,
                                          R3
                                     -m'       -n'     -    m            'Mn
                                   R2         R4
                                                                        -0
           wherein:
           R , R2 , R , and R4 can be the same or different and each is H, alkyl, aryl, halo,
15  cyano, sulfonyl, sulfate, phosphonyl, phosphate, or carbonyl group, any of which is
    optionally substituted; and
           m, m', n, n', and o are each greater than 1.
    27.    An electrical energy storage device as in any preceding claim, wherein n, n', m,
20  m' and o are the same or different and are an integer between about 2 and about 10,000,
    or between about 10 and about 10,000, or between about 100 and about 10,000, or
    between about 100 and about 1,000r.

   WO 2013/154724                                                         PCT/US2013/030738
                                               - 28
    28.     An electrical energy storage device as in any preceding claim, wherein the
    polymer has a molecular weight between about 500 and about 1,000,000, or between
    about 500 and about 100,000, or between about 10,000 and about 100,000.
 5  29.     An electrical energy storage device as in any preceding claim, wherein the
    polymer is arranged as a component of a composite.
    30.     An electrical energy storage device as in claim 29, wherein the composite further
    comprises carbon nanotubes, activated carbon, or a metal oxide.
10
    31.     An electrical energy storage device as in any preceding claim, wherein the first
    electrode further comprises a charge collector material in physical contact with the
    polymer.
15  32.     An electrical energy storage device as in any preceding claim, wherein the second
    electrode comprises a conductive material and a charge collector material in physical
    contact with the conductive material.
    33.     An electrical energy storage device as in claim 32, wherein the conductive
20  material comprises a carbon-based material and/or a conducting polymer.
    34.     An electrical energy storage device as in claim 33, wherein the carbon-based
    material comprises carbon, activated carbon, graphite, graphene, or carbon nanotubes.
25  35.     An electrical energy storage device as in any preceding claim, wherein the charge
    collector material comprises a metal or a carbon-based material.
    36.     An electrical energy storage device as in any preceding claim, wherein the charge
    collector material comprises aluminum.
30
    37.     An electrical energy storage device as in any preceding claim, wherein the charge
    collector material comprises glassy carbon.

   WO 2013/154724                                                        PCT/US2013/030738
                                               - 29
    38.     An electrical energy storage device as in any preceding claim, wherein the charge
    collector material comprises polyacetylene.
    39.     An electrical energy storage device as in any preceding claim, wherein the porous
 5  separator material is paper.
    40.     An electrical energy storage device as in any preceding claim, wherein the porous
    separator material comprises a polymer.
10  41.     An electrical energy storage device as in any preceding claim, wherein the porous
    separator material comprises polypropylene, polyethylene, cellulose, a polyarylether, or a
    fluoropolymer.
    42.     An electrical energy storage device as in any preceding claim, wherein the
15  device has a charge capacity of about 50 Farad/g.
    43.     An electrical energy storage device as in any preceding claim, wherein the
    device has a charge capacity of about 100 Farad/g.
20  44.     An electrical energy storage device as in any preceding claim, wherein the
    device has a charge capacity of about 150 Farad/g.
    45.     An electrical energy storage device as in any preceding claim, wherein the
    device has a charge capacity of about 200 Farad/g.
25
    46.     An electrical energy storage device as in any preceding claim, wherein the
    device has a charge capacity of about 220 Farad/g.
    47.     An electrical energy storage device as in any preceding claim, wherein the
30  device has a charge capacity of about 300 Farad/g.
    48.     An electrical energy storage device as in any preceding claim, wherein the
    device has a charge capacity of about 400 Farad/g.

   WO 2013/154724                                                       PCT/US2013/030738
                                                - 30
    49.     An electrical energy storage device as in any preceding claim, wherein the
    device has a charge capacity of about 500 Farad/g.
 5  50.     An electrical energy storage device as in any preceding claim, wherein the
    device stores about 50 kJ/kg of electrical energy.
    51.     An electrical energy storage device as in any preceding claim, wherein the
    device stores about 100 kJ/kg of electrical energy.
10
    52.     An electrical energy storage device as in any preceding claim, wherein the
    device stores about 200 kJ/kg of electrical energy.
    53.     An electrical energy storage device as in any preceding claim, wherein the
15  device stores about 300 kJ/kg of electrical energy.
    54.     An electrical energy storage device as in any preceding claim, wherein the
    device stores about 400 kJ/kg of electrical energy.
20  55.     An electrical energy storage device as in any preceding claim, wherein the
    device stores about 500 kJ/kg of electrical energy.
    56.     An electrical energy storage device as in any preceding claim, wherein the
    device stores about 600 kJ/kg of electrical energy.
25
    57.     An electrical energy storage device as in any preceding claim, wherein the
    device is charged to about 1.5 V.
    58.     An electrical energy storage device as in any preceding claim, wherein the
30  device is charged to about 2.0 V.
    59.     An electrical energy storage device as in any preceding claim, wherein the
    device is charged to about 2.5 V.

   WO 2013/154724                                                         PCT/US2013/030738
                                                 - 31
    60.     An electrical energy storage device as in any preceding claim, wherein the
    device is charged to about 2.7 V.
 5  61.     An electrical energy storage device as in any preceding claim, wherein the
    device is charged to about 3.0 V.
    62.     An electrical energy storage device as in any preceding claim, wherein the
    device is charged to about 3.5 V.
10
    63.     An electrical energy storage device as in any preceding claim, wherein the device
    has a specific energy density of about 100 kJ/kg.
    64.     An electrical energy storage device as in any preceding claim, wherein the device
15  has a specific energy density of about 200 kJ/kg.
    65.     An electrical energy storage device as in any preceding claim, wherein the device
    has a specific energy density of about 300 kJ/kg.
20  66.     An electrical energy storage device as in any preceding claim, wherein the device
    has a specific energy density of about 400 kJ/kg.
    67.     An electrical energy storage device as in any preceding claim, wherein the device
    has a specific energy density of about 500 kJ/kg.
25
    68.     An electrical energy storage device as in any preceding claim, wherein the device
    has a specific energy density of about 600 kJ/kg.
    69.     An electrical energy storage device as in any preceding claim, wherein the
30  polymer comprising a substituted or unsubstituted polyacetylene is provided in a blend
    with at least one polymer that is different than the polymer comprising a substituted or
    unsubstituted polyacetylene.

   WO 2013/154724                                                         PCT/US2013/030738
                                               - 32
    70.     An electrical energy storage device as in any preceding claim, wherein the
    polymer comprising a substituted or unsubstituted polyacetylene is provided in a blend
    with at least one conducting polymer.
 5  71.     An electrical energy storage device as in any preceding claim, wherein the at least
    one conducting polymer is a derivative of polyaniline, polyphenylene, polyarylene,
    poly(bisthiophene phenylene), a ladder polymer, poly(arylene vinylene), or poly(arylene
    ethynylene), any of which is optionally substituted.
10  72.     An electrical energy storage device as in any preceding claim, wherein the
    conducting polymer is an optionally substituted polythiophene or polymer containing
    thiophene units that are connected by aromatic groups or alkenes.
    73.     An electrical energy storage device as in any preceding claim, wherein the
15  conducting polymer is an optionally substituted polypyrrole or polymer containing
    pyrrole units that are connected by aromatic groups or alkenes
    74.     A method for fabricating an electrical energy storage device, comprising:
            forming a conductive material comprising a polymer comprising a substituted or
20  unsubstituted polyacetylene on the surface of a substrate.
    75.     A method as in claim 74, wherein the step of forming comprises formation of a
    film comprising the polymer comprising the substituted or unsubstituted polyacetylene
    from a mixture comprising the comprising the substituted or unsubstituted polyacetylene
25  and a fluid carrier.
    76.     A method as in any preceding claim, wherein the conducting material is a powder
    comprising a substituted or unsubstituted polyacetylene.
    77.     A method as in any preceding claim, wherein the powder further comprises a
30  binding polymer, a metal salt, a metal oxide, or combinations thereof.
    78.     A method as in any preceding claim, wherein the powder comprises crosslinked
    polymer particles comprising substituted or unsubstituted polyacetylenes.

   WO 2013/154724                                                           PCT/US2013/030738
                                                 - 33
    79.     A method as in any preceding claim, wherein, prior to the forming step, the
    powder is subjected to high-pressure or to treatment with a solvent.
 5  80.     A method as in any preceding claim, wherein the substrate comprises a polymeric
    material, a carbon-based material, or an inorganic material.
    81.     A method as in any preceding claim, wherein the carbon-based material is
    graphene, graphite, carbon or activated carbon, or nanotubes.
10
    82.     A method as in any preceding claim, further comprising:
            arranging a separator material in contact with the conductive material.
    83.     A method as in any preceding claim, further comprising:
15          forming a first conductive material comprising the polymer comprising a
    substituted or unsubstituted polyacetylene on the surface of the substrate;
            arranging a first surface of a separator material in contact with the first
    conductive material.
            arranging a second, conductive material in contact with a second, opposing side
20  of the separator material, such that the first conductive material is in electrochemical
    communication with the second conductive material.
    84.     A method as in claim 83, wherein the step of forming comprises formation of a
    film comprising the polymer comprising the substituted or unsubstituted polyacetylene
25  from a mixture comprising the comprising the substituted or unsubstituted polyacetylene
    and a fluid carrier.
    85.     A method as in any preceding claim, wherein the separator material comprises
    polypropylene, polyethylene, cellulose, a polyarylether, or a fluoropolymer.
30
    86.     A method as in any preceding claim, further comprising:
            arranging an electrolyte in contact with the first and second conductive materials.

   WO 2013/154724                                                              PCT/US2013/030738
                                                   - 34
    87.      A method as in any preceding claim, wherein the electrolyte is in liquid form.
    88.      A method as in any preceding claim, wherein the electrolyte is an ionic liquid.
 5  89.      A method as in any preceding claim, wherein the electrolyte is an ethylene
    carbonate solution or a propylene carbonate solution, the solution comprising a salt
    having the formula, [(R) 4N*] [X-], wherein X is (PF 6)-, (BF 4 )-, (SO 3 Ray, (RaSO 2-N
    SO 2 Ray, CF 3 COO-, (CF 3 ) 3 CO- or (CF 3) 2CHO)-, wherein R is alkyl and Ra is alkyl, aryl,
    fluorinated alkyl, or fluorinated aryl.
10
    90.      A method as in any preceding claim, further comprising treating the polymer
    comprising the substituted or unsubstituted polyacetylene with a stabilizing agent, either
    prior to, during, or after the polymerization step.
15  91.      A method as in any preceding claim, wherein the stabilizing agent is a radical
    scavenger.
    92.      A method as in any preceding claim, wherein the stabilizing agent comprises
    dichloroketene, an aromatic diazonium salt, a disulfide, a sulfur chloride, an organic
20  sulfur chloride, a metal salt, a metal oxide, a silicon hydride, species comprising one or
    more silicon hydride groups, or a phenol.
    93.      A method as in any preceding claim, further comprising:
             polymerizing one or more monomeric species to produce the polymer comprising
25  the substituted or unsubstituted polyacetylene.
    94.      A method as in claim 93, wherein the monomeric species are polymerized in the
    presence of fluid carrier.
30  95.      A method as in any preceding claim, wherein the monomeric species are
    polymerized in the presence of an additive.
    96.      A method as in any preceding claim, wherein the additive is dispersed throughout

   WO 2013/154724                                                        PCT/US2013/030738
                                                 - 35
    the resulting polymer material.
    97.     A method as in any preceding claim, wherein at least some of the additive is
    removed post-polymerization to produce a porous polymer material.
 5
    98.     A method as in any preceding claim, wherein the additive is removed by
    treatment with heat or treatment with solvent.
    99.     A method as in any preceding claim, wherein the monomeric species are
10  polymerized in the presence of a phase-separating polymer.
    100.    A method as in any preceding claim, wherein the phase-separating polymer is
    removed after polymerization to provide a porous polymer.
15  101.    A method as in any preceding claim, wherein the monomeric species are
    polymerized in the presence of catalyst particles.
    102.    A method as in any preceding claim, wherein the catalyst particles are aerosol
    generated catalyst particles.
20
    103.    A method as in any preceding claim, wherein the polymerizing step is a
    continuous process involving either a monomer dissolved in a condensed phase or direct
    reaction of vapor-phase monomer.
25  104.    A method of storing electrical energy, comprising:
            applying an electric field to a device comprising a polymer comprising a
    substituted or unsubstituted polyacetylene.
    105.    A method as in claim 104, wherein the device is an energy storage device as in
30  any preceding claim.
    106.    A method as in claim 104, wherein the polymer has a structure as in any
    preceding claim.

   WO 2013/154724                                                        PCT/US2013/030738
                                              - 36
    107.     A method as in any preceding claim, wherein the device has a charge capacity of
    at least 50 Farad/g.
 5  108.     A method as in any preceding claim, wherein the device has a charge capacity of
    at least 100 Farad/g.
    109.     A method as in any preceding claim, wherein the device has a charge capacity of
    at least 150 Farad/g.
10
    110.     A method as in any preceding claim, wherein the device has a charge capacity of
    at least 200 Farad/g.
    111.     A method as in any preceding claim, wherein the device has a charge capacity of
15  at least 220 Farad/g.
    112.     A method as in any preceding claim, wherein the device has a charge capacity of
    at least 300 Farad/g.
20  113.     A method as in any preceding claim, wherein the device has a charge capacity of
    at least 400 Farad/g.
    114.     A method as in any preceding claim, wherein the device has a charge capacity of
    at least 500 Farad/g.
25
    115.     A method as in any preceding claim, wherein the device stores at least 50 kJ/kg
    of electrical energy.
    116.     A method as in any preceding claim, wherein the device stores at least 100 kJ/kg
30  of electrical energy.
    117.     A method as in any preceding claim, wherein the device stores at least 200 kJ/kg
    of electrical energy.

   WO 2013/154724                                                       PCT/US2013/030738
                                             - 37
    118.    A method as in any preceding claim, wherein the device stores at least 300 kJ/kg
    of electrical energy.
 5  119.    A method as in any preceding claim, wherein the device stores at least 400 kJ/kg
    of electrical energy.
    120.    A method as in any preceding claim, wherein the device stores at least 500 kJ/kg
    of electrical energy.
10
    121.    A method as in any preceding claim, wherein the device stores at least 600 kJ/kg
    of electrical energy.
    122.    A method as in any preceding claim, wherein the device is charged to at least 1.5
15  V.
    123.    A method as in any preceding claim, wherein the device is charged to at least 2.0
    V.
20  124.    A method as in any preceding claim, wherein the device is charged to at least 2.5
    V.
    125.    A method as in any preceding claim, wherein the device is charged to at least 2.7
    V.
25
    126.    A method as in any preceding claim, wherein the device is charged to at least 3.0
    V.
    127.    A method as in any preceding claim, wherein the device is charged to at least 3.5
30  V.
    128.    A method as in any preceding claim, wherein the separator material is a porous
    separator material.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
