                                    ABSTRACT
A method for cleaning a graphene surface, comprising contacting the graphene surface
with a hydrogen plasma or a helium plasma or a neon plasma for a time sufficient to
remove surface impurities.

                      METHOD FOR CLEANING A GRAPHENE SURFACE
   FIELD OF THE INVENTION
   The invention is in the field of supports for biological samples, such as supports for
 5 biological molecules.
   BACKGROUND TO THE INVENTION
   Improved electron microscopes, more stable cryo-stages and direct electron detectors
10 with high quantum efficiency have recently brought about a revolution in biological
   electron microscopy (EM), enabling near atomic resolution 3D structures for large
   molecules and viruses1 -3 . Electron cryo-microscopy (cryo-EM) is used to determine
   protein structures. It is a method still under development and the resolutions of resulting
   3D reconstructions have been steadily increasing. With current methodology, near
15 atomic resolutions      can be    obtained. As the     resolutions    increase further, the
   pharmaceutical industry will hope to exploit this technique, probably in parallel with x
   ray crystallography, to understand how drugs bind to their protein targets. Still, grid
   design and preparation have remained largely unchanged since they were initially
   developed for electron cryo-microscopy (cryo-EM) almost three decades ago 4 -6 .
20
   There are several problems with the current grids used in cryo-EM of biological
   specimens. First, the accumulation of electron-deflecting surface charges and beam
   induced motion of samples lead to sub-optimal images 7-10. Second, the large surface area
   to volume ratio of the thin water films present just prior to vitrification cause proteins to
25 accumulate at the air-water interface, resulting in denaturation and strongly preferred
   orientations5 ,11. The advent of graphene and more recently graphane 21    3
                                                                                allow these long
   standing problems to be addressed.
   Currently, amorphous carbon is often used as a support for electron microscopy.
30 Typically, thin carbon films (20-200 A thick) are suspended over thicker layers of holey
   amorphous carbon which span the gaps in a typical metal mesh grid 14. These thin carbon
   films are thought to decrease charging, increase particle concentration due to protein
   adsorption to the surface, and alter the orientational distributions of molecules. Glow
                                                  1

   discharging, a method using a poorly controlled plasma made by ionizing the residual
   air gases present after pumping a grid to mTorr pressures, makes the carbon support
   layer hydrophilic. This gives it adsorptive properties to help create a uniform
   distribution of proteins in a thin layer of ice for subsequent imaging by cryo-EM 4 .
 5
   Amorphous carbon substrates have several disadvantages. First, they contribute
   significantly to noise in the images, especially detrimental for smaller molecules (less
   than 500 kDa) where the signal to noise ratio (SNR) is critical for accurate particle
   alignment. Second, proteins often adopt orientational preferences due to interactions
10 with the supporting carbon, and these orientations are poorly controlled using current
   methods. Third, thin amorphous carbon is a poor conductor that accumulates significant
   mobile surface charge that can deflect the electron beam and exert strong electrostatic
   forces on the sample. Finally, it is difficult to control the adsorption of proteins onto the
   surface because of difficulties in reproducing glow discharge conditions, and because
15 contamination builds up on the carbon surfaces dependent on their age and storage
   environment.
   Graphene is a remarkable material, composed of a sheet of carbon atoms only one atom
   thick, bound together in a hexagonal lattice structure. The bonded structure is the same
20 as in graphite, comprising a network of sp 2 bound carbons sharing delocalized electrons.
   As a result, graphene has remarkable conductive properties, and mechanical strength,
   making graphene an excellent support film for electron microscopy. Graphene is a
   mechanically robust conductor that is transparent to electrons at all spatial frequencies
   up to 1/2.1 A, and is therefore a possible substrate for imaging nanoscale specimens in
25 the electron microscope. Graphene, which may be suspended graphene, conducts charge
   ballistically over the sub-micron distances that span a typical hole used for imaging
   molecules in ice, so it is likely to significantly reduce the buildup of surface charge
   during electron beam exposure. In contrast, amorphous carbon is a semiconductor
   whose properties and conductivity (-10-3 S/cm for evaporated amorphous Carbon) can
30 vary widely depending on the conditions during deposition, which are not well
   controlled in the typical thermal evaporators used for their production. This makes
   amorphous carbon prone to surface charging and strongly susceptible to beam-induced
   chemical changes in its composition even at very low doses of electron exposure.
                                                   2

   Graphene's     in-plane   mechanical   strength (Young's modulus -1           TPa) further
   recommends it as a stable and robust substrate.
   Despite its significant potential advantages, and ease of large-scale manufacture using
 5 chemical vapor deposition (CVD), graphene has not been widely adopted for use with
   biological materials. There are two main reasons for this: graphene is hydrophobic
   which largely precludes the deposition of proteins from aqueous solutions, and it is
   susceptible to surface contamination (formed during growth or adsorbed subsequently
   during handling and storage). Previous attempts to use graphene as a substrate for
10 imaging biological molecules have been made, but rendering the graphene surface
   hydrophilic required either the use of harsh solvents that are incompatible with most
   proteins (DMP-30) or required conversion of the graphene to graphene oxide.
   A major problem in cryo-EM is the precise control of the distribution of proteins within
15 a thin layer of vitreous ice. During blotting and vitrification, proteins often segregate to
   the air/water interface or to carbon support membranes.
   Graphene oxide has been used for a similar purpose 22-24 but graphene oxide presents
   problems since oxygen scatters electrons more strongly than carbon or hydrogen and
20 therefore contributes nearly as much background signal as thin amorphous carbon. In
   addition, graphene oxide is an insulator and contains crystal defects that decreases its
   mechanical strength compared to pristine graphene, making it less able to neutralize
   accumulated surface charge and less stable as a support for thin layers of ice.
25 Graphene is not used with biological molecules because its hydrophobic nature
   precludes their reliable deposition, and because it is easily contaminated. These
   drawbacks mean that graphene has not been applied in EM of biological molecules or
   other applications involving adsorption or other attachment of biological molecules,
   such as sensors or similar applications.
30
   In the unrelated field of semiconductor physics, it has been shown that exposure to a
   low-energy hydrogen plasma can convert graphene to graphane, its fully
                                                 3

   hydrogenated form 13 ,2 6 . Hydrogenated graphene has not been used for EM with
   biological samples.
   The present invention seeks to overcome problem(s) associated with the prior art.
 5
   SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
   As noted above, graphene films have been used as support films for electron microscopy.
   However, graphene support films are not currently used for electron microscopy of
   biological molecules. The reason is that graphene sheets are intensely hydrophobic. This
10 has led to insurmountable problems precluding reliable deposition of biological
   molecules such as proteins onto the graphene. In addition, the pristine graphene surface
   is easily contaminated, which renders them no better than normal amorphous carbon.
   Prior art attempts to render graphene usable as an EM support have led to conversion
   of graphene into graphene oxide.        However, graphene oxide has strong electron
15 scattering properties due to the presence of the oxygen atoms. In fact, use of graphene
   oxide as an EM support film contributes almost as much background signal as thin
   amorphous carbon. Graphene oxide has further drawbacks which include decreased
   mechanical strength and problems in neutralising accumulated surface charge. Thus,
   graphene and graphene derivatives such as graphene oxide remain no better than
20 normal amorphous carbon for electron microscopy of biological molecules.
   By contrast, the present inventors have discovered that partial hydrogenation of
   graphene can be useful in ameliorating the intensely hydrophobic properties of
   graphene. It is remarkable that this partial hydrogenation can be accomplished whilst
25 preserving the hexagonal lattice of carbon atoms which are vital to the properties of the
   graphene. In addition, it is very surprising that low proportions of hydrogenation,
   significantly lower than full hydrogenation such as in graphane, are incredibly effective
   in producing a hydrophilic graphene surface which allows the reliable deposition of
   biological molecules.
30
   The inventors also teach ways in which the graphene surface can be cleaned before use.
   The inventors teach that use of small atom plasmas (such as hydrogen or helium or neon)
                                                4

    can be used at low energies where they will selectively remove impurities (i.e. cleaning
    the graphene) without harming its crystalline structure.
    Thus, in one aspect the invention provides a support for receiving a biological sample,
  5 the support comprising at least one support member, and comprising graphene attached
    to said at least one support member, characterised in that said graphene is partially
    hydrogenated graphene.
    Suitably said graphene is 0.01% to 50% hydrogenated graphene.
10
    Suitably said graphene is 3% to 10% hydrogenated graphene, preferably 5%
    hydrogenated graphene.
    Suitably the graphene (partially hydrogenated graphene) of the invention has a water
15  graphene (air-water-graphene) contact angle in the range 680 to 900; more suitably in
    the range 780 to 870; more suitably in the range 820 to 840; more suitably about or
    approximately 830; most suitably 830. Measurement of the contact angle is discussed in
    more detail below; reference is made to Figure 1.
20  Suitably the at least one support member is attached to a support film, and the graphene
    is attached to said support film.
    Suitably said support film comprises a conductive material, suitably an electrically
    conductive material.
25  Suitably said support film comprises carbon.
    Suitably the support comprises a plurality of support members.
    Suitably the graphene is attached to each of said support members.
    Suitably the support is a sensor support.
30  Suitably the support is an EM support.
    In one embodiment the invention related to an electron microscopy support as described
    above wherein said partially hydrogenated graphene comprises at least a first area of
                                                 5

   graphene and at least one further area of graphene, wherein said first area is
   hydrogenated to a first hydrogenation value, and said at least one further area is
   hydrogenated to a different hydrogenation value.
 5 Suitably said electron microscopy support as described above further comprises a
   biological molecule adsorbed to said partially hydrogenated graphene.
   Suitably said biological molecule is a hydrophilic biological molecule.
   In another aspect, the invention relates to use of a partially hydrogenated graphene
10 surface to support a biological molecule for electron microscopy.
   In another aspect, the invention relates to a method for making a partially hydrogenated
   graphene, the method comprising applying a hydrogen ion or hydrogen atom to the
   surface of graphene, characterised in that said hydrogen ion or hydrogen atom is applied
15 at an energy up to 21 eV, more suitably in the range 1 to 21 eV. Suitably the energy is in
   the range 1 to 14 eV.
   Suitably said application of hydrogen is ceased before hydrogen saturation of the
   graphene.
   Suitably said hydrogen ion or hydrogen atom is applied in the form of hydrogen plasma.
20 Suitably said graphene is contacted with said hydrogen plasma for 11 to 80 seconds.
   Suitably said graphene is contacted with said hydrogen plasma for 18 to 22 seconds.
   Suitably said graphene is graphene mounted on a support. Suitably said support is an
   electron microscopy support.
25 In another aspect, the invention relates to a partially hydrogenated graphene obtained
   by a method as described above.
   In another aspect, the invention relates to a method for cleaning a graphene surface,
   comprising contacting said graphene surface with a hydrogen plasma or a helium
30 plasma or a neon plasma for a time sufficient to remove surface impurities.
   Suitably said plasma atoms are at an energy in the range 1 to 14 eV.
                                                 6

   Suitably said plasma is an inert plasma. For example, said plasma is suitably composed
   of an inert gas, which has the advantage that it does not induce stable chemical changes
   in the graphene.
   Suitably said plasma is neon plasma. Most suitably said plasma is helium plasma.
 5 Suitably said graphene surface is contacted with said plasma for 1 to 30 seconds.
   Suitably said graphene surface is contacted with said plasma for 1 to 10 seconds.
   Suitably said graphene is partially hydrogenated graphene.
   In another aspect, the invention relates to cleaned graphene obtained by a method as
   described above.
10
   In another aspect, the invention relates to use of a hydrogen plasma at an energy in the
   range 1 to 14 eV for preparation of graphene for use in electron microscopy. Suitably the
   graphene is prepared by partial hydrogenation. Suitably the graphene is prepared by
   removal of impurities.
15
   In another aspect, the invention relates to a method of imaging a biological sample, the
   method comprising:
   configuring said biological sample on a support as described above, arranging said
   support in an electron beam of an electron microscope, and collecting image data. The
20 image data may be image data for analysis.
   In another aspect, the invention relates to an imaging apparatus operable to provide an
   electron microscopy image of a biological sample, said apparatus comprising:
   a biological sample mounted on a support as described above, an electron beam of an
25 electron microscope arranged to be incident on said support, and a collection device
   operable to collect image data. The image data may be image data for analysis.
   DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
   Graphene is not used with biological molecules in the prior art because its hydrophobic
30 nature precludes their reliable deposition, and it is easily contaminated.
   The invention relates to the use of low-energy hydrogen plasma to modulate the surface
   properties of graphene, without degrading the graphene lattice. This alters the
                                                7

   properties of graphene to allow the deposition of proteins onto its surface and precisely
   control their distribution. In addition, it cleans the graphene surface by non
   destructively removing contaminants. Thus, the invention can be used to precisely
   control the distribution of proteins on a graphene surface. We demonstrate its usefulness
 5 in imaging and three-dimensional reconstruction using single particle electron cryo
   microscopy. The invention is also useful in other biological applications involving the
   controlled adsorption of viruses, proteins or other biological molecules onto graphene
   such as a graphene surface. These applications include graphene-based sensors, for
   example sensors for detecting the presence, concentration and/or other properties of
10 molecules in contact with the graphene surface.
   We teach use of low-energy hydrogen plasma to modulate the surface properties of
   graphene, without degrading the graphene lattice. This alters the properties of graphene
   to allow the deposition of proteins onto its surface and precisely control their
15 distribution. This also cleans the graphene surface by non-destructively removing
   contaminants.
   We teach low-level hydrogenation of graphene with a low-energy hydrogen plasma that
   can address the prior art problems described above: removal of surface contamination
20 and/or making graphene suitably hydrophilic for use as a substrate for biological
   molecules such as proteins. By using a hydrogen plasma whose energy is well below the
   sputter threshold for graphene, we observe no significant damage to the suspended
   lattice. Moreover, we are able to tune protein distribution on graphene where hydrogen
   plasma dose is directly related to the surface density of proteins. This is particularly
25 advantageous for EM applications such as cryo-EM applications, and/or sensor
   applications such as biosensor applications.
   Electron microscopy of biological samples is typically operated over a resolution of 1/1.5
   A to 1/500 A. Since   substrates such as graphene have an effective minimum resolution
30 of approximately 1/2.1    A, they may be regarded as "invisible" for study of biological
   molecules.
                                                 8

   We demonstrate the use of this method in electron microscopy by determining a 3D
   reconstruction of 70S and 80S ribosomes imaged on hydrogen plasma treated graphene.
   We show that the partial hydrogenation of a graphene lattice can induce adsorption of
 5 proteins from an aqueous solution, enabling control of particle surface density
   independent of other variables. In cryo-EM sample preparation, other variables might
   include humidity, blot time, etc. By tuning their adsorption to the graphene, we solve
   problems of the prior art associated with protein aggregation and denaturation at
   air/water interfaces. We show that partially hydrogenated graphene reduces the
10 problems associated with amorphous carbon including irreproducibility, charging and
   increased background noise.
   Further, we show that a low-energy hydrogen plasma can selectively remove surface
   contaminants much faster than it can reduce the graphene lattice itself. This
15 advantageously allows removal of impurities (cleaning) whilst avoiding or minimising
   further changes to the hydrogenation state of the graphene.
   Graphene, as treated with a low-energy hydrogen plasma, is a reproducible and tunable
   surface for the adsorption of proteins. On this basis, we envision that the preparation of
20 biological specimens for electron microscopy will move from a trial-and-error art to a
   systematic process of screens of surface conditions without compromising the structural
   integrity of the proteins or the quality of the images.
   In addition, the invention provides advantages in cryo-EM such as increased stability of
25 ice, and/or decreased motion of particles - these are discussed in more detail below.
   Importantly this method depends on the notion of an energy threshold for the graphene
   lattice where the plasma is controlled as taught herein so that energetic ions within the
   plasma have insufficient energy to directly remove atoms from or damage the graphene
30 lattice. Thus, the only modification that can occur to the graphene lattice is via chemical
   reaction with the species of the plasma. The threshold energy for direct removal of a
   carbon atom from a graphene lattice has been established at around 21 eV. Suitably
   plasmas well below this energy are used to ensure there is no sputtering of the graphene.
                                                 9

   In the examples we demonstrate the invention using hydrogen for cleaning. However,
   other ion species whose energy is insufficient to remove a carbon atom from the
   graphene lattice via a direct recoil event will also be useful since their action too will be
 5 limited to chemical reaction with the surface as explained for hydrogen. These will
   include for example helium, such as helium in the 5-10 eV range. Helium is of particular
   interest because it will not react with the graphene surface but will remove
   contamination.
10 Prior art attempts to render hydrophobic graphene as usable for electron microscopy
   have involved very harsh treatments. In some instances, the graphene has been
   converted to graphene oxide. Graphene oxide has a number of drawbacks which include
   its behaviour as an insulator, problems in neutralising accumulated surface charge, and
   reducing mechanical strength/ stability as support for thin ice layers needed for cryo
15 EM.
   The prior art has failed to render graphene usable as a substrate for EM study of
   biological molecules.
20 It is a key advantage of the invention that through the choice of atoms/conditions which
   are used to treat the graphene, it can be modified chemically whilst being physically
   unaltered. In other words, the inventors are able to change the bond structure within the
   graphene, but not remove atoms from the graphene lattice which would disrupt its
   physical properties vital to its use in EM.
25
   The inventors teach that even very low proportions of hydrogenation (such as 0.1 to 20%
   hydrogen per carbon) can be enough to restore sufficient hydrophilicity to permit
   reliable deposition of biological molecules onto the surface for EM.
30 In the field of material science, a substance called graphane has been produced.
   Graphane is a fully hydrogenated carbon sheet. In graphane, each carbon is sp 3 bonded
   to 3 carbons, plus a hydrogen. By contrast, the inventors teach the partial hydrogenation
   of graphene. In this way, the characteristics of graphene are preserved, whilst
                                                 10

   advantageously providing enough hydrogenation to permit distribution of biological
   molecules across the graphene surface, facilitating excellent results in EM studies. It is
   an advantage of the invention that the lattice structure is completely preserved. Without
   wishing to be bound by theory, of course the precise bond lengths of the hydrogen
 5 bonded carbons in the partially hydrogenated graphene of the invention may vary
   compared to the bond lengths of entirely unhydrogenated graphene. However, what is
   important is that the hexagonal lattice structure of the graphene is preserved according
   to the invention.
10 In the course of this study, it was discovered to be very surprising that hydrophilicity
   can be saturated for the partially hydrogenated graphene sheet at far lower
   hydrogenation values than might have been expected. Before this work, it would be
   expected that hydrophilicity would reach saturation at 100% hydrogenation (i.e.
   graphane). However, according to the data presented herein, hydrophilicity is in fact at
15 or near saturation at approximately 20% hydrogen.
   Although certain substances such as graphene or graphane have been placed under
   electron microscopy in the prior art, it is important to note that these have mainly been
   studies in the field of materials science. Graphene is of interest to materials scientists in
20 the field of electronics, because graphene films may be grown by chemical vapour
   deposition for use in semiconductor computer chips. Due to the interest in conductive
   properties of graphene, it has been studied in the field of materials science as a possible
   future competitor for classic semiconductors such as silicon. In these studies, graphene
   has been combined with electron microscopy purely as a sample to be studied. Some
25 new materials which have been produced have been subjected to EM in order to discern
   their structure. There has been no teaching of partially hydrogenated graphene as a
   support substrate for biological samples such as biological molecules anywhere in the
   art. This is a contribution directly made by the present invention.
30 In a broad aspect the invention relates to a partially hydrogenated graphene comprising
   a biological molecule adsorbed thereto.
                                                11

   Cleaning of Graphene Sheets
   The inventors have studied the threshold effects of treating graphene with the small
   atom plasmas as described herein. It is of considerable interest that cleaning effects can
   be observed well before hydrogenation takes place. Without wishing to be bound by
 5 theory, it is believed that the highly energetic small atoms in the plasma used to treat
   graphene can easily disrupt and remove contaminants from the surface of the graphene
   at far lower energies and/or at far shorter timescales than would be required for
   chemical reactivity (such as hydrogenation) of the graphene. Therefore, by using lower
   energy or shorter timescale treatments of the graphene with small atom plasmas, an
10 effective decontamination or cleaning of the graphene can be effected without altering
   the chemical or physical makeup of the graphene sheet.
   Suitably the plasma is hydrogen, helium or neon plasma. Suitably the plasma is an inert
   plasma such as helium or neon plasma. Suitably the plasma is neon or helium plasma.
15 Suitably the plasma is neon plasma. Most suitably the plasma is helium plasma.
   Helium plasmas are suitable for treatment of graphene such as graphene sheets
   according to the invention. Helium plasmas are suitably used with ions striking the
   surface with energies up to 21 eV, more suitably in the range 1 to 21 eV, more suitably 1
20 to 14 eV, more suitably 14.0 eV or less, most suitably 5 to 10 eV.
   Hydrogen plasmas are especially suitable for the treatment of graphene such as
   graphene sheets according to the invention. Hydrogen plasmas are suitably used with
   ions or atoms striking the surface with energies up to 21 eV, more suitably in the range
25 1 to 21 eV, more suitably 1 to 14 eV, more suitably 14.0 eV or less.
   Neon plasmas may be used to treat graphene according to the invention. When using
   neon plasmas, lower energies are more desirable due to the larger size of the neon atoms.
   In this regard, special attention must be paid to the plasma sheath voltages and the
30 ultimate energy of the ions striking the surface so that damage to the graphene is avoided
   whilst still maintaining the neon in a plasma state.
                                                12

   Argon plasma is much less likely to be useful in the cleaning of graphene except at very
   low energies and/or exposure times, since the large size of argon atoms risks damage to
   the graphene lattice.
 5 Energy Selection for Non-destructive Cleaningof Graphene
   For low-energy ions and atoms the maximum transmitted energy, T,,ax, in a single
   collision is
                                        Tm.-        4mM   2
                                                            E
                                                 (m  + M)
10 Where m is the mass of the ion/atom in the plasma M is the mass of the target atom, in
   this case carbon, and E is the energy of the ion/atom in the plasma. So for neon striking
   carbon we have
                            Tmax = 4(20.1amu)(12.0amu)       E = 0.936E
                                     (20.1aum + 12.Oamu) 2
   So if we want T,,ax < 21 eV then the energy of the ions striking the surface of the graphene
15 should be
                                               Tmax
                                      Emax _     m.x -  19.7 eV
                                               0.936
   Or for T,,ax < 14.1 eV then Eniax < 13.1 eV
   However, the actual energies of particles in a plasma will comprise a distribution of
20 energies which generally follow Boltzmann statistics. In addition, at the edge of the
   plasma near a surface there is often a region which is depleted of electrons called the
   plasma sheath. This sheath comprises an electric field that can accelerate ions from the
   plasma into the surface of the sample with appreciable (several eV) energies. So, to
   ensure minimal or no damage the operator should suitably choose a plasma temperature
25 (Energy) and configuration such that the atoms and ions that strike the surface of the
   graphene well below the Euax value from above; choosing a lower energy has the
   advantage that there will be very few ions/atoms in the high energy tail of the
   distribution of energies that exceed the threshold T,,ax.
30 Thus, taking into account the guidance above, the skilled worker can select appropriate
   energies and plasma configurations according to the present invention. For example,
   when using neon, an energy of 5-10eV would be optimal.
                                                  13

   Similar calculations can be done for other atoms (atom plasmas) such as H, He, Ne, F, N.
   Most suitably the plasma used in the invention is H, He or Ne.
 5 For cleaning graphene aspects of the invention, suitably He, Ne and/or other noble
   gasses are used - these have the advantage of permitting removal of contaminants (i.e.
   cleaning the graphene) without chemically modifying the graphene.
   Thus, the most suitable plasma energy for neon is 5 to 10 eV.
10
   Without wishing to be bound by theory, the main consideration in suitability of an atom
   for plasma treatment in the current invention is the energy of the atomic (not electron)
   species which strike the surface of the graphene and their ability to chemically modify
   the graphene lattice. In particular, larger atoms require greater energies to maintain them
15 in a plasma state. At these greater energies, there is a risk of exceeding the threshold for
   removal of a carbon atom from the graphene sheet. Any plasma containing atoms
   energized above the level required for removal of a carbon atom from the graphene sheet
   is unsuitable for use in the present invention. Plasmas containing oxygen are also apt to
   react chemically with the lattice, thus converting it to graphene oxide or destroying it
20 completely, both of which are undesirable for the present invention, thus plasmas
   containing oxygen are unsuitable for use in the present invention.
   Most suitably, the plasmas according to the invention are neon or helium or hydrogen
   plasmas. Most suitably, the plasmas according to the invention are helium or hydrogen
25 plasmas. Preferably hydrogen plasmas are used for tuning or hydrogenation of the
   graphene. Preferably hydrogen or helium or neon plasmas are used for cleaning or
   removing impurities from the graphene, most suitably helium plasmas are used for
   cleaning or removing impurities from the graphene.
30 For cleaning or removing impurities from the graphene suitably said graphene is
   contacted with said plasma (such as hydrogen plasma or helium plasma or neon plasma)
   for 1 to 30 seconds, preferably for 1 to 10 seconds.
                                                  14

    This cleaning effect is achieved by the chemical reaction by energetic species in the
    plasma with the contaminant molecules on the surface of the graphene, thereby
    volatilising them and causing their removal.
  5 'Clean graphene' or 'cleaned graphene' is regarded as clean or cleaned as follows:
    'clean' = mass of contaminants/unit area < mass of graphene/unit area/100 OR surface
    area of contaminants < surface area of graphene/100; more suitably 'clean' = mass of
    contaminants/unit area < mass of graphene/unit area/1000 OR surface area of
    contaminants < surface area of graphene/1000.
10
    Hydrogenation
    Hydrogenation of the graphene may be accomplished by any suitable method known in
    the art. Most suitably, hydrogenation is done by treating with a hydrogen plasma.
    However, it may equally be accomplished by using an ion beam to deliver hydrogen
15  atoms to the graphene surface. The key teaching is to apply hydrogen ion or hydrogen
    atom to the surface of the graphene at the correct energy level.
    Graphene crystal grain boundaries
    Regarding the energy levels, the maximum energy levels which should be used
20  according to the invention are 21 electron volts (eV). At energy levels exceeding 21 eV,
    there is a likelihood that carbon atoms may be knocked out of the graphene lattice.
    Clearly, this is highly undesirable since it would disrupt the important lattice structure
    of the graphene. For this reason, energies of atoms or ions striking the lattice of 21 eV or
    lower are preferred.
25
    A single sheet of graphene is often made up of a patchwork of multiple graphene
    crystals. At the grain boundaries between these crystals there are alternate bonding
    arrangements known as "5-7 defects" (sometimes called "Stone-Wales defects"). The
    carbon atoms in the 5-7 defects are still sp 2 bonded, but the energies for their removal
30  are lower than the 21 eV specified above due to these edge defects in the bonding pattern.
    It is possible to disrupt these edge defect carbon atoms with energies as low as 15 eV.
    Therefore, suitably according to the invention, ion energies of 14 eV (such as 14.0 eV) or
                                                 15

   lower are advantageously employed. This is especially advantageous when the region
   of graphene to be treated includes a grain boundary.
   In general, lower energy plasmas can be harder to maintain. Thus, notwithstanding the
 5 need for lower energy levels in order to avoid disruption of the carbons in the graphene
   lattice, suitably energy levels are as high as is possible whilst safely avoiding destruction
   of the graphene lattice. This provides the advantage of easier management/maintenance
   of the plasmas being used for treatment. This also provides the advantage of shorter
   exposure times.
10
   Suitably, plasma energies for hydrogenation are in the range 1 eV to 14 eV.
   Suitably plasma energies for hydrogenation are <14eV. Suitably, plasma energies for
   hydrogenation are in the range 1 eV to <14 eV.
15 For hydrogenation, for example using the commercially available apparatus as
   described below, suitably said graphene is contacted with a hydrogen plasma for 11 to
   165 seconds, suitably 11 to 120 seconds, suitably 11 to 80 seconds, suitably 11 to 40
   seconds, suitably 15 to 25 seconds, suitably 18 to 22 seconds, most suitably 20 seconds.
   These values are particularly advantageous for ribosome adsorption; 20 seconds is
20 particularly advantageous for this application and provides the specific advantage of
   especially uniform distribution of the molecules being studied such as ribosomes.
   Suitably said graphene is contacted with a hydrogen plasma for 10 to 40 seconds.
25 Making and maintenance of plasmas is routine for a skilled worker and can be
   accomplished using commercially available plasma generators.
   Without wishing to be bound by theory, low-energy plasmas can have differing densities
   and their geometry and electrical control of the sample and chamber walls and
30 generation method can strongly affect the number of 'strikes' by an electron or ion per
   unit time, per unit area, as well as the energy of the ions or electrons. This is sometimes
   referred to as the 'dose' of (e.g.) hydrogen administered. Thus, density of the plasma or
   other factors as noted above can affect the 'dose' of hydrogen applied per unit time.
                                                  16

   Therefore, for a given density of plasma, increased time of exposure leads to increased
   dose. The timing of the treatments with plasmas as taught herein provides exemplary
   dosing as demonstrated. If a person skilled in the art uses plasmas of differing densities
   energies or electrical, it is well within their capabilities to adjust the timing accordingly
 5 to achieve the levels of hydrogenation or cleaning as taught herein. If any further
   guidance is required, the levels of hydrogenation of the treated graphene (partially
   hydrogenated graphene) can simply be assessed or estimated as taught herein (for
   example via contact angle measurements or diffraction measurements of changes in
   graphene lattice parameters) and the 'dose' adjusted to achieve the desired level of
10 hydrogenation.
   Advantages
   It is a key advantage of the invention that adsorption of biological molecules such as
   proteins onto graphene is facilitated. In other words, it is an advantage of the invention
15 that the deposition of protein onto the graphene surface can now be controlled.
   Once the partially hydrogenated graphene EM support has been made, it is treated or
   used exactly as for any other graphene EM support. For example, the cryo-EM samples
   may be prepared by standard robotic techniques.
20
   Partially hydrogenated graphene supports may be made by partially hydrogenating a
   graphene sheet, or may be made by preparing partially hydrogenated graphene and
   then arranging it onto supports. Whichever way these are manufactured is typically a
   matter of operator choice. It may be advantageous to prepare graphene support(s) and
25 then partially hydrogenate them to the required degree, thereby avoiding issues of
   contamination, which might arise during transfer of partially hydrogenated graphene
   onto the bars or walls or periphery of the support. Thus, in one embodiment it is
   preferred to clean or to partially hydrogenate the graphene when present on an EM
   support.
30
   We teach use of hydrogenated graphene to precisely control the distribution of biological
   molecules such as proteins in ice. Proteins adsorbed in this way retain their structural
   integrity as verified by three-dimensional reconstructions of the 70S & 80S ribosomes
                                                  17

   (see examples). The invention enables the systematic screening of surface conditions for
   protein adsorption, and addresses the most poorly controlled aspect of sample
   preparation for biological electron microscopy.
 5 In addition, we track individual ribosomes in ice and find their beam-induced motion is
   advantageously reduced nearly five-fold on partially hydrogenated graphene according
   to the present invention. Strengthening ice-embedded particles with a partially
   hydrogenated graphene support improves both sample preparation and image quality
   in biological electron microscopy. Thus, we demonstrate that hydrogen plasma treated
10 graphene improves cryo-EM images by substantially reducing beam-induced motion.
   The invention provides the advantage of reducing sample motion. The invention
   provides the advantage of increased image quality.
15 Other Applications
   Biosensors are known which involve a transistor whose gate is designed to be in contact
   with a fluid. Such a device is configured such that when a particle of interest comes near
   the gate, the conductive properties of the transistor are altered, allowing a signal to be
   read out. The entity binding to the sensor (i.e. being detected) can be any small particle
20 of interest, for example proteins, virus particles or any other small moiety of interest.
   Using tuneable graphene according to the present invention, such as partially
   hydrogenated graphene, it is possible to produce a transistor-type biosensor which
   changes its conductive properties according to whether or not the moiety of interest (e.g.
25 protein, virus particles or other entity) is or is not bound. A key benefit provided by the
   invention is the ability to create and/or tune a surface for the specific binding of particle
   using a material (graphene) which is ideal for integrating in such transistor type devices.
   Detectors (sensors) for molecules such as biological or chemical molecules may be
30 produced according to the present invention.           For example, partially hydrogenated
   graphene may be used in the production of sensors such as biosensors using partially
   hydrogenated graphene as the sensitive element, for example as a sensitive planar
   element in a nanoscale field-effect device.
                                                  18

   Such devices may be made using semiconductor nanowires (described in Ref.s 46-48),
   carbon nanotubes (described in Ref. 49), or graphene (described in Ref.s 50-51).
   According to the present invention the sensitive element in the sensor (e.g. system)
   comprises partially hydrogenated graphene, such as a region of partially hydrogenated
 5 graphene. Such a sensitive element is typically constructed to be in contact with the
   sample such that when a particular molecule binds to the surface, or binds to one or
   more molecules bound to the surface, the electronic properties of the partially
   hydrogenated graphene change. This change in electronic character can then be read out
   as an electrical signal from the device. For example, the invention may relate to a device
10 to detect single viruses such as described in Ref. 47 by substituting the silicon nanowire
   of Patolsky with partially hydrogenated graphene of the invention.
   In another embodiment, the invention provides a sensor for cancer biomarkers such as
   Prostate Specific Antigen (PSA) where antibodies to the biomarkers are bound to
   partially hydrogenated graphene. In this embodiment the sensor may be constructed as
15 described in Ref. 52, substituting partially hydrogenated graphene of the invention into
   the sensitive/conductive part of the sensor arrays e.g. by replacing or augmenting the
   nanowires with partially hydrogenated graphene.
   In another embodiment Ca2+ may be detected by Calmodulin for example as described
   in Ref 46; in this embodiment the Calmodulin may be coupled to, such as bound to,
20 partially hydrogenated graphene (instead of, or in addition to, the nanowires of Ref. 52).
   Many other sensor applications may be performed by the skilled person using partially
   hydrogenated graphene according to the teachings provided herein. Unlike the silicon
   nanowires that have been used in known biosensors, graphene (e.g. partially
   hydrogenated graphene according to the present invention) offers the advantage of
25 extraordinary levels of electronic sensitivity and may allow the detection of even single
   binding events of small molecules to individual proteins. The use of partially
   hydrogenated graphene allows specific control of biological molecule adsorption such
   as protein adsorption to graphene-based sensors, thereby enabling a large multitude of
   possible detection strategies. Further, since the methods of the invention (such as the
30 plasma process) are easily amenable to large-scale fabrication on a single device or chip,
   the invention enables fabrication of a plurality of such sensors tuned to detect specific
   molecules.
                                                19

   Suitably sensors of the invention are biosensors.
   In another aspect, the invention relates to a sensor such as a biological sensor, where the
   sensitive element of the sensor comprises partially hydrogenated graphene. Suitably the
 5 partially hydrogenated graphene is obtained by a method as described above.
   In another aspect, the invention relates to a sensor comprising a surface capable of
   adsorbing a biological molecule thereto, wherein said surface comprises partially
   hydrogenated graphene.
10 Suitably said graphene is 0.01% to 50% hydrogenated graphene.
   Suitably said graphene is 3% to 10% hydrogenated graphene, preferably 5%
   hydrogenated graphene.
   In another aspect, the invention relates to a sensor comprising a support as described
15 above.
   The invention finds application in these and other uses which exploit the tuneable
   properties of the graphene produced as described herein. The key advantage is that the
   inventors now teach a method of controlling adsorption of hydrophilic molecules (such
20 as protein) onto the graphene surface, which may be exploited in any number of ways
   according to operator choice.
   Tuning of Graphene Surface
   Biological sample means any sample from, or derived from, an organism. The sample
25 may be a crude sample or a purified or partially purified sample. The sample may be a
   fluid such as a body fluid, for example blood, serum, plasma, cerebrospinal fluid, saliva,
   semen, urine or any other body fluid. The sample may even comprise whole organisms
   such as bacteria, viruses or other microscopic organisms. The sample may comprise
   cell(s) from an organism. The sample may comprise one or more biological molecule(s)
30 extracted or purified from an organism, such as described below.
   Suitably the sample is an in vitro sample.
                                                20

   Biological molecules means molecules produced by living organisms such as proteins,
   nucleic acids, carbohydrates or lipids. Suitably biological molecules are proteins or
   protein complexes. Suitably biological molecules are hydrophilic biological molecules.
   Binding of proteins or other biological molecules to the graphene surface can vary
 5 according to the charge state, hydrophilicity/hydrophobicity of the moiety binding, or
   on the salt/buffer/ solvent conditions prevailing. It is an advantage of the invention that
   the hydrophilicity of the graphene surface can now be tuned by adjusting the proportion
   of hydrogenation of the surface.
   Suitably the biological molecule is an in vitro biological molecule.
10
   Hydrogenation values may be expressed as % hydrogenation. This means the
   proportion of sp 2 -bonded carbon atoms converted to sp 3 H-bonded carbon atoms. In
   other words, it is a measure of what proportion of the carbon atoms in the graphene
   sheet have accumulated an associated hydrogen atom. If every carbon atom was H
15 bonded, this would be 100% hydrogen saturation (graphane); if no carbon atoms were
   H-bonded this would be 0% hydrogen saturation (graphene); the invention is concerned
   with values greater than 0% and less than 100%, i.e. partially hydrogenated graphene.
   Hydrogenation may be measured by any suitable means known in the art. Exemplary
20 techniques for assessment of hydrogenation are demonstrated in the examples. For
   example, hydrogenation may be estimated by measuring the water-graphene contact
   angle as demonstrated in Figure 1. In this case the 20 second hydrogen plasma exposure
   time corresponds to approximately 5% hydrogenation; the 80 second hydrogen plasma
   exposure time corresponds to approximately 20% hydrogenation and so on. Similarly,
25 with reference to Figure 3, the 20 second hydrogen plasma exposure (Figure 3c) is
   approximately 5% hydrogenation; the 40 second hydrogen plasma exposure (Figure 3d)
   is approximately 10% hydrogenation and so on. Alternatively the hydrogenation may
   be estimated by calculating the graphene-water interfacial energy as below.
30 Calculation of graphene-water interfacial energy
   For a liquid droplet in a gas environment on a solid surface, the liquid-solid interfacial
   energy, W, is related to the equilibrium contact angle between the droplet and the
   surface, by the Young-Dupre equation:
                                       W=       (1+ cos 0)
                                                21

    where 7w is the water surface tension, 72 mJ/m 2 , (ref 44). Using the contact angle values
    from the as grown graphene sample (6 9r = 91 ± 1.70) and the saturation value from the
    exponential fit to the data, (O9rh = 66 ± 1.30) the change in surface energy due to the
    hydrogen plasma treatment is then just the change in the interfacial energy for the two
  5 surfaces:
                                      AW = Cos 6 g - COS 6gh
    which for the values measured is -0.19 ± 0.02 eV/nm 2. While the presence of the copper
    substrate may cause a small reduction in the measured angle for native graphene4 5 , it
    will have negligible effect on the change in angle used to calculate the change in
10  interfacial energy as the substrate will have the same effect on all the measurements.
    Alternatively change in the lattice constant (the average distance between carbon atoms
    in the lattice) may be measured as an assessment of hydrogenation of the graphene. This
    may be done for example using electron diffraction, for example carried out as described
 15 with reference to the figures such as Figure 6 herein.
    Surprisingly low levels of hydrogenation were enough to facilitate adsorption of
    hydrophilic molecules to the partially hydrogenated graphene surface, such as 0.1 to
    20% hydrogenation.
20
    Suitably partially hydrogenated graphene of the invention may comprise 0.01 to 50%
    hydrogen per carbon; or may contain 0.01 to 10% hydrogen per carbon; or may contain
    1 to 10% hydrogen per carbon; or may contain 3 to 10% hydrogen per carbon; or may
    contain 3 to 5% hydrogen per carbon.
25
             Hydrogenation of graphene                      Applications / Advantages
      <0.01%                                       cleaning of surface contaminants
      0.01 - 1%                                    facilitate adsorption of hydrophilic
                                                   molecules
      0.01-50%                                     adsorption and/or detection of large
                                                   complexes e.g. viruses or cells.
      20%                                          saturation of hydrophilicity
                                                22

     5%                                          optimum for adsorption of ribosomes
                                                 such as 70S & 80S ribosomes
     10-4- 0.01%                                 adsorption of hydrophobic molecules, for
                                                 example lipids or membrane proteins
   Patterned Graphene
   Advantageously, different degrees of hydrogenation may be provided at different
   spatial locations (areas) within the same physical graphene sheet. This may be
 5 accomplished by masking the different areas of the sheet during hydrogenation so that
   some areas are hydrogenated to a higher degree, and other areas are hydrogenated to a
   lower degree. Ideally, it may be desirable to produce a graphene EM support having a
   high hydrogenation value at one end, and withdrawing the masking during the
   hydrogenation process so that the opposite end of the same graphene support is left with
10 a low hydrogenation value. In this manner, the optimal hydrogenation value may be
   determined for particular biological molecules which are intended to be deposited on
   the graphene surface. These graded graphene supports with variable hydrogenation are
   especially useful in calibration or selection of optimal hydrogenation levels for the
   partially hydrogenated graphene of the invention.
15
   The masking during hydrogenation may be accomplished by any suitable means known
   in the art. For example, the use of an electrode near the graphene may be employed
   which shelters or deflects the hydrogen atoms away from the graphene surface whilst it
   is in place. Such an electrode may be withdrawn across the graphene surface (e.g. just
20 above the graphene surface) over a particular time course, so that the graphene which is
   exposed first will enjoy the longest hydrogenation treatment (and therefore the highest
   degree of hydrogen saturation), and the area of graphene which is masked for longest
   will enjoy the lowest exposure to hydrogen (and therefore the lowest hydrogen per
   carbon value). Alternatively, more than one electrode could be employed to establish a
25 field across the graphene such that ions impinging on the surface are retarded more near
   one electrode than another. Thus, a gradient in dose across the graphene substrate might
   be advantageously achieved without the need to apply a masking material directly to
   the graphene surface.
                                              23

   Optionally a directional beam of hydrogen ions may be used to apply varying amounts
   of hydrogenation to different regions or areas of the same graphene sheet in order to
   create patterned graphene.
 5 In one embodiment different areas (spatial locations) on the graphene are hydrogenated
   to different levels or values.
   In one embodiment the graphene may be graded evenly from a first hydrogenation value
   at one location on the graphene to a second (different) hydrogenation value at a second
   location on the graphene.
10
   Suitably, the EM supports of the invention do not comprise graphene oxide.
   Suitably, the EM supports of the invention do not comprise graphane.
15 Graphane is not graphene. Graphane is a fully hydrogenated carbon sheet. The carbons
   in a graphane sheet each bond with a hydrogen. In other words, the ratio of carbon to
   hydrogen in graphane is 1 to 1 - every carbon atom present has an associated hydrogen
   atom. This is full or complete (100%) hydrogen saturation. This substance is graphane.
   The present invention is concerned with partially hydrogenated graphene. Partially
20 hydrogenated means less than 100% (i.e. less than 1 to 1) saturation of the carbon atoms
   with hydrogen atoms. The partially hydrogenated graphene comprises carbon atoms
   which are not bonded or associated with hydrogen atoms. Hence, partial hydrogenation
   should have its normal meaning in the art. Partially hydrogenated graphene has at least
   some of the carbon atoms associated with bonded hydrogen atoms, but not all of them.
25 It is the surprising properties of this intermediate partially hydrogenated graphene
   substance upon which the invention is based.
   Support Construction
   Suitably the support is an electron microscopy support or a sensor support such as a
30 biosensor support. Most suitably the support is an electron microscopy support.
   An electron microscopy support is an apparatus which allows the carriage of the sample
   to be examined by electron microscopy into and out of the electron microscope. A degree
   of mechanical strength is provided to the support by the peripheral wall or rim or
                                              24

   members (such as bars) of the support. The sample to be examined is mounted onto the
   support within an area defined by the periphery of the support. The sample itself is
   typically mounted onto a lattice or film which is carried by the support.
 5 The lattice or film part of the support typically has a mesh or "holey film" structure.
   These films are typically described in the art with two numbers, for example "2/1" - this
   means a foil with two micrometre pores or holes at a one micrometre spacing. Similarly,
   a foil designated 2/4 would have holes or pores of two micrometres, at a spacing of four
   micrometres, and so on.
10
   Suitably, said support members are bars. Suitably, said support bars are arranged in a
   grid. Sometimes the EM support is referred to as an EM grid.
   The support film may be referred to as a support foil.
15
   Suitably, the graphene is hydrogenated when mounted on an electron microscopy
   support.
   Suitably, the graphene surface being cleaned is the surface of graphene mounted on an
20 electron microscopy support.
   When a graphene support is described for use in electron microscopy, for example
   electron microscopy of biological molecules, this has its normal meaning in the art. In
   particular, "for" use in EM means "suitable for" use in EM. An experimental graphene
25 sheet in the field of semiconductor science is not "suitable for" EM of biological
   molecules, unless it had been formed into an arrangement which could genuinely be
   used for that application.
   Suitably, the support is dimensioned for EM applications.
30 Dimensioned for EM applications may mean 3mm diameter grid.
   Suitably, the support is configured to accept a thin layer of vitreous ice.
                                                25

   Suitably, the support is conductive.
   Suitably, the support is, or is adapted to be, operably connected to an electrical control
   apparatus, for example to facilitate charge dissipation during EM.
 5
   Suitably, the support is adapted to enable robotic handling and/or robotic sample
   preparation for EM.
   Suitably, the support is sealed in a vacuum chamber.
10
   Suitably, the support is sealed in a protective environment, for example to facilitate
   transport or storage.
   Suitably, the support is packaged for mechanical protection during transport and/or
15 handling.
   In some embodiments the support may comprise aluminium or stainless steel or
   titanium.
20 Suitably, the support comprises one or more of molybdenum, gold, copper or nickel.
   Most suitably the support comprises gold.
   Suitably, the support is silicone-free.
25 The graphene sheet may be applied to either side or both sides of the support.
   When the support comprises a layer of holey carbon, for example a layer of holey carbon
   on a gold grid, suitably the graphene is applied to the holey carbon side.
30 Suitably, the support may comprise one or more mechanical markers, such as a cut-out,
   at the periphery of the support. This has the advantage of assisting in orientation of the
   support.
                                               26

    Suitably, the support is a QuantifoilTM grid.
    Suitably, the support comprises a perforated support film. Suitably the perforated
    support may have one or a plurality of holes. Suitably the perforated support has a
  5 predefined hole size.
    Suitably the support film is mounted on the wall or rim or bars of the support itself.
    Holes may be of any shape. Suitably, the holes may be circular or square.
10
    Suitably, the holes may be arranged in a regularly repeating pattern.
    Suitably, hole sizes are determined by operator choice.
 15 Suitably holes used in support film(s) have dimensions 0.05-10um.
    Most suitably when the support film comprises amorphous carbon the dimensions of
    the holes used are in the range 0.05-10um.
    Suitably, bar widths are determined by operator choice.
20
    Suitably, the support film is a solid, electrically conductive thin film.
    Suitably the support film is 100-500 Angstrom thick.
    Suitably the support film comprises amorphous carbon.
25
    Suitably the support film comprises 100-500 Angstrom thick layers of amorphous
    carbon support film.
    Suitably the support may comprise irregular holes in a carbon film, 'homemade' carbon
30  film, or perforated film(s) from other sources.
    Suitably, the support film is a carbon film.
                                                  27

   Most suitably, the support comprises a holey carbon support film on a 300 mesh gold
   grid, such as produced by Quantif oil Microtools GmbH of Jena, Germany.
   Further particular and preferred aspects are set out in the accompanying independent
 5 and dependent claims. Features of the dependent claims may be combined with features
   of the independent claims as appropriate, and in combinations other than those
   explicitly set out in the claims.
   Where an apparatus feature is described as being operable to provide a function, it will
10 be appreciated that this includes an apparatus feature which provides that function or
   which is adapted or configured to provide that function.
   Further Applications
   Graphene tuned by partial hydrogenation to interact with biological molecules can be
15 used in a range of applications including graphene-based sensors.
   The invention finds particular application in electron microscopy (EM), such as cryo
   EM. In particular, the invention is especially useful in electron microscopy of biological
   molecules.
20
   The methods of the invention can be used to precisely control the distribution of proteins
   on a graphene surface such as a suspended graphene surface. We demonstrate its utility
   in imaging and three-dimensional reconstruction using single particle electron cryo
   microscopy. It will be apparent that the methods of the invention may be used for other
25 biological applications involving graphene.
   Graphene-based supports (grids) produced according to the invention find application
   in industry such as manufacture, sale and use of said supports.
30 Methods of the invention find application in the production and/or cleaning of
   graphene products.
                                                28

   The invention finds application in the manufacture of graphene-based devices and
   sensors, as well as in cleaning graphene in the non-destructive manner taught herein.
   The invention may be used in production of arrays of graphene sensors whose surfaces
   are tuned to interact with specific proteins or biological molecules for detection or assay.
 5 The invention provides a direct and highly scalable means to accomplish this.
   We provide the ability to specifically tune the graphene surface to interact with proteins.
   This means that any sensors or devices that depend on the interaction of graphene with
   proteins can be designed for a particular application.
10
   BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
   Embodiments of the present invention will now be described further, with reference to
   the accompanying drawings, in which:
15 Figure 1 shows characterization of graphene after low-energy hydrogen plasma
   treatment.
   Plot a shows the air-water-graphene contact angle versus exposure time, with insets
   containing examples of optical micrographs used to measure the angles. The curve is
   an exponential fit to the data with rate constant of 1/56 seconds. Error bars are the std.
20 dev. of 3-5 measurements at each dose in y and the estimated accuracy of the exposure
   time, ± 1 second, in x. Diffractograms (b-d): selected area electron diffraction patterns
   for the same suspended graphene sample before hydrogen plasma exposure (b) after
   20 seconds (c) and 40 seconds (d). Arrow points to the 0-110 reflection at 2.14 A and
   sets the scale for all three diffractograms. The change in the lattice constant for c & d
25 relative to b is less than the error in the measurement, -0.9% (Fig. 6).
   Figure 2 shows electron micrographs of suspended graphene before (a) and after (b) 30
   second hydrogen plasma treatment. Scale bars are 1000 A, nominal defocus is -2.0 pm
                         2
   and dose is 25 e-/A     . Plots in c show the power spectrum in each complete micrograph
   (Fig. 7a-c), normalized to the total image intensity in each micrograph, where upper
30 black curve is for 28 ± 1.4 A thick amorphous carbon, red curve (a) is graphene before
   plasma (image a), and blue curve (b) is graphene after plasma (image b).
   Figure 3 shows images of ribosomes on hydrogen plasma treated graphene. Panels a-d
   show electron micrographs of 70S ribosomes in vitrified ice at 80 K. Panel a is a
                                                   29

   standard Quantif oil grid treated with a 10 s H plasma dose. Panels b-d are Quantifoil
   grids covered with monolayer graphene, and treated with 10, 20 and 40 s of H plasma,
   respectively. All other blotting and vitrification conditions are the same for all four
   samples. Insets are enlargements of selected regions from each image, showing the
 5 typical distribution of particles. Scale bars are 1000 A for main images and 200 A for
   insets.
   Figure 4 shows analysis of ribosome structural data on plasma treated graphene. Panel
   a shows a 3D rendering of the electron density map of the T. thermophilus 70S ribosome,
   reconstructed to 19 A from three micrographs of particles on graphene. The overlaid
10 ribbon diagram is the rigid-body fit of the crystal structure to the map. Panel b is an
   equal area projection map of the orientation angles of the 2061 ribosomes relative to a
   graphene substrate (red dots) and an amorphous carbon substrate (black dots). Image c
   is a 1.3 A slice through the unsharpened electron density map of the S. cerevisiae 80S
   ribosome reconstructed to 5.0 A on graphene. Blurring of the 40S subunit (arrow) is
15 due to conformational heterogeneity of the sample; this and non-optimal coverage of
   orientations in Fourier space limit the resolution of the map. Panel d is the projection
   map of the orientations of 20050 80S ribosomes on graphene (red dots) and on
   amorphous carbon (black dots).
   Figure 5 shows reduced motion of proteins on graphene substrates. Protein particles in
20 ice on graphene irradiated with high energy electrons exhibit two distinct phases of
   motion. The average 80S ribosome displacement from its initial position is plotted vs.
   time (dose) for both amorphous carbon (black \) and graphene (red -) substrates. Each
   point represents the RMS displacement of 20050 particles whose positions were
   measured using a five-frame running average under constant electron beam irradiation
25 (300 keV; 16 e-/A 2/s). Error bars for the fitted points are the standard error of the
   mean, and the error bars for the two points adjacent to each end are calculated from the
   fit intercepts (see methods). The insets show individual trajectories for seven randomly
   selected particles where the dots indicate the initial and final position of the particle
   (horizontal and vertical scales are the same; each trajectory origin is offset horizontally
30 by 5 A).
   Figure 6 show azimuthal integral intensity plots from selected area diffractograms.
   Plots are azimuthally integrated diffractograms taken before and after 80 s hydrogen
   plasma treatment used to measure change in lattice constant vis a vis conversion to
                                                 30

   graphane. The difference in 0-110 peak position, shown with arrows, is -1.7 x 10-3     A
   which corresponds to a shift of -0.4 %in lattice constant. This is less than the precision
   of the measurement from sample to sample, which is limited by the variation in lattice
   constant (std. dev. =0.9%) due to stretching of the graphene membrane on the grid.
 5 Figure 7 shows low-dose images of carbon substrates. Panel a shows untreated
   graphene, panel b is the same sample as a after 30 second hydrogen plasma treatment.
   Panel c shows 28 A thick amorphous carbon for comparison. Insets are the power
   spectra (FFTs) of each image, reduced to (1024 px) 2 , and scale bars are all 2000 A. Panel
   d is a contact mode AFM topography image of the edge of the carbon layer from c on a
10 mica substrate, which was used to measure the thickness of the carbon layer accurately
   (scale bar is 5000 A). Arrow (a) points to the edge of the cleaved carbon layer on the
   mica substrate. Panel e contains a histogram of the height values from d, with Gaussian
   fits to determine the thickness. The smaller red peak is the height of the mica substrate
   and the larger blue peak is the height on the amorphous carbon layer, and the
15 difference is 28 ± 1.4 A.
   Figure 8 shows electron diffractograms of ribosomes in ice. Panel a shows the selected
   area diffraction pattern from the suspended ice in Fig. 3a, where the first two diffuse
   Debye-Scherrer rings for amorphous ice at 3.70 A and 2.14 A are indicated with
   arrows 5 . The white disk at the center is the shadow of the primary beam stop, a
20 homemade platinum ball on a wire. Panel b shows the diffraction pattern for the
   ribosomes in ice on suspended graphene in Fig. 3c, where the 0-110 reflection at 2.14    A
   of the monolayer graphene is indicated and sets the magnification scale for all three
   diffractograms. Similarly, panel c shows the diffractogram for the ribosomes in ice on
   suspended graphene for Fig. 3d, with the 0-110 peak indicated. Additional diffraction
25 peaks are from small contaminant ice crystals on the surface of the thin film, which are
   visible in the micrographs. The camera length for each diffractogram is the same,
   nominally 47 cm.
   Figure 9 shows Fourier shell correlation coefficients. Calculated for the 70S (a) and 80S
   (b) ribosomes using the reconstructed electron density map refined from two random
30 halves of the dataset, keeping each separate through the reconstruction process ("gold
   standard")4 1 . Using the 0.143 criterion 47, the resolution for the 70S map from 2061
   particles on graphene using 3 micrographs was 19.0 A. The resolution of the 80S map
   from 20,050 particles on graphene was 5.2 A, and showed little improvement to 5.0 A,
                                                   31

   with motion correction (b, red curves). We compare this to a reconstruction using the
   same number of particles chosen at random from a previously published dataset on the
   same ribosome sample where the resolution is 6.1       A before motion correction and 5.1 A
   after motion correction (black curves) 3.
 5 Figure 10 shows a montage of 76 slices through the 70S ribosome electron density map.
   each slice is 4.58 A thick and the  scale bar is 500 A.
   EXAMPLES
   Examples of embodiments of the invention are disclosed in detail herein, with reference
10 to the accompanying drawings. It will be understood that the invention is not limited to
   the precise examples disclosed and that various changes and modifications can be
   effected therein by one skilled in the art without departing from the scope of the
   invention as defined by the appended claims and their equivalents.
15 METHODS
   Graphene growth
   Graphene was grown by chemical vapor deposition (CVD) on copper foil substrates 36,37.
   Briefly, an ~18 cm 2 section of 25 pm copper foil (Alfa Aesar# 13382) was placed in the 25
   mm diameter quartz tube of a dry-pumped CVD furnace, evacuated to <20 mTorr, and
20 then exposed to a continuous flow of Hydrogen (99.999%) gas at a flow of 20 sccm
   bringing the pressure in the reaction tube to 500 mTorr. The temperature of the oven was
   elevated under thermocouple control to 1000 'C over the course of ~15 minutes. Once
   the temperature was reached, an additional 20 sccm of methane (99.999%) was added to
   the reaction chamber for a duration of 15 minutes, bringing the total pressure to 700
25 mTorr. After methane addition was over, the heating was turned off and the reaction
   tube was slowly cooled to ambient temperature under continuing hydrogen flow over a
   period of 2 hours. Once cool, the hydrogen flow was stopped, the chamber vented with
   dry nitrogen and the graphene on copper foil was removed from the growth tube and
   stored in a critically-cleaned Fluorware wafer container inside a clean, low-humidity
30 storage box until use.
   Contact angle measurement
   To measure the graphene water contact angle, individual 3.2 mm diameter disks were
   punched from the graphene on copper foils using a custom-made disk punch. Disks
                                                  32

   were initially cleaned by submersing them for 10 seconds in CMOS grade isopropyl
   alcohol (Sigma) and then after the residual solvent evaporated, were placed on a nitric
   acid cleaned glass slide inside a commercial plasma reaction chamber (Fischione Model
   1070) where the grids were located 15 ± 1 cm from the edge of the RF coils. The source
 5 of hydrogen was a high-purity electrolysis hydrogen generator (Dominik Hunter model
   20HMD). Controls for the zero time exposure dose included those with and without
   various solvent cleaning treatments; we found the contact angle was the same for both
   to within experimental error. Each disk was mounted in the optical microscope (Zeiss
   Axiophot), a 1 pL droplet of 18 MOhm deionized water was applied and immediately
10 (within 5 seconds) imaged upon withdrawal of the pipette tip using a calibrated digital
   camera attached to the microscope (Zeiss ERc5s). We measured the droplet evaporation
   rate (1.4 nL/sec) and found it contributed a negligible change in angle (<0.50) during the
   delay between water application and image acquisition. Each image was subsequently
   analyzed to obtain the contact angle by graphically measuring the angle between the
15 substrate plane and the tangent to the droplet at the point it met the surface. This
   measurement was performed 3-6 times for each of the plasma doses; the values were
   then normalized by dividing by the ratio of the droplet volume measured in the image
   to the value for the zero plasma dose. We found this normalization was required to
   correct for the error in pipetting this small of a volume. The multiple measurements were
20 then averaged, and the standard deviation taken as the error in angle at each dose.
   Finally, we confirmed the presence of graphene covering the punched disks by
   subsequently transferring the graphene to EM grids as described below, and then
   imaging them with an electron microscope.
25 Graphene grid preparation
   To create suspended monolayer graphene EM grids, we use a method based on one first
   described by Regan et al.38 and further developed in reference 30. We started by cleaning
   commercial holey carbon on 300 mesh gold grids (Quantifoil Au 300 1.2/1.3) by using
   anti-capillary tweezers to immerse them individually in chloroform, acetone and
30 isopropyl alcohol for ~15 seconds each (Sigma-Aldrich, ultra-high purity semiconductor
   grade solvents). We found this helped to remove any residual photoresist and large
   surface contaminants remaining on the Quantif oil films after manufacture. After blotting
   dry in air, we then mounted the grids in a custom-made stainless steel suspension holder
                                                  33

   inside the plasma reactor mentioned above. The chamber was evacuated to <10-5 Torr
   and then ultra high purity argon and oxygen (BOC 99.9999%) were admitted in a mass
   ratio of 9:1 to a steady state pressure of 21 mTorr. The auto-tuned RF plasma was sparked
   at 40 Watts (<3 W reverse power) and applied for the specified time. Quantifoil grids
 5 were then used immediately for graphene transfer. To cover the Quantif oil grid with a
   graphene monolayer, a 3.2 mm disk of graphene on copper was cut from a larger foil
   using a custom made mechanical punch. The disk was immersed in acetone, and
   isopropanol (Sigma, CMOS grade) for 10-15 seconds each and blotted dry prior to use.
   The plasma cleaned Quantif oil grid was then applied, carbon side down, to the disk. An
10 optical microscope (Zeiss Axiophot) was used to inspect the grid "sandwich" making
   sure that both the grid and the disk were flat, free of particulate contaminants and in
   good contact with each other before the next step. Then 7 uL of CMOS grade isopropyl
   alcohol was added to the top of the grid, and the droplet was allowed to dry in air. The
   receding meniscus of the alcohol pulled the carbon film of the Quantifoil in contact with
15 the graphene surface, which was verified by the change in the color of the reflected light
   from the surface. Next the grid-disk sandwich was floated in ~50 mL of buffered FeCl 3
   (Sigma) in a crystallization dish for 20 min. The grid was then transferred with a flamed
   Pt loop to 32% HCl (Sigma CMOS grade) for 5 min, then 10% HCl for 5 min followed by
   3 rinses in 18 MOhm deionized water. After the final water step, the grid was transferred
20 using the loop to a piece of filter paper (Whatmann #1) in an acid washed, glass petri
   dish and stored in a low-humidity box until use.
   Diffraction studies of hydrogen treated suspended graphene
   Selected area diffraction studies of suspended graphene were performed before and
25 after hydrogen plasma exposure in the following way: First, CVD-grown graphene was
   transferred to a pre-cleaned Quantif oil grid as described above. The grid was mounted
   in a single-tilt holder (FEI) that had been cleaned with a 75%/25% Ar/02 plasma at 50
   W for 5 min. The grid was imaged with 300 keV electrons in a FEI Tecnai F30 microscope
   whose residual column pressure was nominally 88 nTorr (measured at the closest ion
30 pump) and with an anti-contamination shield surrounding the sample cooled by liquid
   nitrogen. Selected area diffractograms were collected on a liquid cooled 2Kx2K CCD
   camera (Tietz F224HD) using a fluence of ~30 e/A 2/s, a nominal camera length of 690
   mm, exposure time of 1 second, and a 10 tm diameter selected area aperture which
                                                  34

                                                      2
   corresponded to an interrogated area of 0.30    Im   at the sample. The actual camera length
   was calibrated using the 111 to 311 lattice reflections of a thin film of polycrystalline
   aluminum. After the first diffractogram was collected, the sample was removed from the
   column and immediately transported in a sealed, carefully cleaned container while still
 5 mounted in the holder to the plasma chamber, exposed to hydrogen plasma while
   mounted in the holder, and then immediately returned to the electron microscope for
   collection of the second data set. During repeated experiments using this transfer process
   we saw no evidence of contamination of the graphene sample. Final diffractograms were
   inverted to black on white to improve contrast when printed.
10
   Vitrification and cryo-electron microscopy using hydrogen plasma treated graphene
   grids
   Frozen stocks of Thermus thermophilus 70S ribosomes provided by the V. Ramakrishnan
   lab 3 3 were thawed and diluted to a concentration of 70 nM, in 5 mM HEPES pH 7.5, 50
15 mM KCl, 10 mM NH4Cl, 10 mM MgOAc, 6 mM BME, all the while being kept on ice.
   Graphene grids were treated with a pure hydrogen plasma as described above, for the
   indicated times just prior to use. Grids were placed in a cryoplunger (FEI Vitrobot IV)
   equilibrated to 4 'C and 100% relative humidity; 3 ptL of sample was applied, allowed to
   incubate for 60 seconds, blotted with force -20 for 2 seconds and then plunged into liquid
20 ethane at just above its melting point. Grids were then stored in liquid nitrogen until
   they were transferred to an FEI Polara electron microscope for imaging. Vitrified
   ribosomes were imaged with 300 keV electrons under very low-dose conditions (2.5 e
   /A2/s; <0.2 e/A2 preexposure in low-mag mode) at a nominal magnification of 23 kX at
   a temperature of ~80-90K. Exposures were 1 second on a CMOS direct-electron detector
25 (FEI back-thinned Falcon II) where the calibrated pixels corresponded to (4.58 A) 2 at the
   sample.
   Single particle data analysis and model fits
   2282 particles were picked from three micrographs using EMAN2's boxer program with
30 the semiautomated swarm method 39. Next, the particles were preprocessed and
   extracted in 76 x 76 pixel boxes (scale is 4.58 A/px) in Relion4 0 , which included CTF
   fitting using CTFFIND341. After one round of 2D classification with 18 classes, 221
   particles were discarded and the remaining 2061 were used for 3D refinement. The 3D
   refinement was carried out in Relion using an initial model generated from the crystal
                                                35

   structure from reference 33, low-pass filtered to 50 A. The 3D refinement converged at
   an estimated angular accuracy of 3.60 and a resolution of 19.3 A. The final map was low
   pass filtered to 19.3 A. The angles assigned to each particle imaged in the final refinement
   iteration (rotation and tilt in Relion) were used to generate the plot of orientations. A
 5 combined PDB from 2WDK and 2WDL was fit to the map using UCSF Chimera's rigid
   body fitting algorithm 43. The 3D renderings of the maps and models were created in
   Chimera.
   EXAMPLE 1: HYDROGENATION OF GRAPHENE
10 In this example we demonstrate a method for making a partially hydrogenated
   graphene.
   We apply a hydrogen ion or hydrogen atom to the surface of the graphene (in this
   example by a hydrogen plasma).
   The hydrogen plasma is applied at an energy in the range 1 to 21 eV.
15
   To measure the change in hydrophobicity of a graphene surface in response to
   hydrogenation (in this example by a hydrogen plasma), we measured the static
   contact angle between water, air and graphene as grown by CVD on a copper
   substrate. A 1 pl water droplet was applied to graphene on copper and imaged
20 using a calibrated optical microscope attached to a digital camera (Fig la insets).
   Each measurement was repeated for sequentially increasing doses of exposure to a
   pure hydrogen plasma at 50 mTorr and with energy (electron temperature)
   estimated to be approx. 10-15 eV, as detailed in the methods. The results of these
   measurements are shown in Fig. la. We found that the contact angle decreases
25 exponentially from a value of 91 ±1.7' to a saturation value of 66 ± 1.30 with a rate
   constant of 1/56 seconds. A contact angle of 910 for intrinsic graphene (Fig. la) is
   well within the wide range of reported values for graphene 27 , and contact angles in
   the 60-80' range are comparable to those typically used for protein deposition on
                                   4
   amorphous carbon substrates .
30
   The primary species present in a low energy hydrogen plasma are H, H+, H2+ H3+ and
                  28
   free electrons .Based on this fact and the observation that extended hydrogen plasma
                                                         13
   treatments of graphene fully convert it to graphane , we expect the primary chemical
                                                36

   reaction of graphene with the plasma to be the direct hydrogenation of the graphene
   lattice via the reaction
                                       sp 2 C + H <-> sp 3 CH
   To monitor the conversion of the substrate lattice towards graphane, we measured the
 5 change in the lattice constant after plasma exposure using electron diffraction. The
   result is shown in Fig. 1b. After an 80 second dose of plasma treatment, the peak from
   0-110 reflections of the graphene lattice broadens and shifts slightly towards lower
   frequencies (Fig. 6). The error in the measurement limits the precision to about 1%.
   Based on previous studies of graphane formation (where the lattice constant decreases
10 by approx 5% upon full conversion to graphane13 ), this corresponds to an upper bound
   on the conversion of the carbon-carbon sp 2 bonds in the graphene to sp 3-H bonds of
    ~10% after an 80 second dose. Furthermore, the sharp peaks in the diffractograms after
   plasma treatment (Fig. 1c-d) demonstrate that the underlying graphene lattice is
   preserved. Interestingly, even a partial reduction of the graphene lattice to graphane
15 induces a significant change in the hydrophobicity and saturates the reduction in
   contact angle. Using the Young-Dupre equation for the contact angle of a liquid droplet
   on a solid surface in a gas, we can use the contact angle measurements above to
   calculate the change in the water-graphene surface interfacial energy induced by the
   hydrogen plasma. The result is that a shift in contact angle from 910 for as-grown
20 graphene on copper to a saturation value of 660 corresponds to a reduction in the
   graphene-water interfacial energy of 0.19 ± 0.02 eV/nm2 .
   EXAMPLE 2: GRAPHENE CLEANING
   In this example we demonstrate that small atom plasma treatment such as hydrogen
25 plasma treatment removes surface contaminants on graphene.
   In particular we show a method for cleaning a graphene surface, comprising contacting
   said graphene surface with a hydrogen plasma. The time of contact is a time sufficient
   to remove surface impurities, as shown below.
   We studied graphene's properties as a substrate for electron microscopy before and after
30 plasma treatment and compared it to amorphous carbon. Suspended graphene as
   transferred to a Quantif oil grid, when examined with electrons under conditions typical
   for imaging proteins (300 keV, 25 e-/A 2, 39000 X magnification), shows significant
   amounts of surface contamination (Fig. 2a and Fig. 7a). Exposing the graphene to 30
                                                 37

   seconds of hydrogen plasma removes most of the surface contamination (Fig. 2b and
   Fig. 7b) but increases the background signal level in the image slightly due to the
   addition of hydrogen and perhaps some non-volatilized contaminant remnants
   (compare red and blue curves in Fig. 2c). Compared to a reasonably thin 28 ± 1.4 A layer
 5 of amorphous carbon (Fig. 2c and Fig. 7c-e), the background signal of the treated
   graphene lattice is significantly lower and featureless, with no Thon rings (Fig. 2c).
   We note that hydrogen plasma removes or reduces surface contamination on graphene
   much faster than it modifies the graphene itself. This is because the hydrocarbon
   contaminants are easily broken down and volatilized by chemical reaction with the
                                                    2
10 energetic plasma. Since the graphene sp            bond is highly resistant to chemical
   modification, it is only slowly reduced by atomic hydrogen in the plasma. Importantly,
   hydrogen species in the 10-15 eV range have insufficient energy to directly remove
   carbon atoms from their sp 2 bonds (approx. 21 eV) in the lattice 30- 32, eliminating
   sputtering as a possible mechanism of damage to the bulk lattice.
15
   EXAMPLE 3: TUNING OF GRAPHENE SURFACE
   In this example we show the control of the adsorption of proteins to graphene by partial
   hydrogenation of the graphene according to the present invention. Having shown that
   we can control the hydrophobicity of graphene, we then tested hydrogen plasma treated
20 graphene as a substrate for cryo-EM using 70S ribosomes. We transferred monolayer
   graphene onto Quantifoil EM grids, subjected them to various doses of hydrogen
   plasma, and used them to prepare vitrified samples of 70S ribosomes. Fig. 3a shows that
   on grids without graphene, very few 70S particles are visible in the vitreous ice, as most
   are attracted to the surface of the Quantifoil carbon and the edges of the holes (note the
25 ring of ribosomes at the edge of the hole). Using identical freezing and blotting
   conditions with graphene grids treated with 10 seconds of hydrogen plasma, only small
   patches of vitreous ice were visible (Fig. 3b). This is indicative of the incomplete wetting
   of the graphene surface and is consistent with the small change in contact angle at this
   dose (Fig. la). After 20 seconds of hydrogen plasma, graphene surfaces more uniformly
30 wet and the ice quality is greatly improved, with approximately 600 ribosome particles
   per micrograph (1.2 [tm diameter holes, Fig. 3c). This particle density (607 picked
   particles/p m 2 ) is far greater than on grids without graphene (57 picked particles/   Vm
                                                                                              2
                                                                                                ,
   compare Fig. 3a and 3c) indicating that the 70S ribosomes adsorb to the graphene surface.
                                                 38

   The ring of particles around the edge of the hole is no longer present, indicating that the
   ribosomes uniformly adsorb to the hydrogen-treated graphene surface. A further
   increase of the plasma dose to 40 seconds leads to very densely packed ribosomes
   (approx. 1900 particles/pm 2, Fig. 3d). For the suspended ice in Fig. 3a, c and d, selected
 5 area diffractograms were acquired after the first low dose image to demonstrate the
   vitreous nature of the ice and to verify the presence of the graphene layer (Fig. 8).
   Overall, these results show that there is a monotonic relationship between hydrogen
   plasma dose and surface particle density, when keeping other conditions uniform (blot
   time, humidity, etc.) thereby allowing the experimenter to use a graphene surface to tune
10 particle distribution in the ice.
   EXAMPLE 4: ELECTRON MICROSCOPY SUPPORT COMPRISING PARTIALLY
   HYDROGENATED GRAPHENE
   An electron microscopy support for receiving a biological sample is produced as
15 described above. The support comprises support bars, and comprises graphene attached
   to said support bars, characterised in that said graphene is partially hydrogenated
   graphene, as described in the methods section above. Here we demonstrate use of this
   partially hydrogenated graphene as a substrate for cryo-EM. To verify the structural
   integrity of biological molecules adsorbed on the graphene surface, we determined the
20 three dimensional structure of the 70S ribosome from three micrographs where the
   presence of the graphene support layer was verified by subsequent electron diffraction,
   including the one shown in Fig. 3c. Using 2061 particles picked from the three
   micrographs, we obtained a reconstructed electron density map at 19 A resolution (Fig.
   9a), which is depicted in Figure 4a-c and Figure 10. We fit the crystal structure of the 70S
25 ribosome from Ref. 33 using rigid body fitting and found it matched the model well with
   no significant distortions in the molecule (Fig. 4d). Finally, we assessed the orientational
   distribution of the ribosomes on the graphene substrate using the angles assigned to each
   particle during the reconstruction. The result is plotted using a Molleweide equal area
   projection in Fig. 4e. While the ribosome exhibits preferential orientations on graphene,
30 the orientational distribution compares favorably to similar data obtained under optimal
   conditions on glow-discharged amorphous carbon (shown in black in the projection map
   of Fig. 4b)3.
                                                39

   EXAMPLE 5 - IMPROVEMENT OF IMAGE QUALITY
   Imperfections in particle images are often characterized using an empirical model of
   short-range motion. The model uses a Gaussian function to characterize loss of high
   resolution information where the empirically determined fitting parameter (Debye
                                                                                          33
 5 Waller thermal parameter or B-factor) provides a measure of the image quality . A
   number of variables can contribute to the B-factor including beam-induced particle
   movement, specimen charging, radiation damage and sample heterogeneity. Although
   the complicated nature of image distortion and particle motion is not well modeled
   mathematically by a simple Gaussian function, a change in B-factor is useful to
10 characterize the improvement of a given method. We observed an ~35% (82 A2 )
   reduction in B-factor of 80S ribosomes on graphene compared to amorphous carbon.
   Thus, graphene can be expected to improve the information content of any particle
   image.
   To investigate the origins of the improved image quality, we analyzed the high-speed
15 frame capture data collected for each micrograph. Our 80S data were acquired using a
   direct electron detector with 1 e-/A   2/frame   for 16 frames. Using a five-frame running
   average, we tracked the motion of each ribosome during the exposure. We calculated
   the ensemble average for each frame for all 20 050 particles in each dataset and plot the
   trajectory in Figure 5. Beam-induced movement of 80S particles has two linear phases
20 which we fit separately in the plot. The slope of the lines is the speed of the movement,
   and Figure 5 may occasionally be referred to as a 'speed plot' for this reason. 16 images
   per second are captured. The graphene in this example is 20s hydrogen treated and
   corresponds to material used in Figure 3(c). The initial fast phase has a speed of 4.4    0.2
   A/s (X2=0.0018) on graphene prepared according to the invention and 6.5 ± 0.2 A/s
25 (x2=0.00 2 7 ) on amorphous carbon. The speed of the second phase is 0.91 ± 0.02 A/s
   (20.00051)        on graphene prepared according to the invention and 4.18 ± 0.04 A/s
   ( 2=0. 0 0 1 4 ) on amorphous carbon (amorphous carbon is prior art material included for
   comparative information showing superior performance of the invention). We omit the
   first and last two points from the fits since they are from three- and four-frame averages
30 and therefore have significantly more error as indicated. Further, the assignment of the
   point of zero displacement to the position of the particle calculated for the first frame is
   somewhat arbitrary. The true initial particle position could also be taken as the y
                                                 40

   intercept from the fit to the first phase of motion and would lead to a lower estimate of
   total particle displacement.
   We hypothesise that the first phase of beam-induced particle movement is due to the
   complicated initial buildup of charge and stress on the specimen, which may include the
 5 buildup of large electric fields across regions of the irradiated area and density changes
   within the ice due to radiolysis ("charge-up phase"). In contrast, the steady-state speed
   of the second phase is likely governed by the mechanical response of the substrate to the
   apparently constant force induced by the beam ("mechanical-response phase"). Particle
   speeds for both phases are smaller for graphene: an ~30% reduction during the initial
10 charge up phase and a nearly five-fold reduction during the mechanical-response phase.
   This is remarkable and surprising and is better even than the inventors expected.
   We also used newly developed motion correction algorithms 3 to correct for particle
   motion during 3D reconstruction. We found that this did not significantly improve the
   map for graphene data, whereas the same algorithms applied to the same sample on
15 amorphous carbon did result in significant improvement of the reconstruction (Fig. 9b).
   This agrees with the fact that we have reduced the motion of the particles according to
   the invention, so motion correction is less effective.
   Thus, we show excellent performance according to the invention, and by direct
   comparison to the prior art. The invention provides more information in every image.
20 The invention provides more resolution in every image. The invention provides more
   signal in every image. The invention permits particles to be aligned more easily. Thus,
   numerous technical benefits are delivered according to the invention.
   Summary
25 In these examples, we have demonstrated that partial hydrogenation (such as using a
   low-energy hydrogen plasma) can nondestructively modify graphene hydrophobicity
   to allow the interaction of biological molecules. Even the addition of about one hydrogen
   atom for every 20 carbon atoms induces a significant change in the hydrophobicity and
   induces adsorption of proteins to the surface (e.g. 20 s dose, Fig. 3c). To understand the
30 large change in interfacial energy and the saturation of the contact angle with only
   partial hydrogenation of the lattice, we propose the following model. The water
   graphene interfacial energy is dominated by hydrophobic interactions between water
   and the non-polar graphene lattice. Adding hydrogens to the lattice disrupts the order
   of water molecules near the graphene surface. Each hydrogen addition reduces the
                                                 41

   interfacial energy until the separation between the hydrogens becomes comparable to
   the length scale of the coordination of water near the hydrophobic surface. If we take
   the average energy of a hydrogen bond in water 34 at 300K to be ~ 0.21 eV, then the
   change in interfacial energy we measure represents the addition of about 0.90 hydrogen
 5 bonds worth of energy per nm 2 to the interface. This distance corresponds to the length
   scale of the hydrophobic interaction in water 35 , which decays exponentially with a decay
   constant of 1.0 ± 0.1 nm. This leads us to conclude that the hydrogen plasma treatment
   primarily makes the graphene lattice hydrophilic by adding hydrogens that disrupt the
   local ordering of water molecules in solution.
10 These same hydrogens also likely control the protein distribution on the graphene
   surface by providing sites for the hydrogen-bonding of the molecules to the surface. A
   major problem in cryo-EM is the precise control of the distribution of proteins within a
   thin layer of vitreous ice. During blotting and vitrification, proteins often segregate to
   the air/water interface or to carbon support membranes. We show that the partial
15 hydrogenation of a graphene lattice can induce adsorption of proteins from an aqueous
   solution, enabling control of particle surface density independent of other variables in
   cryo-EM sample preparation (humidity, blot time, etc.). By tuning their adsorption to the
   graphene, we remove the problems associated with protein aggregation and
   denaturation at air/water interfaces. Graphene is effectively invisible at resolutions used
20 in structural biology (> 2.1 A) and it eliminates the problems associated with amorphous
   carbon including irreproducibility, charging and increased background noise. Further,
   we show that a low-energy hydrogen plasma can selectively remove surface
   contaminants much faster than it can reduce the graphene lattice itself. Graphene, as
   treated with a low-energy hydrogen plasma, is a reproducible and tunable surface for
25 the adsorption of proteins.
   Another major problem in cryo-EM is degradation of image quality and this is improved
   in two ways using graphene substrates according to the invention. First, graphene is
   effectively invisible at resolutions used in structural biology (<1/2.1 A) and when it is
   used instead of amorphous carbon, it reduces the background signal. Second, graphene
30 reduces beam-induced particle movement and thus increases the high resolution
   structural information available in each image. Ribosomes imaged on graphene exhibit
   two phases of beam-induced motion, both of which are significantly reduced relative to
   typical amorphous carbon substrates. The -30% reduction in the initial "charge-up
                                                42

   phase" is likely due to the high conductivity of the graphene film reducing the initial
   buildup of charge in and on the ice. And the five-fold reduction in particle speed during
   the second "mechanical-response phase" can be explained by the increased mechanical
   strength of graphene (1 TPa)19, 20 compared to amorphous carbon (~50-200 MPa) 36 but
 5 also likely involves a reduction in the electrically induced stresses in the sample due to
   a reduction in charge buildup. Further work to elucidate the detailed dynamics and
   underlying mechanisms of these particle motions will be of great interest. Both these and
   other advantages flow from the key contribution made by the invention of rendering
   graphene suitable for use with biological samples via partial hydrogenation.
10 On this basis, the invention provides for the preparation of biological specimens for
   electron microscopy to be improved from a trial-and-error prior art strewn with
   problems and lacking realistic expectation of success, to a systematic process of tuning
   of surface conditions helping to preserve the structural integrity of the proteins and the
   quality of the images.
15
   The work leading to this invention has received funding from the European
   Research Council under the European          Union's Seventh Framework Programme
   (FP7/2007- 2013) / ERC grant agreement n' 261151.
                                               43

   References
   1. Grigorieff, N. & Harrison, S. C. Near-atomic resolution reconstructions of
   icosahedral viruses from electron cryo-microscopy. Curr. Opin. Struct. Biol. 21, 265-273
 5 (2011).
   2. Campbell, M. G. et al. Movies of ice-embedded particles enhance resolution in
   electron cryomicroscopy. Structure 20, 1823-1828 (2012).
   3. Bai, X.-C., Fernandez, I. S., McMullan, G. & Scheres, S. H. Ribosome structures to
   near-atomic resolution from thirty thousand cryo-EM particles. eLife 2, e00461 (2013).
10 4. Dubochet,    J., Groom, M. & Mueller-Neuteboom, S. in Advances in Optical and Electron
   Microscopy (Barer, R. & Cosslett, V. E.) 8, 107-135 (Academic Press, 1982).
   5. Dubochet,    J. et al. Cryo-electron microscopy of vitrified specimens. Q. Rev. Biophys.
   21, 129-228 (1988).
   6. Adrian, M., Dubochet,      J., Lepault, J. & McDowall, A. W. Cryo-electron microscopy of
15 viruses. Nature 308, 32-36 (1984).
   7. Henderson, R. & McMullan, G. Problems in obtaining perfect images by single
   particle electron cryomicroscopy of biological structures in amorphous ice. Microscopy
   62, 43-50 (2013).
   8. Brilot, A. F. et al. Beam-induced motion of vitrified specimen on holey carbon film.
20 Journal of StructuralBiology 177, 630-637 (2012).
   9. Brink,  J., Sherman, M. B., Berriman, J. & Chiu, W. Evaluation of charging on
   macromolecules in electron cryomicroscopy. Ultramicroscopy72, 41-52 (1998).
   10. Downing, K. H., McCartney, M. R. & Glaeser, R. M. Experimental characterization
   and mitigation of specimen charging on thin films with one conducting layer. Microsc.
25 Microanal.10, 783-789 (2004).
   11. Taylor, K. A. & Glaeser, R. M. Retrospective on the early development of
   cryoelectron microscopy of macromolecules and a prospective on opportunities for the
   future. Journal of StructuralBiology 163, 214-223 (2008).
   12. Geim, A. K. Graphene: status and prospects. Science 324, 1530-1534 (2009).
30 13. Elias, D. C. et al. Control of graphene's properties by reversible hydrogenation:
   evidence for graphane. Science 323, 610-613 (2009).
   14. Grassucci, R. A., Taylor, D. J. & Frank, J. Preparation of macromolecular complexes
   for cryoelectron microscopy. Nat Protoc 2, 3239-3246 (2007).
                                                    44

   15. Frank, J. Three-DimensionalElectron Microscopy of MacromolecularAssemblies:
   Visualization of BiologicalMolecules in Their Native State. (Oxford University Press, USA,
   2006).
   16. Curtis, G. H. & Ferrier, R. P. The electric charging of electron-microscope
 5 specimens. Brit. J.Appl. Phys. 2, 1035-1040 (1969).
   17. Robertson, J. Amorphous carbon. Advances in Physics 35, 317-374 (1986).
   18. Miyazawa, A., Fujiyoshi, Y., Stowell, M. & Unwin, N. Nicotinic acetylcholine
   receptor at 4.6 A resolution: transverse tunnels in the channel wall. J. Mol. Biol. 288,
   765-786 (1999).
10 19. Lee, C., Wei, X., Kysar,   J. W. & Hone, J. Measurement    of the elastic properties and
   intrinsic strength of monolayer graphene. Science 321, 385-388 (2008).
   20. Suenaga, K. & Koshino, M. Atom-by-atom spectroscopy at graphene edge. Nature
   468, 1088- 1090 (2010).
   21. Russo, C.  J. A  structural imaging study of single DNA molecules on carbon
15 nanotubes. Thesis, Harvard University (2010).
   22. Pantelic, R. S., Meyer, J. C., Kaiser, U., Baumeister, W. & Plitzko, J. M. Graphene
   oxide: A substrate for optimizing preparations of frozen-hydrated samples. Journal of
   StructuralBiology 170, 152-156 (2010).
   23. Pantelic, R. S. et al. Graphene: Substrate preparation and introduction. Journal of
20 StructuralBiology 174, 234-238 (2011).
   24. Pantelic, R. S., Suk, J. W., Hao, Y., Ruoff, R. S. & Stahlberg, H. Oxidative Doping
   Renders Graphene Hydrophilic, Facilitating Its Use As a Support in Biological TEM.
   Nano Lett. 11, 4319-4323 (2011).
   25. G6mez-Navarro, C. et al. Electronic transport properties of individual chemically
25 reduced graphene oxide sheets. Nano Lett. 7, 3499-3503 (2007).
   26. Burgess,  J. S. et al. Tuning the electronic properties of graphene by hydrogenation
   in a plasma enhanced chemical vapor deposition reactor. Carbon 49, 4420-4426 (2011).
   27. Taherian, F., Marcon, V., van der Vegt, N. F. A. & Leroy, F. What is the contact
   angle of water on graphene? Langmuir 29, 1457-1465 (2013).
30 28. Mendez, I., Gordillo-Vazquez, F. J., Herrero, V. J. & Tanarro, I. Atom and ion
   chemistry in low pressure hydrogen dc plasmas. J Phys Chem A 110, 6060-6066 (2006).
   29. Reimer, L. & Kohl, H. Transmission Electron Microscopy. (Springer Verlag, 2008).
                                                   45

   30. Russo, C.   J. & Golovchenko, J. A. Atom-by-atom     nucleation and growth of
   graphene nanopores. Proc.Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 109, 5953-5957 (2012).
   31. Krasheninnikov, A. V. & Banhart, F. Engineering of nanostructured carbon
   materials with electron or ion beams. Nat Mater 6, 723-733 (2007).
 5 32. Xie, L., Jiao, L. & Dai, H. Selective etching of graphene edges by hydrogen plasma.
   J. Am.  Chem. Soc. 132, 14751-14753 (2010).
   33. Voorhees, R. M., Weixlbaumer, A., Loakes, D., Kelley, A. C. & Ramakrishnan, V.
   Insights into substrate stabilization from snapshots of the peptidyl transferase center of
   the intact 70S ribosome. Nat. Struct. Mol. Biol. 16, 528-533 (2009).
10 34. Pauling, L. General Chemistry. (W.H. Freeman and Co., 1970).
   35. Israelachvili, J. & Pashley, R. The hydrophobic interaction is long range, decaying
   exponentially with distance. Nature 300, 341-342 (1982).
   36. Reina, A. et al. Large area, few-layer graphene films on arbitrary substrates by
   chemical vapor deposition. Nano Lett. 9, 30-35 (2009).
15 37. Li, X. et al. Large-Area Synthesis of High-Quality and Uniform Graphene Films on
   Copper Foils. Science 324, 1312-1314 (2009).
   38. Regan, W. et al. A direct transfer of layer-area graphene. Apple. Phys. Lett. 96, 113102
   (2010).
   39. Tang, G. et al. EMAN2: an extensible image processing suite for electron
20 microscopy. Journal of StructuralBiology 157, 38-46 (2007).
   40. Scheres, S. H. W. RELION: implementation of a Bayesian approach to cryo-EM
   structure determination. Journal of StructuralBiology 180, 519-530 (2012).
   41. Mindell, J. A. & Grigorieff, N. Accurate determination of local defocus and
   specimen tilt in electron microscopy. Journal of Structural Biology 142, 334-347 (2003).
25 42. Rosenthal, P. B. & Henderson, R. Optimal determination of particle orientation,
   absolute hand, and contrast loss in single-particle electron cryomicroscopy. J. Mol. Biol.
   333, 721-745 (2003).
   43. Pettersen, E. F. et al. UCSF Chimera--a visualization system for exploratory research
   and analysis.    J Comput Chem 25,  1605-1612 (2004).
30 44. Israelachvili,  J. N. Intermolecularand Surface Forces. (Academic Press, 2011).
   45. Shih, C.-J. et al. Breakdown in the wetting transparency of graphene. Phys. Rev. Lett.
   109, 176101 (2012).
                                                  46

   46. Cui, Y. et al. Nanowire Nanosensors for Highly Sensitive and Selective Detection of
   Biological and Chemical Species. Science 293, 1289-1292 (2001).
   47. Patolsky, F. et al. Electrical detection of single viruses. P Natl Acad Sci USA 101,
   14017-14022 (2004).
 5 48. Stern, E. et al. Label-free immunodetection with CMOS-compatible semiconducting
   nanowires. Nature 445, 519-522 (2007).
   49. Choi, Y. et al. Single-Molecule Lysozyme Dynamics Monitored by an Electronic
   Circuit. Science 335, 319-324 (2012).
   50. Schedin, F. et al. Detection of individual gas molecules adsorbed on graphene. Nat
10 Mater 6, 652-655 (2007)
   51. Ohno, Y., Maehashi, K., Yamashiro, Y. & Matsumoto, K. Electrolyte-Gated
   Graphene Field-Effect Transistors for Detecting pH and Protein Adsorption. Nano Lett
   9, 3318-3322 (2009).
   52. Zheng et al. Multiplexed electrical detection of cancer markers with nanowire
15 sensor arrays. Nat Biotech 23, 1294 - 1301 (2005)
                                                  47

CLAIMS
1.   A method for cleaning a graphene surface, comprising contacting the graphene
     surface with a hydrogen plasma or a helium plasma or a neon plasma for a time
     sufficient to remove surface impurities.
2.   A method according to claim   1, wherein the plasma is at an energy in the range 1
     to 14 eV.
3.   A method according to claim   1  or claim 2, wherein the plasma is an inert
     plasma.
4.   A method according to claim 3 wherein the plasma is neon plasma.
5.   A method according to claim 3 wherein the plasma is helium plasma.
6.   A method according to any one of claims 1 to 5, wherein the graphene surface is
     contacted with the plasma for 1 to 30 seconds.
7.   A method according to claim 6, wherein the graphene surface is contacted with
     the plasma for 1 to 10 seconds.
8.   A method according to any one of claims 1 to 7, wherein the graphene is
     partially hydrogenated graphene.
9.   A method according to claim 8, wherein the partially hydrogenated graphene is
     1 to 10% hydrogenated   graphene.
10.  A method according to claim 9, wherein the partially hydrogenated graphene is
     3 to 10% hydrogenated graphene.
11.  A method according to claim   10,  wherein the partially hydrogenated graphene is
     5% hydrogenated graphene.
12.  A method according to any one of claims 8 to    11, wherein the partially
     hydrogenated graphene comprises at least a first area of graphene having a first
                                           48

    hydrogenation value and at least one further area of graphene having a different
    hydrogenation value.
13. Cleaned graphene obtained by a method according to any one of claims   1 to 12.
                                       49

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
