       Generating User Notifications Using Beacons On Online Social Networks
ABSTRACT
In one embodiment, a method includes receiving, from a beacon associated with a third-party
content provider (e.g., a business), session information of the first user of an online social network.
The first user's mobile device may be proximate to and in a wireless communication session with
the beacon, which may be located at the third-party content provider. One or more second users,
who are each connected to the first user in a social graph, may be selected. A communication
session is not active between the beacon and the mobile devices of the second users. The selection
may be based on selected second users being located within a predefined distance of the beacon
(e.g., in the same neighborhood). A notification referencing selected second users (e.g., a prompt
to invite the selected second users to the beacon location) may be sent to the first user's mobile
device.

                               1400
      access a social graph comprising nodes and edges
  connecting the nodes, a first node corresponding to a first
  user, second nodes corresponding to second users, each            1410
      second node being connected to the first node by a
                 threshold degree of separation
 receive session information of the first user from a beacon,
the beacon being at a particular location within a place of the
     third-party content provider, the session information          1420
  indicating that a wireless communication session is active
between the beacon and a first client system of the first user
select second users based on a second location of a second
client system associated with each second user being within
      a threshold distance of the particular location of the        1430
   beacon,wherein a wireless communication session is not
  active between the beacon and the second client systems
 send, to the first client system of the first user, a notification
                                                                    1440
    referencing one or more of the selected second users.
                                  FIG.14
                                   25/26

                                                   1
       Generating User Notifications Using Beacons On Online Social Networks
RELATED APPLICATIONS
         [0001] The present application is related to United States Patent Application Serial
No. 14/565,371, filed on 9 December 2014, International Application No. PCT/US2014/069702,
entitled "Generating user notifications using beacons on online social networks" and filed on
 11 December 2014 in the name of Facebook, Inc., Australian Patent Application No. 2014413669,
entitled "Generating user notifications using beacons on online social networks" and filed on
 11 December 2014 in the name of Facebook, Inc., and United States Patent Application Serial
No. 15/669,831, filed on 4 August 2017, the entire content of each of which is incorporated herein
by reference as if fully set forth herewith.
TECHNICAL FIELD
         [00021 This disclosure generally relates to exchanging information over wireless
communications sessions, particularly within the context of an online social network.
BACKGROUND
         [0003] A social-networking system, which may include a social-networking website, may
enable its users (such as persons or organizations) to interact with it and with each other through
it. The social-networking system may, with input from a user, create and store in the social
networking system a user profile associated with the user. The user profile may include
demographic information, communication-channel information, and information on personal
interests of the user. The social-networking system may also, with input from a user, create and
store a record of relationships of the user with other users of the social-networking system, as well
as provide services (e.g., wall posts, photo-sharing, event organization, messaging, games, or
advertisements) to facilitate social interaction between or among users.
         [0004] The social-networking system may send over one or more networks content or
messages related to its services to a mobile or other computing device of a user. A user may also
install software applications on a mobile or other computing device of the user for accessing a user
profile of the user and other data within the social-networking system. The social-networking

                                                    2
system may generate a personalized set of content objects to display to a user, such as a newsfeed
of aggregated stories of other users connected to the user.
         [0005] Social-graph analysis views social relationships in terms of network theory
consisting of nodes and edges. Nodes represent the individual actors within the networks, and
edges represent the relationships between the actors. The resulting graph-based structures are often
very complex. There can be many types of nodes and many types of edges for connecting nodes.
In its simplest form, a social graph is a map of all of the relevant edges between all the nodes being
studied.
SUMMARY OF PARTICULAR EMBODIMENTS
         [00061 In a first aspect, the present disclosure provides a method comprising:
         receiving, from a beacon associated with a third-party content provider, current session
information associated with a first user, wherein:
                  the beacon is further associated with a particular geographic location corresponding
         to a geographic location associated with the third-party content provider; and
                  the current session information indicates that a first client system of the first user is
         within wireless range of and proximate to the beacon, a wireless communication session
         being active between the beacon and the first client system, the wireless communication
         session allowing the third-party content provider to request stored information about the
         first user from the one or more computing devices;
         selecting one or more second users, wherein selecting each second user is based on a
determination that a second client system associated with the respective second user has a
geographic location within a threshold distance of the particular geographic location of the beacon;
and
         sending, to the first client system, a notification referencing the selected one or more
second users.
         [0007] In a second aspect, the present disclosure provides one or more computer-readable
non-transitory storage media embodying software that is operable when executed to:
         receive, from a beacon associated with a third-party content provider, current session
information associated with a first user, wherein:

                                                   3
                the beacon is further associated a particular geographic location corresponding to a
       geographic location associated with the third-party content provider; and
                the current session information indicates that a first client system of the first user is
       within wireless range of and proximate to the beacon, a wireless communication session
       being active between the beacon and the first client system, the wireless communication
       session allowing the third-party content provider to request stored information about the
       first user;
       select one or more second users, wherein selecting each second user is based on a
determination that a second client system associated with the respective second user has a
geographic location within a threshold distance of the particular geographic location of the beacon;
and
       send, to the first client system, a notification referencing the selected one or more second
users.
       [0008] In a third aspect, the present disclosure provides a system comprising: one or more
processors; and a memory coupled to the processors comprising instructions executable by the
processors, the processors being operable when executing the instructions to:
       receive, from a beacon associated with a third-party content provider, current session
information associated with a first user, wherein:
                the beacon is further associated with a particular geographic location corresponding
       to a geographic location associated with the third-party content provider; and
                the current session information indicates that a first client system of the first user is
       within wireless range of and proximate to the beacon, a wireless communication session
       being active between the beacon and the first client system, the wireless communication
       session allowing the third-party content provider to request social-networking information
       about the first user from the system;
       select one or more second users, wherein selecting each second user is based on a
determination that a second client system associated with the respective second user has a
geographic location within a threshold distance of the particular geographic location of the beacon;
and

                                                    4
        send, to the first client system, a notification referencing the selected one or more second
users.
        [0009] In particular embodiments, a social-networking            system may facilitate the
establishment and confirmation of a wireless communication session between a beacon and a
user's client system proximate to the beacon in order to enhance a user's experience at the beacon
holder business. After a wireless communication session is established, the social-networking
system may send social-networking information of the user to a third-party content provider
associated with the beacon (i.e., the beacon holder), by way of the beacon. The social-networking
information sent to the third-party content provider may be customized based on the type of goods
purveyed or services rendered by the third-party content provider. For example, if the third-party
content provider is a department store, the social-networking system may send social-networking
information of the user that includes color preferences and shoe and clothing sizes of the user. In
another example, if the third-party content provider is a restaurant, the social-networking system
may send social-networking information of the user that includes food allergies and favorite foods.
The social-networking information of the user may, in turn, be used by the third-party content
provider to personalize third-party content, which may be sent to the user's client system by the
third-party content provider, either directly or via the beacon. The third-party content provider may
also send third-party content to the social-networking system, which may personalize the third
party content and send it to the user's client system. For example and not by way of limitation, a
third-party content provider may be a book retailer and may receive social-networking information
that includes a list of books recently read by the user, and the third-party content provider may
send the user titles of suggested books to read, which may be available for purchase at the third
party content provider.
        [0010] In particular embodiments, a social-networking system may anonymize and
aggregate social-networking information and session information of multiple users whose client
systems have been associated with beacons of a third-party content provider in wireless
communication sessions. Session information may include, for example and not by way of
limitation, a history of past wireless communication sessions established between a client system
and one or more beacons of a third-party content provider. The social-networking system may
generate a report including any number of statistics (i.e., business insights) generated based on the

                                                   5
aggregated clientele information. For example, the report may include an average customer age
and a number of customers who are first time visitors to the third-party content provider. In
particular embodiments, the report may include individual profiles (e.g., showing a picture and
name) for the users whose client systems are presently in a wireless communication session with
the beacon (i.e., the users who are currently at the third-party content provider location).
        [0011] In particular embodiments, a social-networking system may customize and send an
advertisement to a particular user based on the social-networking information and session
information of the user. For example, a user's session information may indicate that a user was a
frequent patron of a particular restaurant but has not been there in a few months and may send the
user's client system an advertisement (e.g., a coupon) in order to attract the user's patronage once
again. A social-networking system, or third-party content provider via the social-networking
system, may target users for a particular advertisement based on interactions with beacons by a
user's social connections. For example, if a number of a user's social connections have checked
in at a particular pub, the social-networking system may send the user an advertisement for the
pub.
        [0012] In particular embodiments, a social-networking system may customize and provide
a notification to a user of an online social network based on social-networking information (e.g.,
location information) and session information of the user. For example, a user's location
information may indicate that the user is nearby a particular restaurant, and the social-networking
system may send a notification to the user's client system indicating that he is near the restaurant
and providing information about the restaurant (e.g., menu and reviews). The social-networking
system may also customize notifications based on social-networking and session information of
the user's social connections, For example, the notification may specify friends of the user who
are already at the restaurant (e.g., based on session information for the friends received from a
beacon located at the restaurant). Notifications may also provide arrival and departure information
pertaining to the user's social connections (e.g., a notification indicating that John left the
restaurant fifteen minutes ago). In particular embodiments, the social-networking system may use
session information of a user to determine that he is located at a particular bar and provide a
notification to the user prompting him to invite other users to join him and providing a list of
suggested invitees. For example, the social-networking system may determine that social

                                                   6
connections of the user who are nearby the bar should be suggested invitees. The social-networking
system may further refine who it pushes as a suggested invitee based on social-networking
information of the other users (e.g., based on preferences or affinities of the other users).
        [0013] The embodiments disclosed above are only examples, and the scope of this
disclosure is not limited to them. Particular embodiments may include all, some, or none of the
components, elements, features, functions, operations, or steps of the embodiments disclosed
above. Embodiments according to the invention are in particular disclosed in the attached claims
directed to a method, a storage medium, a system and a computer program product, wherein any
feature mentioned in one claim category, e.g., method, can be claimed in another claim category,
e.g., system, as well. The dependencies or references back in the attached claims are chosen for
formal reasons only. However any subject matter resulting from a deliberate reference back to any
previous claims (in particular multiple dependencies) can be claimed as well, so that any
combination of claims and the features thereof are disclosed and can be claimed regardless of the
dependencies chosen in the attached claims. The subject-matter which can be claimed comprises
not only the combinations of features as set out in the attached claims but also any other
combination of features in the claims, wherein each feature mentioned in the claims can be
combined with any other feature or combination of other features in the claims. Furthermore, any
of the embodiments and features described or depicted herein can be claimed in a separate claim
and/or in any combination with any embodiment or feature described or depicted herein or with
any of the features of the attached claims.
        [0014] In an embodiment according to the invention, a method comprises, by one or more
computing devices of an online social network:
        accessing a social graph comprising a plurality of nodes and a plurality of edges connecting
the nodes, each of the edges between two of the nodes representing a single degree of separation
between them, the nodes comprising:
        a first node corresponding to a first user of the online social network, and
        a plurality of second nodes respectively corresponding to a plurality of second users
associated with the online social network, each second node being connected to the first node in
the social graph by a threshold degree of separation;

                                                    7
        receiving, from a beacon associated with a third-party content provider, session
information of the first user, wherein:
        the beacon is associated with a particular location within a place associated with the third
party content provider, and
        the session information of the first user indicates that a first client system of the first user
is within wireless range of and proximate to the beacon, a wireless communication session being
active between the beacon and the first client system;
        selecting one or more of the second users, wherein the selecting is based on a second
location of a second client system associated with the second user, the second location being within
a threshold distance of the particular location of the beacon, and wherein a wireless communication
session is not active between the beacon and each of second client systems associated with the
selected second users; and
        sending, to the first client system of the first user, a notification referencing one or more of
the selected second users.
        [0015] The threshold degree of separation may be one, two, three, or all.
        [0016] In an embodiment according to the invention, the method further may comprise:
        receiving, from the first client system, a request to invite at least one of the selected second
users referenced in the notification to the place associated with the third-party content provider;
and
        sending, in response to the request, a message to the second client system of the at least
one selected second user.
        [0017] In an embodiment according to the invention, the method further may comprise:
        sending, to the first client system, updated location information for the at least one selected
second user when a wireless communication system is established between the second client
system of the at least one second user and the beacon.
        [0018] The message may comprise:
        an invitation to join the first user at the place associated with the third-party content
provider; and
        a prompt to respond to the invitation.

                                                    8
         [0019] The message further may comprise location information of the place associated
with the third-party content provider.
         [0020] The message further may comprise an identifier of at least one third user of an
online social network, the at least one third user being associated with a respective third client
system, wherein a wireless communication session is active between the beacon and the third client
system.
         [0021] In an embodiment according to the invention, the method further may comprise
receiving, from the beacon, session information for at least one second user.
         [0022] The selecting of one or more second users may be further based on the received
session information of the at least one second user.
         [0023] The session information of the at least one second user may comprise a history of
one or more prior wireless communication sessions established between the beacon and the second
client system of the at least one second user.
         [0024] The selecting of one or more second users may be further based on user preferences
of at least one second user.
         [0025] The user preferences of the at least one second user may indicate a preference for a
type of good or service, and wherein the third-party content provider comprises the preferred type
of good or service.
         [0026] The selecting of one or more second users may be further based on an affinity
coefficient of at least one second node with respect to a third node in the social graph, the third
node corresponding to the third-party content provider.
         [0027] The affinity coefficient may be based on one or more edges connecting the at least
one second node to the third node.
         [0028] In an embodiment according to the invention, which can be claimed as well, one or
more computer-readable non-transitory storage media embody software that is operable when
executed to:
         access a social graph comprising a plurality of nodes and a plurality of edges connecting
the nodes, each of the edges between two of the nodes representing a single degree of separation
between them, the nodes comprising:
         a first node corresponding to a first user of the online social network, and

                                                    9
         a plurality of second nodes respectively corresponding to a plurality of second users
associated with the online social network, each second node being connected to the first node in
the social graph by a threshold degree of separation;
        receive, from a beacon associated with a third-party content provider, session information
of the first user, wherein:
        the beacon is associated with a particular location within a place associated with the third
party content provider, and
        the session information of the first user indicates that a first client system of the first user
is within wireless range of and proximate to the beacon, a wireless communication session being
active between the beacon and the first client system;
         select one or more of the second users, wherein the selecting is based on a second location
of a second client system associated with the second user, the second location being within a
threshold distance of the particular location of the beacon, and wherein a wireless communication
session is not active between the beacon and each of second client systems associated with the
selected second users; and
         send, to the first client system of the first user, a notification referencing one or more of
the selected second users.
         [0029] In an embodiment according to the invention, which can be claimed as well, the
media may further comprise:
        receiving, from the first client system, a request to invite at least one of the selected second
users referenced in the notification to the place associated with the third-party content provider;
and
         sending, in response to the request, a message to the second client system of the at least
one selected second user.
         [0030] In an embodiment according to the invention, which can be claimed as well, the
media may further comprise:
         sending, to the first client system, updated location information for the at least one selected
second user when a wireless communication system is established between the second client
system of the at least one second user and the beacon.

                                                    10
         [0031] In an embodiment according to the invention, which can be claimed as well, a
system comprises: one or more processors; and a memory coupled to the processors comprising
instructions executable by the processors, the processors being operable when executing the
instructions to:
         access a social graph comprising a plurality of nodes and a plurality of edges connecting
the nodes, each of the edges between two of the nodes representing a single degree of separation
between them, the nodes comprising:
         a first node corresponding to a first user of the online social network, and
         a plurality of second nodes respectively corresponding to a plurality of second users
associated with the online social network, each second node being connected to the first node in
the social graph by a threshold degree of separation;
        receive, from a beacon associated with a third-party content provider, session information
of the first user, wherein:
        the beacon is associated with a particular location within a place associated with the third
party content provider, and
        the session information of the first user indicates that a first client system of the first user
is within wireless range of and proximate to the beacon, a wireless communication session being
active between the beacon and the first client system;
         select one or more of the second users, wherein the selecting is based on a second location
of a second client system associated with the second user, the second location being within a
threshold distance of the particular location of the beacon, and wherein a wireless communication
session is not active between the beacon and each of second client systems associated with the
selected second users; and
         send, to the first client system of the first user, a notification referencing one or more of
the selected second users.
         [0032] In an embodiment according to the invention, which can be claimed as well, the
system may further comprise:
        receiving, from the first client system, a request to invite at least one of the selected second
users referenced in the notification to the place associated with the third-party content provider;
and

                                                   11
        sending, in response to the request, a message to the second client system of the at least
one selected second user.
        [0033] The message may comprise:
         an invitation to join the first user at the place associated with the third-party content
provider; and
        a prompt to respond to the invitation.
        [0034] In an embodiment according to the invention, which can be claimed as well, the
system may further comprise:
        sending, to the first client system, updated location information for the at least one selected
second user when a wireless communication system is established between the second client
system of the at least one second user and the beacon.
        [0035] In a further embodiment according to the invention, one or more computer-readable
non-transitory storage media embody software that is operable when executed to perform a method
according to the invention or any of the above mentioned embodiments.
        [0036] In a further embodiment according to the invention, a system comprises: one or
more processors; and at least one memory coupled to the processors and comprising instructions
executable by the processors, the processors operable when executing the instructions to perform
a method according to the invention or any of the above mentioned embodiments.
        [0037] In a further embodiment according to the invention, a computer program product,
preferably comprising a computer-readable non-transitory storage media, is operable when
executed on a data processing system to perform a method according to the invention or any of the
above mentioned embodiments.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
        [0038] FIG. 1 illustrates an example network environment associated with a social
networking system.
        [0039] FIG. 2 illustrates an example social graph.
        [0040] FIG. 3 illustrates an example beacon environment associated with a social
networking system.

                                                  12
         [0041] FIG. 4A illustrates an example report view of an interface displayed on a third
party system.
         [0042] FIG. 4B illustrates an example profile view of an interface displayed on a third
party system.
         [0043] FIG. 4C illustrates an example detailed profile view of an interface displayed on a
third-party system.
         [0044] FIG. 5 illustrates example ads of a third-party content provider displayed in
interface of a client system.
         [0045] FIG. 6 illustrates an example method for sending customized third-party content to
a client system.
         [0046] FIG. 7 illustrates an example method for sending a report to a third-party system.
         [0047] FIG. 8 illustrates an example method for sending a customized advertisement to a
client system.
         [0048] FIG. 9A illustrates an example notification displayed on a lock screen of a client
system.
         [0049] FIG. 9B illustrates an example notification displayed in an interface of a client
system.
         [0050] FIG. 9C illustrates an example notification displayed in an interface of a client
system.
         [0051] FIG. 9D illustrates an example page corresponding to a third-party content provider
displayed in an interface of a client system.
         [0052] FIG. 9E illustrates an example page corresponding to a third-party content provider
displayed in an interface of a client system.
         [0053] FIG. 10A illustrates an example notification displayed on a lock screen of a client
system.
         [0054] FIG. 1OB illustrates an example notification displayed in an interface of a client
system.
         [0055] FIG. 10C illustrates an example page corresponding to a third-party content
provider displayed in an interface of a client system.

                                                 13
        [0056] FIG. 11A illustrates an example notification displayed on a lock screen of a client
system.
        [0057] FIG. 11B illustrates an example notification displayed in an interface of a client
system.
        [0058] FIG. 11C illustrates an example notification and a page corresponding to a third
party content provider displayed in an interface of a client system.
        [0059] FIG. ID illustrates an example notification and a page corresponding to a third
party content provider displayed in an interface of a client system.
        [0060] FIG. 12 illustrates an example self-portrait interface displayed on a client system.
        [0061] FIG. 13 illustrates an example beacon in a real-world environment.
        [0062] FIG. 14 illustrates an example method for sending a notification to a client system.
        [0063] FIG. 15 illustrates an example computer system.
DESCRIPTION OF EXAMPLE EMBODIMENTS
System Overview
        [0064] FIG. 1 illustrates an example network environment 100 associated with a social
networking system. Network environment 100 includes a client system 130, a social-networking
system 160, and a third-party system 170 connected to each other by a network 110. Although
FIG. 1 illustrates a particular arrangement of client system 130, social-networking system 160,
third-party system 170, and network 110, this disclosure contemplates any suitable arrangement
of client system 130, social-networking system 160, third-party system 170, and network 110. As
an example and not by way of limitation, two or more of client system 130, social-networking
system 160, and third-party system 170 may be connected to each other directly, bypassing
network 110. As another example, two or more of client system 130, social-networking system
160, and third-party system 170 may be physically or logically co-located with each other in whole
or in part. Moreover, although FIG. 1 illustrates a particular number of client systems 130, social
networking systems 160, third-party systems 170, and networks 110, this disclosure contemplates
any suitable number of client systems 130, social-networking systems 160, third-party systems
170, and networks 110. As an example and not by way of limitation, network environment 100

                                                 14
may include multiple client system 130, social-networking systems 160, third-party systems 170,
and networks 110.
         [0065] This disclosure contemplates any suitable network 110. As an example and not by
way of limitation, one or more portions of network 110 may include an ad hoc network, an intranet,
an extranet, a virtual private network (VPN), a local area network (LAN), a wireless LAN
(WLAN), a wide area network (WAN), a wireless WAN (WWAN), a metropolitan area network
(MAN), a portion of the Internet, a portion of the Public Switched Telephone Network (PSTN), a
cellular telephone network, or a combination of two or more of these. Network 110 may include
one or more networks 110.
         [0066] Links 150 may connect client system 130, social-networking system 160, and third
party system 170 to communication network 110 or to each other. This disclosure contemplates
any suitable links 150. In particular embodiments, one or more links 150 include one or more
wireline (such as for example Digital Subscriber Line (DSL) or Data Over Cable Service Interface
Specification (DOCSIS)), wireless (such as for example Wi-Fi or Worldwide Interoperability for
Microwave Access (WiMAX)), or optical (such as for example Synchronous Optical Network
(SONET) or Synchronous Digital Hierarchy (SDH)) links. In particular embodiments, one or more
links 150 each include an ad hoc network, an intranet, an extranet, a VPN, a LAN, a WLAN, a
WAN, a WWAN, a MAN, a portion of the Internet, a portion of the PSTN, a cellular technology
based network, a satellite communications technology-based network, another link 150, or a
combination of two or more such links 150. Links 150 need not necessarily be the same throughout
network environment 100. One or more first links 150 may differ in one or more respects from
one or more second links 150.
         [0067] In particular embodiments, client system 130 may be an electronic device including
hardware, software, or embedded logic components or a combination of two or more such
components and capable of carrying out the appropriate functionalities implemented or supported
by client system 130. As an example and not by way of limitation, a client system 130 may include
a computer system such as a desktop computer, notebook or laptop computer, netbook, a tablet
computer, e-book reader, GPS device, camera, personal digital assistant (PDA), handheld
electronic device, cellular telephone, smartphone, other suitable electronic device, or any suitable
combination thereof. This disclosure contemplates any suitable client systems 130. A client system

                                                 15
130 may enable a network user at client system 130 to access network 110. A client system 130
may enable its user to communicate with other users at other client systems 130.
        [0068] In particular embodiments, client system 130 may include a web browser 132, such
as MICROSOFT INTERNET EXPLORER, GOOGLE CHROME or MOZILLA FIREFOX, and
may have one or more add-ons, plug-ins, or other extensions, such as TOOLBAR or YAHOO
TOOLBAR. A user at client system 130 may enter a Uniform Resource Locator (URL) or other
address directing the web browser 132 to a particular server (such as server 162, or a server
associated with a third-party system 170), and the web browser 132 may generate a Hyper Text
Transfer Protocol (HTTP) request and communicate the HTTP request to server. The server may
accept the HTTP request and communicate to client system 130 one or more Hyper Text Markup
Language (HTML) files responsive to the HTTP request. Client system 130 may render a webpage
based on the HTML files from the server for presentation to the user. This disclosure contemplates
any suitable webpage files. As an example and not by way of limitation, webpages may render
from HTML files, Extensible Hyper Text Markup Language (XHTML) files, or Extensible
Markup Language (XML) files, according to particular needs. Such pages may also execute scripts
such as, for example and without limitation, those written in JAVASCRIPT, JAVA, MICROSOFT
SILVERLIGHT, combinations of markup language and scripts such as AJAX (Asynchronous
JAVASCRIPT and XML), and the like. Herein, reference to a webpage encompasses one or more
corresponding webpage files (which a browser may use to render the webpage) and vice versa,
where appropriate.
        [0069] In particular embodiments, social-networking system 160 may be a network
addressable computing system that can host an online social network. Social-networking system
160 may generate, store, receive, and send social-networking data, such as, for example, user
profile data, concept-profile data, social-graph information, or other suitable data related to the
online social network. Social-networking system 160 may be accessed by the other components of
network environment 100 either directly or via network 110. In particular embodiments, social
networking system 160 may include one or more servers 162. Each server 162 may be a unitary
server or a distributed server spanning multiple computers or multiple datacenters. Servers 162
may be of various types, such as, for example and without limitation, web server, news server,
mail server, message server, advertising server, file server, application server, exchange server,

                                                   16
database server, proxy server, another server suitable for performing functions or processes
described herein, or any combination thereof. In particular embodiments, each server 162 may
include hardware, software, or embedded logic components or a combination of two or more such
components for carrying out the appropriate functionalities implemented or supported by server
162. In particular embodiments, social-networking system 160 may include one or more data stores
164. Data stores 164 may be used to store various types of information. In particular embodiments,
the information stored in data stores 164 may be organized according to specific data structures.
In particular embodiments, each data store 164 may be a relational, columnar, correlation, or other
suitable database. Although this disclosure describes or illustrates particular types of databases,
this disclosure contemplates any suitable types of databases. Particular embodiments may provide
interfaces that enable a client system 130, a social-networking system 160, or a third-party system
170 to manage, retrieve, modify, add, or delete, the information stored in data store 164.
         [0070] In particular embodiments, social-networking system 160 may store one or more
social graphs in one or more data stores 164. In particular embodiments, a social graph may include
multiple nodes-which may include multiple user nodes (each corresponding to a particular user)
or multiple concept nodes (each corresponding to a particular concept)-and multiple edges
connecting the nodes. Social-networking system 160 may provide users of the online social
network the ability to communicate and interact with other users. In particular embodiments, users
may join the online social network via social-networking system 160 and then add connections
(e.g., relationships) to a number of other users of social-networking system 160 to whom they want
to be connected. Herein, the term "friend" may refer to any other user of social-networking system
160 with whom a user has formed a connection, association, or relationship via social-networking
system 160.
         [0071] In particular embodiments, social-networking system 160 may provide users with
the ability to take actions on various types of items or objects, supported by social-networking
system 160. As an example and not by way of limitation, the items and objects may include groups
or social networks to which users of social-networking system 160 may belong, events or calendar
entries in which a user might be interested, computer-based applications that a user may use,
transactions that allow users to buy or sell items via the service, interactions with advertisements
that a user may perform, or other suitable items or objects. A user may interact with anything that

                                                     17
is capable of being represented in social-networking system 160 or by an external system of third
party system 170, which is separate from social-networking system 160 and coupled to social
networking system 160 via a network 110.
        [0072] In particular embodiments, social-networking system 160 may be capable of
linking a variety of entities. As an example and not by way of limitation, social-networking system
160 may enable users to interact with each other as well as receive content from third-party systems
170 or other entities, or to allow users to interact with these entities through an application
programming interfaces (API) or other communication channels.
        [0073] In particular embodiments, a third-party system 170 may include one or more types
of servers, one or more data stores, one or more interfaces, including but not limited to APIs, one
or more web services, one or more content sources, one or more networks, or any other suitable
components, e.g., with which servers may communicate. A third-party system 170 may be
operated by a different entity from an entity operating social-networking system 160. In particular
embodiments, however, social-networking system 160 and third-party systems 170 may operate
in conjunction with each other to provide social-networking services to users of social-networking
system 160 or third-party systems 170. In this sense, social-networking system 160 may provide a
platform, or backbone, which other systems, such as third-party systems 170, may use to provide
social-networking services and functionality to users across the Internet.
        [0074] In particular embodiments, a third-party system 170 may include a third-party
content object provider. A third-party content object provider may include one or more sources of
content objects, which may be communicated to a client system 130. As an example and not by
way of limitation, content objects may include information regarding things or activities of interest
to the user, such as, for example, movie show times, movie reviews, restaurant reviews, restaurant
menus, product information and reviews, or other suitable information. As another example and
not by way of limitation, content objects may include incentive content objects, such as coupons,
discount tickets, gift certificates, or other suitable incentive objects.
        [0075] In particular embodiments, social-networking system 160 also includes user
generated content objects, which may enhance a user's interactions with social-networking system
160. User-generated content may include anything a user can add, upload, send, or "post" to social
networking system 160. As an example and not by way of limitation, a user communicates posts

                                                 18
to social-networking system 160 from a client system 130. Posts may include data such as status
updates or other textual data, location information, photos, videos, links, music or other similar
data or media. Content may also be added to social-networking system 160 by a third-party through
a "communication channel," such as a newsfeed or stream.
        [0076] In particular embodiments, social-networking system 160 may include a variety of
servers, sub-systems, programs, modules, logs, and data stores. In particular embodiments, social
networking system 160 may include one or more of the following: a web server, action logger,
API-request     server, relevance-and-ranking    engine,   content-object    classifier,  notification
controller,    action   log,   third-party-content-object-exposure      log,    inference    module,
authorization/privacy server, search module, advertisement-targeting module, user-interface
module, user-profile store, connection store, third-party content store, or location store. Social
networking system 160 may also include suitable components such as network interfaces, security
mechanisms, load balancers, failover servers, management-and-network-operations             consoles,
other suitable components, or any suitable combination thereof. In particular embodiments, social
networking system 160 may include one or more user-profile stores for storing user profiles. A
user profile may include, for example, biographic information, demographic information,
behavioral information, social information, or other types of descriptive information, such as work
experience, educational history, hobbies or preferences, interests, affinities, or location. Interest
information may include interests related to one or more categories. Categories may be general or
specific. As an example and not by way of limitation, if a user "likes" an article about a brand of
shoes the category may be the brand, or the general category of "shoes" or "clothing." A
connection store may be used for storing connection information about users. The connection
information may indicate users who have similar or common work experience, group
memberships, hobbies, educational history, or are in any way related or share common attributes.
The connection information may also include user-defined connections between different users
and content (both internal and external). A web server may be used for linking social-networking
system 160 to one or more client systems 130 or one or more third-party system 170 via network
110. The web server may include a mail server or other messaging functionality for receiving and
routing messages between social-networking system 160 and one or more client systems 130. An
API-request server may allow a third-party system 170 to access information from social-

                                                  19
networking system 160 by calling one or more APIs. An action logger may be used to receive
communications from a web server about a user's actions on or off social-networking system 160.
In conjunction with the action log, a third-party-content-object log may be maintained of user
exposures to third-party-content objects. A notification controller may provide information
regarding content objects to a client system 130. Information may be pushed to a client system 130
as notifications, or information may be pulled from client system 130 responsive to a request
received from client system 130. Authorization servers may be used to enforce one or more privacy
settings of the users of social-networking system 160. A privacy setting of a user determines how
particular information associated with a user can be shared. The authorization server may allow
users to opt in to or opt out of having their actions logged by social-networking system 160 or
shared with other systems (e.g., third-party system 170), such as, for example, by setting
appropriate privacy settings. Third-party-content-object stores may be used to store content objects
received from third parties, such as a third-party system 170. Location stores may be used for
storing location information received        from client systems    130 associated with users.
Advertisement-pricing modules may combine social information, the current time, location
information, or other suitable information to provide relevant advertisements, in the form of
notifications, to a user.
Social Graphs
        [0077] FIG. 2 illustrates example social graph 200. In particular embodiments, social
networking system 160 may store one or more social graphs 200 in one or more data stores. In
particular embodiments, social graph 200 may include multiple nodes-which may include
multiple user nodes 202 or multiple concept nodes 204-and multiple edges 206 connecting the
nodes. Example social graph 200 illustrated in FIG. 2 is shown, for didactic purposes, in a two
dimensional visual map representation. In particular embodiments, a social-networking system
160, client system 130, or third-party system 170 may access social graph 200 and related social
graph information for suitable applications. The nodes and edges of social graph 200 may be stored
as data objects, for example, in a data store (such as a social-graph database). Such a data store
may include one or more searchable or queryable indexes of nodes or edges of social graph 200.

                                                   20
         [0078] In particular embodiments, a user node 202 may correspond to a user of social
networking system 160. As an example and not by way of limitation, a user may be an individual
(human user), an entity (e.g., an enterprise, business, or third-party application), or a group (e.g.,
of individuals or entities) that interacts or communicates with or over social-networking system
160. In particular embodiments, when a user registers for an account with social-networking
system 160, social-networking system 160 may create a user node 202 corresponding to the user,
and store the user node 202 in one or more data stores. Users and user nodes 202 described herein
may, where appropriate, refer to registered users and user nodes 202 associated with registered
users. In addition or as an alternative, users and user nodes 202 described herein may, where
appropriate, refer to users that have not registered with social-networking system 160. In particular
embodiments, a user node 202 may be associated with information provided by a user or
information gathered by various systems, including social-networking system 160. As an example
and not by way of limitation, a user may provide his or her name, profile picture, contact
information, birth date, sex, marital status, family status, employment, education background,
preferences, interests, or other demographic information. In particular embodiments, a user node
202 may be associated with one or more data objects corresponding to information associated with
a user. In particular embodiments, a user node 202 may correspond to one or more webpages.
         [0079] In particular embodiments, a concept node 204 may correspond to a concept. As an
example and not by way of limitation, a concept may correspond to a place (such as, for example,
a movie theater, restaurant, landmark, or city); a website (such as, for example, a website
associated with social-network system 160 or a third-party website associated with a web
application server); an entity (such as, for example, a person, business, group, sports team, or
celebrity); a resource (such as, for example, an audio file, video file, digital photo, text file,
structured document, or application) which may be located within social-networking system 160
or on an external server, such as a web-application server; real or intellectual property (such as,
for example, a sculpture, painting, movie, game, song, idea, photograph, or written work); a game;
an activity; an idea or theory; another suitable concept; or two or more such concepts. A concept
node 204 may be associated with information of a concept provided by a user or information
gathered by various systems, including social-networking system 160. As an example and not by
way of limitation, information of a concept may include a name or a title; one or more images

                                                  21
(e.g., an image of the cover page of a book); a location (e.g., an address or a geographical location);
a website (which may be associated with a URL); contact information (e.g., a phone number or an
email address); other suitable concept information; or any suitable combination of such
information. In particular embodiments, a concept node 204 may be associated with one or more
data objects corresponding to information associated with concept node 204. In particular
embodiments, a concept node 204 may correspond to one or more webpages.
         [00801 In particular embodiments, a node in social graph 200 may represent or be
represented by a webpage (which may be referred to as a "profile page"). Profile pages may be
hosted by or accessible to social-networking system 160. Profile pages may also be hosted on
third-party websites associated with a third-party server 170. As an example and not by way of
limitation, a profile page corresponding to a particular external webpage may be the particular
external webpage and the profile page may correspond to a particular concept node 204. Profile
pages may be viewable by all or a selected subset of other users. As an example and not by way
of limitation, a user node 202 may have a corresponding user-profile page in which the
corresponding user may add content, make declarations, or otherwise express himself or herself.
As another example and not by way of limitation, a concept node 204 may have a corresponding
concept-profile page in which one or more users may add content, make declarations, or express
themselves, particularly in relation to the concept corresponding to concept node 204.
         [0081] In particular embodiments, a concept node 204 may represent a third-party
webpage or resource hosted by a third-party system 170. The third-party webpage or resource may
include, among other elements, content, a selectable or other icon, or other inter-actable object
(which may be implemented, for example, in JavaScript, AJAX, or PHP codes) representing an
action or activity. As an example and not by way of limitation, a third-party webpage may include
a selectable icon such as "like," "check-in," "eat," "recommend," or another suitable action or
activity. A user viewing the third-party webpage may perform an action by selecting one of the
icons (e.g., "check-in"), causing a client system 130 to send to social-networking system 160 a
message indicating the user's action. In response to the message, social-networking system 160
may create an edge (e.g., a check-in-type edge) between a user node 202 corresponding to the user
and a concept node 204 corresponding to the third-party webpage or resource and store edge 206
in one or more data stores.

                                                   22
         [0082] In particular embodiments, a pair of nodes in social graph 200 may be connected to
each other by one or more edges 206. An edge 206 connecting a pair of nodes may represent a
relationship between the pair of nodes. In particular embodiments, an edge 206 may include or
represent one or more data objects or attributes corresponding to the relationship between a pair
of nodes. As an example and not by way of limitation, a first user may indicate that a second user
is a "friend" of the first user. In response to this indication, social-networking system 160 may
send a "friend request" to the second user. If the second user confirms the "friend request," social
networking system 160 may create an edge 206 connecting the first user's user node 202 to the
second user's user node 202 in social graph 200 and store edge 206 as social-graph information in
one or more of data stores 164. In the example of FIG. 2, social graph 200 includes an edge 206
indicating a friend relation between user nodes 202 of user "A" and user "B" and an edge indicating
a friend relation between user nodes 202 of user "C" and user "B." Although this disclosure
describes or illustrates particular edges 206 with particular attributes connecting particular user
nodes 202, this disclosure contemplates any suitable edges 206 with any suitable attributes
connecting user nodes 202. As an example and not by way of limitation, an edge 206 may represent
a friendship, family relationship, business or employment relationship, fan relationship (including,
e.g., liking, etc.), follower relationship, visitor relationship (including, e.g., accessing, viewing,
checking-in, sharing, etc.), subscriber relationship, superior/subordinate relationship, reciprocal
relationship, non-reciprocal relationship, another suitable type of relationship, or two or more such
relationships. Moreover, although this disclosure generally describes nodes as being connected,
this disclosure also describes users or concepts as being connected. Herein, references to users or
concepts being connected may, where appropriate, refer to the nodes corresponding to those users
or concepts being connected in social graph 200 by one or more edges 206.
         [0083] In particular embodiments, an edge 206 between a user node 202 and a concept
node 204 may represent a particular action or activity performed by a user associated with user
node 202 toward a concept associated with a concept node 204. As an example and not by way of
limitation, as illustrated in FIG. 2, a user may "like," "attended," "played," "listened," "cooked,"
"worked at," or "watched" a concept, each of which may correspond to an edge type or subtype.
A concept-profile page corresponding to a concept node 204 may include, for example, a selectable
"check in" icon (such as, for example, a clickable "check in" icon) or a selectable "add to favorites"

                                                 23
icon. Similarly, after a user clicks these icons, social-networking system 160 may create a
"favorite" edge or a "check in" edge in response to a user's action corresponding to a respective
action. As another example and not by way of limitation, a user (user "C") may listen to a particular
song ("Imagine") using a particular application (SPOTIFY, which is an online music application).
In this case, social-networking system 160 may create a "listened" edge 206 and a "used" edge (as
illustrated in FIG. 2) between user nodes 202 corresponding to the user and concept nodes 204
corresponding to the song and application to indicate that the user listened to the song and used
the application. Moreover, social-networking system 160 may create a "played" edge 206 (as
illustrated in FIG. 2) between concept nodes 204 corresponding to the song and the application to
indicate that the particular song was played by the particular application. In this case, "played"
edge 206 corresponds to an action performed by an external application (SPOTIFY) on an external
audio file (the song "Imagine"). Although this disclosure describes particular edges 206 with
particular attributes connecting user nodes 202 and concept nodes 204, this disclosure
contemplates any suitable edges 206 with any suitable attributes connecting user nodes 202 and
concept nodes 204. Moreover, although this disclosure describes edges between a user node 202
and a concept node 204 representing a single relationship, this disclosure contemplates edges
between a user node 202 and a concept node 204 representing one or more relationships. As an
example and not by way of limitation, an edge 206 may represent both that a user likes and has
used at a particular concept. Alternatively, another edge 206 may represent each type of
relationship (or multiples of a single relationship) between a user node 202 and a concept node
204 (as illustrated in FIG. 2 between user node 202 for user "E" and concept node 204 for
"SPOTIFY").
         [0084] In particular embodiments, social-networking system 160 may create an edge 206
between a user node 202 and a concept node 204 in social graph 200. As an example and not by
way of limitation, a user viewing a concept-profile page (such as, for example, by using a web
browser or a special-purpose application hosted by the user's client system 130) may indicate that
he or she likes the concept represented by the concept node 204 by clicking or selecting a "Like"
icon, which may cause the user's client system 130 to send to social-networking system 160 a
message indicating the user's liking of the concept associated with the concept-profile page. In
response to the message, social-networking system 160 may create an edge 206 between user node

                                                 24
202 associated with the user and concept node 204, as illustrated by "like" edge 206 between the
user and concept node 204. In particular embodiments, social-networking system 160 may store
an edge 206 in one or more data stores. In particular embodiments, an edge 206 may be
automatically formed by social-networking system 160 in response to a particular user action. As
an example and not by way of limitation, if a first user uploads a picture, watches a movie, or
listens to a song, an edge 206 may be formed between user node 202 corresponding to the first
user and concept nodes 204 corresponding to those concepts. Although this disclosure describes
forming particular edges 206 in particular manners, this disclosure contemplates forming any
suitable edges 206 in any suitable manner.
Establishing Wireless Communication Sessions with Beacons
         [0085] Particular embodiments facilitate the exchange of information between a user and
a third-party content provider via a beacon or other suitable geographic-positioning-capable
devices or systems associated with the third-party content provider. As used herein, beacons may
be any static or dynamic devices suitable for establishing and maintaining a wireless
communication session between the beacon and any number of client systems proximate to the
beacon. Beacons may be communicatively-coupled to at least one third-party content provider
(i.e., a beacon holder) and able to communicate wirelessly with a social-networking system.
Beacons may send and receive wireless communications via, for example, radio-frequency
identification, near-field communication, ultrasonic waves, BLUETOOTH, BLUETOOTH low
energy, IBEACON protocols, or any other suitable wireless communication method, particularly
short-range wireless communication methods (e.g., less than approximately 300 feet). Beacons
may be touch-sensitive so as to detect when a user or client system makes contact with the surface
of the beacon and to establish a wireless communication session in response to the detected touch.
Beacons may have any of the hardware or software features of the types described in U.S. Patent
Application No. 14/460,886, titled "Bluetooth Crowd-Sourced Triangulation," filed 15 August
2014; U.S. Patent Application No. 14/460,880, titled "Bluetooth Transmission Security Pattern,"
filed 15 August 2014; and U.S. Patent Application No. 14/460,891, titled "Bluetooth Beacon
Protocol," filed 15 August 2014; U.S. Patent Application No. 13/416,975, titled "Dynamic
Processor Duty Cycle Determination Based on Geographic Positioning Signals," filed 9 March

                                                   25
2012; U.S. Patent Application No. 13/417,013, titled "Location Tracking for Geographic
Positioning Capable Devices," filed 9 March 2012; and U.S. Patent Application No. 13/431,842,
titled "Dynamic Geographic Beacons for Geographic Positioning Capable Devices," filed 27
March 2012, each of which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety. A third-party content
provider may be associated with multiple beacons, and each beacon may be fixed, removably or
permanently, at a location within a place of the third-party content provider. For example, the
third-party content provider may be a grocery store, and there may be a beacon at the end of each
aisle and at each check-out line. When a user's client system comes into range of a beacon or
makes contact with a beacon (e.g., the user taps the beacon with her client system), a wireless
communication session (or other suitable association) may be established between the client
system and the beacon. The wireless communication session may be automatically established or
an additional level of confirmation may be required before the wireless communication session is
established between the client system and a beacon. Although this disclosure describes establishing
a wireless communication session in a particular manner, this disclosure contemplates establishing
any suitable wireless communication session in any suitable manner.
        [0086] In particular embodiments, once the wireless communication session has been
established between a beacon and a user's client system, social-networking information of the user
may be provided to a third-party content provider with which the beacon is associated. For example
and not by way of limitation, social-networking information of the user may include demographic
information, geographic information, user preferences, any other suitable social-networking
information, or any combination thereof. The social-networking information may be sent by the
social-networking system to the third-party system directly or via the beacon. After receiving the
social-networking information, the third-party content provider may tailor content to a particular
user based on the received social-networking information. For example and not by way of
limitation, in response to receiving social-networking information indicating that it is a user's
birthday, a third-party content provider (e.g., a coffee shop) may send to the user's client system,
via the beacon, an offer for a birthday gift (e.g., a free cup of coffee). As another example, in
response to receiving social-networking information including a user's purchase history, which
indicates that the user always buys a particular product (e.g., oxfords) when patronizing the third
party content provider (e.g., a shoe store), the third-party content provider may send directly to the

                                                 26
user's client system information about new products relevant to the user's buying habits (e.g., a
new style of oxfords that it only recently started carrying). As another example, the third-party
system may send information for the user to the social-networking system, which may, in turn,
send the information to the user's client system (e.g., the social-networking system may present
the information on a page corresponding to the third-party content provider). Although this
disclosure describes providing social-networking information and third-party content in a
particular manner, this disclosure contemplates providing any suitable social-networking
information and any suitable third-party content in any suitable manner.
        [0087] FIG. 3 illustrates an example beacon environment 300 associated with a social
networking system 160. Beacon environment 300 includes a beacon 310, a client system 130, a
social-networking system 160, and a third-party system 170, each connected to a network 110.
Client system 130 and social-networking system 160 are shown as connected to each other by
beacon 310. Although FIG. 3 illustrates a particular arrangement of beacon 310, client system
130, social-networking system 160, third-party system 170, and network 110, this disclosure
contemplates any suitable arrangement of beacon 310, client system 130, social-networking
system 160, third-party system 170, and network 110. As an example and not by way of limitation,
client system 130 and social-networking system 160 may be connected to each other directly or
via network 110, bypassing beacon 310. Although FIG. 3 illustrates one beacon 310, there may
be any suitable number of beacons 310. As described above, in connection with FIG. 1, links 150
may connect beacon 310, client system 130, social-networking system 160, and third-party system
170 to network 110 or to each other.
        [0088] In particular embodiments, a wireless communication session (or other suitable
association) may be established between client system 130 and beacon 310. Beacon 310 may be
situated at a designated location within a place (e.g., a business) of a third-party content provider
associated with third-party system 170. For example, beacon 310 may be positioned at an entrance
of a third-party content provider's store. When a client system 130 comes within a wireless
communication range of beacon 310 (i.e., a user associated with client system 130 moves into
range of beacon 310), third-party system 170 may send, via beacon 310, a request to associate with
client system 130. Third-party system 170 may be communicatively coupled to beacon 310. The
request to associate may be a request to establish a wireless communication session between

                                                    27
beacon 310 and client system 130. In order for the request to associate to be sent, client system
130 may need to be proximate to beacon 310. As used herein, proximate to the beacon refers to
within a predetermined distance of beacon 310. As an example and not by way of limitation, client
system 130 may need to be inside the third-party content provider's business, at which beacon 310
is located, before the request to associate may be sent. It will be understood that the request to
associate is described herein as being sent by third-party system 170, via beacon 310, for
illustrative purposes and not by way of limitation and that the request to associate may be sent by
any suitable components, including, for example, beacon 310, third-party system 170, client
system 130, and social-networking system 160.
         [0089] In particular embodiments, the third-party content provider may be associated with
a plurality of beacons 310, and each beacon 310 may be at a particular location within a place. For
example, the third-party content provider may be a clothing retail store, and it may have a beacon
310 in each department (e.g., three beacons 310, one in each of the women's, men's, and children's
departments). If client system 130 is proximate to more than one beacon 310 (e.g., beacons 310
have overlapping ranges), various techniques may be used to determine with which of the beacons
310 client system 130 should be associated (e.g., by establishing a wireless communication
session) or to confirm a proposed wireless communication session with a particular beacon 310.
As an example and not by way of limitation, techniques for selecting one of beacons 310 may
include user choice (e.g., user input at client system 130 indicating proximity to a particular beacon
310), probability (e.g., probabilistic detennination that user should be associated with a particular
beacon 310), location triangulation (e.g., triangulating precise position of client system 130,
beacon 310, or both), other location services of client system 130 (e.g., network location), and
confirmation via connections in social graph 200 (e.g., based on wireless communication sessions
of connections). A request to associate may need to be complemented by one of these techniques
before a wireless communication session may be established between beacon 310 and client
system 130. For example, client system 130 may be detected by multiple beacons 310, and social
networking system 160 may determine that one or more other users, each within a threshold degree
of separation from the user of client system 130 in social graph 200, are associated with client
systems 130 that are each in a wireless communication session with a particular beacon 310.
Social-networking system 160 may then determine that client system 130 should be in a wireless

                                                  28
communication session with the same particular beacon 310. As another example and not by way
of limitation, user input at client system 130 may be used to confirm or to permit a wireless
communication session with beacon 310 or to confirm with which of beacons 310 a wireless
communication session should be established. Third-party system 170 (or social-networking
system 160) may send, directly or via beacon 310, a prompt to client system 130, asking a user to
confirm, permit or deny a proposed wireless communication session with a particular beacon 310.
As an example and not by way of limitation, third-party system 170 (or social-networking system
160) may send, directly or via beacon 310, a prompt to client system 130 of a first user, asking a
user to confirm a proposed wireless communication session pending between a client system 130
of a second user and a beacon 310.
        [0090] In particular embodiments, a beacon 310 that has been stolen, spoofed, or otherwise
moved without authorization may be detected based on confirmed wireless communication
sessions established between one or more client systems 130 and the stolen or spoofed beacon 310.
As an example and not by way of limitation, if a wireless communication session between beacon
310 and client system 130 has been established and confirmed (e.g., via one or more of the above
described techniques), but the wireless communication session indicates that beacon 310 is at a
location other than its designated location, then beacon 310 may be determined to be stolen or
spoofed. Detecting a stolen or spoofed beacon 310 may be based on crowd-sourced information.
For example, beacon 310 may be determined to be stolen or spoofed only after a threshold number
of client systems 130 are in confirmed wireless communication sessions with beacon 310 at a
wrong location. Once detected, the theft or spoof of beacon 310 may be reported to a page
administrator for a page associated with beacon 310 (e.g., a page hosted by social-networking
system 160).
        [0091] In particular embodiments, a wireless communication session between beacon 310
and client system 130 may be established in response to beacon 310 being tapped by, or otherwise
physically contacted by, client system 130. A user may specify in a set of permissions whether
wireless communication sessions may be established via tapping beacon 310. A user may also
specify, in a set of permissions, beacons 310 with which a wireless communication session may
be automatically established (i.e., no further action need be taken by client system 130 to confirm
or to allow the establishment of the wireless communication session) and for how long the

                                                 29
permissions are valid (e.g., the wireless communication session may be automatically established
only for a week or indefinitely).
        Provision of Social-Networking Inforniationto a Third-PartvSvstem
        [0092] Once a wireless communication session has been established between client system
130 of a first user and beacon 310, social-networking system 160 may provide a set of social
networking information to third-party system 170, client systems 130 of other users (e.g., social
connections of the first user in social graph 200), other beacons 310, other social-networking
systems 160, any other suitable recipient, or any combination thereof. Social-networking system
160 may directly share a set of social-networking infonnation with a recipient, or the information
may be shared by way of beacon 310. It will be understood that although the set of social
networking information is described as being provided by social-networking system 160, this is
merely for illustrative purposes, not by way of limitation, and that any suitable components,
devices, or systems may provide the set of social-networking information 160, including, for
example one or more beacons 310.
        [0093] Social-networking information of a user may include, for example and not by way
of limitation, demographic information (e.g., age, gender, nationality, race, ethnicity, and locality),
biographic information (e.g., name, picture, birthday, and astrological sign), preferences (e.g.,
music, book, movie, and food preferences), payment credentials, purchase history, loyalty points
or credits, allergies and other medical information, social-graph information (e.g., social
connections within a threshold degree of separation in social graph 200 and social-networking
information of those connections), any other information stored in a profile of the user on social
networking system 160, any other suitable information pertaining to the user, or any combination
thereof. As an example and not by way of limitation, the set of social-networking information
received by third-party system 170 may include a connection between a first node in social graph
200 corresponding to a user of client system 130 and a second node corresponding to the third
party content provider. The connection between the first node and the second node may represent
a particular social-networking action taken by the user with respect to the third-party content
provider (e.g., the user has "liked" or checked-in at a page or event associated with the third-party
content provider on an online social network). As another example and not by way of limitation,

                                                   30
the set of social-networking information received by third-party system 170 may include
identifiers of one or more second users who are connected to a first user of client system 130 in
social graph 200 by a threshold degree of separation (e.g., first-degree connections may be
"friends" of the first user).
         [0094] In particular embodiments, a second set of social-networking information may be
sent by social-networking system 160 and received by third-party system 170. The second set of
social-networking information may include social-networking information of one or more second
users of the online social network, each of whom is connected to the first user of client system 130
by a threshold degree of separation. The second set of social-networking information may include
social-networking information of the second users who are associated with client systems 130 that
are located within wireless communication range of beacon 310. As an example and not by way
of limitation, social-networking system 160, third-party system 170, or beacon 310 may specify at
least one radius delineating a distance around beacon 310, and the second set of social-networking
information may be of second users who are associated with client systems 130 that are located
within the at least one radius of beacon 310.
         [0095] In particular embodiments, the particular set of social-networking information
provided or received may be tailored to the particular recipient. The request to associate may
specify at least one attribute of the third-party content provider. The particular social-networking
information provided to third-party system 170 may be selected based on the at least one attribute
of the third-party content provider. The attribute may be a type of good purveyed or service
rendered by the third-party content provider, and the social-networking information provided may
include user preferences associated with the type of good or service. As an example and not by
way of limitation, an attribute for a third-party content provider may indicate that it is a restaurant,
and social-networking information sent to third-party system 170 may include a list of the user's
allergies; whereas, an attribute for a third-party content provider may indicate that it is a clothing
retail establishment, and social-networking information sent to third-party system 170 may include
the user's clothing size and favorite color.
         [0096] In particular embodiments, the particular set of social-networking information of a
user that is sent or received may be subject to a set of permissions (e.g., privacy preferences)
specified by the user or other restrictions imposed by the online social network. The social-

                                                  31
networking information of a user may be automatically shared with beacon 310 or third-party
system 170 in accordance with a user-specified set of permissions. For example, a user may specify
that sharing is permitted for a particular branch of a third-party content provider or for all branches
of the third-party content provider (e.g., sharing may be permitted for a local coffee shop or across
all coffee shops in a franchise). As another example and not by way of limitation, a user may
specify that sharing is permitted based on social-graph information (e.g., sharing may be
permissive with entities for which the user has indicated an affinity via a "like," "follow," or other
social-networking action). The set of permissions may permit sharing of certain social-networking
information of the user based on social-graph information (e.g., connections within a threshold
degree of separation). As an example and not by way of limitation, the set of permissions may
allow a set of social-networking information to be sent based on a degree of separation in social
graph 200 between a node corresponding to the third-party content provider and a node
corresponding to the user of client system 130. The user may specify different levels of sharing
within a set of permissions. As an example and not by way of limitation, the user may specify that
a greater amount of social-networking infonnation may be shared with first degree connections of
the user in social graph 200 than the amount shared with second or greater degree connections.
        Provision of Customized Third-Partv Content to a Client System
         [0097] In particular embodiments, in response to the provision of social-networking
information of the user, third-party system 170 may push, feed, promote, or otherwise send third
party content to the user's client system 130. In particular embodiments, third-party system 170
may send third-party content intended for the user to social-networking system 160, which may
send the third-party content to the user's client system 130. Third-party content may also be sent
in response to a wireless communication session being established between beacon 310 and client
system 130, regardless of whether social-networking information of the user is provided. The third
party content provided may be customized based on the social-networking information received.
As an example and not by way of limitation, in response to receiving a user's name, a third-party
content provider may send the user's purchase history (e.g., when the user was last at the third
party content provider business and what the user ordered or purchased). Third-party content may
include, for example and not by way of limitation, identifiers of objects (e.g., an indication that a

                                                 32
particular object is located near beacon 310), identifiers of users (e.g., an indication that one or
more client systems of one or more users are in wireless communication sessions with one or more
beacons 310), sponsored content (e.g., an advertisement, coupon, promotion, or other suitable
offer), patronage demographic information (e.g., an average age of current or historical patrons of
a third-party content provider place), messages (e.g., messages from a third-party content provider
or messages left by another user's client system 130), information or directions regarding how to
send the third-party content provider a message (e.g., contact information for sending a message
to third-party system 170), access to or instructions for accessing a bulletin board or chat room
feature (e.g., access to a chat room with other users associated with client systems in wireless
communication sessions with one or more beacons 310 of a particular third-party content
provider), social-networking information (e.g., of other users currently proximate to one or more
beacons 310), third-party content provider place information (e.g., a map of a place or product
stock information), any other suitable third-party content, or any combination thereof.
         [0098] As an example and not by way of limitation, social-networking system 160 may
suggest social-networking actions based on social-networking information (e.g., suggest other
users for tagging in a post at place of business associated with beacon 310 if the other users are
associated with client systems 130 currently in wireless communication sessions with beacon 310).
As an example and not by way of limitation, third-party system 170 may send one or more
identifiers of second users of an online social network to client system 130 of a first user, and the
second users may be each associated with a respective client system 130 that is in an active wireless
communication session with beacon 310 (e.g., identifiers of second users currently at a third-party
content provider place). Third-party system 170 may determine that the first user has one or more
attributes in common with the second users based on received social-networking information of
each and may provide the identifiers of the second users to the first user along with suggested
conversation topics based on the social-networking information of each (e.g., the suggested
conversation topics may be related to the identified commonalities). In the same example, third
party system 170 may only send the identifiers of second users who are social connections of the
first user in social graph 200 (i.e., the second users are "friends" of the first user) based on the
social-networking information of the first user. The third-party content may be based on current
information, historical information, or a combination of both.

                                                   33
         [0099] In particular embodiments, third-party system 170, social-networking system 160,
or beacon 310 may send one or more questions or requests for additional infonnation to client
system 130 of a user. A response may be inputted by the user or otherwise inputted at client system
130 and sent by client system 130, directly or via beacon 310, to the questioning third-party system
170, social-networking system 160, or beacon 310. The response sent may include a binary yes/no
response or some or all of the requested information. As an example and not by way of limitation,
the user may take and send a "selfie" or other image in response to a prompt asking for a
photograph of the user at the third-party content provider place, as shown below in FIG. 12. Third
party system 170, social-networking system 160, or beacon 310 may then send third-party content
to client system 130 based on the received user response. As an example and not by way of
limitation, third-party system 170 may send the user a question-"Are you looking for jeans?"
and a selection of answers-"yes" and "no"-and in response to a user response of "yes," third
party system 170 may send client system 130 a store map showing the location of jeans. In the
same example, third-party system 170 may additionally receive social-networking information of
the user indicating the gender of the user, and third-party system 170 may then further customize
the third-party content to send the user's client system 130 a map showing the location ofjeans for
the user's gender. In particular embodiments, third-party system 170 may send the customized
third-party content to social-networking system 160 for delivery to the user's client system 130.
Social-networking system 160 may then provide the customized third-party content to client
system 130 (e.g., by presenting it on a page corresponding to the third-party content provider).
         [0100] In particular embodiments, third-party content may be sent to client system 130
while an established wireless communication session is active between beacon 310 and client
system 130 (i.e., while the user is presently located at the third-party content provider place). As
an example and not by way of limitation, third-party content sent to client system 130 may include
a promotional offer, which is redeemable by the user of client system 130 while an established
wireless communication session between beacon 310 and client system 130 remains active.
Additionally or alternatively, third-party content may be provided after a wireless communication
session between beacon 310 and client system 130 has been terminated (i.e., after a user has left
the third-party content provider place). As an example and not by way of limitation, third-party
system 130 may detect that a wireless communication session between beacon 310 and client

                                                 34
system 130 has been terminated, and third-party system 170 may send third-party content to client
system 130 while client system 130 is still within wireless communication range of beacon 310.
As an example and not by way of limitation, third-party system 170 may send a survey or a request
to rate or review the third-party content provider to client system 130 after the wireless
communication session between beacon 310 and client system 130 has been terminated (e.g., by
virtue of the user carrying client system 130 out of proximity of beacon 310 or by virtue of the
wireless communication session expiring). As another example and not by way of limitation,
social-networking system 160 may send a survey or a request to rate or review the third-party
content provider to client system 130 after the wireless communication session between beacon
310 and client system 130 has been terminated.
         [0101] In particular embodiments, the establishment of a wireless communication session
between beacon 310 and client system 130 may effectuate a social-networking action in an online
social network. As an example, the establishment of a wireless communication session between
beacon 310 and client system 130 may result in a "like" of, check-in at, or other suitable expression
of affinity for a page corresponding to the third-party content provider beacon-holder by the user
on an online social network. Tapping or otherwise touching client system 130 to beacon 310 may
perform a social-networking action (e.g., "like," "follow," "poke," or "send friend request"). As
an example and not by way of limitation, beacon 310 may be associated with a street-performer
musician, and a user may tap beacon 310 with client system 130 to generate a "like" for a page
corresponding to the musician on an online social network. Social-networking actions may be
represented in social graph 200 by edges connecting a node corresponding to the user to a page
corresponding to the third-party content provider or an event of the third-party content provider.
Social-networking actions may be published by social-networking system 160 (e.g., on a feed or
profile corresponding to the user). While the social-networking action is described as being
triggered by the establishment of a wireless communication session between beacon 310 and client
system 130, it will be understood that this is merely illustrative and that any suitable interaction
between beacon 310, client system 130, social-networking system 160, and third-party system 170
may trigger the social-networking action. Social-networking actions performed via beacon 310
may be triggers for After-Party like reaction cards, which may be presented to a user, of the type
described in U.S. Patent Application No. 14/466,269, titled "Generating Cards in Response to User

                                                  35
Actions on Online Social Networks" filed 22 August 2014, the entirety of which is incorporated
herein by reference. As an example and not by way of limitation, a social-networking action may
be performed in response to a set of social-networking information of the user being sent to third
party system 170. In particular embodiments, social-networking system 160 may present content
to a user (e.g., by publishing objects and information in a feed on a page associated with the user
on an online social network) based on wireless communication sessions established between the
user's client system 130 and beacons 310. As an example and not by way of limitation, social
networking system 160 may rank stories, ads, promotions, offers, or other content in a feed based
on the wireless communication sessions established between the user's client system 130 and
beacons 310.
        [0102] In particular embodiments, the establishment of a wireless communication session
between beacon 310 and client system 130 may cause third-party system 170 to provide a deep
link to a particular location or content item of an application of the third-party content provider
with which beacon 310 is associated. As an example and not by way of limitation, third-party
system 170 may receive social-networking information of a user indicating that the user is
interested in a particular product, and third-party system 170 may send to the user's client system
130 a deep link (e.g., a URL) to a location in an application (e.g., running on client device 130)
that has information pertaining to the particular product.
        [0103] In particular embodiments, the establishment of a wireless communication session
between beacon 310 and client system 130 may unlock third-party content (e.g., a coupon), content
of social-networking system 160 (e.g., a key to access a VIP page on the online social network),
or content deposited at beacon 310 by another user of an online social network (e.g., a message,
image, or digital gift). As an example and not by way of limitation, a first user may leave a
message, physical or digital, at beacon 310 and may specify who may access the message (e.g.,
any second user in a wireless communication session with beacon 310 or any second user who is
a social connection of the first user and who is in a wireless communication session with beacon
310).
        [0104] In particular embodiments, authorization to access or view content deposited at one
or more beacons 310 (e.g., by a user, social-networking system 160, or third-party system 170)
may be based on conditions set by the creator or depositor of the content or by another entity. A

                                                   36
restrictive condition on access to certain content at one or more beacons 310 may include
membership in a specified group. For example, authorized group members may include, by
example and not by way of limitation: members of a certain social club; users who have purchased
access rights to the particular content; direct connections of a particular user node or concept node
in social graph 200; users having phone numbers with a certain area code or prefix; registered
users of a downloaded mobile device application, other suitable conditions, or any combination
thereof. Restrictions to access may additionally be based on user-specific information, including
but not limited to: demographic attributes of the user (e.g., age, gender, nationality, race, ethnicity,
and/or locality); profile attributes of the user on social-networking system 160, social-networking
information associated with the user (e.g., friends within a threshold degree of separation of the
user within social graph 200); a status of the client system (e.g., the device is in "pairing mode" or
"game mode"); parental controls set for an account of the user with social-networking system 160;
a transaction history of the user; other suitable user-specific information; or any combination
thereof. In an example, authorization may be granted to users having a transaction history showing
greater than a threshold number of games played on an online social network; achievement of a
threshold level within a particular game; greater than a threshold number of hours logged playing
a particular game; achievement of greater than a threshold number of posts to a page associated
with beacon 310 (e.g., comments or status updates); greater than a threshold number of wireless
communication sessions established with a particular beacon 310 or set of beacons 310 (e.g.,
scavenger hunt specifying ten New York City destinations to visit within a year); or designation
as an administrator or officer of an organization or group on an online social network. As an
example and not by way of limitation, a third-party system 170 may grant access to third-party
content or may provide third-party content (e.g., a promotion or other reward) to a user's client
system 130 when greater than a threshold number of wireless communication sessions have been
established between client system 130 and one or more beacons 310 of the third-party content
provider.
         [0105] In particular embodiments, a third-party content provider (or third-party system
170) may act in real-time based on wireless communication sessions between beacon 310 and
client system 130, the received set or sets of social-networking information, received user
responses to questions or requests for information, or any combination thereof. Third-party system

                                                  37
170 may cause one or more characteristics of a place of the third-party content provider to be
modified, in real-time, in response to the received set of social-networking information of a user.
As an example and not by way of limitation, the third-party content provider may perform an
action customized to a particular user or group of users (e.g., change the lighting, offer a favorite
appetizer, play a preferred genre of music, or any combination thereof, based on the received set
or sets of social-networking information). As another example and not by way of limitation, the
third-party content provider may seat a user based similarities or dissimilarities (e.g., one or more
similar or dissimilar attributes) between the sets of social-networking information received for that
user and the sets of social-networking information received for other users in the place (e.g.,
restaurant) of the third-party content provider.
Business Insights
        [0106] In particular embodiments, session infonnation of one or more users associated
with one or more client systems 130 may be received by social-networking system 160 from one
or more beacons 310 at locations in a place of a third-party content provider. Session information
may include information pertaining to interactions between each client system 130 and beacons
310. As an example and not by way of limitation, session information may include, for each user,
a history of wireless communication sessions established between one of beacons 310 and client
system 130; a number of visits (i.e., wireless communication sessions established between one or
more of beacons 310 and the respective client system 130); whether a user is in a first-time wireless
communication session with one of beacons 310 at a place of a third-party content provider;
duration of each wireless communication session between one of beacons 310 and client system
130; average duration of wireless communication session between beacons 310 and client system
130; time since last wireless communication session was established between one of beacons 310
and client system 130; any other information pertaining to wireless communication sessions
established between one of beacons 310 and client system 130; or any combination thereof.
Session information may include information of users whose client systems 130 are presently in a
wireless communication session with one or more of beacons 310. Session information may also
include information of users whose client systems 130 have previously been in a wireless
communication session with one or more of beacons 310.

                                                    38
          [0107] In particular embodiments, social-networking system 160 may generate a report of
business insights for a third-party content provider based on foot traffic registered by one or more
beacons 310 situated at locations in a business of the third-party content provider. Although the
report is described in FIGS. 4A-4C as being generated by social-networking system 160, this is
merely for illustrative purposes, not by way of limitation, and any suitable components, devices,
or systems may generate the report, including, for example one or more beacons 310. As an
example and not by way of limitation, the report may include a set of business insights generated
based on aggregated session information and aggregated social-networking information pertaining
to a plurality of users of an online social network who are currently or were previously associated
with the one or more beacons 310 of the third-party content provider, as described below in
connection with FIG. 4A. As another example and not by way of limitation, the report may include
a profile for each individual user of an online social network who is currently or was previously
associated with the one or more beacons 310 of the third-party content provider, as described below
in connection with FIGS. 4B-4C. An advantage of particular embodiments is that one or more
business insights (e.g., business insights based on beacons 310 associated with one or more third
party content providers) may be provided to users and customized to the particular needs of each
particular user. In this manner, business insights may empower users, providing customized,
location-based information based on which the users may make informed decisions. As an example
and not by way of limitation, aggregate business insights may include reported noise levels in local
coffee shops (e.g., so that the user may select the quietest coffee shop at which to study);
demographic composition of bars in a particular area (e.g., so that the user may select the bar with
the most people of his age group); wait time at grocery stores (e.g., so that the user may select the
grocery store with the shortest checkout lines).
          [0108] FIG. 4A illustrates an example report view 405 of an interface 400 displayed on a
third-party system 130. Report view 405 may include any suitable business insights 420 (e.g.,
statistics, data, or other suitable information) generated based on aggregated session information
and aggregated social-networking information for one or more users of an online social network
(i.e., the clientele of a third-party content provider). After generating business insights 420, social
networking system 160 may send business insights 420 to third-party system 170 for display to
the third-party content provider associated with third-party system 170. Business insights 420 may

                                                  39
be generated for all users associated with client systems 130 previously in an established wireless
communication session with any of beacons 310 (i.e., historical customers). Business insights 420
may be generated for all users whose client systems 130 are currently in an active wireless
communication session with any of beacons 310 (i.e., current customers). Social-networking
system 160 receive session information for one or more users from one or more beacons 310, each
of which is communicatively coupled with third-party system 170 and associated with a particular
third-party content provider. As an example and not by way of limitation, one or more beacons
310 may be fixed at one or more locations in a business of the third-party content provider. The
received session information of a user may include an identifier of the particular user, and social
networking system 160 may access social-networking information based on the identifier. Social
networking system 160 may then aggregate and anonymize the received session information and
the accessed social-networking information for one or more users in order to generate business
insights 420. Business insights may be sent by social-networking system 160 to third-party system
170 for display at a specialized user interface 400 of a native application running on third-party
system 170.
        [0109] In particular embodiments, business insights 420 may be generated based on
aggregated session information, aggregated social-networking information, or any combination
thereof. Business insights 420 generated based on session information may include, for example
and not by way of limitation, average duration of user visits (i.e., determined based on wireless
communication session durations). Business insights 420 generated based on social-networking
information may include, for example and not by way of limitation, a number of users who are
female or products or menu items for which one or more users have indicated an affinity (e.g., by
"liking" in an online social network). Business insights 420 may also be generated based on both
social-networking information and session information and may include, for example and not by
way of limitation, a number of users who are female and who are currently in a wireless
communication session with beacon 310 and an average duration of visits for female users. Social
networking system 160 may generate business insights 420 subject to sets of permissions of each
user or other restrictions imposed by the social-networking system 160. In the illustrated example
of FIG. 4A, business insights 420 are shown as including customers in the store (i.e., users with
client systems 130 in wireless communication sessions with one or more beacons 310), numbers

                                                  40
of returning and first time customers, numbers of men and women, average minutes per visit,
average visit per customer, combined loyalty points for all customers, average age, customers
whose birthdays are today, average rating (e.g., of a page corresponding to the third-party content
provider on an online social network), and customers checked-in (e.g., at a page corresponding to
the third-party content provider on an online social network). The number of and the particular
business insights 420 generated and included in report view 405 may be customized to a particular
third-party content provider for which social-networking system 160 generates business insights
420. In connection with business insights, particular embodiments may utilize one or more
systems, components, elements, functions, methods, operations, or steps disclosed in U.S. Patent
Application No. 14/542,389, titled "Visualizing Audience Metrics"; U.S. Patent Application No.
 14/542,397, titled "Using Audience Metrics with Targeting Criteria for an Advertisement"; and
U.S. Patent Application No. 14/452,411, titled "Generating Audience Metrics Including Affinity
Scores Relative to an Audience"; each of which is incorporated by reference in its entirety herein.
        [0110] In particular embodiments, a third-party content provider may have multiple
beacons 310 dispersed throughout the third-party content provider's place of business (e.g., at
check-out queues, departments, aisles, and displays for particular products). Session information
of one or more users received from each of beacons 310 by social-networking system 160 may
include a location within the place for each of the one or more users based on the particular beacon
310 with which the user's client system 130 is in a wireless communication session. Business
insights 420 may be generated based on this location information and may include "pain points,"
for example, a check-out with a long queue (e.g., more than a threshold number of client systems
130 are currently in a wireless communication session with beacon 310 at the check-out), crowded
department or aisles (e.g., more than a threshold number of client systems 130 are currently in a
wireless communication session with beacon 310 at the department or aisle), products near high
volume foot traffic that may need to be restocked, and tables or users that require service, any other
suitable business insights 420 based on users' locations within the business, or any combination
thereof.
        [0111] In particular embodiments, a third-party content provider or associated third-party
system 170 may perform an action in real-time based on business insights 420. As an example and
not by way of limitation, third-party system 170 may route staff throughout the third-party content

                                                   41
provider place of business based on business insights 420 (e.g., business insights 420 may include
department-to-checkout time, department traffic, and specific offer(s) in a particular department).
As another example, third-party system 170 may price items based on business insights 420 (e.g.,
surge-pricing based on business insight 420 indicating high traffic volume). As another example,
third-party system 170 may reorder stock or re-stock shelves or products (e.g., based on business
insights 420 including aggregate purchase history of particular products). In another example,
business insights 420 may also monitor the crowd index at a third-party content provider place of
business (e.g., based on average dwell time), and third-party system 170 may make suggestions to
a user based on the business insights 420 tracking crowd index (e.g., make suggestions of places a
user may like based on the social-networking and session information of the particular user, if the
third-party content provider's place of business is overcrowded).
         [0112] Business insights 420 may be generated based on session information and social
networking information received or accessed during a pre-defined window of time, information
continuously accumulated over time, or real-time information. Business insights may be
dynamically updated in real-time. As an example and not by way of limitation, business insights
may be updated based on wireless communication sessions established and terminated between
beacons 310 and client systems 130. Business insights may be provided on an individual basis or
as part of a report of multiple insights (e.g., as shown in report view 405). Business insights 420
may be monetized by charging third-party content providers for the generation and provision of a
report of business insights 420. The particular types of business insights provided in portfolios
may be customized based on the needs and budget of a particular third-party content provider.
         [0113] FIG. 4B illustrates example profile view 410 of an interface 400 displayed on a
third-party system 130. In particular embodiments, profile view 410 may include an individual
profile, represented by profile icon 425, for each of one or more users of an online social network.
Profile view 410 may provide profile icons 425 in a random or pre-determined order. As an
example and not by way of limitation, profile view 410 may provide profile icons 425 in ascending
or descending order of duration of current visit, loyalty points, or in any other suitable order (e.g.,
alphabetical by first name). Profiles icons 425 may be generated for all users associated with client
systems 130 previously or currently in an established wireless communication session with any of
beacons 310 based on the preferences of the particular third-party content provider. In the example

                                                 42
illustrated in FIG. 4B, profile icons 425 may include an image or other representation of each of
the users (e.g., social-networking system 160 may access each user's social-networking
information to obtain an image of the user). Profile icons 425 may include a user's name, identifier,
moniker, or any other suitable identifying information. In another example, social-networking
system 160 may cause notification jewels 435 to appear and persist on profile icons 425.
Notification jewel 435 may display a number corresponding to, for example and not by way of
limitation, new information received for a user (e.g., social-networking information). In the
example illustrated in FIG. 4B, notification jewels 435 depict the numerals "8," "11," and "2,"
and may refer to the number of visits for each user associated with profile icons 425. Profile icons
425 and notification jewels 435 are customizable by social-networking system 160 according to
the preferences of a third-party content provider. Profile icons 425 may be selectable to reveal a
detailed view, which is described below in connection with FIG. 4C.
         [0114] FIG. 4C illustrates an example detailed profile view 415 of an interface 400
displayed on a third-party system 130. Detailed profile view 415 may include profile icons 425
and notification jewels 435. Once a profile icon 425 has been selected (e.g., via input at third-party
system 160), it may expand to reveal user profile 445, which may include a set of social
networking information and session information of a particular user. In the example illustrated in
FIG. 4C, a particular profile icon 425 is shown as expanded, including profile picture 430 and
user profile 445, which may hover or float over profile icons 425. Profile picture 430 may be the
same image or a different image than that depicted in profile icon 425. User profile 445 may
include user name 440 (e.g., "John") and any other social-networking information or session
information of the user (e.g., "age: 25"). User profile 445 may also include social-networking
actions of the user taken with respect to a node in social graph 200 corresponding to a third-party
content provider. As an example and not by way of limitation, user profile 445 may include a user
social-networking action expressing affinity for the third-party content provider, which may be
represented in social graph 200 by an edge connecting a first node corresponding to the user to a
second node corresponding to the third-party content provider. User profile 445 may also include
a notes section editable at third-party system 170 to include any pertinent notes of third-party
content provider employees or agents.

                                                  43
        [0115] In particular embodiments, social-networking system 160 may store a record of
session information received for one or more users, social-networking information accessed for
the one or more users, third-party information received, and any other relevant information. Social
networking system 160 may store this information, for example, as a markup of a user profile on
an online social network (e.g., stored in association with a corresponding user node in social graph
200). As an example and not by way of limitation, the markup of a user profile may accessible to
third-party system 170 by calling one or more APIs.
        [0116] Although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular embodiments of FIGS.
4A-4C as being implemented by social-networking system 160, this disclosure contemplates any
suitable embodiments of FIGS. 4A-4C occurring on any suitable interface and as being
implemented by any suitable platform or system. As an example, and not by way of limitation,
particular embodiments of FIGS. 4A-4C may be implemented by one or more beacons 310.
Furthermore, although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular components, devices, or
systems carrying out particular steps of the method of FIGS. 4A-4C, this disclosure contemplates
any suitable combination of any suitable components, devices, or systems carrying out any suitable
steps of the method of FIGS. 4A-4C.
Ad-Targeting
        [0117] FIG. 5 illustrates example ads 510 of a third-party content provider displayed at an
interface 500 of a client system 130. In particular embodiments, social-networking system 160
may target users for advertisements and customize advertisements to be sent to the user based on
session information, social-networking information, and sponsored content received from third
party system 170. Social-networking system 160 may receive session information for a user from
one or more beacons 310, each of which is communicatively coupled with third-party system 170
and associated with a particular third-party content provider. The received session information of
a user may include an identifier of the particular user, and social-networking system 160 may
access social-networking information based on the identifier. Social-networking system 160 may
also receive, from third-party system 170, sponsored content. Sponsored content may include, for
example and not by way of limitation, an advertisement, a coupon, an offer, a discount, a
promotion, any other suitable advertising content, or any combination thereof. Social-networking

                                                44
system 160 may generate and send ads 510 to the user's client system based on a set of permissions
specified by the user.
        [0118] Social-networking system 160 may send ads 510 to client system 130 via text,
email, or any other suitable method of wireless communication based on a set of permissions
specified by the user of the client system 130. In the example illustrated in FIG. 5, ads 510 are
shown as text messages, and the user of client system 130 may have indicated that text message is
the preferred mode of communication for all advertising content. Social-networking system 160
may also provide ads 510 to users in a feed or otherwise published on an online social network.
Ads 510 may be sent to a user while his client system 130 is presently in an established wireless
communication session with beacon 310 (e.g., an offer or discount redeemable during the current
wireless communication session) or after the wireless communication session between beacon 310
and client system 130 has been terminated. As an example and not by way of limitation, social
networking system 160 may send an offer to a user if that user used to frequent the business (e.g.,
determined based on session information) but a predetermined period of time has passed since a
wireless communication session has been established between beacon 310 and client system 130
of the user.
        [0119] In particular embodiments, social-networking system 160 may determine to which
user to send ads 510 and how to customize ads 510 based on that user's social-networking
information and session information. Social-networking system 160 may send ads based on one
or more affinities expressed by the user. As an example and not by way of limitation, the social
networking information of the user may include an affinity coefficient of a first node
corresponding to the user with respect to one or more second nodes in social graph 200. As an
example, the affinity coefficient may be based on one or more edges connecting the first node to
one or more second nodes corresponding to the third-party content provider. Social-networking
system 160 may send ads 510 based on a current geographical location of a user (e.g., determined
based on the social-networking information). As an example and not by way of limitation, social
networking system 160 may send an ad 510 for a particular third-party content provider to which
the user is currently proximate. As an example and not by way of limitation, social-networking
system 160 may send ads 510 to client system 130 in response to detennining, based on session
information of the user, that a wireless communication session has not been established between

                                                  45
beacon 310 and client system 130 for a predetermined period of time. As another example and not
by way of limitation, social-networking system 160 may send ads 510 to client system 130 in
response to determining, based on social-networking information of the user, that the user's
purchase history indicates a strong trend to purchasing a particular type of product when it is on
sale and the sponsored content received includes a discount for the same type of product. As an
example and not by way of limitation, social-networking system 160 may send ads 510 to a user
because he visited a third-party content provider before other users visited the third-party content
provider (i.e., the user's client system was in a wireless communication system with a beacon 310
at an earlier date or time than a certain number of other users' client systems). As an example and
not by way of limitation, social-networking systems 160 may send ads 510 (e.g., a VIP promotional
offer) to a user who performed a social-networking action with respect to a node corresponding to
a third-party content provider in social graph 200 before other users did the same (e.g., the user is
an "early adopter").
         [0120] In particular embodiments, social-networking system 160 may send ads 510 to
client system 130 of a first user based on the social-networking information of one or more second
users. As an example and not by way of limitation, social-networking system 160 may send ads
510 to client system 130 of a first user who has one or more attributes (e.g., received session
information may include the one or more attributes) in common with one or more second users
whose social-networking information and session information indicates a particular average
duration of visits, a threshold frequency of visits, a particular purchase history, any other suitable
attributes, or any combination thereof (e.g., the first user is targeted for advertising based on being
a "lookalike" of second users who are frequent or loyal patrons of a particular third-party content
provider). Social-networking system 160 may also send ads 510 to client system 130 of a first user
based on the social-networking information and session information of one or more second users
who are connected to the first user in social graph 200 (e.g., a first node corresponds to the first
user, second nodes correspond to the second users, and the first node is connected to each of the
second nodes by a threshold degree of separation). Advertisements may be sent to particular users
and customized for particular users using one or more systems, components, elements, functions,
methods, operations, or steps disclosed in U.S. Patent Application No. 14/300,309, titled
"Selecting Advertisement Content for Social Networking System Users Based on Types of

                                                  46
Location Data"; U.S. Patent Application No. 14/529,133, titled "Selection Of A Group Of Content
Items For Presentation To An Online System User Based On Content Item Characteristics And
User Attributes"; and U.S. Patent Application No. 14/305,997, titled "Displaying Advertisements
with Location Information"; each of which is incorporated by reference in its entirety herein.
         [0121] In particular embodiments, client system 130 may be currently in a wireless
communication session with beacon 310 of a first third-party content provider, and social
networking system 160 may send ads 510, which are based on sponsored content received from a
second third-party content provider. In particular embodiments, social-networking system 160
may generate new sponsored content or receive sponsored content from an entity or third-party
content provider that is not associated with a beacon 310. In particular embodiments, social
networking system 160 may receive sponsored content from third-party systems 170 of multiple
third-party content providers, and social-networking system may select sponsored content received
from at least one of the third-party systems 170, based on which social-networking system 160
may generate ads 510 to be sent to client system 130. As an example and not by way of limitation,
if a third-party content provider place of business reaches a threshold occupancy level (e.g., based
on a business insight crowd index), it may send ads 510, which may promote different third-party
content providers, to users who are presently associated with one or more beacons 310 in order to
manage the crowd index. As another example and not by way of limitation, for a third-party content
provider business (e.g., Johnny Brenda's bar), social-networking system 160 may send ads 510 to
client system 130 that include nearby suggested third-party content provider businesses and/or
promotions or offers for the suggested third-party content provider businesses (e.g., advertisement
for happy hour at a nearby bar with similar attributes, the Starboard Side Tavern). Social
networking system 160 may also send ads 510 directing a user to a different third-party content
provider business based on predicted exit times (e.g., determined based of business insights
including average duration of visits for the particular users) of users whose client systems are
currently in a wireless communication session with one of beacons 310. As an example and not by
way of limitation, after a user's client system 130 has been in a wireless communication session
with a beacon 310 for a predetennined period of time, social-networking system 160 may send ads
510 for other similar businesses or for other businesses to visit next (e.g., if the third-party content
provider is a bar, a next-visit business may be a pizza shop, or if the third-party content provider

                                                   47
is a movie theater, a next-visit business may be a coffee shop). Social-networking system 160 may
send ads 510 based on physical proximity of other third-party content providers (e.g., within
walking distance) as well as on social-networking information (e.g., the user has indicated an
affinity for a type of third-party content provider) and/or session information (e.g., ads may include
"Two of your friends are at Starboard Bar" or "Ten of your friends like Mystic Pizza, which is just
across the street."). Social-networking system 160 may also send ads 510 to client system 130
based trends observed in the user's session information (e.g., user has an established pattern of
frequenting a second third-party content provider after a first third-party content provider, so the
second third-party content provider may be promoted as a next-visit business).
         [0122] In particular embodiments, advertising may be monetized by taking bids from third
party content providers for an advertising slot. For example, in response to receiving, from a third
party content provider at which a user is located, sponsorship information soliciting sponsored
content from one or more other third-party content providers, social-networking system 160 may
receive sponsored content from the one or more other third-party content providers, each also
sending a bid, either in real-time or via prior negotiation. As another example, social-networking
system 160 may also receive sponsored content from an entity or third-party content provider that
is not associated with a beacon 310. Social-networking system 160 may send ads 510 to a client
system 130 based on the sponsored content of the third-party content provider who submitted the
winning bid. The sponsorship information may specify a time range (e.g., based on an exit time
prediction for a particular user), and social-networking system 160 may send ads 510 to client
system 130 during the specified time range. As an example and not by way of limitation,
transportation entities (e.g., taxi services) may also submit bids and sponsored content (e.g., taxi
services or other third-party transit providers may bid on ads 510 to be sent to client systems 130
based on predicted exit times).
         [0123] Although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular embodiments of FIG. 5
as being implemented by social-networking system 160, this disclosure contemplates any suitable
embodiments of FIG. 5 occurring on any suitable interface and as being implemented by any
suitable platform or system. As an example, and not by way of limitation, particular embodiments
of FIG. 5 may be implemented by one or more beacons 310. Furthermore, although this disclosure
describes and illustrates particular components, devices, or systems carrying out particular steps

                                                  48
of the method of FIG. 5, this disclosure contemplates any suitable combination of any suitable
components, devices, or systems carrying out any suitable steps of the method of FIG. 5.
         [0124] FIG. 6 illustrates an example method 600 for sending customized third-party
content to a client system 130. The method may begin at step 610, where third-party system 170
may send, from third-party system 170 associated with a third-party content provider, via beacon
310 associated with the third-party content provider, beacon 310 being communicatively coupled
to third-party system 170, a request to associate with first client system 130 of a first user of an
online social network, the request specifying at least one attribute of the third-party content
provider, and wherein: beacon 310 is associated with a location within a place associated with the
third-party content provider, and first client system 130 is within wireless communication range
of beacon 310, first client system 130 being proximate to beacon 310. At step 620, third-party
system 170 may receive, via beacon 310, a first set of social-networking information of the first
user, the first set of social-networking information being sent in response to establishment of a
wireless communication session between beacon 310 and first client system 130, wherein the first
set of social-networking information is based on a set of permissions specified by the first user and
the at least one attribute of the third-party content provider. At step 630, third-party system 170
may send to first client system 130, via beacon 310, customized third-party content for display on
first client system 130, the customized third-party content being based on the first set of social
networking information and first client system 130 being proximate to beacon 310. Particular
embodiments may repeat one or more steps of the method of FIG. 6, where appropriate. Although
this disclosure describes and illustrates particular steps of the method of FIG. 6 as occurring in a
particular order, this disclosure contemplates any suitable steps of the method of FIG. 6 occurring
in any suitable order. Moreover, although this disclosure describes and illustrates an example
method for sending customized third-party content to client system 130 including the particular
steps of the method of FIG. 6, this disclosure contemplates any suitable method for sending
customized third-party content to client system 130 including any suitable steps, which may
include all, some, or none of the steps of the method of FIG. 6, where appropriate. Furthermore,
although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular components, devices, or systems
carrying out particular steps of the method of FIG. 6, this disclosure contemplates any suitable

                                                  49
combination of any suitable components, devices, or systems carrying out any suitable steps of the
method of FIG. 6.
         [0125] FIG. 7 illustrates an example method 700 for sending a report to a third-party
system 170. The method may begin at step 710, where social-networking system 160 may receive,
from one or more beacons 310 associated with a third-party content provider, each beacon 310
being communicatively coupled to third-party system 170 associated with the third-party content
provider, session information of a plurality of first users of the online social network, the session
information including an identifier of each first user, wherein: each beacon 310 is associated with
a particular location within a place associated with the third-party content provider, each first user
is associated with a respective first client system 130, each first client system 130 having been
within wireless communication range of and proximate to a respective at least one beacon 310,
and at least one wireless communication session has been established between the respective at
least one beacon 310 and each first client system 130. At step 720, social-networking system 160
may access social-networking information associated with each first user based on the identifiers.
At step 730, social-networking system 160 may generate a report, the report including aggregated
social-networking information and aggregated session information of one or more of the first users,
wherein the report is generated based on sets of permissions specified by each of the one or more
first users. At step 740, social-networking system 160 may send the report to third-party system
170 for display. Particular embodiments may repeat one or more steps of the method of FIG. 7,
where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular steps of the method
of FIG. 7 as occurring in a particular order, this disclosure contemplates any suitable steps of the
method of FIG. 7 occurring in any suitable order. Moreover, although this disclosure describes
and illustrates an example method for sending a report to third-party system 170 including the
particular steps of the method of FIG. 7, this disclosure contemplates any suitable method for
sending a report to third-party system 170 including any suitable steps, which may include all,
some, or none of the steps of the method of FIG. 7, where appropriate. Furthermore, although this
disclosure describes and illustrates particular components, devices, or systems carrying out
particular steps of the method of FIG. 7, this disclosure contemplates any suitable combination of
any suitable components, devices, or systems carrying out any suitable steps of the method of FIG.
7.

                                                     50
         [0126] FIG. 8 illustrates an example method 800 for sending a customized advertisement
to a client system 130. The method may begin at step 810, where social-networking system 160
may receive, from beacon 310 associated with a third-party content provider, beacon 310 being
communicatively coupled to third-party system 170 associated with the third-party content
provider, session information of a first user of an online social network, the session information of
the first user including an identifier of the first user, wherein: beacon 310 is associated with a first
location of a plurality of locations within a place associated with the third-party content provider,
and at least one wireless communication session has been established between first client system
130 of the first user and beacon 310, first client system 130 having been proximate to beacon 310.
At step 820, social-networking system 160 may receive sponsored content from third-party system
170 associated with the third-party content provider. At step 830, social-networking system 160
may access social-networking information of the first user based on the identifier. At step 840,
social-networking system 160 may send a customized advertisement to first client system 130 for
display on first client system 130, wherein the customized advertisement is based on the session
information of the first user, the sponsored content, the social-networking information of the first
user, and wherein the customized advertisement is sent to first client system 130 based on a set of
permissions specified by the first user. Particular embodiments may repeat one or more steps of
the method of FIG. 8, where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates
particular steps of the method of FIG. 8 as occurring in a particular order, this disclosure
contemplates any suitable steps of the method of FIG. 8 occurring in any suitable order. Moreover,
although this disclosure describes and illustrates an example method for sending a customized
advertisement to client system 130 including the particular steps of the method of FIG. 8, this
disclosure contemplates any suitable method for sending a customized advertisement to client
system 130 including any suitable steps, which may include all, some, or none of the steps of the
method of FIG. 8, where appropriate. Furthermore, although this disclosure describes and
illustrates particular components, devices, or systems carrying out particular steps of the method
of FIG. 8, this disclosure contemplates any suitable combination of any suitable components,
devices, or systems carrying out any suitable steps of the method of FIG. 8.

                                                  51
Notifications
         Third-PartyContent Notifications
         [0127] In particular embodiments, social-networking system 160 may generate and
provide notifications to users of an online social network based on information received from
beacon 310 or other suitable geographic-positioning-capable devices or systems associated with a
third-party content provider. Social-networking system 160 may generate and provide to users
notifications regarding a place of business of a third-party content provider and including third
party content. As an example and not by way of limitation, social-networking system 160 may
determine, based on location infonnation received from a user's client system, that the user is
located near beacon 310, which may be located at a place of a third-party content provider (e.g.,
at a brick-and-mortar store for a particular clothing retailer). Social-networking system 160 may
then send to the user a notification including third-party content associated with the third-party
content provider and place. Social-networking system 160 may generate and personalize
notifications using any suitable information, including, for example,               social-networking
information and session information associated with the user and with other users to whom the
user is connected in social graph 200 by less than a threshold degree of separation. As an example
and not by way of limitation, social-networking system 160 may send the user a message notifying
the user that he is close to a particular third-party content provider location that his friends like
(e.g., a number of first degree connections have "liked" a page corresponding to the third-party
content provider on the online social network). The particular notifications sent to a user as well
as when and how many notifications may be sent to a user may be subject to a set of permissions
(eg., privacy preferences) specified by the user or other restrictions imposed by the online social
network. Any suitable notifications may be sent by social-networking system 160 to client system
130 for display to the user, including, as an example and not by way of limitation, notifications to
be presented on a lock screen of client system 130, as described below in connection with FIG.
9A, notifications to be presented in an interface of an application (e.g., a social media application)
running on client system 130, as described below in connection with FIGS. 9B-9E, other suitable
types of notifications (e.g., banner notifications, badge notifications, jewel notifications,
messaging notifications, etc.), or any combination thereof.

                                                  52
        [0128] FIG. 9A illustrates an example notification 910 displayed on a lock screen 905 of
a client system 130. In particular embodiments, social-networking system 160 may send
notifications, including, for example, notification 910 to interface 900 of client system 130 of a
user based on location information of the user. Location information may be sent to social
networking system 160, as an example and not by way of limitation, by client system 130 (e.g.,
using GPS functionality). As another example, location information may be determined by social
networking system 160 based on social-networking actions taken by the user (e.g., the user
checked-in at a page or event associated with a third-party content provider location). In particular
embodiments, notifications may be deleted, retracted, or otherwise removed based on location
information of the user of client system 130. As an example and not by way of limitation, social
networking system 160 may determine to remove notification 910 because a user's client system
130 has moved outside of the threshold distance from the location of beacon 310. Notifications
may also be removed after a user has interacted with it by, for example, a slide gesture inputted at
a touchscreen interface of client system 130. Notifications may be dismissed in response to a
predefined user input (e.g., tapping a particular element of the interface).
        [0129] In particular embodiments, notification 910 may include any suitable third-party
content, and the particular third-party content included in notification 910 may be customized for
the particular user using any suitable techniques, as described above. Notification 910 may also
include any other suitable information that is associated with the third-party content provider (e.g.,
from the social-networking system), which may also be customized for the particular user using
any suitable techniques. In the embodiment illustrated in FIG. 9A, social-networking system 160
may determine that the user is within a threshold distance of Prince Street Cafe and may send
notification 910 indicating that the user is nearby and that "people talk about red velvet cupcake
and crumb pie here." Social-networking system 160 may determine to send a notification to client
system 130 of a particular user based on social-networking information of the user and on session
information received from a beacon 310 and associated with the user's client system 130. As an
example and not by way of limitation, social-networking system 160 may generate and send a
notification including menu items liked by friends (i.e., first-degree connections in social graph
200) at a nearby location of a third-party content provider (e.g., notification stating that Prince
Street Cafe is nearby and that Chelsea, a friend of the user, likes their tomato soup); posts made

                                                  53
by the third-party content provider to a corresponding page (e.g., notifying the user that the credit
card reader is down); an ongoing or upcoming event hosted at a third-party content provider
location (e.g., notifying the user that the mayor is speaking at 8:00 pm and that 20 people are
attending the event); spotlight data from reviews of a third-party content provider (e.g., notification
910). In particular embodiments, notifications may be presented at client system 130 with prompts
for retrieving additional information associated with the notification. As an example and not by
way of limitation, FIG. 9A illustrates a customized "slide" functionality, where a slide gesture
may be inputted by the user of client system 130 to retrieve additional information associated with
notification 910 (e.g., a page corresponding to Prince Street Cafe; relevant posts by or associated
with social-graph connections; and information regarding products, services, and menu items
offered at the location).
         [0130] In the embodiment illustrated in FIG. 9A, notification 910 is shown as being
pushed (i.e., a "push notification") to lock screen 905 of client system 130. Notification 910 may
be presented silently on lock screen 905 or may be accompanied by audible, tactile, or other
suitable feedback. Notifications may be delivered in accordance with user-specified permissions,
which may provide, as an example and not by way of limitation, what types of notifications may
be received (e.g., notifications associated with events), from which third-party content providers
notifications may be received (e.g., only from businesses that the user has patronized before), when
notifications may be received (e.g., on weekends), how many notifications may be received (e.g.,
no duplicates or one per week), types of content to be included in a notification (e.g., only content
based on first-degree social connections of the user), and how the notification may be presented
on client system 130 (e.g., as a silent push notification on lock screen 905).
         [0131] FIG. 9B illustrates an example notification 920 displayed in an interface 900 of a
client system 130. In FIG. 9B, notification 920 is shown as displayed in a news feed 915, which
is provided in an application running on client system 130. Notification 920 may be selectable to
reveal third-party content (e.g., menu).
         [0132] FIG. 9C illustrates an example notification 925 displayed in an interface 900 of a
client system 130. In FIG. 9C, notification 925 is shown as displayed in a news feed 915, which
is provided in an application running on client system 130. Notification 925 may be sent to client
system 130, by social-networking system 160, in response to session information, received at

                                                  54
social-networking system 160 from beacon 310, indicating that the a wireless communication
session has been established between client system 130 and beacon 310. Social-networking system
160 may select the particular content for inclusion in a notification based on session information
of the user; for example, third-party content provided in a notification to a user whose client system
130 is not in a wireless communication session with beacon 310 (e.g., notification 920) may differ
from that provided in a notification when the user's client system 130 is in an active wireless
communication session with beacon 310 (e.g., notification 925). A notification may be selectable
to reveal a page corresponding to a third-party content provider, and social-networking system 160
may customize the content provided on the page based on session information of the user, as
described below in connection with FIGS. 9D and 9E.
         [0133] FIG. 9D illustrates an example page 930 corresponding to a third-party content
provider displayed in an interface 900 of a client system 130. In FIG. 9D, notification 940 is shown
as displayed on page 930, which is provided in an application running on client system 130, and
which corresponds to the Prince Street Cafe. In particular embodiments, social-networking system
160 may send notification 940 to client system 130 for display to the user after session information
is received from beacon 310, which may be associated with Prince Street Cafe, the session
information indicating that a wireless communication session has been established between client
system 130 and beacon 310. In the example illustrated in FIG. 9D, notification 940 is shown as
providing additional third-party content, including overview 935 introducing the Prince Street
Cafe and popular menu items 940. Overview 935 and popular menu items 940 are merely
illustrative, and any suitable third-party content or combination thereof may be provided to the
user in notification 940. As described above in connection with FIG. 9A, the particular third-party
content included in a notification may be customized to a particular user based on social
networking information and session information of the user and on social-networking information
and session infonnation of social-graph connections of the user.
         [0134] FIG. 9E illustrates an example page corresponding to a third-party content provider
displayed in an interface 900 of a client system 130. In FIG. 9E, notification 945 is shown as
displayed on page 930, which is provided in an application running on client system 130, and
which corresponds to the Prince Street Cafe. In particular embodiments, social-networking system
160 may send notification 945 to client system 130 for display to the user after session information

                                                  55
is received from beacon 310, which may be associated with Prince Street Cafe, indicating that a
wireless communication session is no longer active between client system 130 and beacon 310. In
the example illustrated in FIG. 9E, notification 945 is shown as providing additional third-party
content, including a departure message thanking the user for his patronage; posts 950 made
recently by Prince Street Cafe; current and upcoming events 955 hosted at Prince Street Cafe;
spotlight reviews 960 highlighting particular menu items reviewed, talked about, or otherwise
referenced by other users; and survey 965 prompting the user to rate his experience at Prince Street
Cafe as "Great," "Okay," or "Bad." The particular third-party content shown as included is merely
illustrative, and any suitable third-party content or combination thereof may be provided to the
user in notification 945.
         [0135] Although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular embodiments of FIGS.
9A-9E as being implemented by social-networking system 160, this disclosure contemplates any
suitable embodiments of FIGS. 9A-9E occurring on any suitable interface and as being
implemented by any suitable platform or system. As an example, and not by way of limitation,
particular embodiments of FIGS. 9A-9E may be implemented by one or more beacons 310.
Furthermore, although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular components, devices, or
systems carrying out particular steps of the method of FIGS. 9A-9E, this disclosure contemplates
any suitable combination of any suitable components, devices, or systems carrying out any suitable
steps of the method of FIGS. 9A-9E.
         Arrival and DepartureNotifications
         [0136] In particular embodiments, social-networking system 160 may send, to a first user's
client system 130, a notification of a second user's arrival at or departure from a third-party content
provider location. In particular embodiments, social-networking system 160 may generate
notifications based on session information of the first and second users. Social-networking system
160 may receive session information associated with first and second users from one or more
beacons 310 associated with and located at one or more third-party content provider locations.
Social-networking system 160 may determine to send arrival and departure notifications to a first
user's client system 130 based on the session information of the first user. As an example and not
by way of limitation, the received session information of the first user may indicate that a wireless

                                                    56
communication session has been established between the first user's client system 130 and beacon
310 (i.e., the first user is at a first third-party content provider location), and social-networking
system 160 may send, to the first user's client system 130, arrival notifications for second users
arriving at the first third-party content provider location. Social-networking system 160 may
receive dynamically updated session information for a second user from the same beacon 310
indicating that a wireless communication session has been established between the second user's
client system 130 and beacon 310 (i.e., the second user has arrived at the first third-party content
provider location where the first user is also located). Social-networking system 160 may then
generate and send a notification to the client system 130 of the first user based on the session
information indicating that the second user has arrived, an example of which is illustrated in FIG.
10A. In particular embodiments, arrival and departure notifications may be sent to a first user for
second users who are connected to the first user within a threshold degree of separation in social
graph 200. As an example and not by way of limitation, the degree of separation may be one, two,
three, or all, each edge between two nodes corresponding to a single degree of separation.
         [0137] FIG. 10A illustrates an example notification 1010 displayed on a lock screen 905
of a client system 130. In particular embodiments, social-networking system 160 may send a
notification 1010 referencing a second user (e.g., Mark) to interface 1000 of client system 130 of
a first user based on session information of the first user and session information of the second
user. As described above in connection with FIG. 9A, any suitable notification may be sent to
client system 130 in accordance with user preferences and privacy settings. In the example
illustrated in FIG. 10A, notification 1010 is shown as a "push notification" presented at lock screen
905 of client system 130.
         [0138] FIG. 1OB illustrates an example notification 1020 displayed in an interface 1000
of a client system 130. In particular embodiments, social-networking system 160 may send
notification 1020 to interface 1000 of client system 130 of a first user. In FIG. 10B, notification
1020 is shown as displayed in a news feed 915, which is provided in an application running on
client system 130. Notification 1020 may be sent to client system 130, by social-networking
system 160, in response to session information, received at social-networking system 160 from
beacon 310, indicating that the a wireless communication session has been established between a
client system 130 of a second user (e.g., John) and beacon 310-"John is now at Hildy's Tavern."

                                                  57
As shown in FIG. 10B, notification 1020 may also include departure information of the second
user-"He left Prince Street Cafe 20 minutes ago." Departure information may be sent in response
to receiving session information of the second user from a beacon 310 of a different third-party
content provider location indicating that a wireless communication session between beacon 310
and the second user's client system 130 lapsed or became inactive at a particular time (e.g., 20
minutes ago). As shown in the example illustrated in FIG. 1OB, arrival and departure notifications
may include timing information, which may be a powerful resource for a first user trying to meet
up with a second user. As an example and not by way of limitation, a first user may be late meeting
up with a second user at an annual city-wide Santa pub crawl, and may be having trouble keeping
in contact with the second user, as he travels between establishments in a Santa costume similar to
that worn by hundreds of others at the event. The first user may receive notification 1020 indicating
that the second user (e.g., John) departed from a particular third-party content provider location at
a particular time and has now arrived at a new third-party content provider location (e.g., Hildy's
Tavern), and the first user may be able to use this information to meet up the second user at the
new third-party content provider location for holiday merriment rather than following the second
user around the city all day, one step behind. A user may specify in privacy settings to whom
arrival and departure notifications may be sent and what information may be included in these
notifications. As an example and not by way of limitation, John's privacy settings may provide
permission for arrival and departure notifications to be sent to client system 130 of a particular
first user (e.g., a particular friend of John's) only for third-party content provider locations
associated with the pub crawl event.
        [0139] FIG. 10C illustrates an example page 1030 corresponding to a third-party content
provider displayed in an interface 1000 of a client system 130. A notification (e.g., notification
1020 of FIG. 10B) may be selectable to reveal a page 1030 corresponding to a third-party content
provider location, and social-networking system 160 may customize the content provided on the
page 1030 based on session information of the user. FIG. 10C illustrates an example page 930
corresponding to a third-party content provider displayed in an interface 900 of a client system
130. In FIG. 10C, notification 1050 (e.g., Mark is here) is shown as displayed on page 1030, which
is provided in an application running on client system 130, and which corresponds to Hildy's
Tavern. As shown in the example illustrated in FIG. 10C, page 1030 may include tools 1040 with

                                                     58
 functionality that allows the first user to interact with the third-party content provider (e.g., by
"liking," checking in, looking at the menu, or messaging). In particular embodiments, arrival and
departure notifications for a particular second user may be sent to the first user's client system 130
 based on an invitation sent by the first user to the second user. Notification 1050 may provide a
prompt by which the first user may send an invitation to a second user inviting the second user to
join the first user at a first-party content provider location (e.g., Hildy's Tavern), as described
below in connection with FIGS. 11A-iD.
          [0140] Although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular embodiments of FIGS.
 10A-10C as being implemented by social-networking system 160, this disclosure contemplates
any suitable embodiments of FIGS. 10A-10C occurring on any suitable interface and as being
implemented by any suitable platform or system. As an example, and not by way of limitation,
particular embodiments of FIGS. 10A-10C may be implemented by one or more beacons 310.
Furthermore, although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular components, devices, or
 systems carrying out particular steps of the method of FIGS. 10A-10C, this disclosure
contemplates any suitable combination of any suitable components, devices, or systems carrying
out any suitable steps of the method of FIGS. 10A-10C.
          InvitationNotifications
          [0141] In particular embodiments, social-networking system 160 may use location and
 session information received from one or more beacons 310 to generate and send notifications to
a first user prompting the first user to invite one or more selected second users. Social-networking
 system 160 may receive session information associated with a first user from a beacon 310
associated with a third-party content provider and at a particular location within a place of the
third-party content provider. The session information may indicate that a wireless communication
 session has been established between the first user's client system 130 and beacon 310 (i.e., the
 first user is at a third-party content provider location).        Social-networking system 160 may
 send, to the first user's client system 130, a notification referencing one or more second users who
 are at locations within a threshold distance from the particular location of beacon 310 (i.e., nearby
 second users). Social-networking system 160 may determine that one or more second users are
nearby based on, for example, location information from client systems 130 associated with the

                                                   59
one or more second users. As an example and by way of limitation, the first user may be at a bar,
and the one or more second users may be in the same city or neighborhood, or otherwise within a
predefined distance (e.g., radius) from the beacon location within the place of the third-party
content provider. Social-networking system 160 may generate and send to the first user's client
system 130 a notification suggesting that the first user send a message or invitation (e.g., to join
the first user at the bar) to one or more of the nearby second users.
         [0142] In particular embodiments, social-networking system 160 may select one or more
second users of all nearby second users which may be referenced in a notification sent to the first
user's client system 130. In particular embodiments, second users may be selected and
notifications sent using techniques for determining nearby friends in U.S. Patent Application No.
 14/323,915, titled "Nearby Friend Notifications on Online Social Networks," filed 03 July 2014,
the entirety of which is incorporated herein by reference. In particular embodiments, social
networking system 160 may select one or more second users from the second users determined to
be nearby based on session information associated with the second users indicating that the client
systems of the second users are not in wireless communications sessions with beacon 310 (e.g.,
none of the second users is already at the third-party content provider place at which the first user
is located). Social-networking system 160 may select the suggested second users from among all
nearby second users based on, for example, social-networking information of the first user and the
suggested second users (e.g., indications of affinity for a particular type of food), location
information of the suggested second users (e.g., more proximate second users may be more likely
to accept an invitation), session information of the first user and the suggested second users (e.g.,
client systems 130 of the first user and a particular second user have previously been in a wireless
communication session at the same time with the same beacon 310), preferences of the first or
second users (e.g., preferences of at least one second user indicate a preference for a type of good
or service, and the third-party content provider provides the preferred type of good or service), any
other suitable user information, or any combination thereof. As an example and not by way of
limitation, social-networking system 160 may select a suggested second user based on session
information of the second user including a history of prior wireless communication sessions
established between the beacon 310 and the second client system of the second user (e.g., past
wireless communication sessions may indicate that the second user is more likely to return to the

                                                  60
location). As another example, social-networking system 160 may select a suggested second user
based on one or more affinities expressed by the second user. The social-networking information
of the second user may include an affinity coefficient of a second node corresponding to the second
user with respect to a third node in social graph 200 corresponding to the third-party content
provider. As an example, the affinity coefficient may be based on one or more edges connecting
the second node to the third node corresponding to the third-party content provider. FIGS. 11A
1 ID, described below, provide examples of invitation notifications.
         [0143] FIG. 11A illustrates an example notification 1110 displayed on a lock screen 905
of a client system 130. In particular embodiments, social-networking system 160 may receive,
from a first user's client system 130 (e.g., William's client system 130, which is not shown), a
request to invite at least one selected second user (e.g., referenced in a notification sent to the first
user's client system 130) to the place associated with a third-party content provider. Social
networking system 160 may send, in response to the request a notification 1110 to interface 1100
of client system 130 of at least one selected second user. As described above in connection with
FIG. 9A, any suitable notification may be sent to client system 130 in accordance with user
preferences and privacy settings. In the example illustrated in FIG. 11A, notification 1110 is
shown as a "push notification" presented at lock screen 905 of client system 130.
         [0144] FIG. 11B illustrates an example notification 1120 displayed in an interface 1100
of a client system 130. In FIG. 11B, notification 1120 is shown as displayed in a news feed 915,
which is provided in an application running on client system 130. In particular embodiments,
social-networking system 160 may send an invitation notification 1120 to at least one selected
second user to join the first user (e.g., William) at a place associated with a third-party content
provider (e.g., Prince Street Cafe). Invitation notification 1120 may include a prompt to respond
to the invitation, for example, by responding "Join," "Maybe," or "Decline." Invitation notification
1120 may include any suitable third-party content associated with the place and the associated
third-party content provider. As an example and not by way of limitation, invitation notification
1120 may include location information (e.g., an address) of the place associated with the third
party content provider, which is shown in FIG. 11B as a map, which may be interactive and which
may include customized directions from a current location of the invited second user to the third
party content provider location or any other suitable location information. Invitation notification

                                                    61
1120 may include a message from the first user or the third-party content provider. Invitation
notification 1120 may include an identifier (e.g., name and/or image) of at least one third user of
the online social network, where the at least one third user's client system 130 is in an active
wireless communication session with beacon 310. In the example illustrated in FIG. 11B,
notification 1120 provides names and images of other users who are presently at the third-party
content provider location (e.g., "Andrew, Martha, and 3 others").
         [0145] FIG. IC illustrates an example notification 1130 displayed in an interface 1100
of a client system 130. In FIG. 11C, notification 1130 is shown as displayed in a news feed 915,
which is provided in an application running on client system 130. Notification 1130 may be sent
to a first user and may reference one or more selected second users (e.g., by including selectable
images respectively corresponding to the users), which may be selected by social-networking
system 160, as described above, from among all nearby second users. Notification 1130 is shown
as a prompt to invite one or more of the selected second users or to "choose friends" to invite to a
place of a third-party content provider.
         [0146] FIG. l1D illustrates an example notification 1160 and a page 1140 corresponding
to a third-party content provider displayed in an interface 1100 of a client system 130. A
notification (e.g., notification 1130 of FIG. IC)          may be selectable to reveal page 1140
corresponding to a third-party content provider location, and social-networking system 160 may
customize the content provided on the page 1140 to the particular viewing first user. As shown in
the example illustrated in FIG. 11D, page 1140 may include tools 1150 with functionality that
allows the first user to interact with the third-party content provider (e.g., by "liking," checking in,
looking at the menu, or messaging). In FIG. 1ID, notification 1160 is shown as displayed on page
1030, which is provided in an application running on client system 130, and which corresponds to
Prince Street Cafe. Notification 1160 may be a prompt to invite other users and may reference one
or more users presently at the third-party content provider place (e.g., text stating that "William,
Andrew, Martha, and 3 friends are here" and corresponding images depicting the users).
Notification 1160 may also include any other suitable functionality for interacting with the
notification, including, for example, tools for messaging a particular user, locating a particular
user, creating a "moment" or post based on notification 1160, any other suitable interaction tools,
or any combination thereof.

                                                   62
        [0147] Social-networking system 160 may provide arrival and departure notifications
when a second user arrives at or departs from third-party content provider locations after having
accepted an invitation from the first user, as described above in connection with FIGS. 10A-10C.
Similarly, social-networking system 160 may send arrival and departure notifications associated
with a first user to an invited second user so that the invited second user may have an easier time
meeting up with the first user, in particular if the first user is moving to different locations.
        [0148] Although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular embodiments of FIGS.
11A-11D as being implemented by social-networking system 160, this disclosure contemplates
any suitable embodiments of FIGS. 11A-11D occurring on any suitable interface and as being
implemented by any suitable platform or system. As an example, and not by way of limitation,
particular embodiments of FIGS. 11A-11D may be implemented by one or more beacons 310.
Furthermore, although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular components, devices, or
systems carrying out particular steps of the method of FIGS. 11A-liD, this disclosure
contemplates any suitable combination of any suitable components, devices, or systems carrying
out any suitable steps of the method of FIGS. 11A-11D.
        [0149] FIG. 12 illustrates an example self-portrait interface 1200 displayed on a client
system 130. In particular embodiments, once a wireless communication session has been
established between client system 130 and beacon 310 of a third-party content provider, third
party system 170, social-networking system 160, or beacon 310 may send a request for additional
information to client system 130 of a user. A response may be inputted by the user or otherwise
inputted at client system 130 and sent by client system 130, directly or via beacon 310, to the
questioning third-party system 170, social-networking system 160, or beacon 310. In the
embodiment illustrated in FIG. 12, social-networking system 160 may provide a self-portrait
interface 1200 and prompt the user to take and send a self-portrait 1210 (i.e., a "selfie") showing
the user at the third-party content provider place, as shown below in FIG. 12. In particular
embodiments, client system 130 may automatically activate the front-facing camera mode when
self-portrait interface 1200 is provided. As shown in FIG. 12, the user may set permissions as to
who may access self-portrait 1210 (e.g., "Only you and the business will be able to see this.") and
may decline to take self-portrait 1210, send self-portrait 1210, or both.

                                                 63
        [0150] Although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular embodiments of FIG.
12 as being implemented by social-networking system 160, this disclosure contemplates any
suitable embodiments of FIG. 12 occurring on any suitable interface and as being implemented
by any suitable platform or system. As an example, and not by way of limitation, particular
embodiments of FIG. 12 may be implemented by one or more beacons 310. Furthermore, although
this disclosure describes and illustrates particular components, devices, or systems carrying out
particular steps of the method of FIG. 12, this disclosure contemplates any suitable combination
of any suitable components, devices, or systems carrying out any suitable steps of the method of
FIG. 12.
        [0151] FIG. 13 illustrates an example beacon 310 in a real-world environment 1300. In
the embodiment illustrated in FIG. 13, beacon 310 is shown as a three-dimensional object having
a multi-faceted casing (inside of which hardware components may be housed), a substantially flat
top, and a substantially flat bottom. Although depicted in a particular way in FIG. 13, beacon 310
may have any suitable shape, form, or design, may be constructed of any suitable materials or
combinations of materials, and may be free-standing, removably affixed to any suitable surface,
or permanently affixed to any suitable surface. As an example and not by way of limitation, beacon
310 is depicted in FIG. 13 as being affixed to a wooden surface (e.g., via a double-sided adhesive)
in real-world environment 1300. Particular embodiments of this disclosure are described as being
implemented by or based on information received from a beacon 310 by way of illustration and
not by way of limitation. This disclosure contemplates any other suitable geographic-positioning
capable device or system being used instead of or in addition to one or more beacons 310. As an
example and not by way of limitation, beacon-type functionality may be incorporated into a
smartphone of a third-party content provider.
        [0152] Although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular embodiments of FIG.
13 as being implemented by beacon 310, this disclosure contemplates any suitable embodiments
of FIG. 13 occurring on any suitable interface and as being implemented by any suitable platform
or system. As an example, and not by way of limitation, particular embodiments of FIG. 13 may
be implemented by any suitable graphic-positioning-capable device or system. Furthermore,
although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular components, devices, or systems
carrying out particular steps of the method of FIG. 13, this disclosure contemplates any suitable

                                                 64
combination of any suitable components, devices, or systems carrying out any suitable steps of the
method of FIG. 13.
        [01531 FIG. 14 illustrates an example method 1400 for sending a notification to client
system 130. The method may begin at step 1410, where social-networking system 160 may access
social graph 200 comprising a plurality of nodes and a plurality of edges connecting the nodes,
each of the edges between two of the nodes representing a single degree of separation between
them, the nodes comprising: a first node corresponding to a first user of the online social network,
and a plurality of second nodes respectively corresponding to a plurality of second users associated
with the online social network, each second node being connected to the first node in social graph
200 by a threshold degree of separation. At step 1420, social-networking system 160 may receive,
from beacon 310 associated with third-party content provider, session information of the first user,
wherein: beacon 310 is associated with a particular location within a place associated with the
third-party content provider, and the session information of the first user indicates that a first client
system 130 of the first user is within wireless range of and proximate to beacon 310, a wireless
communication session being active between beacon 310 and the first client system 130. At step
1430, social-networking system 160 may select one or more of the second users, wherein each of
the second users is selected based on a second location of a second client system 130 associated
with the second user, the second location being within a threshold distance of the particular
location of the beacon 310, and wherein a wireless communication session is not active between
the beacon 310 and each of second client systems 130 associated with the selected second users.
At step 1440, social-networking system 160 may send, to the first client system 130 of the first
user, a notification referencing one or more of the selected second users. Particular embodiments
may repeat one or more steps of the method of FIG. 14, where appropriate. Although this
disclosure describes and illustrates particular steps of the method of FIG. 14 as occurring in a
particular order, this disclosure contemplates any suitable steps of the method of FIG. 14 occurring
in any suitable order. Moreover, although this disclosure describes and illustrates an example
method for sending a notification to client system 130, including the particular steps of the method
of FIG. 14, this disclosure contemplates any suitable method for sending a notification to client
system 130 including any suitable steps, which may include all, some, or none of the steps of the
method of FIG. 14, where appropriate. Furthermore, although this disclosure describes and

                                                    65
illustrates particular components, devices, or systems carrying out particular steps of the method
of FIG. 14, this disclosure contemplates any suitable combination of any suitable components,
devices, or systems carrying out any suitable steps of the method of FIG. 14.
Social Graph Affinity and Coefficient
         [0154] In particular embodiments, social-networking system 160 may determine the
social-graph affinity (which may be referred to herein as "affinity") of various social-graph entities
for each other. Affinity may represent the strength of a relationship or level of interest between
particular objects associated with the online social network, such as users, concepts, content,
actions, advertisements, other objects associated with the online social network, or any suitable
combination thereof. Affinity may also be determined with respect to objects associated with third
party systems 170 or other suitable systems. An overall affinity for a social-graph entity for each
user, subject matter, or type of content may be established. The overall affinity may change based
on continued monitoring of the actions or relationships associated with the social-graph entity.
Although this disclosure describes determining particular affinities in a particular manner, this
disclosure contemplates determining any suitable affinities in any suitable manner.
         [0155] In particular embodiments, social-networking system 160 may measure or quantify
social-graph affinity using an affinity coefficient (which may be referred to herein as
"coefficient"). The coefficient may represent or quantify the strength of a relationship between
particular objects associated with the online social network. The coefficient may also represent a
probability or function that measures a predicted probability that a user will perform a particular
action based on the user's interest in the action. In this way, a user's future actions may be predicted
based on the user's prior actions, where the coefficient may be calculated at least in part a the
history of the user's actions. Coefficients may be used to predict any number of actions, which
may be within or outside of the online social network. As an example and not by way of limitation,
these actions may include various types of communications, such as sending messages, posting
content, or commenting on content; various types of observation actions, such as accessing or
viewing profile pages, media, or other suitable content; various types of coincidence information
about two or more social-graph entities, such as being in the same group, tagged in the same
photograph, checked-in at the same location, or attending the same event; or other suitable actions.

                                                  66
Although this disclosure describes measuring affinity in a particular manner, this disclosure
contemplates measuring affinity in any suitable manner.
        [0156] In particular embodiments, social-networking system 160 may use a variety of
factors to calculate a coefficient. These factors may include, for example, user actions, types of
relationships between objects, location information, other suitable factors, or any combination
thereof. In particular embodiments, different factors may be weighted differently when calculating
the coefficient. The weights for each factor may be static or the weights may change according to,
for example, the user, the type of relationship, the type of action, the user's location, and so forth.
Ratings for the factors may be combined according to their weights to determine an overall
coefficient for the user. As an example and not by way of limitation, particular user actions may
be assigned both a rating and a weight while a relationship associated with the particular user
action is assigned a rating and a correlating weight (e.g., so the weights total 100%). To calculate
the coefficient of a user towards a particular object, the rating assigned to the user's actions may
comprise, for example, 60% of the overall coefficient, while the relationship between the user and
the object may comprise 40% of the overall coefficient. In particular embodiments, the social
networking system 160 may consider a variety of variables when determining weights for various
factors used to calculate a coefficient, such as, for example, the time since information was
accessed, decay factors, frequency of access, relationship to information or relationship to the
object about which information was accessed, relationship to social-graph entities connected to the
object, short- or long-term averages of user actions, user feedback, other suitable variables, or any
combination thereof. As an example and not by way of limitation, a coefficient may include a
decay factor that causes the strength of the signal provided by particular actions to decay with time,
such that more recent actions are more relevant when calculating the coefficient. The ratings and
weights may be continuously updated based on continued tracking of the actions upon which the
coefficient is based. Any type of process or algorithm may be employed for assigning, combining,
averaging, and so forth the ratings for each factor and the weights assigned to the factors. In
particular embodiments, social-networking system 160 may determine coefficients using machine
learning algorithms trained on historical actions and past user responses, or data farmed from users
by exposing them to various options and measuring responses. Although this disclosure describes

                                                  67
calculating coefficients in a particular manner, this disclosure contemplates calculating
coefficients in any suitable manner.
        [0157] In particular embodiments, social-networking          system 160 may calculate a
coefficient based on a user's actions. Social-networking system 160 may monitor such actions on
the online social network, on a third-party system 170, on other suitable systems, or any
combination thereof. Any suitable type of user actions may be tracked or monitored. Typical user
actions include viewing profile pages, creating or posting content, interacting with content, tagging
or being tagged in images, joining groups, listing and confirming attendance at events, checking
in at locations, liking particular pages, creating pages, and performing other tasks that facilitate
social action. In particular embodiments, social-networking system 160 may calculate a coefficient
based on the user's actions with particular types of content. The content may be associated with
the online social network, a third-party system 170, or another suitable system. The content may
include users, profile pages, posts, news stories, headlines, instant messages, chat room
conversations, emails, advertisements, pictures, video, music, other suitable objects, or any
combination thereof. Social-networking system 160 may analyze a user's actions to determine
whether one or more of the actions indicate an affinity for subject matter, content, other users, and
so forth. As an example and not by way of limitation, if a user may make frequently posts content
related to "coffee" or variants thereof, social-networking system 160 may determine the user has
a high coefficient with respect to the concept "coffee." Particular actions or types of actions may
be assigned a higher weight and/or rating than other actions, which may affect the overall
calculated coefficient. As an example and not by way of limitation, if a first user emails a second
user, the weight or the rating for the action may be higher than if the first user simply views the
user-profile page for the second user.
        [0158] In particular embodiments, social-networking          system 160 may calculate a
coefficient based on the type of relationship between particular objects. Referencing the social
graph 200, social-networking system 160 may analyze the number and/or type of edges 206
connecting particular user nodes 202 and concept nodes 204 when calculating a coefficient. As an
example and not by way of limitation, user nodes 202 that are connected by a spouse-type edge
(representing that the two users are married) may be assigned a higher coefficient than a user nodes
202 that are connected by a friend-type edge. In other words, depending upon the weights assigned

                                                   68
to the actions and relationships for the particular user, the overall affinity may be determined to be
higher for content about the user's spouse than for content about the user's friend. In particular
embodiments, the relationships a user has with another object may affect the weights and/or the
ratings of the user's actions with respect to calculating the coefficient for that object. As an
example and not by way of limitation, if a user is tagged in first photo, but merely likes a second
photo, social-networking system 160 may determine that the user has a higher coefficient with
respect to the first photo than the second photo because having a tagged-in-type relationship with
content may be assigned a higher weight and/or rating than having a like-type relationship with
content. In particular embodiments, social-networking system 160 may calculate a coefficient for
a first user based on the relationship one or more second users have with a particular object. In
other words, the connections and coefficients other users have with an object may affect the first
user's coefficient for the object. As an example and not by way of limitation, if a first user is
connected to or has a high coefficient for one or more second users, and those second users are
connected to or have a high coefficient for a particular object, social-networking system 160 may
determine that the first user should also have a relatively high coefficient for the particular object.
In particular embodiments, the coefficient may be based on the degree of separation between
particular objects. The lower coefficient may represent the decreasing likelihood that the first user
will share an interest in content objects of the user that is indirectly connected to the first user in
the social graph 200. As an example and not by way of limitation, social-graph entities that are
closer in the social graph 200 (i.e., fewer degrees of separation) may have a higher coefficient than
entities that are further apart in the social graph 200.
         [0159] In particular embodiments, social-networking           system 160 may calculate a
coefficient based on location infonnation. Objects that are geographically closer to each other may
be considered to be more related or of more interest to each other than more distant objects. In
particular embodiments, the coefficient of a user towards a particular object may be based on the
proximity of the object's location to a current location associated with the user (or the location of
a client system 130 of the user). A first user may be more interested in other users or concepts that
are closer to the first user. As an example and not by way of limitation, if a user is one mile from
an airport and two miles from a gas station, social-networking system 160 may determine that the

                                                    69
user has a higher coefficient for the airport than the gas station based on the proximity of the airport
to the user.
        [0160] In particular embodiments, social-networking system 160 may perform particular
actions with respect to a user based on coefficient information. Coefficients may be used to predict
whether a user will perform a particular action based on the user's interest in the action. A
coefficient may be used when generating or presenting any type of objects to a user, such as
advertisements, search results, news stories, media, messages, notifications, or other suitable
objects. The coefficient may also be utilized to rank and order such objects, as appropriate. In this
way, social-networking system 160 may provide information that is relevant to user's interests and
current circumstances, increasing the likelihood that they will find such information of interest. In
particular embodiments, social-networking system 160 may generate content based on coefficient
information. Content objects may be provided or selected based on coefficients specific to a user.
As an example and not by way of limitation, the coefficient may be used to generate media for the
user, where the user may be presented with media for which the user has a high overall coefficient
with respect to the media object. As another example and not by way of limitation, the coefficient
may be used to generate advertisements for the user, where the user may be presented with
advertisements for which the user has a high overall coefficient with respect to the advertised
object. In particular embodiments, social-networking system 160 may generate search results
based on coefficient information. Search results for a particular user may be scored or ranked based
on the coefficient associated with the search results with respect to the first querying user. As an
example and not by way of limitation, search results corresponding to objects with higher
coefficients may be ranked higher on a search-results page than results corresponding to objects
having lower coefficients.
        [0161] In particular embodiments, social-networking            system 160 may calculate a
coefficient in response to a request for a coefficient from a particular system or process. To predict
the likely actions a user may take (or may be the subject of) in a given situation, any process may
request a calculated coefficient for a user. The request may also include a set of weights to use for
various factors used to calculate the coefficient. This request may come from a process running on
the online social network, from a third-party system 170 (e.g., via an API or other communication
channel), or from another suitable system. In response to the request, social-networking system

                                                   70
160 may calculate the coefficient (or access the coefficient information if it has previously been
calculated and stored). In particular embodiments, social-networking system 160 may measure an
affinity with respect to a particular process. Different processes (both internal and external to the
online social network) may request a coefficient for a particular object or set of objects. Social
networking system 160 may provide a measure of affinity that is relevant to the particular process
that requested the measure of affinity. In this way, each process receives a measure of affinity that
is tailored for the different context in which the process will use the measure of affinity.
         [0162] In connection with social-graph affinity and affinity coefficients, particular
embodiments may utilize one or more systems, components, elements, functions, methods,
operations, or steps disclosed in U.S. Patent Application No. 11/503093, filed 11 August 2006,
U.S. Patent Application No. 12/977027, filed 22 December 2010, U.S. Patent Application No.
 12/978265, filed 23 December 2010, and U.S. Patent Application No. 13/632869, filed 01 October
2012, each of which is incorporated by reference.
Advertising
         [0163] In particular embodiments, an advertisement may be text (which may be HTML
linked), one or more images (which may be HTML-linked), one or more videos, audio, one or
more ADOBE FLASH files, a suitable combination of these, or any other suitable advertisement
in any suitable digital format presented on one or more webpages, in one or more e-mails, or in
connection with search results requested by a user. In addition or as an alternative, an
advertisement may be one or more sponsored stories (e.g., a news-feed or ticker item on social
networking system 160). A sponsored story may be a social action by a user (such as "liking" a
page, "liking" or commenting on a post on a page, RSVPing to an event associated with a page,
voting on a question posted on a page, checking in to a place, using an application or playing a
game, or "liking" or sharing a website) that an advertiser promotes, for example, by having the
social action presented within a pre-detennined area of a profile page of a user or other page,
presented with additional information associated with the advertiser, bumped up or otherwise
highlighted within news feeds or tickers of other users, or otherwise promoted. The advertiser may
pay to have the social action promoted. As an example and not by way of limitation, advertisements

                                                  71
may be included among the search results of a search-results page, where sponsored content is
promoted over non-sponsored content.
         [0164] In particular embodiments, an advertisement may be requested for display within
social-networking-system webpages, third-party webpages, or other pages. An advertisement may
be displayed in a dedicated portion of a page, such as in a banner area at the top of the page, in a
column at the side of the page, in a GUI of the page, in a pop-up window, in a drop-down menu,
in an input field of the page, over the top of content of the page, or elsewhere with respect to the
page. In addition or as an alternative, an advertisement may be displayed within an application.
An advertisement may be displayed within dedicated pages, requiring the user to interact with or
watch the advertisement before the user may access a page or utilize an application. The user may,
for example view the advertisement through a web browser.
          [0165] A user may interact with an advertisement in any suitable manner. The user may
click or otherwise select the advertisement. By selecting the advertisement, the user may be
directed to (or a browser or other application being used by the user) a page associated with the
advertisement. At the page associated with the advertisement, the user may take additional actions,
such as purchasing a product or service associated with the advertisement, receiving information
associated with the advertisement, or subscribing to a newsletter associated with the advertisement.
An advertisement with audio or video may be played by selecting a component of the
advertisement (like a "play button"). Alternatively, by selecting the advertisement, social
networking system 160 may execute or modify a particular action of the user.
          [01661 An advertisement may also include social-networking-system functionality that a
user may interact with. As an example and not by way of limitation, an advertisement may enable
a user to "like" or otherwise endorse the advertisement by selecting an icon or link associated with
endorsement. As another example and not by way of limitation, an advertisement may enable a
user to search (e.g., by executing a query) for content related to the advertiser. Similarly, a user
may share the advertisement with another user (e.g., through social-networking system 160) or
RSVP (e.g., through social-networking system 160) to an event associated with the advertisement.
In addition or as an alternative, an advertisement may include social-networking-system context
directed to the user. As an example and not by way of limitation, an advertisement may display

                                                   72
information about a friend of the user within social-networking system 160 who has taken an action
associated with the subject matter of the advertisement.
Privacy
        [0167] In particular embodiments, one or more of the content objects of the online social
network may be associated with a privacy setting. The privacy settings (or "access settings") for
an object may be stored in any suitable manner, such as, for example, in association with the object,
in an index on an authorization server, in another suitable manner, or any combination thereof. A
privacy setting of an object may specify how the object (or particular information associated with
an object) can be accessed (e.g., viewed or shared) using the online social network. Where the
privacy settings for an object allow a particular user to access that object, the object may be
described as being "visible" with respect to that user. As an example and not by way of limitation,
a user of the online social network may specify privacy settings for a user-profile page identify a
set of users that may access the work experience information on the user-profile page, thus
excluding other users from accessing the information. In particular embodiments, the privacy
settings may specify a "blocked list" of users that should not be allowed to access certain
information associated with the object. In other words, the blocked list may specify one or more
users or entities for which an object is not visible. As an example and not by way of limitation, a
user may specify a set of users that may not access photos albums associated with the user, thus
excluding those users from accessing the photo albums (while also possibly allowing certain users
not within the set of users to access the photo albums). In particular embodiments, privacy settings
may be associated with particular social-graph elements. Privacy settings of a social-graph
element, such as a node or an edge, may specify how the social-graph element, information
associated with the social-graph element, or content objects associated with the social-graph
element can be accessed using the online social network. As an example and not by way of
limitation, a particular concept node 204 corresponding to a particular photo may have a privacy
setting specifying that the photo may only be accessed by users tagged in the photo and their
friends. In particular embodiments, privacy settings may allow users to opt in or opt out of having
their actions logged by social-networking system 160 or shared with other systems (e.g., third
party system 170). In particular embodiments, the privacy settings associated with an object may

                                                   73
specify any suitable granularity of permitted access or denial of access. As an example and not by
way of limitation, access or denial of access may be specified for particular users (e.g., only me,
my roommates, and my boss), users within a particular degrees-of-separation (e.g., friends, or
friends-of-friends), user groups (e.g., the gaming club, my family), user networks (e.g., employees
of particular employers, students or alumni of particular university), all users ("public"), no users
("private"), users of third-party systems 170, particular applications (e.g., third-party applications,
external websites), other suitable users or entities, or any combination thereof. Although this
disclosure describes using particular privacy settings in a particular manner, this disclosure
contemplates using any suitable privacy settings in any suitable manner.
         [0168] In particular embodiments, one or more servers 162 may be authorization/privacy
servers for enforcing privacy settings. In response to a request from a user (or other entity) for a
particular object stored in a data store 164, social-networking system 160 may send a request to
the data store 164 for the object. The request may identify the user associated with the request and
may only be sent to the user (or a client system 130 of the user) if the authorization server
determines that the user is authorized to access the object based on the privacy settings associated
with the object. If the requesting user is not authorized to access the object, the authorization server
may prevent the requested object from being retrieved from the data store 164, or may prevent the
requested object from be sent to the user. In the search query context, an object may only be
generated as a search result if the querying user is authorized to access the object. In other words,
the object must have a visibility that is visible to the querying user. If the object has a visibility
that is not visible to the user, the object may be excluded from the search results. Although this
disclosure describes enforcing privacy settings in a particular manner, this disclosure contemplates
enforcing privacy settings in any suitable manner.
Systems and Methods
         [0169] FIG. 15 illustrates an example computer system 1500. In particular embodiments,
one or more computer systems 1500 perform one or more steps of one or more methods described
or illustrated herein. In particular embodiments, one or more computer systems 1500 provide
functionality described or illustrated herein. In particular embodiments, software running on one
or more computer systems 1500 performs one or more steps of one or more methods described or

                                                  74
illustrated herein or provides functionality described or illustrated herein. Particular embodiments
include one or more portions of one or more computer systems 1500. Herein, reference to a
computer system may encompass a computing device, and vice versa, where appropriate.
Moreover, reference to a computer system may encompass one or more computer systems, where
appropriate.
         [0170] This disclosure contemplates any suitable number of computer systems 1500. This
disclosure contemplates computer system 1500 taking any suitable physical form. As example and
not by way of limitation, computer system 1500 may be an embedded computer system, a system
on-chip (SOC), a single-board computer system (SBC) (such as, for example, a computer-on
module (COM) or system-on-module (SOM)), a desktop computer system, a laptop or notebook
computer system, an interactive kiosk, a mainframe, a mesh of computer systems, a mobile
telephone, a personal digital assistant (PDA), a server, a tablet computer system, or a combination
of two or more of these. Where appropriate, computer system 1500 may include one or more
computer systems 1500; be unitary or distributed; span multiple locations; span multiple machines;
span multiple data centers; or reside in a cloud, which may include one or more cloud components
in one or more networks. Where appropriate, one or more computer systems 1500 may perform
without substantial spatial or temporal limitation one or more steps of one or more methods
described or illustrated herein. As an example and not by way of limitation, one or more computer
systems 1500 may perform in real time or in batch mode one or more steps of one or more methods
described or illustrated herein. One or more computer systems 1500 may perform at different times
or at different locations one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein,
where appropriate.
         [0171] In particular embodiments, computer system 1500 includes a processor 1502,
memory 1504, storage 1506, an input/output (I/O) interface 1508, a communication interface 1510,
and a bus 1512. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular computer system
having a particular number of particular components in a particular arrangement, this disclosure
contemplates any suitable computer system having any suitable number of any suitable
components in any suitable arrangement.
         [0172] In particular embodiments, processor 1502 includes hardware for executing
instructions, such as those making up a computer program. As an example and not by way of

                                                   75
limitation, to execute instructions, processor 1502 may retrieve (or fetch) the instructions from an
internal register, an internal cache, memory 1504, or storage 1506; decode and execute them; and
then write one or more results to an internal register, an internal cache, memory 1504, or storage
1506. In particular embodiments, processor 1502 may include one or more internal caches for data,
instructions, or addresses. This disclosure contemplates processor 1502 including any suitable
number of any suitable internal caches, where appropriate. As an example and not by way of
limitation, processor 1502 may include one or more instruction caches, one or more data caches,
and one or more translation lookaside buffers (TLBs). Instructions in the instruction caches may
be copies of instructions in memory 1504 or storage 1506, and the instruction caches may speed
up retrieval of those instructions by processor 1502. Data in the data caches may be copies of data
in memory 1504 or storage 1506 for instructions executing at processor 1502 to operate on; the
results of previous instructions executed at processor 1502 for access by subsequent instructions
executing at processor 1502 or for writing to memory 1504 or storage 1506; or other suitable data.
The data caches may speed up read or write operations by processor 1502. The TLBs may speed
up virtual-address translation for processor 1502. In particular embodiments, processor 1502 may
include one or more internal registers for data, instructions, or addresses. This disclosure
contemplates processor 1502 including any suitable number of any suitable internal registers,
where appropriate. Where appropriate, processor 1502 may include one or more arithmetic logic
units (ALUs); be a multi-core processor; or include one or more processors 1502. Although this
disclosure describes and illustrates a particular processor, this disclosure contemplates any suitable
processor.
         [0173] In particular embodiments, memory 1504 includes main memory for storing
instructions for processor 1502 to execute or data for processor 1502 to operate on. As an example
and not by way of limitation, computer system 1500 may load instructions from storage 1506 or
another source (such as, for example, another computer system 1500) to memory 1504. Processor
1502 may then load the instructions from memory 1504 to an internal register or internal cache.
To execute the instructions, processor 1502 may retrieve the instructions from the internal register
or internal cache and decode them. During or after execution of the instructions, processor 1502
may write one or more results (which may be intermediate or final results) to the internal register
or internal cache. Processor 1502 may then write one or more of those results to memory 1504. In

                                                   76
particular embodiments, processor 1502 executes only instructions in one or more internal registers
or internal caches or in memory 1504 (as opposed to storage 1506 or elsewhere) and operates only
on data in one or more internal registers or internal caches or in memory 1504 (as opposed to
storage 1506 or elsewhere). One or more memory buses (which may each include an address bus
and a data bus) may couple processor 1502 to memory 1504. Bus 1512 may include one or more
memory buses, as described below. In particular embodiments, one or more memory management
units (MMUs) reside between processor 1502 and memory 1504 and facilitate accesses to memory
1504 requested by processor 1502. In particular embodiments, memory 1504 includes random
access memory (RAM). This RAM\i may be volatile memory, where appropriate Where
appropriate, this RAM may be dynamic RAM (DRAM) or static RAM (SRAM). Moreover, where
appropriate, this RAM may be single-ported or multi-ported RAM. This disclosure contemplates
any suitable RAM. Memory 1504 may include one or more memories 1504, where appropriate.
Although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular memory, this disclosure contemplates
any suitable memory.
         [0174] In particular embodiments, storage 1506 includes mass storage for data or
instructions. As an example and not by way of limitation, storage 1506 may include a hard disk
drive (HDD), a floppy disk drive, flash memory, an optical disc, a magneto-optical disc, magnetic
tape, or a Universal Serial Bus (USB) drive or a combination of two or more of these. Storage
1506 may include removable or non-removable (or fixed) media, where appropriate. Storage 1506
may be internal or external to computer system 1500, where appropriate. In particular
embodiments, storage 1506 is non-volatile, solid-state memory. In particular embodiments,
storage 1506 includes read-only memory (ROM). Where appropriate, this ROM may be mask
programmed ROM, programmable ROM (PROM), erasable PROM (EPROM), electrically
erasable PROM (EEPROM), electrically alterable ROM (EAROM), or flash memory or a
combination of two or more of these. This disclosure contemplates mass storage 1506 taking any
suitable physical form. Storage 1506 may include one or more storage control units facilitating
communication between processor 1502 and storage 1506, where appropriate. Where appropriate,
storage 1506 may include one or more storages 1506. Although this disclosure describes and
illustrates particular storage, this disclosure contemplates any suitable storage.

                                                 77
         [0175] In particular embodiments, I/O interface 1508 includes hardware, software, or both,
providing one or more interfaces for communication between computer system 1500 and one or
more I/O devices. Computer system 1500 may include one or more of these I/O devices, where
appropriate. One or more of these 1/0 devices may enable communication between a person and
computer system 1500. As an example and not by way of limitation, an I/O device may include a
keyboard, keypad, microphone, monitor, mouse, printer, scanner, speaker, still camera, stylus,
tablet, touch screen, trackball, video camera, another suitable I/O device or a combination of two
or more of these. An I/O device may include one or more sensors. This disclosure contemplates
any suitable I/O devices and any suitable I/O interfaces 1508 for them. Where appropriate, I/O
interface 1508 may include one or more device or software drivers enabling processor 1502 to
drive one or more of these I/O devices. I/O interface 1508 may include one or more I/O interfaces
1508, where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular I/O
interface, this disclosure contemplates any suitable I/O interface.
         [0176] In particular embodiments, communication interface 1510 includes hardware,
software, or both providing one or more interfaces for communication (such as, for example,
packet-based communication) between computer system 1500 and one or more other computer
systems 1500 or one or more networks. As an example and not by way of limitation,
communication interface 1510 may include a network interface controller (NIC) or network
adapter for communicating with an Ethernet or other wire-based network or a wireless NIC
(WNIC) or wireless adapter for communicating with a wireless network, such as a WI-FI network.
This disclosure contemplates any suitable network and any suitable communication interface 1510
for it. As an example and not by way of limitation, computer system 1500 may communicate with
an ad hoc network, a personal area network (PAN), a local area network (LAN), a wide area
network (WAN), a metropolitan area network (MAN), or one or more portions of the Internet or a
combination of two or more of these. One or more portions of one or more of these networks may
be wired or wireless. As an example, computer system 1500 may communicate with a wireless
PAN (WPAN) (such as, for example, a BLUETOOTH WPAN), a WI-FI network, a WI-MAX
network, a cellular telephone network (such as, for example, a Global System for Mobile
Communications (GSM) network), or other suitable wireless network or a combination of two or
more of these. Computer system 1500 may include any suitable communication interface 1510 for

                                                  78
any of these networks, where appropriate. Communication interface 1510 may include one or more
communication interfaces 1510, where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and
illustrates a particular communication interface, this disclosure contemplates any suitable
communication interface.
         [0177] In particular embodiments, bus 1512 includes hardware, software, or both coupling
components of computer system 1500 to each other. As an example and not by way of limitation,
bus 1512 may include an Accelerated Graphics Port (AGP) or other graphics bus, an Enhanced
Industry Standard Architecture (EISA) bus, a front-side bus (FSB), a HYPERTRANSPORT (HT)
interconnect, an Industry Standard Architecture (ISA) bus, an INFINIBAND interconnect, a low
pin-count (LPC) bus, a memory bus, a Micro Channel Architecture (MCA) bus, a Peripheral
Component Interconnect (PCI) bus, a PCI-Express (PCIe) bus, a serial advanced technology
attachment (SATA) bus, a Video Electronics Standards Association local (VLB) bus, or another
suitable bus or a combination of two or more of these. Bus 1512 may include one or more buses
1512, where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular bus, this
disclosure contemplates any suitable bus or interconnect.
         [0178] Herein, a computer-readable non-transitory storage medium or media may include
one or more semiconductor-based or other integrated circuits (ICs) (such, as for example, field
programmable gate arrays (FPGAs) or application-specific ICs (ASICs)), hard disk drives (HDDs),
hybrid hard drives (HHDs), optical discs, optical disc drives (ODDs), magneto-optical discs,
magneto-optical drives, floppy diskettes, floppy disk drives (FDDs), magnetic tapes, solid-state
drives (SSDs), RAM-drives, SECURE DIGITAL cards or drives, any other suitable computer
readable non-transitory storage media, or any suitable combination of two or more of these, where
appropriate. A computer-readable non-transitory storage medium may be volatile, non-volatile, or
a combination of volatile and non-volatile, where appropriate.
Further Embodiments
         [0179] One embodiment provides a method comprising, by one or more computing devices
of an online social network:
         accessing a social graph comprising a plurality of nodes and a plurality of edges connecting
the nodes, each of the edges between two of the nodes representing a single degree of separation
between them, the nodes comprising:

                                                    79
                 a first node corresponding to a first user of the online social network, and
                 a plurality of second nodes respectively corresponding to a plurality of second users
        associated with the online social network, each second node being connected to the first
        node in the social graph by a threshold degree of separation;
        receiving, from a beacon associated with a third-party content provider, session
information of the first user, wherein:
                 the beacon is associated with a particular location within a place associated with
        the third-party content provider, and
                 the session information of the first user indicates that a first client system of the
        first user is within wireless range of and proximate to the beacon, a wireless communication
        session being active between the beacon and the first client system;
        selecting one or more of the second users, wherein the selecting is based on a second
location of a second client system associated with the second user, the second location being within
a threshold distance of the particular location of the beacon, and wherein a wireless communication
session is not active between the beacon and each of second client systems associated with the
selected second users; and
        sending, to the first client system of the first user, a notification referencing one or more of
the selected second users.
        [0180] In one arrangement, the threshold degree of separation is one, two, three, or all.
        [0181] In one arrangement, the method further comprises:
        receiving, from the first client system, a request to invite at least one of the selected second
users referenced in the notification to the place associated with the third-party content provider;
and
        sending, in response to the request, a message to the second client system of the at least
one selected second user.
        [0182] In one arrangement, the method further comprises:
        sending, to the first client system, updated location information for the at least one selected
second user when a wireless communication system is established between the second client
system of the at least one second user and the beacon.
        [01831 In one arrangement, the message comprises:

                                                  80
         an invitation to join the first user at the place associated with the third-party content
provider; and
         a prompt to respond to the invitation;
        preferably wherein the message further comprises location information of the place
associated with the third-party content provider.
         [0184] In one arrangement, the message further comprises an identifier of at least one third
user of an online social network, the at least one third user being associated with a respective third
client system, wherein a wireless communication session is active between the beacon and the
third client system.
         [0185] In one arrangement, the method further comprises receiving, from the beacon,
session information for at least one second user;
    preferably wherein the selecting of one or more second users is further based on the received
    session information of the at least one second user.
         [0186] In one arrangement, the session information of the at least one second user
comprises a history of one or more prior wireless communication sessions established between the
beacon and the second client system of the at least one second user.
         [0187] In one arrangement, the selecting of one or more second users is further based on
user preferences of at least one second user.
         [0188] In one arrangement, the user preferences of the at least one second user indicate a
preference for a type of good or service, and wherein the third-party content provider comprises
the preferred type of good or service.
         [0189] In one arrangement, the selecting of one or more second users is further based on
an affinity coefficient of at least one second node with respect to a third node in the social graph,
the third node corresponding to the third-party content provider.
         [0190] In one arrangement, the affinity coefficient is based on one or more edges
connecting the at least one second node to the third node.
         [0191] Another embodiment provides one or more computer-readable non-transitory
storage media embodying software that is operable when executed to perform the method
described above.

                                                    81
         [0192] A further embodiment provides a system comprising: one or more processors; and
at least one memory coupled to the processors and comprising instructions executable by the
processors, the processors operable when executing the instructions to perform the method
described above.
         [0193] A further embodiment provides a computer program product, preferably
comprising a computer-readable non-transitory storage media, that is operable when executed on
a data processing system to perform the method described above.
         [0194] In one arrangement, the threshold degree of separation is one, two, three, or all.
         [0195] In one arrangement, the method further comprises:
        receiving, from the first client system, a request to invite at least one of the selected second
users referenced in the notification to the place associated with the third-party content provider;
and
         sending, in response to the request, a message to the second client system of the at least
one selected second user.
         [0196] In one arrangement, the method further comprises:
         sending, to the first client system, updated location information for the at least one selected
second user when a wireless communication system is established between the second client
system of the at least one second user and the beacon.
         [0197] In one arrangement, the message comprises:
         an invitation to join the first user at the place associated with the third-party content
provider; and
         a prompt to respond to the invitation.
         [0198] In one arrangement, the message further comprises location information of the
place associated with the third-party content provider.
         [0199] In one arrangement, the message further comprises an identifier of at least one third
user of an online social network, the at least one third user being associated with a respective third
client system, wherein a wireless communication session is active between the beacon and the
third client system.
         [0200] In one arrangement, the method further comprises receiving, from the beacon,
session information for at least one second user.

                                                   82
         [0201] In one arrangement, the selecting of one or more second users is further based on
the received session information of the at least one second user.
         [0202] In one arrangement, the session information of the at least one second user
comprises a history of one or more prior wireless communication sessions established between the
beacon and the second client system of the at least one second user.
         [02031 In one arrangement, the selecting of one or more second users is further based on
user preferences of at least one second user.
         [0204] In one arrangement, the user preferences of the at least one second user indicate a
preference for a type of good or service, and wherein the third-party content provider comprises
the preferred type of good or service.
         [0205] In one arrangement, the selecting of one or more second users is further based on
an affinity coefficient of at least one second node with respect to a third node in the social graph,
the third node corresponding to the third-party content provider.
         [0206] In one arrangement, the affinity coefficient is based on one or more edges
connecting the at least one second node to the third node.
         [0207] A further embodiment provides one or more computer-readable non-transitory
storage media embodying software that is operable when executed to:
         access a social graph comprising a plurality of nodes and a plurality of edges connecting
the nodes, each of the edges between two of the nodes representing a single degree of separation
between them, the nodes comprising:
                 a first node corresponding to a first user of the online social network, and
                 a plurality of second nodes respectively corresponding to a plurality of second users
         associated with the online social network, each second node being connected to the first
        node in the social graph by a threshold degree of separation;
        receive, from a beacon associated with a third-party content provider, session information
of the first user, wherein:
                 the beacon is associated with a particular location within a place associated with
        the third-party content provider, and

                                                    83
                 the session information of the first user indicates that a first client system of the
        first user is within wireless range of and proximate to the beacon, a wireless communication
        session being active between the beacon and the first client system;
        select one or more of the second users, wherein the selecting is based on a second location
of a second client system associated with the second user, the second location being within a
threshold distance of the particular location of the beacon, and wherein a wireless communication
session is not active between the beacon and each of second client systems associated with the
selected second users; and
        send, to the first client system of the first user, a notification referencing one or more of
the selected second users.
        [0208] In one arrangement, the media further comprises:
        receiving, from the first client system, a request to invite at least one of the selected second
users referenced in the notification to the place associated with the third-party content provider;
and
        sending, in response to the request, a message to the second client system of the at least
one selected second user.
        [0209] In one arrangement, the media further comprises:
        sending, to the first client system, updated location information for the at least one selected
second user when a wireless communication system is established between the second client
system of the at least one second user and the beacon.
        [0210] A further embodiment provides a system comprising: one or more processors; and
a memory coupled to the processors comprising instructions executable by the processors, the
processors being operable when executing the instructions to:
        access a social graph comprising a plurality of nodes and a plurality of edges connecting
the nodes, each of the edges between two of the nodes representing a single degree of separation
between them, the nodes comprising:
                 a first node corresponding to a first user of the online social network, and
                 a plurality of second nodes respectively corresponding to a plurality of second users
        associated with the online social network, each second node being connected to the first
        node in the social graph by a threshold degree of separation;

                                                     84
        receive, from a beacon associated with a third-party content provider, session information
of the first user, wherein:
                  the beacon is associated with a particular location within a place associated with
        the third-party content provider, and
                  the session information of the first user indicates that a first client system of the
         first user is within wireless range of and proximate to the beacon, a wireless communication
         session being active between the beacon and the first client system;
         select one or more of the second users, wherein the selecting is based on a second location
of a second client system associated with the second user, the second location being within a
threshold distance of the particular location of the beacon, and wherein a wireless communication
session is not active between the beacon and each of second client systems associated with the
selected second users; and
         send, to the first client system of the first user, a notification referencing one or more of
the selected second users.
         [0211] In one arrangement, the system further comprises:
        receiving, from the first client system, a request to invite at least one of the selected second
users referenced in the notification to the place associated with the third-party content provider;
and
         sending, in response to the request, a message to the second client system of the at least
one selected second user.
         [0212] In one arrangement, the system further comprises:
         sending, to the first client system, updated location information for the at least one selected
second user when a wireless communication system is established between the second client
system of the at least one second user and the beacon.
Miscellaneous
         [0213] Herein, "or" is inclusive and not exclusive, unless expressly indicated otherwise or
indicated otherwise by context. Therefore, herein, "A or B" means "A, B, or both," unless
expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context. Moreover, "and" is both joint and
several, unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context. Therefore, herein,

                                                 85
"A and B" means "A and B, jointly or severally," unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated
otherwise by context.
         [0214] The scope of this disclosure encompasses all changes, substitutions, variations,
alterations, and modifications to the example embodiments described or illustrated herein that a
person having ordinary skill in the art would comprehend. The scope of this disclosure is not
limited to the example embodiments described or illustrated herein. Moreover, although this
disclosure describes and illustrates respective embodiments herein as including particular
components, elements, feature, functions, operations, or steps, any of these embodiments may
include any combination or permutation of any of the components, elements, features, functions,
operations, or steps described or illustrated anywhere herein that a person having ordinary skill in
the art would comprehend. Furthermore, reference in the appended claims to an apparatus or
system or a component of an apparatus or system being adapted to, arranged to, capable of,
configured to, enabled to, operable to, or operative to perform a particular function encompasses
that apparatus, system, component, whether or not it or that particular function is activated, turned
on, or unlocked, as long as that apparatus, system, or component is so adapted, arranged, capable,
configured, enabled, operable, or operative.

                                                   86
The claims defining the invention are as follows:
 1.     A method comprising, by one or more computing devices:
        receiving, from a beacon associated with a third-party content provider, current session
information associated with a first user, wherein:
                 the beacon is further associated with a particular geographic location corresponding
        to a geographic location associated with the third-party content provider; and
                 the current session information indicates that a first client system of the first user is
        within wireless range of and proximate to the beacon, a wireless communication session
        being active between the beacon and the first client system, the wireless communication
        session allowing the third-party content provider to request stored information about the
        first user from the one or more computing devices;
        selecting one or more second users, wherein selecting each second user is based on a
determination that a second client system associated with the respective second user has a
geographic location within a threshold distance of the particular geographic location of the beacon;
and
        sending, to the first client system, a notification referencing the selected one or more
second users.
2.      The method of Claim 1, wherein the notification comprises a suggestion for the first user
to send a message to one or more of the selected second users.
3.      The method of either one of Claim 1 and Claim 2, further comprising:
        receiving, from the first client system of the first user, a message comprising a request to
invite at least one of the selected one or more second users referenced in the notification to the
geographic location associated with the third-party content provider; and
        sending, in response to the request, the message to a second client system of the at least
one of the selected one or more second users.

                                                    87
4.      The method of Claim 3, further comprising sending, to the first client system, updated
geographic location information for the at least one of the selected one or more second users when
a wireless communication session is established between the second client system and the beacon.
5.      The method of Claim 3, wherein the message further comprises a prompt for the at least
one of the selected one or more second users to respond to the invitation from the first user.
6.      The method of Claim 3, wherein the message further comprises geographic location
information associated with the third-party content provider.
7.      The method of Claim 3, wherein the message further comprises an identifier of at least one
third user, the at least one third user being associated with a respective third client system, wherein
a wireless communication session is active between the beacon and the third client system.
8.      The method of any one of Claims I to 7, wherein the selecting of the one or more second
users is further based on:
         accessing a social graph comprising a plurality of nodes and a plurality of edges connecting
the nodes, each of the edges between two of the nodes representing a single degree of separation
between them, the nodes comprising:
                 a first node corresponding to the first user, and
                 a plurality of second nodes respectively corresponding to a plurality of second
                 users; and
         determining that each of the one or more second users corresponds to second node that is
connected to the first node in the social graph within a threshold degree of separation.
9.      The method of Claim 8, wherein the threshold degree of separation is one, two, three, or
all.

                                                  88
10.     The method of Claim 8, wherein the selecting of one or more second users is further based
on an affinity coefficient of at least one second node with respect to a third node in the social
graph, the third node corresponding to the third-party content provider.
11.     The method of Claim 10, wherein the affinity coefficient is based on one or more edges
connecting the at least one second node to the third node.
12.     The method of any one of Claims I to 11, wherein the determination that the second client
system associated with the respective second user has the geographic location within the threshold
distance of the particular geographic location of the beacon is based on detecting a current wireless
communication session established between the beacon and the second client system.
13.     The method of any one of Claims I to 12, wherein the selecting of the one or more second
users is further based on determining, for each of the one or more second users, a history of one or
more prior wireless communications sessions established between the beacon and a second client
system of the second user.
14.     The method of any one of Claims I to 12, wherein the selecting of the one or more second
users is further based on user preferences of the one or more second users.
15.     The method of Claim 14, wherein the user preferences of the one or more second users
indicate a preference for a type of good or service, and wherein the third-party content provider is
associated with the preferred type of good or service.
16.      One or more computer-readable non-transitory storage media embodying software that is
operable when executed to:
        receive, from a beacon associated with a third-party content provider, current session
information associated with a first user, wherein:
                the beacon is further associated a particular geographic location corresponding to a
        geographic location associated with the third-party content provider; and

                                                   89
                 the current session information indicates that a first client system of the first user is
        within wireless range of and proximate to the beacon, a wireless communication session
        being active between the beacon and the first client system, the wireless communication
        session allowing the third-party content provider to request stored information about the
        first user;
        select one or more second users, wherein selecting each second user is based on a
determination that a second client system associated with the respective second user has a
geographic location within a threshold distance of the particular geographic location of the beacon;
and
        send, to the first client system, a notification referencing the selected one or more second
users.
 17.    The media of Claim 16, wherein the notification comprises a suggestion for the first user
to send a message to one or more of the selected second users
 18.    The media of either one of Claim 16 and Claim 17, wherein the software is further operable
when executed to:
        receive, from the first client system of the first user, a message comprising a request to
invite at least one of the selected one or more second users referenced in the notification to the
geographic location associated with the third-party content provider; and
        send, in response to the request, the message to a second client system of the at least one
of the selected one or more second users.
 19.    The media of any one of Claims 16 to 18, wherein the software is further operable when
executed to send, to the first client system, updated geographic location information for the at least
one of the selected one or more second users when a wireless communication session is established
between the second client system and the beacon.

                                                  90
20.    A system comprising: one or more processors; and a memory coupled to the processors
comprising instructions executable by the processors, the processors being operable when
executing the instructions to:
       receive, from a beacon associated with a third-party content provider, current session
information associated with a first user, wherein:
               the beacon is further associated with a particular geographic location corresponding
       to a geographic location associated with the third-party content provider; and
               the current session information indicates that a first client system of the first user is
       within wireless range of and proximate to the beacon, a wireless communication session
       being active between the beacon and the first client system, the wireless communication
       session allowing the third-party content provider to request social-networking information
       about the first user from the system;
       select one or more second users, wherein selecting each second user is based on a
determination that a second client system associated with the respective second user has a
geographic location within a threshold distance of the particular geographic location of the beacon;
and
       send, to the first client system, a notification referencing the selected one or more second
users.
                                        Facebook, Inc.
                                By Patent Attorneys for the Applicant
                                     COTTERS
                                   Patent & Trade Mark Attorneys

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
