ABSTRACT
Methods and compositions for stimulating of the production of hydrocarbons (e.g., formation
crude oil and/or formation gas) from subterranean formations are provided. In some
embodiments, the compositions are emulsions or microemulsions, which may include water, a
solvent, and a surfactant. In some embodiments, methods of selecting a composition for
treating an oil or gas well are provided. See Fig. 1.

WO 2014/201367                                            PCT/US2014/042326
                                 1/1
            phase
         inversion                            Water
     temperature                              n
               PT
                                              oil
                                       goN'.U
                                              w
                C)
                E
                        Surfactant Concentration
             waterterpene                           surfactant: PA
                 50:505:5
                             Figure 1

    METHODS AND COMPOSITIONS FOR STIMULATING THE PRODUCTION
             OF HYDROCARBONS FROM SUBTERRANEAN FORMATIONS
                                       Related Applications
 5          This application claims the benefit of United States Patent Application Serial No.
   13/918,155 entitled METHODS AND COMPOSITIONS FOR STIMULATING THE
   PRODUCTION OF HYDROCARBONS FROM SUBTERRANEAN FORMATIONS,
   filed June 14, 2013, and United States Patent Application Serial No. 13/918,166 entitled
   METHODS AND COMPOSITIONS FOR STIMULATING THE PRODUCTION OF
10 HYDROCARBONS FROM SUBTERRANEAN FORMATIONS, filed June 14, 2013,
   each of which is incorporated herein by reference.
                                         Field of Invention
            The present invention generally provides methods and compositions for
15 stimulating the production of hydrocarbons (e.g., formation crude oil and/or formation
   gas) from subterranean formations.
                                     Background of Invention
            For many years, petroleum has been recovered from subterranean reservoirs
20 through the use of drilled wells and production equipment. During the production of
   desirable hydrocarbons, such as crude oil and natural gas, a number of other naturally
   occurring substances may also be encountered within the subterranean environment.
   The term "stimulation" generally refers to the treatment of geological formations to
   improve the recovery of hydrocarbons (e.g., formation crude oil and/or formation gas).
25 Common stimulation techniques include well fracturing and acidizing operations.
            Oil and natural gas are found in, and produced from, porous and permeable
   subterranean formations. The porosity and permeability of the formation determine its
   ability to store hydrocarbons, and the facility with which the hydrocarbons can be
   extracted from the formation. Hydraulic fracturing is commonly used to stimulate low
30 permeability geological formations to improve the recovery of hydrocarbons. The
   process can involve suspending chemical agents in a well-treatment fluid (e.g., fracturing
   fluid) and injecting the fluid down the wellbore. However, the assortment of chemicals
   pumped down the well can cause damage to the surrounding formation by entering the
                                                _1 _

   WO 2014/201367                                                         PCT/US2014/042326
    reservoir rock and blocking the pore throats. It is known that fluid invasion can have a
    detrimental effect on gas permeability and can impair well productivity. In addition,
    fluids may become trapped in the formation due to capillary end effects in and around
    the vicinity of the formation fractures.
 5          In efforts to reduce phase trapping, additives have been incorporated into well
    treatment fluids. Generally, the composition of additives comprises multi-component
    chemical substances and compositions that contain mutually distributed nanodomains of
    normally immiscible solvents, such as water and hydrocarbon-based organic solvents,
    stabilized by surfactants (e.g., microemulsions). The incorporation of additives into
10  well-treatment fluids can increase crude oil or formation gas, for example by reducing
    capillary pressure and/or minimizing capillary end effects.
            Although a number of additives are known in the art, there is a continued need
    for more effective additives for increasing crude oil or formation gas for wellbore
    remediation, drilling operations, and formation stimulation.
15
                                    Summary of Invention
            Methods and compositions for stimulating the production of hydrocarbons (e.g.,
    formation crude oil and/or formation gas) from subterranean formations are provided.
            In some embodiments, methods of selecting a composition for treating an oil or
20  gas well having a wellbore are provided comprising determining whether displacement
    of residual aqueous treatment fluid by formation crude oil or displacement of residual
    aqueous treatment fluid by formation gas is preferentially stimulated for the oil or gas
    well having a wellbore; and selecting an emulsion or a microemulsion for injection into
    the wellbore to increase formation crude oil or formation gas production by the well,
25  wherein the emulsion or the microemulsion comprises water, at least a first type of
    solvent, and a surfactant, wherein the solvent is selected from the group consisting of
    unsubstituted cyclic or acyclic, branched or unbranched alkanes having 6-12 carbon
    atoms, unsubstituted acyclic branched or unbranched alkenes having one or two double
    bonds and 6-12 carbon atoms, cyclic or acyclic, branched or unbranched alkanes having
30  9-12 carbon atoms and substituted with only an -OH group, branched or unbranched
    dialkylether compounds having the formula CnH2n±1OCmH2m±1, wherein n + m is
    between 6 and 16, and aromatic solvents having a boiling point between about 300-400
     F, when displacement of residual aqueous treatment fluid by formation crude oil is
                                                 -2-

   WO 2014/201367                                                         PCT/US2014/042326
    preferentially stimulated; or wherein the solvent is selected from the group consisting of
    cyclic or acyclic, branched or unbranched alkanes having 8 carbon atoms and substituted
    with only an -OH group and aromatic solvents having a boiling point between about
    175-300 OF, when displacement of residual aqueous treatment fluid by formation gas is
 5  preferentially stimulated.
             In some embodiments, methods of treating an oil or gas well having a wellbore
    are provided comprising injecting an emulsion or a microemulsion into the wellbore of
    the oil or gas well to stimulate displacement of residual aqueous treatment fluid by
    formation crude oil and increase production of formation crude oil by the well, wherein
10  the emulsion or the microemulsion comprises water, at least a first type of solvent, and a
    surfactant; and wherein the solvent is selected from the group consisting of unsubstituted
    cyclic or acyclic, branched or unbranched alkanes having 6-12 carbon atoms,
    unsubstituted acyclic branched or unbranched alkenes having one or two double bonds
    and 6-12 carbon atoms, cyclic or acyclic, branched or unbranched alkanes having 9-12
15  carbon atoms and substituted with only an -OH group, branched or unbranched
    dialkylether compounds having the formula CnH2n+10CmH2m.1, wherein n + m is
    between 6 and 16, and aromatic solvents having a boiling point between about 300-400
    OF.
             In some embodiments, methods of treating an oil or gas well having a wellbore
20  are provided comprising injecting an emulsion or a microemulsion into the wellbore of
    the oil or gas well to stimulate displacement of residual aqueous treatment fluid by
    formation gas and increase production of formation gas by the well, wherein the
    emulsion or the microemulsion comprises water, at least a first type of solvent, and a
    surfactant; and wherein the solvent is selected from the group consisting of cyclic or
25  acyclic, branched or unbranched alkanes having 8 carbon atoms and substituted with
    only an -OH group and aromatic solvents having a boiling point between about 175-300
    OF.
             In some embodiments, compositions for injecting into a wellbore are provided
    comprising an aqueous carrier fluid and an emulsion or a microemulsion, wherein the
30  emulsion or the microemulsion is present in an amount between about 0.1 wt% and about
    2 wt% versus the total composition, and wherein the emulsion or microemulsion
    comprises an aqueous phase, a surfactant, a freezing point depression agent, and a
    solvent comprising an alpha-olefin.
                                                -3-

   WO 2014/201367                                                           PCT/US2014/042326
            Other aspects, embodiments, and features of the invention will become apparent
    from the following detailed description when considered in conjunction with the
    accompanying drawings. All patent applications and patents incorporated herein by
    reference are incorporated by reference in their entirety. In case of conflict, the present
 5  specification, including definitions, will control.
                                   Brief Description of the Drawings
            The accompanying drawings are not intended to be drawn to scale. In the
    drawings, each identical or nearly identical component that is illustrated in various
10  figures is represented by a like numeral. For purposes of clarity, not every component
    may be labeled in every drawing. In the drawings:
            Figure 1 shows an exemplary plot for determining the phase inversion
    temperature of a microemulsion, according to some embodiments.
15                                        Detailed Description
            The present invention generally relates to methods and well-treatment
    compositions (e.g., emulsions or microemulsions) for stimulating of the production of
    liquid hydrocarbons (e.g., formation crude oil and/or formation gas) from subterranean
    formations. In some embodiments, the compositions comprise an emulsion or a
20  microemulsion, as described in more detail herein. The emulsions or the microemulsions
    may include water, a solvent, a surfactant, and optionally a freezing point depression
    agent or other components. In some embodiments, the solvent comprises more than one
    type of solvent (e.g., a first type of solvent and a second type of solvent). In some
    embodiments, the methods relate to stimulating displacement of residual aqueous
25  treatment fluid by formation crude oil or formation gas to increase production of liquid
    hydrocarbons, as described in more detail below. In some embodiments, methods of
    selecting an emulsion or a microemulsion comprising a solvent are provided, wherein the
    emulsion or the microemulsion is selected so as to increase liquid hydrocarbon
    production. In other embodiments, methods of selecting an emulsion or a microemulsion
30  comprising a solvent are provided, wherein the emulsion or the microemulsion is
    selected so as to increase gaseous hydrocarbon production. In some embodiments, the
    solvent is a hydrocarbon solvent comprising between 6 and 12 carbon atoms. The
                                                   -4-

   WO 2014/201367                                                          PCT/US2014/042326
    hydrocarbon may be a linear, branched, or cyclic hydrocarbon, including aromatics, and
    may be optionally substituted with various functional groups, as described herein.
             As described herein, in some embodiments, the inventors have found that
    microemulsions or emulsions comprising certain solvents increase the displacement
 5  (e.g., flowback) of residual aqueous treatment fluid by liquid hydrocarbons (e.g., crude
    oil) as compared to other solvents. In other embodiments, emulsions or microemulsions
    comprising certain solvents increase the displacement of residual aqueous treatment fluid
    by gaseous hydrocarbons as compared to other solvents. Laboratory tests may be
    conducted, as described herein, to determine the displacement of residual aqueous
10  treatment fluid by liquid hydrocarbons and/or gaseous hydrocarbons of an emulsion or a
    microemulsion
             Petroleum is generally recovered from subterranean reservoirs through the use of
    drilled wells and production equipment. Wells are "stimulated" using various treatments
    (e.g., fracturing, acidizing) of geological formations to improve the recovery of liquid
15  hydrocarbons. Oil and natural gas are found in, and produced from, porous and
    permeable subterranean formations. Based on techniques known in the art, as well as the
    preference for the desired product isolated (e.g., formation crude oil or formation gas), it
    may be preferential to stimulate either crude oil production or gas production from each
    well. A well drilled into a subterranean formation may penetrate formations containing
20  liquid or gaseous hydrocarbons or both, as well as connate water or brine. The gas-to-oil
    ratio is termed the GOR. The operator of the well may choose to complete the well in
    such a way as to produce (for example) predominantly liquid hydrocarbons (crude oil).
    Alternatively, the operator may be fracturing a tight gas shale formation containing
    predominantly gaseous hydrocarbons.
25           Incorporation of the emulsions or the microemulsions described herein (e.g.,
    comprising water, a solvent, and a surfactant) into well-treatment fluids (e.g., fracturing
    fluids) can aid in reducing fluid trapping, for example, by reducing capillary pressure
    and/or minimizing capillary end effects. In addition, incorporation of the emulsions or
    the microemulsions described herein into well-treatment fluids can promote increased
30  flowback of aqueous phases following well treatment, and thus, increase production of
    liquid and/or gaseous hydrocarbons. That is, incorporation of an emulsion or a
    microemulsion described herein can aid in the displacement of residual aqueous
    treatment fluid by formation crude oil and/or formation gas. Residual aqueous treatment
                                                  -5-

   WO 2014/201367                                                           PCT/US2014/042326
    fluids may include those fluids employed for fracturing (e.g., pumped into the well), as
    well as residual aqueous fluids originally present in the well.
             In some embodiments, methods of treating an oil or gas well are provided. In
    some embodiments, the methods comprise injecting an emulsion or a microemulsion into
 5  the wellbore of the oil or gas well to stimulate displacement of residual aqueous
    treatment fluid by formation crude oil or formation gas, and increase production of liquid
    or gaseous hydrocarbons by the well.
             In some embodiments, methods are provided for selecting a composition for
    treating an oil or gas well. The inventors have discovered that certain solvents are more
10  effective at stimulating displacement of residual aqueous treatment fluid by formation
    crude oil and others are more effective for stimulating displacement of residual aqueous
    treatment fluid by formation gas for the oil or gas well.
             It should be understood, that in embodiments where a microemulsion is said to be
    injected into a wellbore, that the microemulsion may be diluted and/or combined with
15  other liquid component(s) prior to and/or during injection. For example, in some
    embodiments, the microemulsion is diluted with an aqueous carrier fluid (e.g., water,
    brine, sea water, fresh water, or a well-treatment fluid (e.g., such as a fluid comprising an
    acid, a fracturing fluid comprising polymers, sand, etc., slickwater) prior to and/or during
    injection into the wellbore. In some embodiments, a composition for injecting into a
20  wellbore is provided comprising a microemulsion as described herein and an aqueous
    carrier fluid, wherein the microemulsion is present in an amount between about 0.1 and
    about 50 gallons per thousand gallons of dilution fluid ("gpt"), or between about 0.5 and
    about 10 gpt, or between about 0.5 and about 2 gpt. Generally, dilution of a
    microemulsion does not result in the breakdown of the microemulsion.
25           In some embodiments, emulsions or microemulsion are provided. The terms
    should be understood to include emulsions or microemulsions that have a water
    continuous phase, or that have an oil continuous phase, or microemulsions that are
    bicontinuous.
             As used herein, the term "emulsion" is given its ordinary meaning in the art and
30  refers to dispersions of one immiscible liquid in another, in the form of droplets, with
    diameters approximately in the range of 100 1,000 nanometers. Emulsions may be
    thermodynamically unstable and/or require high shear forces to induce their formation.
                                                 -6-

   WO 2014/201367                                                               PCT/US2014/042326
            As used herein, the term "microemulsion" is given its ordinary meaning in the art
    and refers to dispersions of one immiscible liquid in another, in the form of droplets,
    with diameters approximately in the range between about 1 and about 1000 nm, or
    between 10 and about 1000 nanometers, or between about 10 and about 500 nm, or
 5  between about 10 and about 300 nm, or between about 10 and about 100 nm.
            Microemulsions are clear or transparent because they contain particles smaller
    than the wavelength of visible light. In addition, microemulsions are homogeneous
    thermodynamically stable single phases, and form spontaneously, and thus, differ
    markedly from thermodynamically unstable emulsions, which generally depend upon
10  intense mixing energy for their formation. Microemulsions may be characterized by a
    variety of advantageous properties including, by not limited to, (i) clarity, (ii) very small
    particle size, (iii) ultra-low interfacial tensions, (iv) the ability to combine properties of
    water and oil in a single homogeneous fluid, (v) shelf life stability, and (vi) ease of
    preparation.
15          In some embodiments, the microemulsions described herein are stabilized
    microemulsions that are formed by the combination of a solvent-surfactant blend with an
    appropriate oil-based or water-based carrier fluid. Generally, the microemulsion forms
    upon simple mixing of the components without the need for high shearing generally
    required in the formation of ordinary emulsions. In some embodiments, the
20  microemulsion is a thermodynamically stable system, and the droplets remain finely
    dispersed over time. In some cases, the average droplet size ranges from about 10 nm to
    about 300 nm.
            It should be understood, that while much of the description herein focuses on
    microemulsions, this is by no means limiting, and emulsions may be employed where
25  appropriate.
            In some embodiments, the emulsion or microemulsion is a single emulsion or
    microemulsion. For example, the emulsion or microemulsion comprises a single layer of
    a surfactant. In other embodiments, the emulsion or microemulsion may be a double or
    multilamellar emulsion or microemulsion. For example, the emulsion or microemulsion
30  comprises two or more layers of a surfactant. In some embodiments, the emulsion or
    microemulsion comprises a single layer of surfactant surrounding a core (e.g., one or
    more of water, oil, solvent, and/or other additives) or a multiple layers of surfactant (e.g.,
    two or more concentric layers surrounding the core). In certain embodiments, the
                                                    -7-

   WO 2014/201367                                                           PCT/US2014/042326
    emulsion or microemulsion comprises two or more immiscible cores (e.g., one or more
    of water, oil, solvent, and/or other additives which have equal or about equal affinities
    for the surfactant).
            In some embodiments, a microemulsion comprises water, a solvent, and a
 5  surfactant. In some embodiments, the microemulsion may further comprise additional
    components, for example, a freezing point depression agent. Details of each of the
    components of the microemulsions are described in detail herein. In some embodiments,
    the components of the microemulsions are selected so as to reduce or eliminate the
    hazards of the microemulsion to the environment and/or the subterranean reservoirs.
10          The microemulsion generally comprises a solvent. The solvent, or a combination
    of solvents, may be present in the microemulsion in any suitable amount. In some
    embodiments, the total amount of solvent present in the microemulsion is between about
    2 wt% and about 60 wt%, or between about 5 wt% and about 40 wt%, or between about
    5 wt% and about 30 wt%, versus the total microemulsion composition.
15          The water to solvent ratio in a microemulsion may be varied. In some
    embodiments, the ratio of water to solvent, along with other parameters of the solvent,
    may be varied so that displacement of residual aqueous treatment fluid by formation gas
    and/or formation crude is preferentially stimulated. In some embodiments, the ratio of
    water to solvent is between about 15:1 and 1:10, or between 9:1 and 1:4, or between
20  3.2:1 and 1:4.
            In some embodiments, when displacement of residual aqueous treatment fluid by
    formation crude oil is preferentially stimulated, the solvent is selected from the group
    consisting of unsubstituted cyclic or acyclic, branched or unbranched alkanes having 6
    12 carbon atoms, unsubstituted acyclic branched or unbranched alkenes having one or
25  two double bonds and 6-12 carbon atoms, cyclic or acyclic, branched or unbranched
    alkanes having 9-12 carbon atoms and substituted with only an -OH group, branched or
    unbranched dialkylether compounds having the formula CnH2n±10CmH2m1, wherein n +
    m is between 6 and 16, and aromatic solvents having a boiling point between about 300
    400 OF.
30          In some embodiments, the solvent is an unsubstituted cyclic or acyclic, branched
    or unbranched alkane having 6-12 carbon atoms. In some embodiments, the cyclic or
    acyclic, branched or unbranched alkane has 6-10 carbon atoms. Non-limiting examples
    of unsubstituted acyclic unbranched alkanes having 6-12 carbon atoms include hexane,
                                                 -8-

   WO 2014/201367                                                          PCT/US2014/042326
    heptane, octane, nonane, decane, undecane, and dodecane. Non-limiting examples of
    unsubstituted acyclic branched alkanes having 6-12 carbon atoms include isomers of
    methylpentane (e.g., 2-methylpentane, 3-methylpentane), isomers of dimethylbutane
    (e.g., 2,2-dimethylbutane, 2,3-dimethylbutane), isomers of methylhexane (e.g., 2
 5  methylhexane, 3-methylhexane), isomers of ethylpentane (e.g., 3-ethylpentane), isomers
    of dimethylpentane (e.g., 2,2,-dimethylpentane, 2,3-dimethylpentane, 2,4
    dimethylpentane, 3,3-dimethylpentane), isomers of trimethylbutane (e.g., 2,2,3
    trimethylbutane), isomers of methylheptane (e.g., 2-methylheptane, 3-methylheptane, 4
    methylheptane), isomers of dimethylhexane (e.g., 2,2-dimethylhexane, 2,3
10  dimethylhexane, 2,4-dimethylhexane, 2,5-dimethylhexane, 3,3-dimethylhexane, 3,4
    dimethylhexane), isomers of ethylhexane (e.g., 3-ethylhexane), isomers of
    trimethylpentane (e.g., 2,2,3-trimethylpentane, 2,2,4-trimethylpentane, 2,3,3
    trimethylpentane, 2,3,4-trimethylpentane), and isomers of ethylmethylpentane (e.g., 3
    ethyl-2-methylpentane, 3-ethyl-3-methylpentane). Non-limiting examples of
15  unsubstituted cyclic branched or unbranched alkanes having 6-12 carbon atoms, include
    cyclohexane, methylcyclopentane, ethylcyclobutane, propylcyclopropane,
    isopropylcyclopropane, dimethylcyclobutane, cycloheptane, methylcyclohexane,
    dimethylcyclopentane, ethylcyclopentane, trimethylcyclobutane, cyclooctane,
    methylcycloheptane, dimethylcyclohexane, ethylcyclohexane, cyclononane,
20  methylcyclooctane, dimethylcycloheptane, ethylcycloheptane, trimethylcyclohexane,
    ethylmethylcyclohexane, propylcyclohexane, and cyclodecane. In a particular
    embodiment, the unsubstituted cyclic or acyclic, branched or unbranched alkane having
    6-12 carbon is selected from the group consisting of heptane, octane, nonane, decane,
    2,2,4-trimethylpentane (isooctane), and propylcyclohexane.
25           In some embodiments, the solvent is an unsubstituted acyclic branched or
    unbranched alkene having one or two double bonds and 6-12 carbon atoms. In some
    embodiments, the solvent is an unsubstituted acyclic branched or unbranched alkene
    having one or two double bonds and 6-10 carbon atoms. Non-limiting examples of
    unsubstituted acyclic unbranched alkenes having one or two double bonds and 6-12
30  carbon atoms include isomers of hexene (e.g., 1-hexene, 2-hexene), isomers of hexadiene
    (e.g., 1,3-hexadiene, 1,4-hexadiene), isomers of heptene (e.g., 1-heptene, 2-heptene, 3
    heptene), isomers of heptadiene (e.g., 1,5-heptadiene, 1-6, heptadiene), isomers of octene
    (e.g., 1-octene, 2-octene, 3-octene), isomers of octadiene (e.g., 1,7-octadiene), isomers of
                                                -9-

   WO 2014/201367                                                                    PCT/US2014/042326
    nonene, isomers of nonadiene, isomers of decene, isomers of decadiene, isomers of
    undecene, isomers of undecadiene, isomers of dodecene, and isomers of dodecadiene. In
    some embodiments, the acyclic unbranched alkene having one or two double bonds and
    6-12 carbon atoms is an alpha-olefin (e.g., 1-hexene, 1-heptene, 1-octene, 1-nonene, 1
 5  decene, 1-undecene, 1-dodecene). Non-limiting examples unsubstituted acyclic
    branched alkenes include isomers of methylpentene, isomers of dimethylpentene,
    isomers of ethylpentene, isomers of methylethylpentene, isomers of propylpentene,
    isomers of methylhexene, isomers of ethylhexene, isomers of dimethylhexene, isomers
    of methylethylhexene, isomers of methylheptene, isomers of ethylheptene, isomers of
10  dimethylhexptene, and isomers of methylethylheptene. In a particular embodiment, the
    unsubstituted acyclic unbranched alkene having one or two double bonds and 6-12
    carbon atoms is selected from the group consisting of 1-octene and 1,7-octadiene.
             In some embodiments, the solvent is a cyclic or acyclic, branched or unbranched
    alkane having 9-12 carbon atoms and substituted with only an -OH group. Non-limiting
15  examples of cyclic or acyclic, branched or unbranched alkanes having 9-12 carbon atoms
    and substituted with only an -OH group include isomers of nonanol, isomers of decanol,
    isomers of undecanol, and isomers of dodecanol. In a particular embodiment, the cyclic
    or acyclic, branched or unbranched alkane having 9-12 carbon atoms and substituted
    with only an -OH group is selected from the group consisting of 1-nonanol and 1
20  decanol.
             In some embodiments, the solvent is a branched or unbranched dialkylether
    compound having the formula CnH2n+10CmH2m.1 wherein n + m is between 6 and 16. In
    some cases, n + m is between 6 and 12, or between 6 and 10, or between 6 and 8. Non
    limiting examples of branched or unbranched dialkylether compounds having the
25  formula CnH2n+10CmH2m.1 include isomers of C 3H 7OC 3H 7 , isomers of C 4H9 0C               3H7 ,
    isomers of C 5H1 1 0C    3 H7 , isomers of C 6 H 130C    3H7 , isomers of C4 H9OC 4H 9, isomers of
    C 4H9OC 5H 1 , isomers of C 4H9 0C      6 H 13 , isomers of C 5H 11 OC6 H 13 , and isomers of
    C 6 H 130C 6 H 13 . In a particular embodiment, the branched or unbranched dialklyether is
    an isomer C 6H 13 0C 6 H 13 (e.g., dihexylether).
30           In some embodiments, an emulsion or microemulsion comprises an aromatic
    solvent. In some embodiments, the aromatic solvent, includes, but is not limited to, aryl
    compounds including at least one aromatic carbocyclic groups. In some embodiments,
                                                        - 10  -

   WO 2014/201367                                                           PCT/US2014/042326
    the aromatic solvent comprises an optionally substituted phenyl ring. In some
    embodiments, the aromatic solvent comprises a C6-to aromatic hydrocarbon.
             In some embodiments, the solvent is an aromatic solvent having a boiling point
    between about 300-400 'F. Non-limiting examples of aromatic solvents having a boiling
 5  point between about 300-400 F include butylbenzene, hexylbenzene, mesitylene, light
    aromatic naphtha, and heavy aromatic naphtha.
             In other embodiments, when displacement of residual aqueous treatment fluid by
    formation gas is preferentially stimulated, the solvent is selected from the group
    consisting of cyclic or acyclic, branched or unbranched alkanes having 8 carbon atoms
10  and substituted only with an -OH group and aromatic solvents having a boiling point
    between about 175-300 'F.
             In some embodiments, the solvent is a cyclic or acyclic, branched or unbranched
    alkane having 8 carbon atoms and substituted with only an -OH group. Non-limiting
    examples of cyclic or acyclic, branched or unbranched alkanes having 8 carbon atoms
15  and substituted with only an -OH group include isomers of octanol (e.g., 1-octanol, 2
    octanol, 3-octanol, 4-octanol), isomers of methyl heptanol, isomers of ethylhexanol (e.g.,
    2-ethyl-1-hexanol, 3-ethyl-i -hexanol, 4-ethyl-1-hexanol), isomers of dimethylhexanol,
    isomers of propylpentanol, isomers of methylethylpentanol, and isomers of
    trimethylpentanol. In a particular embodiment, the cyclic or acyclic, branched or
20  unbranched alkane having 8 carbon atoms and substituted with only an -OH group is
    selected from the group consisting of 1-octanol and 2-ethyl-1-hexanol.
             In some embodiments, the solvent is an aromatic solvent having a boiling point
    between about 175-300 'F. Non-limiting examples of aromatic liquid solvents having a
    boiling point between about 175-300 F include benzene, xylenes, and toluene. In a
25  particular embodiment, the solvent is not xylene.
             In some embodiments, the microemulsion comprises a first type of solvent and a
    second type of solvent. The first type of solvent to the second type of solvent ratio in a
    microemulsion may be present in any suitable ratio. In some embodiments, the ratio of
    the first type of solvent to the second type of solvent is between about 4:1 and 1:4, or
30  between 2:1 and 1:2, or about 1:1.
             In some cases, when displacement of residual aqueous treatment fluid by
    formation crude oil is preferentially stimulated, the first type of solvent and the second
    type of solvent are different and are selected from the group consisting of unsubstituted
                                                 - 11 -

   WO 2014/201367                                                            PCT/US2014/042326
    cyclic or acyclic, branched or unbranched alkanes having 6-12 carbon atoms,
    unsubstituted acyclic branched or unbranched alkenes having one or two double bonds
    and 6-12 carbon atoms, cyclic or acyclic, branched or unbranched alkanes having 9-12
    carbon atoms and substituted with only an -OH group, branched or unbranched
 5  dialkylether compounds having the formula CnH2n±1OCmH2m1, wherein n + m is
    between 6 and 16, and aromatic solvents having a boiling point between about 300-400
    0 F. In other embodiments, when displacement of residual aqueous treatment fluid by
    formation gas is preferentially stimulated, the first type of solvent and the second type of
    solvent are different and are selected from the group consisting of cyclic or acyclic,
10  branched or unbranched alkanes having 8 carbon atoms and substituted with only an
    OH group and aromatic solvents having a boiling point between about 175-300 0 F.
             In some embodiments, at least one solvent present in the microemulsion is a
    terpene or terpenoid. In some cases, when displacement of residual aqueous treatment
    fluid by formation crude oil is preferentially stimulated, the first type of solvent is
15  selected from the group consisting of unsubstituted cyclic or acyclic, branched or
    unbranched alkanes having 6-12 carbon atoms, unsubstituted acyclic branched or
    unbranched alkenes having one or two double bonds and 6-12 carbon atoms, cyclic or
    acyclic, branched or unbranched alkanes having 9-12 carbon atoms and substituted with
    only an -OH group, branched or unbranched dialkylether compounds having the formula
20  CnH2n±1OCmH2m±1, wherein n + m is between 6 and 16, and aromatic solvents having a
    boiling point between about 300-400 0 F and the second type of solvent is a terpene or
    terpenoid. In some cases, the terpene or terpenoid may be selected so as to preferentially
    stimulate displacement of residual aqueous treatment fluid by formation crude oil. In
    such embodiments, the terpene or terpenoid for preferentially stimulating displacement
25  of residual aqueous treatment fluid by formation crude oil may have a phase inversion
    temperature greater than 109.4 OF, as determined by the method described herein.
             In other embodiments, when displacement of residual aqueous treatment fluid by
    formation gas is preferentially stimulated, the first type of solvent is selected from the
    group consisting of cyclic or acyclic, branched or unbranched alkanes having 8 carbon
30  atoms and substituted with only an -OH group and aromatic solvents having a boiling
    point between about 175-300 0 F and the second type of solvent is a terpene or terpenoid.
    In some cases, the terpene or terpenoid may be selected so as to preferentially stimulate
    displacement of residual aqueous treatment fluid by formation gas. In such
                                                - 12 -

   WO 2014/201367                                                           PCT/US2014/042326
    embodiments, the terpene or terpenoid for preferentially stimulating displacement of
    residual aqueous treatment fluid by formation gas may have a phase inversion
    temperature less than 109.4 'F, as determined by the method described herein.
             Those of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that microemulsions comprising
 5  more than two types of solvents may be utilized in the methods, compositions, and
    systems described herein. For example, the microemulsion may comprise more than one
    or two types of solvent, for example, three, four, five, six, or more, types of solvents. As
    a non-limiting example, when displacement of residual aqueous treatment fluid by
    formation crude oil is preferentially stimulated, the microemulsion may comprise one or
10  more solvents selected from the group consisting of unsubstituted cyclic or acyclic,
    branched or unbranched alkanes having 6-12 carbon atoms, unsubstituted acyclic
    branched or unbranched alkenes having one or two double bonds and 6-12 carbon atoms,
    cyclic or acyclic, branched or unbranched alkanes having 9-12 carbon atoms and
    substituted with only an -OH group, branched or unbranched dialkylether compounds
15  having the formula CnH2n+1OCmH2m.1, wherein n + m is between 6 and 16, and aromatic
    solvents having a boiling point between about 300-400 'F and one or more terpenes or
    terpenoids. As another non-limiting example, when displacement of residual aqueous
    treatment fluid by formation gas is preferentially stimulated, the microemulsion may
    comprise one or more solvents selected from the group consisting of cyclic or acyclic,
20  branched or unbranched alkanes having 8 carbon atoms and substituted with only an
    OH group and aromatic solvents having a boiling point between about 175-300 'F and
    one or more terpenes or terpenoids.
             In some embodiments, at least one of the solvents present in the microemulsion is
    a terpene or a terpenoid. In some embodiments, the terpene or terpenoid comprises a
25  first type of terpene or terpenoid and a second type of terpene or terpenoid. Terpenes
    may be generally classified as monoterpenes (e.g., having two isoprene units),
    sesquiterpenes (e.g., having 3 isoprene units), diterpenes, or the like. The term terpenoid
    also includes natural degradation products, such as ionones, and natural and synthetic
    derivatives, e.g., terpene alcohols, aldehydes, ketones, acids, esters, epoxides, and
30  hydrogenation products (e.g., see Ullmann's Encyclopedia of Industrial Chemistry, 2012,
    pages 29-45, herein incorporated by reference). It should be understood, that while
    much of the description herein focuses on terpenes, this is by no means limiting, and
    terpenoids may be employed where appropriate. In some cases, the terpene is a naturally
                                                 - 13  -

   WO 2014/201367                                                           PCT/US2014/042326
    occurring terpene. In some cases, the terpene is a non-naturally occurring terpene and/or
    a chemically modified terpene (e.g., saturated terpene, terpene amine, fluorinated
    terpene, or silylated terpene).
             In some embodiments, the terpene is a monoterpene. Monoterpenes may be
 5  further classified as acyclic, monocyclic, and bicyclic (e.g., with a total number of
    carbons between 18 and 20), as well as whether the monoterpene comprises one or more
    oxygen atoms (e.g., alcohol groups, ester groups, carbonyl groups, etc.). In some
    embodiments, the terpene is an oxygenated terpene, for example, a terpene comprising
    an alcohol, an aldehyde, and/or a ketone group. In some embodiments, the terpene
10  comprises an alcohol group. Non-limiting examples of terpenes comprising an alcohol
    group are linalool, geraniol, nopol, a-terpineol, and menthol. In some embodiments, the
    terpene comprises an ether-oxygen, for example, eucalyptol, or a carbonyl oxygen, for
    example, menthone. In some embodiments, the terpene does not comprise an oxygen
    atom, for example, d-limonene.
15           Non-limiting examples of terpenes include linalool, geraniol, nopol, a-terpineol,
    menthol, eucalyptol, menthone, d-limonene, terpinolene, -occimene, y-terpinene,
    a-pinene, and citronellene. In a particular embodiment, the terpene is selected from the
    group consisting of a-terpeneol, a-pinene, nopol, and eucalyptol. In one embodiment,
    the terpene is nopol. In another embodiment, the terpene is eucalyptol. In some
20  embodiments, the terpene is not limonene (e.g., d-limonene). In some embodiments, the
    emulsion is free of limonene.
             In some embodiments, the terpene is a non-naturally occurring terpene and/or a
    chemically modified terpene (e.g., saturated terpene). In some cases, the terpene is a
    partially or fully saturated terpene (e.g., p-menthane, pinane). In some cases, the terpene
25  is a non-naturally occurring terpene. Non-limiting examples of non-naturally occurring
    terpenes include, menthene, p-cymene, r-carvone, terpinenes (e.g., alpha-terpinenes,
    beta-terpinenes, gamma-terpinenes), dipentenes, terpinolenes, bomeol, alpha
    terpinamine, and pine oils.
             In some embodiments, the terpene may be classified in terms of its phase
30  inversion temperature ("PIT"). The term "phase inversion temperature" is given its
    ordinary meaning in the art and refers to the temperature at which an oil in water
    microemulsion inverts to a water in oil microemulsion (or vice versa). Those of ordinary
    skill in the art will be aware of methods for determining the PIT for a microemulsion
                                                  - 14 -

   WO 2014/201367                                                          PCT/US2014/042326
    comprising a terpene (e.g., see Strey, Colloid & Polymer Science, 1994. 272(8): p. 1005
    1019; Kahlweit et al., Angewandte Chemie International Edition in English, 1985.
    24(8): p. 654-668). The PIT values described herein were determined using a 1:1 ratio of
    terpene (e.g., one or more terpenes):de-ionized water and varying amounts (e.g., between
 5  about 20 wt% and about 60 wt%; generally, between 3 and 9 different amounts are
    employed) of a 1:1 blend of surfactant comprising linear C12 -C15 alcohol ethoxylates
    with on average 7 moles of ethylene oxide (e.g., Neodol 25-7):isopropyl alcohol wherein
    the upper and lower temperature boundaries of the microemulsion region can be
    determined and a phase diagram may be generated. Those of ordinary skill in the art will
10  recognize that such a phase diagram (e.g., a plot of temperature against surfactant
    concentration at a constant oil-to-water ratio) may be referred to as "fish" diagram or a
    Kahlweit plot. The temperature at the vertex is the PIT. An exemplary fish diagram
    indicating the PIT is shown in Figure 1. PITs for non-limiting examples of terpenes
    determined using this experimental procedure outlined above are given in Table 1.
15
    Table 1: Phase inversion temperatures for non-limiting examples of terpenes.
               Terpene                Phase Inversion Temperature "C ("F)
               linalool               -4 (24.8)
               geraniol               -0.5 (31.1)
               nopol                  2.5 (36.5)
               a-terpineol            4.6 (40.3)
               menthol                 16 (60.8)
               eucalyptol             31 (87.8)
               menthone               32 (89.6)
               d-limonene             43 (109.4)
               terpinolene            48 (118.4)
               P-occimene             49 (120.2)
               y-terpinene            49 (120.2)
               a-pinene               57 (134.6)
               citronellene           58 (136.4)
            In some embodiments, the terpene has a PIT greater than and/or less than 43 C,
    as determined by the method described herein. In some embodiments, the terpene has a
                                                 - 15 -

   WO 2014/201367                                                            PCT/US2014/042326
    PIT greater than 43 C, as determined by the method described herein. In some
    embodiments, the terpene has a PIT less than 43 C, as determined by the method
    described herein. In some embodiments, the terpene has a PIT greater than 32 C, as
    determined by the method described herein. In some embodiments, the terpene has a PIT
 5  less than 32 C, as determined by the method described herein. In some embodiments,
    the PIT is between about -10 C and about 70 C, or between about -4 C and about
    60 C, as determined by the method described herein. In some embodiments, the
    minimum PIT is -10 C, or -4 C, as determined by the method described herein. In some
    embodiments, the maximum PIT is 70 C, or 60 C, as determined by the method
10  described herein.
             In some embodiments, if displacement of residual aqueous treatment fluid by
    formation crude oil is preferentially stimulated and the emulsion or the microemulsion
    comprises water, a first type of solvent (e.g., as described above), and a terpene, then the
    terpene may be selected to have a phase inversion temperature greater than 109.4 'F, as
15  determined by the method described herein. Alternatively, if displacement of residual
    aqueous treatment fluid by formation gas is preferentially stimulated and the emulsion or
    the microemulsion comprises water, a first type of solvent (e.g., as described herein), and
    a terpene, then the terpene may be selected to have a phase inversion temperature less
    than 109.4 'F, as determined by the method described herein.
20           In certain embodiments, the solvent utilized in the emulsion or microemulsion
    herein may comprise one or more impurities. For example, in some embodiments, a
    solvent (e.g., a terpene) is extracted from a natural source (e.g., citrus), and may
    comprise one or more impurities present from the extraction process. In some
    embodiment, the solvent comprises a crude cut (e.g., uncut crude oil, for example, made
25  by settling, separation, heating, etc.). In some embodiments, the solvent is a crude oil
    (e.g., naturally occurring crude oil, uncut crude oil, crude oil extracted from the wellbore,
    synthetic crude oil, etc.). In some embodiments, the solvent is a citrus extract (e.g., crude
    orange oil, orange oil, etc.).
             The terpene may be present in the microemulsion in any suitable amount. In
30  some embodiments, terpene is present in an amount between about In some
    embodiments, terpene is present in an amount between about 2 wt% and about 60 wt%,
    or between about 5 wt% and about 40 wt%, or between about 5 wt% and about 30 wt%,
    versus the total microemulsion composition. In some embodiments, the terpene is present
                                                  - 16 -

   WO 2014/201367                                                        PCT/US2014/042326
    in an amount between about 1 wt% and about 99 wt%, or between about 2 wt% and
    about 90 wt %, or between about 1 wt% and about 60 wt%, or between about 2 wt% and
    about 60 wt%, or between about 1 wt% and about 50 wt%, or between about 1 wt% and
    about 30 wt%, or between about 5 wt% and about 40 wt%, or between about 5 wt% and
 5  about 30 wt%, or between about 2 wt% and about 25 wt%, or between about 5 wt% and
    about 25 wt%, or between about 60 wt% and about 95 wt%, or between about 70 wt% or
    about 95 wt%, or between about 75 wt% and about 90 wt%, or between about 80 wt%
    and about 95 wt%, versus the total microemulsion composition.
            In embodiments where the microemulsion comprises a terpene, the water to
10  terpene ratio in a microemulsion may be varied. In some embodiments, the ratio of water
    to terpene by weight is between about 3:1 and about 1:2, or between about 2:1 and about
    1:1.5. In other embodiments, the ratio of water to terpene is between about 10:1 and
    about 3:1, or between about 6:1 and about 5:1.
            Generally, the microemulsion comprises an aqueous phase comprising water. The
15  water may be provided from any suitable source (e.g., sea water, fresh water, deionized
    water, reverse osmosis water, water from field production). The water may be present in
    any suitable amount. In some embodiments, the total amount of water present in the
    microemulsion is between about 1 wt% about 95 wt%, or between about 1 wt% about 90
    wt%, or between about 1 wt% and about 60 wt%, or between about 5 wt% and about 60
20  wt% or between about 10 and about 55 wt%, or between about 15 and about 45 wt%,
    versus the total microemulsion composition.
            In some embodiments, at the emulsion or microemulsion may comprise mutual
    solvent which is miscible together with the water and the non-aqueous solvent. In some
    embodiments, the mutual solvent is present in an amount between about at 0.5 wt% to
25  about 30% of mutual solvent. Non-limiting examples of suitable mutual solvents include
    ethyleneglycolmonobutyl ether (EGMBE), dipropylene glycol monomethyl ether, short
    chain alcohols (e.g., isopropanol), tetrahydrofuran, dioxane, dimethylformamide, and
    dimethylsulfoxide.
            In some embodiments, the microemulsion comprises a surfactant. The
30  microemulsion may comprise a single surfactant or a combination of two or more
    surfactants. For example, in some embodiments, the surfactant comprises a first type of
    surfactant and a second type of surfactant. The term "surfactant," as used herein, is
    given its ordinary meaning in the art and refers to compounds having an amphiphilic
                                                - 17 -

   WO 2014/201367                                                             PCT/US2014/042326
    structure which gives them a specific affinity for oil/water-type and water/oil-type
    interfaces which helps the compounds to reduce the free energy of these interfaces and to
    stabilize the dispersed phase of a microemulsion. The term surfactant encompasses
    cationic surfactants, anionic surfactants, amphoteric surfactants, nonionic surfactants,
 5  zwitterionic surfactants, and mixtures thereof. In some embodiments, the surfactant is a
    nonionic surfactant. Nonionic surfactants generally do not contain any charges.
    Amphoteric surfactants generally have both positive and negative charges, however, the
    net charge of the surfactant can be positive, negative, or neutral, depending on the pH of
    the solution. Anionic surfactants generally possess a net negative charge. Cationic
10  surfactants generally possess a net positive charge. Zwitterionic surfactants are generally
    no pH dependent. not pH dependent. A zwitterion is a neutral molecule with a positive
    and a negative electrical charge, though multiple positive and negative charges can be
    present. Zwitterions are distinct from dipole, at different locations within that molecule.
                    In some embodiments, the surfactant is an amphiphilic block copolymer
15  where one block is hydrophobic and one block is hydrophilic. In some cases, the total
    molecular weight of the polymer is greater than 5000 daltons. The hydrophilic block of
    these polymers can be nonionic, anionic, cationic, amphoteric, or zwitterionic.
                    The term surface energy, as used herein, is given its ordinary meaning in
    the art and refers to the extent of disruption of intermolecular bonds that occur when the
20  surface is created (e.g., the energy excess associated with the surface as compared to the
    bulk). Generally, surface energy is also referred to as surface tension (e.g., for liquid-gas
    interfaces) or interfacial tension (e.g., for liquid-liquid interfaces). As will be understood
    by those skilled in the art, surfactants generally orient themselves across the interface to
    minimize the extent of disruption of intermolecular bonds (i.e. lower the surface energy).
25           Typically, a surfactant at an interface between polar and non-polar phases orient
    themselves at the interface such that the difference in polarity is minimized.
             Those of ordinary skill in the art will be aware of methods and techniques for
    selecting surfactants for use in the microemulsions described herein. In some cases, the
    surfactant(s) are matched to and/or optimized for the particular oil or solvent in use. In
30  some embodiments, the surfactant(s) are selected by mapping the phase behavior of the
    microemulsion and choosing the surfactant(s) that gives the desired range of stability. In
    some cases, the stability of the microemulsion over a wide range of temperatures is
                                                   - 18 -

   WO 2014/201367                                                          PCT/US2014/042326
    targeted as the microemulsion may be subject to a wide range of temperatures due to the
    environmental conditions present at the subterranean formation and/or reservoir.
            Suitable surfactants for use with the compositions and methods described herein
    will be known in the art. In some embodiments, the surfactant is an alkyl polyglycol
 5  ether, for example, having 2-250 ethylene oxide (EO) (e.g., or 2-200, or 2-150, or 2-100,
    or 2-50, or 2-40) units and alkyl groups of 4-20 carbon atoms. In some embodiments, the
    surfactant is an alkylaryl polyglycol ether having 2-250 EO units (e.g., or 2-200, or 2
    150, or 2-100, or 2-50, or 2-40) and 8-20 carbon atoms in the alkyl and aryl groups. In
    some embodiments, the surfactant is an ethylene oxide/propylene oxide (EO/PO) block
10  copolymer having 2-250 EO or PO units (e.g., or 2-200, or 2-150, or 2-100, or 2-50, or
    2-40). In some embodiments, the surfactant is a fatty acid polyglycol ester having 6-24
    carbon atoms and 2-250 EO units (e.g., or 2-200, or 2-150, or 2-100, or 2-50, or 2-40). In
    some embodiments, the surfactant is a polyglycol ether of hydroxyl-containing
    triglycerides (e.g., castor oil). In some embodiments, the surfactant is an
15  alkylpolyglycoside of the general formula R"--O--Zn, where R" denotes a linear or
    branched, saturated or unsaturated alkyl group having on average 8-24 carbon atoms and
    Zn denotes an oligoglycoside group having on average n=1-10 hexose or pentose units or
    mixtures thereof. In some embodiments, the surfactant is a fatty ester of glycerol,
    sorbitol, or pentaerythritol. In some embodiments, the surfactant is an amine oxide (e.g.,
20  dodecyldimethylamine oxide). In some embodiments, the surfactant is an alkyl sulfate,
    for example having a chain length of 8-18 carbon atoms, alkyl ether sulfates having 8-18
    carbon atoms in the hydrophobic group and 1-40 ethylene oxide (EO) or propylene oxide
    (PO) units. In some embodiments, the surfactant is a sulfonate, for example, an alkyl
    sulfonate having 8-18 carbon atoms, an alkylaryl sulfonate having 8-18 carbon atoms, an
25  ester or half ester of sulfosuccinic acid with monohydric alcohols or alkylphenols having
    4-15 carbon atoms, or a multisulfonate (e.g., comprising two, three, four, or more,
    sulfonate groups). In some cases, the alcohol or alkylphenol can also be ethoxylated with
    1 250 EO units (e.g., or 2-200, or 2-150, or 2-100, or 2-50, or 2-40). In some
    embodiments, the surfactant is an alkali metal salt or ammonium salt of a carboxylic acid
30  or poly(alkylene glycol) ether carboxylic acid having 8-20 carbon atoms in the alkyl,
    aryl, alkaryl or aralkyl group and 1-250 EO or PO units (e.g., or 2-200, or 2-150, or 2
    100, or 2-50, or 2-40). In some embodiments, the surfactant is a partial phosphoric ester
    or the corresponding alkali metal salt or ammonium salt, e.g., an alkyl and alkaryl
                                                 - 19 -

   WO 2014/201367                                                            PCT/US2014/042326
    phosphate having 8-20 carbon atoms in the organic group, an alkylether phosphate or
    alkarylether phosphate having 8-20 carbon atoms in the alkyl or alkaryl group and 1-250
    EO units (e.g., or 2-200, or 2-150, or 2-100, or 2-50, or 2-40). In some embodiments, the
    surfactant is a salt of primary, secondary, or tertiary fatty amine having 8-24 carbon
 5  atoms with acetic acid, sulfuric acid, hydrochloric acid, and phosphoric acid. In some
    embodiments, the surfactant is a quaternary alkyl- and alkylbenzylammonium salt,
    whose alkyl groups have 1-24 carbon atoms (e.g., a halide, sulfate, phosphate, acetate, or
    hydroxide salt). In some embodiments, the surfactant is an alkylpyridinium, an
    alkylimidazolinium, or an alkyloxazolinium salt whose alkyl chain has up to 18 carbons
10  atoms (e.g., a halide, sulfate, phosphate, acetate, or hydroxide salt). In some
    embodiments, the surfactant is amphoteric or zwitterionic, including sultaines (e.g.,
    cocamidopropyl hydroxysultaine), betaines (e.g., cocamidopropyl betaine), or
    phosphates (e.g., lecithin). Non limiting examples of specific surfactants include a linear
    C12-C15 ethoxylated alcohols with 5-12 moles of EO, lauryl alcohol ethoxylate with 4-8
15  moles of EO, nonyl phenol ethoxylate with 5-9 moles of EO, octyl phenol ethoxylate
    with 5-9 moles of EO, tridecyl alcohol ethoxylate with 5-9 moles of EO, Pluronic@
    matrix of EO/PO copolymers, ethoxylated cocoamide with 4-8 moles of EO, ethoxylated
    coco fatty acid with 7-11 moles of EO, and cocoamidopropyl amine oxide.
             In some embodiments, the surfactant is a siloxane surfactant as described in U.S.
20  Patent Application Serial No. 13/831,410, filed March 14, 2014, herein incorporated by
    reference.
             In some embodiments, the surfactant is a Gemini surfactant. Gemini surfactants
    generally have the structure of multiple amphiphilic molecules linked together by one or
    more covalent spacers. In some embodiments, the surfactant is an extended surfactant,
25  wherein the extended surfactats has the structure where a non-ionic hydrophilic spacer
    (e.g. ethylene oxide or propylene oxide) connects an ionic hydrophilic group (e.g.
    carboxylate, sulfate, phosphate).
             In some embodiments the surfactant is an alkoxylated polyimine with a relative
    solubility number (RSN) in the range of 5-20. As will be known to those of ordinary skill
30  in the art, RSN values are generally determined by titrating water into a solution of
    surfactant in 1,4dioxane. The RSN values is generally defined as the amount of distilled
    water necessary to be added to produce persistent turbidity. In some embodiments the
    surfactant is an alkoxylated novolac resin (also known as a phenolic resin) with a relative
                                                - 20 -

   WO 2014/201367                                                         PCT/US2014/042326
    solubility number in the range of 5-20. In some embodiments the surfactant is a block
    copolymer surfactant with a total molecular weight greater than 5000 daltons. The block
    copolymer may have a hydrophobic block that is comprised of a polymer chain that is
    linear, branched, hyperbranched, dendritic or cyclic. Non-limiting examples of
 5  monomeric repeat units in the hydrophobic chains of block copolymer surfactants are
    isomers of acrylic, methacrylic, styrenic, isoprene, butadiene, acrylamide, ethylene,
    propylene and norbornene. The block copolymer may have a hydrophilic block that is
    comprised of a polymer chain that is linear, branched, hyper branched, dendritic or
    cyclic. Non-limiting examples of monomeric repeat units in the hydrophilic chains of the
10  block copolymer surfactants are isomers of acrylic acid, maleic acid, methacrylic acid,
    ethylene oxide, and acrylamine.
             In some embodiments, the surfactant has a structure as in Formula I:
                                                             R7
                                       R        EOOR10
    wherein each of R , R', R', R", and R" are the same or different and are selected from
15  the group consisting of hydrogen, optionally substituted alkyl, and -CH=CHAr, wherein
    Ar is an aryl group, provided at least one of R , R , R', R , and R" is -CH=CHAr, R"
    is hydrogen or alkyl, n is 1-100, and each m is independently 1 or 2. In some
    embodiments, for a compound of Formula (I), R12 is hydrogen or C 1_6 alkyl. In some
    embodiments, for a compound of Formula (I), R12 is H, methyl, or ethyl. In some
20  embodiments, for a compound of Formula (I), R12 is H.
             In some embodiments, the surfactant has a structure as in Formula II:
                                                - 21 -

   WO 2014/201367                                                                PCT/US2014/042326
                                                            R8
                                                R7                        R9
                                                O                         R10
                                                            R"
    wherein each of R7 , R', R9 , R", and R" are the same or different and are selected from
    the group consisting of hydrogen, optionally substituted alkyl, and -CH=CHAr, wherein
    Ar is an aryl group, provided at least one of R7 , R8 , R9 , R 0 , and R" is -CH=CHAr, Y- is
 5  an anionic group, X'is a cationic group, n is 1-100, and each m is independently 1 or 2.
    In some embodiments, for a compound of Formula (II), X' is a metal cation or N(R l)4,
    wherein each R      is independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen,
    optionally substituted alkyl, or optionally substituted aryl. In some embodiments, X' is
    NH 4 . Non-limiting examples of metal cations are Nat, K*, Mg+2 , and Ca+2 . In some
10  embodiments, for a compound of Formula (II), Y- is -0-, -S0         2 0-, or -OS0 2 0-.
               In some embodiments, the surfactant has a structure as in Formula III:
                                                          R8
                                              R7                       R9
                                Z       M                              R10
    wherein each of R7 , R8 , R9 , R 0 , and R" are the same or different and are selected from
    the group consisting of hydrogen, optionally substituted alkyl, and -CH=CHAr, wherein
15  Ar is an aryl group, provided at least one of R7 , R8 , R9 , R 0 , and R" is -CH=CHAr, Z'is
    a cationic group, n is 1-100, and each m is independently 1 or 2. In some embodiments,
    for a compound of Formula (III), Z' is N(R1 )3 , wherein each R 1 is independent selected
    from the group consisting of hydrogen, optionally substituted alkyl, or optionally
    substituted aryl.
20            In some embodiments, for a compound of Formula (I), (II), or (III), two of R7 , R8 ,
    R9 , R 0 , and R" are -CH=CHAr. In some embodiments, for a compound of Formula (I),
                                                  - 22 -

   WO 2014/201367                                                            PCT/US2014/042326
    (II), or (III), one of R , R', R', R , and R" is -CH=CHAr and each of the other groups is
    hydrogen. In some embodiments, for a compound of Formula (I), (II), or (III), two of R ,
    R , R', R", and R" are -CH=CHAr and each of the other groups is hydrogen. In some
    embodiments, for a compound of Formula (I), (II), or (III), R7 and R8 are -CH=CHAr
 5  and R9 , R", and R" are each hydrogen. In some embodiments, for a compound of
    Formula (I), (II), or (III), three of R , R , R', R , and R" are -CH=CHAr and each of
    the other groups is hydrogen. In some embodiments, for a compound of Formula (I), (II),
    or (III), R , R8, and R 9 are -CH=CHAr and R         and R" are each hydrogen. In
    embodiments, for a compound of Formula (I), (II), or (III), Ar is phenyl. In some
10  embodiments, for a compound of Formula (I), (II), or (III), each m is 1. In some
    embodiments, for a compound of Formula (I), (II), or (III), each m is 2. In some
    embodiments, for a compound of Formula (I), (II), or (III), n is 6-100, or 1-50, or 6-50,
    or 6-25, or 1-25, or 5-50, or 5-25, or 5-20.
             Those of ordinary skill in the art will be aware of methods and techniques for
15  selecting surfactant for use in the microemulsions described herein. In some cases, the
    surfactant(s) are matched to and/or optimized for the particular oil or solvent in use. In
    some embodiments, the surfactant(s) are selected by mapping the phase behavior of the
    microemulsion and choosing the surfactant(s) that gives the desired range of stability. In
    some cases, the stability of the microemulsion over a wide range of temperatures is
20  targeting as the microemulsion may be subject to a wide range of temperatures due to the
    environmental conditions present at the subterranean formation.
             In some embodiments, the emulsion or microemulsion may comprise one or more
    additives in addition to water, solvent (e.g., one or more types of solvents), and
    surfactant (e.g., one or more types of surfactants). In some embodiments, the additive is
25  an alcohol, a freezing point depression agent, an acid, a salt, a proppant, a scale inhibitor,
    a friction reducer, a biocide, a corrosion inhibitor, a buffer, a viscosifier, a clay swelling
    inhibitor, an oxygen scavenger, and/or a clay stabilizer.
             The surfactant may be present in the microemulsion in any suitable amount. In
    some embodiments, the surfactant is present in an amount between about 10 wt% and
30  about 70 wt%, or between about 15 wt% and about 55 wt% versus the total
    microemulsion composition, or between about 20 wt% and about 50 wt%, versus the
    total microemulsion composition. In some embodiments, the surfactant is present in an
    amount between about 0 wt% and about 99 wt%, or between about 10 wt% and about 70
                                                  - 23 -

   WO 2014/201367                                                         PCT/US2014/042326
    wt%, or between about 0 wt% and about 60 wt%, or between about 1 wt% and about 60
    wt%, or between about 5 wt% and about 60 wt%, or between about 10 wt% and about 60
    wt%, or between 5 wt% and about 65 wt%, or between 5 wt% and about 55 wt%, or
    between about 0 wt% and about 40 wt%, or between about 15 wt% and about 55 wt%, or
 5  between about 20 wt% and about 50 wt%, versus the total microemulsion composition.
             In some embodiments, the microemulsion comprises an alcohol. The alcohol may
    serve as a coupling agent between the solvent and the surfactant and aid in the
    stabilization of the microemulsion. The alcohol may also lower the freezing point of the
    microemulsion The microemulsion may comprise a single alcohol or a combination of
10  two or more alcohols. In some embodiments, the alcohol is selected from primary,
    secondary and tertiary alcohols having between 1 and 20 carbon atoms. In some
    embodiments, the alcohol comprises a first type of alcohol and a second type of alcohol.
    Non-limiting examples of alcohols include methanol, ethanol, isopropanol, n-propanol,
    n-butanol, i-butanol, sec-butanol, iso-butanol, and t-butanol. In some embodiments, the
15  alcohol is ethanol or isopropanol. In some embodiments, the alcohol is isopropanol.
             The alcohol may be present in the emulsion in any suitable amount. In some
    embodiments, the alcohol is present in an amount between about 0 wt% and about 50
    wt%, or between about 0.1 wt% and about 50 wt%, or between about 1 wt% and about
    50 wt%, or between about 5 wt% and about 40 wt%, or between about 5 wt% and 35
20  wt%, versus the total microemulsion composition.
             In some embodiments, the microemulsion comprises a freezing point depression
    agent. The microemulsion may comprise a single freezing point depression agent or a
    combination of two or more freezing point depression agents. For example, in some
    embodiments, the freezing point depression agent comprises a first type of freezing point
25  depression agent and a second type of freezing point depression agent. The term
    "freezing point depression agent" is given its ordinary meaning in the art and refers to a
    compound which is added to a solution to reduce the freezing point of the solution. That
    is, a solution comprising the freezing point depression agent has a lower freezing point as
    compared to an essentially identical solution not comprising the freezing point
30  depression agent. Those of ordinary skill in the art will be aware of suitable freezing
    point depression agents for use in the microemulsions described herein. Non-limiting
    examples of freezing point depression agents include primary, secondary, and tertiary
    alcohols with between 1 and 20 carbon atoms. In some embodiments, the alcohol
                                               - 24 -

   WO 2014/201367                                                            PCT/US2014/042326
    comprises at least 2 carbon atoms, alkylene glycols including polyalkylene glycols, and
    salts. Non-limiting examples of alcohols include methanol, ethanol, i-propanol,
    n-propanol, t-butanol, n-butanol, n-pentanol, n-hexanol, and 2-ethyl-hexanol. In some
    embodiments, the freezing point depression agent is not methanol (e.g., due to toxicity).
 5  Non-limiting examples of alkylene glycols include ethylene glycol (EG), polyethylene
    glycol (PEG), propylene glycol (PG), and triethylene glycol (TEG). In some
    embodiments, the freezing point depression agent is not ethylene oxide (e.g., due to
    toxicity). Non-limiting examples of salts include salts comprising K, Na, Br, Cr, Cr, Cs,
    or Bi, for example, halides of these metals, including NaCl, KCl, CaCl 2 , and MgCl. In
10  some embodiments, the freezing point depression agent comprises an alcohol and an
    alkylene glycol. In some embodiments, the freezing point depression agent comprises a
    carboxycyclic acid salt and/or a di-carboxycylic acid salt. Another non-limiting example
    of a freezing point depression agent is a combination of choline chloride and urea. In
    some embodiments, the microemulsion comprising the freezing point depression agent is
15  stable over a wide range of temperatures, for example, between about 25 F to 150 F,
    or between about 50 F to 200 F.
            The freezing point depression agent may be present in the microemulsion in any
    suitable amount. In some embodiments, the freezing point depression agent is present in
    an amount between about 1 wt% and about 40 wt%, or between about 3 wt% and about
20  20 wt%, or between about 8 wt% and about 16 wt%, versus the total microemulsion
    composition.
            In some embodiments, the freezing point depression agent is present in an
    amount between about 0 wt% and about 70 wt%, or between about 1 wt% and about
    40 wt%, or between about 0 wt% and about 25 wt%, or between about 1 wt% and about
25  25 wt%, or between about 1 wt% and about 20 wt%, or between about 3 wt% and about
    20 wt%, or between about 8 wt% and about 16 wt%, versus the total microemulsion
    composition.
            Further non-limiting examples of other additives include proppants, scale
    inhibitors, friction reducers, biocides, corrosion inhibitors, buffers, viscosifiers, clay
30  swelling inhibitors, paraffin dispersing additives, asphaltene dispersing additives, and
    oxygen scavengers.
            Non-limiting examples of proppants (e.g., propping agents) include grains of
    sand, glass beads, crystalline silica (e.g., Quartz), hexamethylenetetramine, ceramic
                                                  - 25 -

   WO 2014/201367                                                          PCT/US2014/042326
    proppants (e.g., calcined clays), resin coated sands, and resin coated ceramic proppants.
    Other proppants are also possible and will be known to those skilled in the art.
            Non-limiting examples of scale inhibitors include one or more of methyl alcohol,
    organic phosphonic acid salts (e.g., phosphonate salt), polyacrylate, ethane-1,2-diol,
 5  calcium chloride, and sodium hydroxide. Other scale inhibitors are also possible and will
    be known to those skilled in the art.
            Non-limiting examples of buffers include acetic acid, acetic anhydride, potassium
    hydroxide, sodium hydroxide, and sodium acetate. Other buffers are also possible and
    will be known to those skilled in the art.
10          Non-limiting examples of corrosion inhibitors include isopropanol, quaternary
    ammonium compounds, thiourea/formaldehyde copolymers, propargyl alcohol and
    methanol. Other corrosion inhibitors are also possible and will be known to those skilled
    in the art.
            Non-limiting examples of biocides include didecyl dimethyl ammonium chloride,
15  gluteral, Dazomet, bronopol, tributyl tetradecyl phosphonium chloride, tetrakis
    (hydroxymethyl) phosphonium sulfate, AQUCAR TM, UCARCIDE TM, glutaraldehyde,
    sodium hypochlorite, and sodium hydroxide. Other biocides are also possible and will be
    known to those skilled in the art.
            Non-limiting examples of clay swelling inhibitors include quaternary ammonium
20  chloride and tetramethylammonium chloride. Other clay swelling inhibitors are also
    possible and will be known to those skilled in the art.
            Non-limiting examples of friction reducers include petroleum distillates,
    ammonium salts, polyethoxylated alcohol surfactants, and anionic polyacrylamide
    copolymers. Other friction reducers are also possible and will be known to those skilled
25  in the art.
            Non-limiting examples of oxygen scavengers include sulfites, and bisulfites.
    Other oxygen scavengers are also possible and will be known to those skilled in the art.
            Non-limiting examples of paraffin dispersing additives and asphaltene dispersing
    additives include active acidic copolymers, active alkylated polyester, active alkylated
30  polyester amides, active alkylated polyester imides, aromatic naphthas, and active amine
    sulfonates. Other paraffin dispersing additives are also possible and will be known to
    those skilled in the art.
                                                - 26 -

   WO 2014/201367                                                           PCT/US2014/042326
            In some embodiments, for the formulations above, the other additives are present
    in an amount between about 0 wt% about 70 wt%, or between about 0 wt % and about 30
    wt%, or between about 1 wt% and about 30 wt%, or between about 1 wt% and about 25
    wt%, or between about 1 and about 20 wt%, versus the total microemulsion composition.
 5          In some embodiments, the microemulsion comprises an acid or an acid precursor.
    For example, the microemulsion may comprise an acid when used during acidizing
    operations. The microemulsion may comprise a single acid or a combination of two or
    more acids. For example, in some embodiments, the acid comprises a first type of acid
    and a second type of acid. Non-limiting examples of acids or di-acids include
10  hydrochloric acid, acetic acid, formic acid, succinic acid, maleic acid, malic acid, lactic
    acid, and hydrochloric-hydrofluoric acids. In some embodiments, the microemulsion
    comprises an organic acid or organic di-acid in the ester (or di-ester) form, whereby the
    ester (or diester) is hydrolyzed in the wellbore and/or reservoir to form the parent organic
    acid and an alcohol in the wellbore and/or reservoir. Non-limiting examples of esters or
15  di-esters include isomers of methyl formate, ethyl formate, ethylene glycol diformate,
    a,a-4-trimethyl-3-cyclohexene-1-methylformate, methyl lactate, ethyl lactate, U,U-4
    trimethyl 3-cyclohexene-1-methyllactate, ethylene glycol dilactate, ethylene glycol
    diacetate, methyl acetate, ethyl acetate, a,a,-4-trimethyl-3-cyclohexene-1-methylacetate,
    dimethyl succinate, dimethyl maleate, di(a,a-4-trimethyl-3-cyclohexene-1
20  methyl)succinate, 1-methyl-4-(1-methylethenyl)-cyclohexylformate, 1-methyl-4-(1
    ethylethenyl)cyclohexylactate, 1-methyl-4-(1-methylethenyl)cyclohexylacetate, di(1
    methy-4-(1-methylethenyl)cyclohexyl)succinate.
            In some embodiments, the microemulsion comprises a salt. The presence of the
    salt may reduce the amount of water needed as a carrier fluid, and in addition, may lower
25  the freezing point of the microemulsion. The microemulsion may comprise a single salt
    or a combination of two or more salts. For example, in some embodiments, the salt
    comprises a first type of salt and a second type of salt. Non-limiting examples of salts
    include salts comprising K, Na, Br, Cr, Cs, or Li, for example, halides of these metals,
    including NaCl, KCl, CaCl 2 , and MgCl 2.
30          In some embodiments, the microemulsion comprises a clay stabilizer. The
    microemulsion may comprise a single clay stabilizer or a combination of two or more
    clay stabilizers. For example, in some embodiments, the salt comprises a first type of
    clay stabilizer and a second type of clay stabilizer. Non-limiting examples of clay
                                                 - 27 -

   WO 2014/201367                                                           PCT/US2014/042326
    stabilizers include salts above, polymers (PAC, PHPA, etc.), glycols, sulfonated asphalt,
    lignite, sodium silicate, and choline chloride.
             In some embodiments, for the formulations above, the other additives are present
    in an amount between about 0 wt% about 70 wt%, or between about 1 wt% and about 30
 5  wt%, or between about 1 wt% and about 25 wt%, or between about 1 and about 20 wt%,
    versus the total microemulsion composition.
             In some embodiments, the components of the microemulsion and/or the amounts
    of the components may be selected so that the microemulsion is stable over a wide-range
10  of temperatures. For example, the microemulsion may exhibit stability between about
    -40 *F and about 400 *F, or between about -40 *F and about 300 *F or between about
    -40 *F and about 150 *F. Those of ordinary skill in the art will be aware of methods and
    techniques for determining the range of stability of the microemulsion. For example, the
    lower boundary may be determined by the freezing point and the upper boundary may be
15  determined by the cloud point and/or using spectroscopy methods. Stability over a wide
    range of temperatures may be important in embodiments where the microemulsions are
    being employed in applications comprising environments wherein the temperature may
    vary significantly, or may have extreme highs (e.g., desert) or lows (e.g., artic).
             In some embodiments, emulsions or microemulsions are provided comprising
20  water, a solvent, and a surfactant, wherein the solvents and surfactants may be as
    described herein. In some embodiments, as described herein, the solvent comprises more
    than one type of solvent, for example, two, three, four, five, six, or more, types of
    solvents. In some embodiment, at least one solvent is selected from the group consisting
    of unsubstituted cyclic or acyclic, branched or unbranched alkanes having 6-12 carbon
25  atoms, unsubstituted acyclic branched or unbranched alkenes having one or two double
    bonds and 6-12 carbon atoms, cyclic or acyclic, branched or unbranched alkanes having
    9-12 carbon atoms and substituted with only an -OH group, branched or unbranched
    dialkylether compounds having the formula CnH2n±1OCmH2m1, wherein n + m is
    between 6 and 16, and aromatic solvents having a boiling point between about 300-400
30  'F. In another embodiment, at least one solvent is selected from the group consisting of
    cyclic or acyclic, branched or unbranched alkanes having 8 carbon atoms and substituted
    with only an -OH group and aromatic solvents having a boiling point between about
     175-300 'F. In some cases, at least one solvent is a terpene. The microemulsion may
                                                - 28 -

   WO 2014/201367                                                        PCT/US2014/042326
    further comprise addition components, for example, a freezing point depression agent.
    In some embodiments, at least one solvent is selected from the group consisting of
    butylbenzene, heavy aromatic naphtha, light aromatic naphtha, 1-nonanol,
    propylcyclohexane, 1-decanol, dihexylether, 1,7-octadiene, hexylbenzene, nonane,
 5  decane, 1-octene, isooctane, octane, heptane, mesitylene, xylenes, toluene, 2-ethyl-1
    hexanol, 1-octanol. In some embodiments, at least one solvent is selected from the group
    consisting of butylbenzene, heavy aromatic naphtha, light aromatic naphtha, 1-nonanol,
    propylcyclohexane, 1-decanol, dihexylether, 1,7-octadiene, hexylbenzene, nonane,
    decane, 1-octene, isooctane, octane, heptane, mesitylene, toluene, 2-ethyl-1-hexanol, 1
10  octanol. In some embodiments, the at least one solvent is not xylene. In some
    embodiment, at least one solvent is an alpha-olefin.
            In some embodiments, composition for injecting into a wellbore are provided
    comprising an aqueous carrier fluid, and an emulsion or a microemulsion as described
    herein, wherein the emulsion or the microemulsion is present in an amount between
15  about 0.1 wt% and about 2 wt% versus the total composition. In some embodiments,
    the emulsion or microemulsion comprises an aqueous phase, a surfactant, a freezing
    point depression agent, and a solvent as described herein. In some embodiments, the
    solvent is as described herein. In some cases, the solvent comprises an alpha-olefin, for
    example, having between 6-12 carbon atoms. In other cases, the solvent comprises a
20  cyclic or acyclic, branched or unbranched alkane having 8-12, or 9-12, or 8, or 9, or 10,
    or 11, or 12 carbon atoms and substituted with only an -OH group. In some cases, the
    total amount of solvent present in the emulsion or microemulsion is between about 2
    wt% and about 60 wt% and/or the ratio of the aqueous phase to solvent in the emulsion
    or microemulsion is between 15:1 and 1:10. In some cases, the composition may
25  comprise more than one type of solvent. In some cases, the solvent comprises an alpha
    olefin and a terpene. In some cases, the solvent comprises a cyclic or acyclic, branched
    or unbranched alkane having 8-12 carbon atoms and substituted with only an -OH group
    and a terpene.
            The microemulsions described herein may be formed using methods known to
30  those of ordinary skill in the art. In some embodiments, the aqueous and non-aqueous
    phases may be combined (e.g., the water and the solvent(s)), followed by addition of a
    surfactant(s) and optionally other components (e.g., freezing point depression agent(s))
    and agitation. The strength, type, and length of the agitation may be varied as known in
                                                - 29 -

   WO 2014/201367                                                           PCT/US2014/042326
    the art depending on various factors including the components of the microemulsion, the
    quantity of the microemulsion, and the resulting type of microemulsion formed. For
    example, for small samples, a few seconds of gentle mixing can yield a microemulsion,
    whereas for larger samples, longer agitation times and/or stronger agitation may be
 5  required. Agitation may be provided by any suitable source, for example, a vortex
    mixer, a stirrer (e.g., magnetic stirrer), etc.
             Any suitable method for injecting the microemulsion (e.g., a diluted
    microemulsion) into a wellbore may be employed. For example, in some embodiments,
    the microemulsion, optionally diluted, may be injected into a subterranean formation by
10  injecting it into a well or wellbore in the zone of interest of the formation and thereafter
    pressurizing it into the formation for the selected distance. Methods for achieving the
    placement of a selected quantity of a mixture in a subterranean formation are known in
    the art. The well may be treated with the microemulsion for a suitable period of time.
    The microemulsion and/or other fluids may be removed from the well using known
15  techniques, including producing the well.
             In some embodiments, experiments may be carried out to determine displacement
    of residual aqueous treatment fluid by formation crude oil or formation gas by a
    microemulsion (e.g., a diluted microemulsion). For example, displacement of residual
    aqueous treatment fluid by formation crude oil may be determined using the method
20  described in Example 2 and/or displacement of residual aqueous treatment fluid by
    formation gas may be determined using the method described in Example 3.
             For convenience, certain terms employed in the specification, examples, and
    appended claims are listed here.
             Definitions of specific functional groups and chemical terms are described in
25  more detail below. For purposes of this invention, the chemical elements are identified
    in accordance with the Periodic Table of the Elements, CAS version, Handbook of
    Chemistry and Physics, 75th Ed., inside cover, and specific functional groups are
    generally defined as described therein. Additionally, general principles of organic
    chemistry, as well as specific functional moieties and reactivity, are described in Organic
30  Chemistry, Thomas Sorrell, University Science Books, Sausalito: 1999, the entire
    contents of which are incorporated herein by reference.
             Certain compounds of the present invention may exist in particular geometric or
    stereoisomeric forms. The present invention contemplates all such compounds,
                                                   - 30 -

   WO 2014/201367                                                             PCT/US2014/042326
    including cis- and trans-isomers, R- and S-enantiomers, diastereomers, (D)-isomers, (L)
    isomers, the racemic mixtures thereof, and other mixtures thereof, as falling within the
    scope of the invention. Additional asymmetric carbon atoms may be present in a
    substituent such as an alkyl group. All such isomers, as well as mixtures thereof, are
 5  intended to be included in this invention.
             Isomeric mixtures containing any of a variety of isomer ratios may be utilized in
    accordance with the present invention. For example, where only two isomers are
    combined, mixtures containing 50:50, 60:40, 70:30, 80:20, 90:10, 95:5, 96:4, 97:3, 98:2,
    99:1, or 100:0 isomer ratios are all contemplated by the present invention. Those of
10  ordinary skill in the art will readily appreciate that analogous ratios are contemplated for
    more complex isomer mixtures.
             The term "aliphatic," as used herein, includes both saturated and unsaturated,
    nonaromatic, straight chain (i.e., unbranched), branched, acyclic, and cyclic (i.e.,
    carbocyclic) hydrocarbons, which are optionally substituted with one or more functional
15  groups. As will be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art, "aliphatic" is intended
    herein to include, but is not limited to, alkyl, alkenyl, alkynyl, cycloalkyl, cycloalkenyl,
    and cycloalkynyl moieties. Thus, as used herein, the term "alkyl" includes straight,
    branched and cyclic alkyl groups. An analogous convention applies to other generic
    terms such as "alkenyl", "alkynyl", and the like. Furthermore, as used herein, the terms
20  "alkyl", "alkenyl", "alkynyl", and the like encompass both substituted and unsubstituted
    groups. In certain embodiments, as used herein, "aliphatic" is used to indicate those
    aliphatic groups (cyclic, acyclic, substituted, unsubstituted, branched or unbranched)
    having 1-20 carbon atoms. Aliphatic group substituents include, but are not limited to,
    any of the substituents described herein, that result in the formation of a stable moiety
25  (e.g., aliphatic, alkyl, alkenyl, alkynyl, heteroaliphatic, heterocyclic, aryl, heteroaryl,
    acyl, oxo, imino, thiooxo, cyano, isocyano, amino, azido, nitro, hydroxyl, thiol, halo,
    aliphaticamino, heteroaliphaticamino, alkylamino, heteroalkylamino, arylamino,
    heteroarylamino, alkylaryl, arylalkyl, aliphaticoxy, heteroaliphaticoxy, alkyloxy,
    heteroalkyloxy, aryloxy, heteroaryloxy, aliphaticthioxy, heteroaliphaticthioxy,
30  alkylthioxy, heteroalkylthioxy, arylthioxy, heteroarylthioxy, acyloxy, and the like, each
    of which may or may not be further substituted).
             The term "alkane" is given its ordinary meaning in the art and refers to a
    saturated hydrocarbon molecule. The term "branched alkane" refers to an alkane that
                                                  - 31 -

   WO 2014/201367                                                           PCT/US2014/042326
    includes one or more branches, while the term "unbranched alkane" refers to an alkane
    that is straight-chained. The term "cyclic alkane" refers to an alkane that includes one or
    more ring structures, and may be optionally branched. The term "acyclic alkane" refers
    to an alkane that does not include any ring structures, and may be optionally branched.
 5           The term "alkene" is given its ordinary meaning in the art and refers to an
    unsaturated hydrocarbon molecule that includes one or more carbon-carbon double
    bonds. The term "branched alkene" refers to an alkene that includes one or more
    branches, while the term "unbranched alkene" refers to an alkene that is straight-chained.
    The term "cyclic alkene" refers to an alkene that includes one or more ring structures,
10  and may be optionally branched. The term "acyclic alkene" refers to an alkene that does
    not include any ring structures, and may be optionally branched.
             The term "aromatic" is given its ordinary meaning in the art and refers to
    aromatic carbocyclic groups, having a single ring (e.g., phenyl), multiple rings (e.g.,
    biphenyl), or multiple fused rings in which at least one is aromatic (e.g., 1,2,3,4
15  tetrahydronaphthyl, naphthyl, anthryl, or phenanthryl). That is, at least one ring may
    have a conjugated pi electron system, while other, adjoining rings can be cycloalkyls,
    cycloalkenyls, cycloalkynyls, aryls and/or heterocyclyls.
             The term "aryl" is given its ordinary meaning in the art and refers to aromatic
    carbocyclic groups, optionally substituted, having a single ring (e.g., phenyl), multiple
20  rings (e.g., biphenyl), or multiple fused rings in which at least one is aromatic (e.g.,
    1,2,3,4-tetrahydronaphthyl, naphthyl, anthryl, or phenanthryl). That is, at least one ring
    may have a conjugated pi electron system, while other, adjoining rings can be
    cycloalkyls, cycloalkenyls, cycloalkynyls, aryls and/or heterocyclyls. The aryl group
    may be optionally substituted, as described herein. Substituents include, but are not
25  limited to, any of the previously mentioned substitutents, i.e., the substituents recited for
    aliphatic moieties, or for other moieties as disclosed herein, resulting in the formation of
    a stable compound. In some cases, an aryl group is a stable mono- or polycyclic
    unsaturated moiety having preferably 3-14 carbon atoms, each of which may be
    substituted or unsubstituted.
30           These and other aspects of the present invention will be further appreciated upon
    consideration of the following Examples, which are intended to illustrate certain
    particular embodiments of the invention but are not intended to limit its scope, as defined
    by the claims.
                                                 - 32 -

   WO 2014/201367                                                          PCT/US2014/042326
                                              Examples
    Example 1:
             A series of laboratory tests were conducted to characterize the effectiveness of a
 5  series of microemulsions incorporating a variety of solvents. For these experiments,
    samples of a base microemulsion were prepared in which a detergent range alcohol
    ethoxylate surfactant was first blended in a 1:1 ratio with isopropyl alcohol. The
    surfactant employed in the tests was Neodol 25-7 (obtained from Shell Chemical Co.;
    e.g., a surfactant comprising linear C12-Ci 5 alcohol ethoxylates with on average 7 moles
10  of ethylene oxide). The microemulsions in Table 2 were prepared by mixing 46 parts by
    weight of this blend with 27 parts by weight a solvent as shown in Table 2 and 27 parts
    by weight of water, with the exception of nonane and decane, which were prepared by
    mixing 50 parts of the blend with 25 parts by weight of solvent and 25 parts per weight
    of water. Two emulsions were also prepared using the same method comprising a
15  mixture of a hydrocarbon solvent and a terpene (1:1 ratio of hydrocarbon:terpene). The
    solvents were obtained through commercial sources. The heavy aromatic naphtha
    employed was Exxon Aromatic 150 Fluid which comprises CIO- 12 alkyl benzenes and has
    a distillation temperature between 363-396 'F and the light aromatic naphtha employed
    was Exxon Aromatic 100 Fluid which comprises C9_10 dialkyl and trialkylbenzenes and
20  has a distillation temperature between 322-340 'F.
             The mixtures were identified as a microemulsion based on the spontaneous
    formation with minimal mechanical energy input to form a clear dispersion from an
    immiscible mixture of water and solvent upon addition of an appropriate amount of
    surfactant. The order of mixing of this and other compositions described in this example
25  were not necessary, but for convenience, a procedure was generally followed in which a
    mixture of the surfactant and the isopropyl alcohol was first prepared then combined that
    with a mixture of the solvent and water. With small samples, in the laboratory, a few
    seconds of gentle mixing yielded a transparent dispersion.
             Subsequently, 2 gallons per thousand (gpt) dilutions of the microemulsions were
30  prepared and tested. The dilutions comprise 0.2 wt% of the microemulsion in 2 wt%
    KCl solution. The process employed dispensing 200 microliters of the microemulsion
    into a vortex of a vigorously stirred beaker containing 100 mL of 2 wt% KCl, generally
    at room temperature (e.g., about 25 C).
                                                 - 33 -

   WO 2014/201367                                                           PCT/US2014/042326
    Table 2.
                                                       Maximum         Displacement
                                                       Displacement    by Oil at 60    Boiling
    CAS #            Solvent                           by Gas (%)      min (%)         point (F)
    104-51-8         butylbenzene                      30.0            89.4            361.9
    64742-94-5       heavy aromatic naphtha            33.6            91.5            363-396
    64742-95-6       light aromatic naphtha            36.4            53.7            322-340
    143-08-8         1-nonanol                         41.2            92.9
    1678-92-8        propylcyclohexane                 45.6            91.1
    112-30-1          1-decanol                        47.5            93.0
    112-58-3         dihexylether                      50.1            92.5
    3710-30-3        1,7-octadiene                     50.3            92.3
    1077-16-3        hexylbenzene                      55.3            90.5            439
    111-84-2         nonane                            55.9            90.1
    124-18-5         decane                            56.5            82.5
    111-66-0         1-octene                          56.9            90.8
    540-84-1         isooctane                         58.8            84.4
    111-65-9         octane                            60.8            89.1
    540-84-1         heptane                           63.0            89.5
    108-67-8         mesitylene                        33.2            80.2            328.5
    1330-20-7        xylenes                           66.6            54.1            281.3
    108-88-3         toluene                           65.7                            232
    104-76-7         2-ethyl-1-hexanol                 60.5            35.5
    111-87-5         1-octanol                         84.8            67.4
                     1:1 d-limonene and octane         49.6            88.7
                     1:1 alpha-terpineol and octanol   86.2            49.5
            Tables 3 and 4 provide data related to microemulsions comprising octane wherein
    the water to oil ratio and the surfactant were varied. The components of the formulation
 5  are given in Table 4 and the results are provided in Table 3. The greater efficacy of
    displacement of residual aqueous treatment fluid for the microemulsions comprising
    octane by crude oil compared with gaseous hydrocarbon was maintained over the range
    of water to oil ratio of 3.2:1 to 1:4 or surfactant/co-solvent concentrations from 40-50.
10
                                                  - 34 -

   WO 2014/201367                                                           PCT/US2014/042326
    Table 3. Effectiveness of brine displacement by gas and oil using a microemulsion
    comprising octane.
                    Experiment #            Maximum              Displacement of
                    (water-to-oil      displacementof brine    brine (%) by crude
                        ratio)              (%) by gas          oil at 120 minutes
                      1 (3.2:1)                 60                       91
                      2 (1.8:1)                 65                       92
                       3 (9:1)                  57                       93
                       4(1:4)                   50                       92
                       5 (9:1)                  55                       92
    Table 4. Formulation compositions
                                                                                 1:1 Blend of
     Experiment               DI water                   Octane               Neodol 25-7 and
           #                   (wt%)                      (wt%)                      IPA
                                                                                    (wt%)
           1                     38                         12                        50
           2                     32                         18                        50
           3                     45                          5                        50
           4                     10                         40                        50
           5                     54                          6                        40
 5
    Example 2:
             This example described a non-limiting experiment for determining displacement
    of residual aqueous treatment fluid by formation crude oil. A 25 cm long, 2.5 cm
    diameter capped glass chromatography column was packed with 77 grams of 100 mesh
10  sand. The column was left open on one end and a PTFE insert containing a recessed
    bottom, 3.2 mm diameter outlet, and nipple was placed into the other end. Prior to
    placing the insert into the column, a 3 cm diameter filter paper disc (Whatman, #40) was
    pressed firmly into the recessed bottom of the insert to prevent leakage of 100 mesh
    sand. A 2" piece of vinyl tubing was placed onto the nipple of the insert and a clamp
15  was fixed in place on the tubing prior to packing. The columns were gravity-packed by
    pouring approximately 25 grams of the diluted microemulsions (e.g., the microemulsions
    described in Example 1, and diluted with 2% KCl, e.g., to about 2 gpt, or about 1 gpt)
    into the column followed by a slow, continuous addition of sand. After the last portion
    of sand had been added and was allowed to settle, the excess of brine was removed from
20  the column so that the level of liquid exactly matched the level of sand. Pore volume in
                                                - 35 -

   WO 2014/201367                                                           PCT/US2014/042326
    the packed column was calculated as the difference in mass of fluid prior to column
    packing and after the column had been packed. Three additional pore volumes of brine
    were passed through the column. After the last pore volume was passed, the level of
    brine was adjusted exactly to the level of sand bed. Light condensate oil was then added
 5  on the top of sand bed to form the 5 cm oil column above the bed. Additional oil was
    placed into a separatory funnel with a side arm open to the atmosphere. Once the setup
    was assembled, the clamp was released from the tubing, and timer was started.
    Throughout the experiment the level of oil was monitored and kept constant at a 5 cm
    mark above the bed. Oil was added from the separatory funnel as necessary, to ensure
10  this constant level of head in the column. Portions of effluent coming from the column
    were collected into plastic beakers over measured time intervals. The amount of fluid
    was monitored. When both brine and oil were produced from the column, they were
    separated with a syringe and weighed separately. The experiment was conducted for 2
    hours at which time the steady-state conditions were typically reached. The cumulative
15  % or aqueous fluid displaced from the column over a 120 minute time period, and the
    steady-state mass flow rate of oil at t=120 min through the column were determined.
    Example 3:
             This example described a non-limiting experiment for determining displacement
20  of residual aqueous treatment fluid by formation gas. A 51 cm long, 2.5 cm
    inner-diameter capped glass chromatography column was filled with approximately
    410 ± 20 g of 20/40 mesh Ottawa sand and the diluted microemulsions (e.g., the
    microemulsions described in Example 1, and diluted with 2% KCl, e.g., to about 2 gpt,
    or about 1 gpt). To ensure uniform packing, small amounts of proppant were
25  interchanged with small volumes of liquid. Periodically the mixture in the column was
    homogenized with the help of an electrical hand massager, in order to remove possible
    air pockets. Sand and brine were added to completely fill the column to the level of the
    upper cap. The exact amounts of fluid and sand placed in the column were determined in
    each experiment. The column was oriented vertically and was connected at the bottom
30  to a nitrogen cylinder via a gas flow controller pre-set at a flow rate of 60 cm 3 /min. The
    valve at the bottom was slowly opened and liquid exiting the column at the top was
    collected into a tarred jar placed on a balance. Mass of collected fluid was recorded as a
    function of time by a computer running a data logging software. The experiments were
                                                - 36 -

   WO 2014/201367                                                          PCT/US2014/042326
    conducted until no more brine could be displaced from the column. The total % of fluid
    recovered was then calculated.
    Example 4:
 5           This example describes a method for determining the phase inversion
    temperature of a solvent (e.g., a terpene). The methods are described in the literature
    (e.g., see Strey, Microemulsion microstructure and interfacial curvature. Colloid &
    Polymer Science, 1994. 272(8): p. 1005-1019; Kahlweit et al., Phase Behavior of
    Ternary Systems of the Type H 20-Oil-Nonionic Amphiphile (Microemulsions).
10  Angewandte Chemie International Edition in English, 1985. 24(8): p. 654-668.). As
    will be known in the art, the PIT measured for a given oil or solvent depends on the
    surfactant and aqueous phase in which it is measured. In this example, a 1:1 mixture of
    terpene solvent and de-ionized water was combined with varying amounts of a 1:1 blend
    of Neodol 25-7 and IPA and the upper and lower temperature boundaries of the one
15  phase microemulsion region were determined. A phase diagram such as this, plotting
    temperature against surfactant concentration at a constant oil-to-water ratio is often
    called a "fish" diagram or a Kahlweit plot. The phase inversion temperature was
    determined as the point on the "fish-tail" at which the temperature range of one-phase
    microemulsion closes to a vertex. In this example, the temperature at the vertex was
20  selected as the PIT. An exemplary fish diagram indicating the PIT is shown in Figure 1.
    For the terpene solvents used in this example, the PIT values which were measured using
    this above-described procedure are shown in Table 1. Those terpenes containing alcohol
    groups (linalool, geraniol, nopol, a-terpineol and menthol), gave PIT values between
    -4 'C and 16 'C. Eucalyptol, containing an ether-oxygen, and menthone, containing a
25  carbonyl oxygen, gave somewhat higher values near 30 'C. d-limonene gave 109.4 OF,
    while other non-oxygen containing terpenes gave values between 48-58 'C.
    Example 5:
             A series of laboratory tests similar to as described in Example 1 were conducted
30  to characterize the effectiveness of a series of microemulsions incorporating a range of
    terpenes. The phase inversion temperatures of the terpenes were determined as described
    in Example 4.
                                                 - 37  -

   WO 2014/201367                                                            PCT/US2014/042326
             Table 5 shows results for displacement of residual aqueous treatment fluid by oil
    and gas for formulations (e.g., using the experimental procedures outlined in Examples 2
    and 3) using dilutions of the microemulsions comprising 46 parts of 1:1 Neodol 25-7, 27
    parts deionized water, and 27 parts terpene solvent). The dilutions were prepared of each
 5  microemulsion in 2% KCl, at 2 gpt. The table shows that the terpene solvents with PIT
    values higher than 109.4 'F all give approximately 90% recovery, while those below
    109.4 'F give significantly lower recovery. Table 5 also shows displacement by gas
    results for the dilutions that demonstrates that terpene solvents with PIT values higher
    than 109.4 'F give approximately 40% recovery, while those with PIT values below
10  109.4 'F give significantly higher recovery.
    Table 5. PIT values for various terpene solvents (e.g., measured at 1:1 water-oil).
    Displacement results for 2 gpt dilution of microemulsions comprising 46:27:27
    surfactant:water:terpene + isopropanol formulations.
    Terpene                        Phase Inversion           Displacement of     Maximum
                                   Temperature 'F ('C)       brine (%) by        displacementof
                                                             crude oil at 60     brine (%) by gas
                                                             minutes
    linalool                       24.8 (-4)                 -                   81.9
    geraniol                       31.1 (-0.5)               69.3                67.8
    nopol                          36.5 (2.5)                80.3                58.8
    a-terpineol                    40.3 (4.6)                80                  92.9
    menthol                        60.8 (16)                 49.7
    eucalyptol                     87.8 (31)                 -                   54.6
    menthone                       89.6 (32)                 79.4
    d-limonene                     109.4 (43)                89.3                45.6
    terpinolene                    118.4 (48)                90.5                41.8
    P-occimene                     120.2 (49)                90.2                44.2
    y-terpinene                    120.2 (49)                89                  32.2
    a-pinene                       134.6 (57)                89.9                38.7
    citronellene                   136.4 (58)                88.2                40.5
15
             The results shown in Table 6 demonstrate that at a 1:1 ratio of terpene to water,
    and 46 weight % surfactant-IPA, the high PIT a-pinene performed better on oil
    displacement and much poorer on gas displacement than the low PIT a-terpineol. As the
    terpene-to-water ratio decreases from 27-27 to 21-33 to 11-43, the difference in oil
20  displacement performance decreased, then increased again at the lower level. Higher
    surfactant levels did not substantially increase or decrease the displacement (which may
                                                 - 38 -

   WO 2014/201367                                                              PCT/US2014/042326
    suggest that the microemulsion is performing differently than a surfactant package
    lacking the terpene solvent). The displacement by gas was better for the low PIT a
    terpineol than for the high PIT a-pinene.
 5  Table 6. Oil and Gas displacement results for a-pinene and a-terpineol as a function of
    surfactant concentration and solvent-to-water ratio.
               Formulation     Terpene          Displacement of        Maximum
               T/S/W*                           brine (%) by crude displacementof
                                                oil at 60 minutes      brine (%) by gas
               27-46-27        a-terpineol      80                     92.9
               27-46-27        a-pinene         89.9                   38.7
               21-46-33        a-terpineol      88                     83
               21-46-33        a-pinene         87                     46
                11-46-43       a-terpineol      88.5                   80
                11-46-43       a-pinene         96                     47
                15-56-28       a-terpineol      87.8                   85
                15-56-28       a-pinene         88.6                   52
    *T/S/W stands for     terpene weight %/1:1 surfactant-IPA weight %/deionized water wt%
             It will be evident to one skilled in the art that the present disclosure is not limited
10  to the foregoing illustrative examples, and that it can be embodied in other specific forms
    without departing from the essential attributes thereof. It is therefore desired that the
    examples be considered in all respects as illustrative and not restrictive, reference being
    made to the appended claims, rather than to the foregoing examples, and all changes
    which come within the meaning and range of equivalency of the claims are therefore
15  intended to be embraced therein.
             While several embodiments of the present invention have been described and
    illustrated herein, those of ordinary skill in the art will readily envision a variety of other
    means and/or structures for performing the functions and/or obtaining the results and/or
    one or more of the advantages described herein, and each of such variations and/or
20  modifications is deemed to be within the scope of the present invention. More generally,
    those skilled in the art will readily appreciate that all parameters, dimensions, materials,
    and configurations described herein are meant to be exemplary and that the actual
    parameters, dimensions, materials, and/or configurations will depend upon the specific
    application or applications for which the teachings of the present invention is/are used.
25  Those skilled in the art will recognize, or be able to ascertain using no more than routine
                                                   - 39 -

   WO 2014/201367                                                           PCT/US2014/042326
    experimentation, many equivalents to the specific embodiments of the invention
    described herein. It is, therefore, to be understood that the foregoing embodiments are
    presented by way of example only and that, within the scope of the appended claims and
    equivalents thereto, the invention may be practiced otherwise than as specifically
 5  described and claimed. The present invention is directed to each individual feature,
    system, article, material, kit, and/or method described herein. In addition, any
    combination of two or more such features, systems, articles, materials, kits, and/or
    methods, if such features, systems, articles, materials, kits, and/or methods are not
    mutually inconsistent, is included within the scope of the present invention.
10           The indefinite articles "a" and "an," as used herein in the specification and in the
    claims, unless clearly indicated to the contrary, should be understood to mean "at least
    one."
             The phrase "and/or," as used herein in the specification and in the claims, should
    be understood to mean "either or both" of the elements so conjoined, i.e., elements that
15  are conjunctively present in some cases and disjunctively present in other cases. Other
    elements may optionally be present other than the elements specifically identified by the
    "and/or" clause, whether related or unrelated to those elements specifically identified
    unless clearly indicated to the contrary. Thus, as a non-limiting example, a reference to
    "A and/or B," when used in conjunction with open-ended language such as "comprising"
20  can refer, in one embodiment, to A without B (optionally including elements other than
    B); in another embodiment, to B without A (optionally including elements other than A);
    in yet another embodiment, to both A and B (optionally including other elements); etc.
             As used herein in the specification and in the claims, "or" should be understood
    to have the same meaning as "and/or" as defined above. For example, when separating
25  items in a list, "or" or "and/or" shall be interpreted as being inclusive, i.e., the inclusion
    of at least one, but also including more than one, of a number or list of elements, and,
    optionally, additional unlisted items. Only terms clearly indicated to the contrary, such
    as "only one of' or "exactly one of," or, when used in the claims, "consisting of," will
    refer to the inclusion of exactly one element or a list of elements. In general, the term
30  "or" as used herein shall only be interpreted as indicating exclusive alternatives (i.e. "one
    or the other but not both") when preceded by terms of exclusivity, such as "either," "one
    of," "only one of," or "exactly one of." "Consisting essentially of," when used in the
    claims, shall have its ordinary meaning as used in the field of patent law.
                                                  - 40 -

   WO 2014/201367                                                              PCT/US2014/042326
             As used herein in the specification and in the claims, the phrase "at least one," in
    reference to a list of one or more elements, should be understood to mean at least one
    element selected from any one or more of the elements in the list of elements, but not
    necessarily including at least one of each and every element specifically listed within the
 5  list of elements and not excluding any combinations of elements in the list of elements.
    This definition also allows that elements may optionally be present other than the
    elements specifically identified within the list of elements to which the phrase "at least
    one" refers, whether related or unrelated to those elements specifically identified. Thus,
    as a non-limiting example, "at least one of A and B" (or, equivalently, "at least one of A
10  or B," or, equivalently "at least one of A and/or B") can refer, in one embodiment, to at
    least one, optionally including more than one, A, with no B present (and optionally
    including elements other than B); in another embodiment, to at least one, optionally
    including more than one, B, with no A present (and optionally including elements other
    than A); in yet another embodiment, to at least one, optionally including more than one,
15  A, and at least one, optionally including more than one, B (and optionally including other
    elements); etc.
             In the claims, as well as in the specification above, all transitional phrases such as
    "comprising," "including," "carrying," "having," "containing," "involving," "holding,"
    and the like are to be understood to be open-ended, i.e., to mean including but not limited
20  to. Only the transitional phrases "consisting of' and "consisting essentially of' shall be
    closed or semi-closed transitional phrases, respectively, as set forth in the United States
    Patent Office Manual of Patent Examining Procedures, Section 2111.03.
                                                  - 41 -

                                                 Claims
What is claimed is:
1.       A method of treating an oil well having a wellbore, comprising:
        injecting a microemulsion into the wellbore to increase formation crude oil production by
the well, wherein the microemulsion comprises water, a first type of solvent, and a first type of
surfactant, wherein the microemulsion includes a continuous water phase,
         wherein the first type of solvent is selected from the group consisting of unsubstituted
cyclic or acyclic, branched or unbranched alkanes having 6-12 carbon atoms, unsubstituted
acyclic branched or unbranched alkenes having one or two double bonds and 6-12 carbon atoms,
cyclic or acyclic, branched or unbranched alkanes having 9-12 carbon atoms and substituted with
only an -OH group, branched or unbranched dialkylether compounds having the formula
CnH2n.+1OCmH2m+ 1, wherein n + m is between 6 and 16, and aromatic solvents having a boiling
point between about 300-400 'F.
2.       The method of claim 1, wherein the ratio of water to solvent is between about 15:1 and
1:10.
3.       The method of claim 1, wherein the microemulsion further comprises a second type of
solvent.
4.       The method of claim 1, wherein the microemulsion is diluted with an aqueous fluid prior
to injection to the wellbore.
5.       The method of claim 4, wherein the microemulsion is diluted to between about 0.1 wt%
and about 2 wt%.
6.       The method of claim 4, wherein the microemulsion is diluted with an aqueous fluid
selected from the group consisting of water, brine and a well-treatment fluid.
                                                    42

7.      The method of claim 6, wherein the well-treatment fluid is selected from the group
consisting of an acid, a fracturing fluid and slickwater.
8.      The method of claim 1, wherein the microemulsion further comprises a freezing point
depression agent.
9.      The method of claim 8, wherein the microemulsion comprises a first type of freezing
point depression agent and a second type of freezing point depression agent.
10.     The method of claim 8, wherein the freezing point depression agent is selected from the
group consisting of an alkylene glycol, an alcohol, a combination of choline chloride and urea,
and a salt.
11.     The method of claim 8, wherein the freezing point depression agent is present in an
amount between about 5 wt% and about 40 wt%.
12.     The method of claim 1, wherein the surfactant is an alkyl polyglycol ether or alkyl
polyglucoside nonionic surfactant.
13.     The method of claim 1, wherein the microemulsion further comprises a second type of
surfactant.
14.     The method of claim 13, wherein the first type of surfactant is an alkyl polyglycol ether
or alkyl polyglucoside nonionic surfactant and the second type of surfactant is an anionic,
cationic, or zwitterionic surfactant.
15.     The method of claim 1, wherein the first type of surfactant is present in an amount
between about 15 wt% and 55 wt%.
16.     A method of treating a gas well having a wellbore, comprising:
                                                  43

        injecting a microemulsion into the wellbore to increase formation gas production by the
well, wherein the microemulsion comprises water, a first type of solvent, and a first type of
surfactant, wherein the microemulsion includes a continuous water phase,
         wherein the first type of solvent is selected from the group consisting of cyclic or acyclic,
branched or unbranched alkanes having 8 carbon atoms and substituted with only an -OH group
and aromatic solvents having a boiling point between about 175-300 'F.
17.      The method of claim 16, wherein the microemulsion further comprises a second type of
solvent.
18       The method of claim 16, wherein the microemulsion is diluted with an aqueous fluid
prior to injection to the wellbore.
19.      The method of claim 16, wherein the microemulsion further comprises a freezing point
depression agent.
20.      The method of claim 16, wherein the first type of surfactant is an alkyl polyglycol ether
or alkyl polyglucoside nonionic surfactant.
                                                    44

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
