                                           Australia
                                    Patents ACT 1990
                                            Abstract
                                      "Mamma-pillo"
                 A "Ecologically Friendly" (ECO) Multipurpose Support Pillow
The Mamma-pillo ECO Multipurpose Support Pillow (Mamma-pillo) is a ultra-comfortable,
lightweight, robust support pillow comprising four discrete machine washable components (Two
Pillows, A Twin Pillow Case and a removable Outer Cover) packaged as a cylindrical shaped,
open ended support pillow that can be used in any orientation.
The Mamma-pillo is primarily an infant feeding support pillow (arm inserted through the middle of
the pillow) and has been designed to gently support babies head and neck during feeding
sessions and to position the baby in an optimal feeding position helping combat gas, reflux and
regurgitation. Mamma-pillo makes feeding more comfortable for mum by providing gentle lifting
support to relieve neck, back, shoulder and arm strain. The minimalist design keeps pillow
surface area to a minimum allowing maximum skin to skin contact for Mum(or dad!) and baby.
Mamma-pillo can also be used as a general comfort and support pillow.
Mamma-pillo Specification V2.0                                                              Page 1

Twin Pillow Casing
    Fig 5                                                                Fig 6
                                                                                                   A
                                  FOLD                                   FOLD                      B
    Fig 7                                                                Fig 8
                                                                           E                              I            G
                                                                    ..D                                                I
                                                                            C                             I
                                                                               I                           II
                                                                           F                               J             H
    Fig 9                                K                                       M
       y          Q .z
      Pillo w ............................                                          ........................  P illo w
                  T
                                           L        -......... .... ..- --       N
                                                                                 Stitched fold line
    Fig 10
                                             /I
                                                1 |                    I

                                              Australia
                                      Patents ACT 1990
                                              Description
                                         "Mamma-pillo"
                  A "Ecologically Friendly" (ECO) Multipurpose Support Pillow
The invention is described in the following statements
The Mamma-pillo ECO Multipurpose Support Pillow (Mamma-pillo) is a ultra-comfortable,
lightweight, robust support pillow comprising four discrete machine washable components (Two
Pillows, A Twin Pillow Case and a removable Outer Cover) packaged as a cylindrical shaped, open
ended support pillow that can be used in any orientation. There are no zips, belts, buttons, domes
or any kind of interconnected device/material used or required for its use. The Mamma-pillo is
manufactured using ecologically friendly materials (wherever possible) and available in different
material configurations to suit different market segments.
Although not limited in its application, it can be used as an infant feeding support pillow (arm
inserted through the middle of the pillow), a pillow on which to rest the head of an individual, or as a
general comfort and support pillow (limb through, limb on) Diagrams 1 - 7. Please note: The
Mamma-pillo is not a clinical apparatus or device.
The Mamma-pillo uses either 100% Cotton or 100% GOTS Certified Organic Cotton for the Two
Pillow cases and Twin Pillow Casing. The Outer Cover is made of (but its material composition is not
limited to), 100% Cotton, 100% GOTS Certified Organic Cotton or EKO-TEX 100 Standard Certified
Cotton. Each Pillow contains (but is not limited to), fibre fill material being either recycled PET Fibre,
or Corn Fibre. All seams are sewn using (but is not limited to) 100% cotton thread or GOTS Certified
cotton thread.
Mamma-pillo Specification V2.0                                                                      Page 1

                                              Australia
                                       Patents ACT 1990
                                                 Claims
                                          "Mamma-pillo"
                  A "Ecologically Friendly" (ECO) Multipurpose Support Pillow
Technical Field
Infant Feeding Pillows are designed to alleviate many of the problems and discomfort for a parent
(predominantly the mother or primary carer) associated with breast or bottle feeding an infant. In
either type of feeding (occurs multiple times per day), the parent is required to cradle the infant in
the crook of an arm and where breast feeding, lift the infants head to the breast for periods of up to
an hour. Breast feeding requires the infants head to remain correctly aligned throughout the
feeding period. A degree of dexterity is required on behalf of the parent facilitating and maintaining
infant positioning during feeding, often leading to distress and discomfort for the parent and
aggravated by the repetitive nature of infant feeding. This has the potential to lead to repetitive
strain injury and health issues for the parent.
A number of different types of Infant Feeding Pillow have been developed to address many of the
identified challenges of infant feeding with different pillow configurations, designs and materials.
The majority of these have some form of limitation in terms of their efficacy in addressing the many
challenges of infant feeding, their usability, and robustness, the suitability and type of materials
used, their portability, launder ability and physical construction. The methodology of use of many
designs has the potential to lead to health related issues if the infant feeding pillow is accidently
dropped on a soiled floor during feeding and reused before being laundered.
Pillows on which to rest one's head are common place and are of multiple types and design however
the majority are designed for single purpose (i.e. a pillow on a bed, a pillow on a couch, headrest
pillow on an aircraft). Single purpose pillows have long been used to elevate limbs to aid in the
recovery from injury, exertion, and post-surgery or other health related symptoms with varying
degrees of success.
The Mamma-pillo has been designed to meet the challenging requirements of infant feeding along
with, but not limited to, providing a pillow that can be equally used as a comfort and support pillow
in multiple settings.
Mamma-pillo Specification V2.0                                                                      Page 1

Technical features
 Materials used throughout the Mamma-pillo have been chosen due to their composition and
 manufacture reducing green-house emissions and contributing to environmental sustainability.
Two Pillows are included in the Twin Pillow Casing to ease the burden of laundering and reduce
drying time. Each Pillow is created using a single rectangular piece of fabric (Fig 1.). The fabric is
folded back on top of itself to form a square (Fig 2.). Three sides of the square are then sewn to
create a seam along each side (Fig 2. E to F, G to H and I to J). The case isthen turned inside out.
 Fibre fill is then inserted evenly into each Pillow (Fig 3). To promote good hygiene and provide
sufficient comfort and support, the internal casing capacity of the Pillow and the amount of fibre fill
 inserted allow for efficient drying after laundering while maintaining the comfort and support level
 required for the overall design. The open end of the case is then closed by sewing a seam along its
side (Fig 4. K to L).
The Twin Pillow Casing is created using one square piece of fabric (Fig 5) folded in half, creating a
 rectangle (Fig 6). The long sides are then overlocked together creating an open ended casing (Fig 6. A
to B). The casing isthen turned inside out and the overlocked join is concealed within a "French
Seam" (Fig 7. C to D). The casing is then turned right side out. The raw cut ends of the casing are
then separately turned twice and hemmed flat (around the circumference of each end) (Fig 8. E to F
and G to H). The casing which is now a tube isthen flattened out on the bench and a vertical row of
stitching is sewn across the centre to create square twin pockets in the casing for insertion of the
 Pillows (Fig 8. I to J). (The finished internal size of each pocket is approximately the same size as the
finished Pillow Casing [before fibre fill inserted] to provide softly rounded edges to thefinished Twin
Pillow assembly) The open ends of the casing are now brought together and the inner sides of each
end are sewn together using a "double finished" invisible seam (Fig 9. KM to LN). To strengthen the
Twin Pillow Casing pockets and provide a stop to ensure retention of the Pillows within each pocket,
a small seam is sewn on each side of the opening (Fig 9. Q to R) and (Fig 9. S to T), shown "outside
 in" for ease of depiction. The two Pillows (Fig 9. Y and Fig 10. Z)) are then inserted into the pockets
of the Twin Pillow Casing (Fig.9. 0 and Fig 10. P) creating the illusion of a seamless cylindrical pillow
with two open ends and uniform distribution of fibre fill along its length (Fig 10.). The sewn seam
 hems ensure all raw material edges and overlocking thread is concealed, preventing snagging of
thread and fabric during normal use and wash cycles.
The Outer Cover is a single rectangular piece of fabric (Not reversible) (Fig 12.). A French seam is
sewn along the horizontal sides of the Outer Cover (Fig 12. A to B) to join the two horizontal sides
together and create an open ended cylinder (Fig 13. AB). An overlocked and twice turned machine
felled hem (for insertion of an elastic strip) is sewn at each end of the Outer Cover (Fig 13. C to D & E
to F) creating a robust, neat and flat hem with only the straight top machine stitching visible. An
elastic strip (Fig 14. G) is then threaded through the hem. The two ends of the elastic strip (Fig 14. H
& I) are sewn together creating a gathered "Cuff" at each end of the Outer Cover (Fig 14. J and K)to
 retain the completed Twin Pillow Casing in place (Fig. 15). The elastic strip can be easily removed
and replaced with a shorter or longer strip as may be required by the wearer to cater for different
 limb sizes.
The Twin Pillow Casing (complete with Pillows) is then inserted inside the Outer Cover to complete
assembly of the Mamma-pillo (Fig 16).
 Mamma-pillo Specification V2.0                                                                       Page 2

The Mamma-pillo comes standard with an additional Outer Cover to enable one to be in use while
the other is being laundered. (Additional covers can be purchased separately)
Mamma-pillo Specification V2.0                                                            Page 3

<removed-date>
                       Editorial Note
                       <removed-apn>
              There are five pages of drawings only
<removed-apn>

<removed-date>
                      A                  B
              i 
                                               C
<removed-apn>
                                               D
                              F 
              i    G              i 
                 E               
                                     F e
                                     e te
                 I               J
                      H
                          K
              i 
                          L

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
              Tw   iiw a 
                  F                                   F
                                                                      A
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
                                    !"                  !"          B
                  F                                  F
                                                         E                I             G
                  C                             D
                                                                          J             H
                  F               K                          M
                       Y       Q                                                Z
                               R
                      P                O                                 P
                               S
                               
                                        L                      N
                                                               ttc o 
                  F 

<removed-date>
              Fi                             Fi 
              A                     A             D          F
                                            A                    A
<removed-apn>
                           
                                                  C          E
              Fi 
                       G
                       H        I
                                        J                K
              Fi 

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
               Fig. 

