                                                11
ABSTRACT
A seat belt locking device (10) for a child car seat prevents relative movement of a
typical automotive seat belt system, thereby maintaining tension upon the seat belt
(8A) after the child car seat is installed to the vehicle. The device (10) described herein
consists of a body (1) upon which pressure is applied and one or more keels (2)
protruding from the body (1) inserted into the motor vehicle seat belt buckle tongue
aperture (7) to prevent movement of the webbing strap (8A) through the buckle
tongue aperture (7).

                1/3
       12B          2
10                  2
       Figure 1
   Figure 2
   2C
   Figure 3

                                                 1
              Locking Device for Maintaining Seat Belt Tension on a Child Car Seat
    RELATED APPLICATION
 5 The present application is divided from Australian Patent Application No. <removed-apn>,
   which claims priority from Australian Provisional Patent application number
   2015904035, filed 05/10/2015. The entire contents of both No. <removed-apn> and of No.
   2015904035 are incorporated herein by reference.
10 FIELD OF THE INVENTION
   The present invention relates to a locking device for a vehicle seat belt securing a child
   car seat in the vehicle.
15 BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
   When a child rides in a motor vehicle, the law normally requires that the child travels
   in an approved child car seat appropriate for that child's size. Many child car seats are
   secured to the vehicle's seat by the corresponding seat belt for that seating position in
20 the vehicle. The common method involves threading the tongue of the vehicle seat
   belt through a provided path in the child car seat, inserting it into the vehicle seat belt
   buckle and then tensioning the belt. With a lap belt only seat belt system, tension is
   achieved by pulling the vehicle seat belt strap through an adjuster mechanism. With
   the more common combination lap and shoulder type belt system, the vehicle seat
25 belt is locked with an inertial type stopper that only activates during times of sudden
   acceleration or deceleration. In many situations the nature of the inertia type seat belt
   allows the tension of a vehicle seat belt securing a child car seat to reduce over time.
   In the event of a sudden deceleration, as occurs in a vehicle impact, any slack in the
30 vehicle seat belt will permit at least some forward travel of the child safety seat,
   resulting in potentially harmful shock loads for both the child car seat and, more
   importantly, its occupant. This slack may arise from normal use of the motor vehicle

                                                 2
   due to the adjustable nature of the inertia type seat belts.
   There are existing devices currently available that convert the lap sash seat vehicle belt
   to a single belt length which isthen used to retain the child car seat. These devices in
 5 the main are regarded as being difficult to install, adjust or remove. The consequence
   of this isthat such devices often will not be used in a way that achieves their intended
   purpose.
   Therefore, there is a need to provide a device for securing the lap portion of lap and
10 shoulder type vehicle seatbelts while under tension when used to secure a child car
   seat that is simple to install, adjust or remove. It is against this background that the
   present invention has been developed.
   Other objects and advantages of the present invention will become apparent from the
15 following description, taken in connection with the accompanying drawings, wherein,
   by way of illustration and example, an embodiment of the present invention is
   disclosed.
   The above descriptions of other inventions are of a general nature only to provide an
20 understanding of the present invention.
   STATEMENT OF THE INVENTION
25 In one aspect, the invention provides a seat belt locking device for locking a vehicle
   seat belt. The locking device includes a body and at least one keel projecting from a
   surface of the body.
   Preferably, the body and the keel are integral parts. However, it isachievable to form
30 the locking device from more than on part.
   In one embodiment, the keel extends at a 90 degree angle from the surface of the

                                                3
   body.
   The locking device may include a circular or disc shaped body and a wedge shaped
   keel. For example, the keel may include side walls which taper away from the body.
 5
   The locking device may include surface contours to assist in maintaining vehicle seat
   belt tension. In one embodiment the keel may include fins or corrugations, and in
   another embodiment the keel may be treated with sticky material.
10 Preferably, the locking device is a single component formed from a combination of
   plastic and/or rubber or any other suitable material designed to compress into the
   aperture for a tight fit.
   The locking device is adapted to be used in conjunction with a vehicle seat belt and a
15 child safety seat.
   In one form, the device is operated by pressure applied to the body of the locking
   device to insert the keel into the vehicle seat belt buckle tongue aperture.
20 In one form at least one keel of the device may not necessarily be centrally located nor
   perpendicular to the surface of the body.
   In one form at least one keel of the device may operate as an anchorage location for a
   secondary device to the vehicle seat belt buckle tongue.
25
   In one form the locking effect is achieved by the wedging action of at least one keel
   against the webbing strap within the vehicle seat belt buckle tongue aperture.
   In one embodiment the lap portion of the vehicle lap sash seat belt is maintained at a
30 substantially fixed length.

                                                4
  In a second aspect, the invention provides a seat belt locking device for locking a
  vehicle seat belt and securing a child safety seat to a vehicle seat upon installation of
  the child safety seat, the vehicle seat belt including a tongue, a buckle and a webbing
  strap locatable about the child safety seat; the locking device including:
              a body; and
              a wedge-shaped keel projecting substantially perpendicularly from the
              body, the keel having a tip and a thickness decreasing towards the tip;
          wherein:
             the locking device is configured such that in a locked position:
                          the body is positioned adjacent an aperture of the tongue;
                          the keel isfirmly positioned within the aperture of the tongue;
                          the keel bears against the webbing strap without the webbing
                          strap being inserted in the keel;
                          the body bears against the webbing strap;
                          the locking device secures the child safety seat to the vehicle
                          seat by restricting movement of the webbing strap relative to
                          the tongue aperture; and
  and in an unlocked position, the locking device is separate from the vehicle seat belt.
  Preferably, the device includes one and only one keel.
5
  The webbing strap preferably includes a sash portion and a lap portion.

                                                      5
   Preferably, the keel and the body are integral parts. The keel may include a base and
   side walls, the side walls tapering away from the base.
   The locking device may include two or more keels projecting from the body in a single
 5 keel plane.
   The keel may include an uneven surface contour. Preferably, the uneven surface
   contour includes ridges extending between opposing edges.
10
   BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
   The invention is described, by way of a non-limiting exemplary embodiment with the
   assistance of drawings wherein:
15
   Figure 1 isa perspective view of aseat belt locking device in accordance with the invention;
   Figure 2 is a side view of the locking device of Figure 1;
20 Figure 3 is a front view of the locking device of Figure 1;
   Figure 4 is a view of the keel of a variation of the locking device of Figure 1 aligned to a seat
   belt buckle tongue aperture during insertion;
25 Figure 5 is a view of the locking device of Figure 4 in situ;
   Figure 6 is a view of the locking device of Figure 1 using the keel as an anchor; and

                                                 6
   Figure 7 is a front view of another embodiment of the locking device having multiple
   keels for ease of insertion, and surface contours to provide additional grip.
   It will be appreciated that the embodiment shown in Figures 4 and 5 differs from that
   in Figure 1 to 3 in that the body is disc-shaped in Figures 1 to 3 but rectangular in
 5 Figures 4 and 5
   DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
   Figures 1 & 2 illustrate a seat belt locking device 10 in accordance with one
   embodiment of the present invention. The locking device 10 is adapted for use in
10 conjunction with a vehicle seat belt and a child safety seat (not shown). The locking
   device 10 includes a body 1 and a keel 2 which projects from the body 1.
   The locking device 10 may be formed from a combination of plastic and/or rubber or
   any other suitable material. Preferably, the material is designed for a compressed fit
   to secure, or lock the seat belt.
15
   The vehicle seat belt includes a webbing strap 8, 8A, a tongue portion 3, and a buckle
   portion 4. The tongue portion 3 includes an aperture 7 configured to receive the
   webbing strap 8A to form sash portion 5 and lap portion 6. The tongue portion 3 is
   insertable within the buckle portion 4. Figure 5 illustrates the tongue portion 3 having
20 been inserted into the buckle portion 4.
   The keel 2 has a generally rectangular base 2A with side walls 2B extending away from
   the base 2A and tapering to form a wedge shape. The wedge shape allows the keel 2
   to be firmly positioned within the aperture 7 of the tongue portion 3. The keel 2
25 restricts movement of the webbing strap 8A relative to the tongue portion 3 resulting
   in a locking effect.

                                                 7
   As best seen in Figures 2 and 3, the keel 2 projects substantially perpendicularly from
   the body 1. It will be understood however that alternative angles of incline to the
   body 1 may also be suitable. For example 70 degrees may also be suitable. Preferably,
   the long edge 2C of the keel 2 is substantially parallel to the body 1 however; the long
 5 edge 2C may be non-parallel to the body 1 in other embodiments of the invention.
   Figure 3 illustrates the device 10 with a single keel 2 however this does not preclude
   the device 10 from having multiple keels to facilitate easier insertion and still fall
   within the scope of the invention.
10
   Figures 1& 2 show one keel 2 substantially at a right angle to the body Ihowever this
   does not restrict the locking device 10 from having alternative angles of incline to the
   body 1.Referring to Figure 4 once the tongue portion 3 is locked into the buckle
   portion 4 and the webbing strap 8A is adjusted to the correct length, the locking device
15 10 is positioned by inserting the keel 2 into the aperture 7 of the buckle tongue 3 in
   the direction of arrow A.As best seen in Figure 4 the wedge shaped keel 2 is inserted
   into the aperture 7 to lock the lap belt 6 at the desired length so it istightly secured to
   hold the child car seat (not shown) in position on the vehicle seat (not shown). The
   vehicle seat belt buckle 4 is attached to the webbing strap 8 whilst the seat belt buckle
20 tongue 3 is connected to the vehicle seat belt buckle 4. The sash portion 5 of the
   vehicle seat belt is connected to the inertia reel of the vehicle (not shown) and
   tensioned as per normal.
   Figure 6 illustrates the locking device 10 in situ with the keel 2 being used as an
25 anchorage location for a secondary seat belt related device 9 such as a cover for the
   seat belt release button 9A. The cover 9 may be used to prevent the accidental release
   of the button 9A.

                                                    8
     The keel 2 of the device 10 would pass through a slot 9B in the cover 9 to anchor it at
     the top and the adhesive would be used to fix the cover 9 to the seat belt buckle 4,
     thereby covering off the button 9A.
  5  Figure 7 illustrates another embodiment of the locking device 10. The locking device
     10 includes a pair of keels 2 projecting from the body 1. The locking device 10 works in
    the same manner as a single keel; however, the pair of keels 2 provides more flexibility
    to positioning the locking device 10.
10   Referring still to Figure 7, each keel 2 is substantially at a right angles to the body 1. It
    would be understood that other angles may also be suitable. Each keel 2 includes a
    surface contour having ridges 11 to provide additional grip. Other surface contours are
    also envisioned.
15  It will be appreciated by those skilled in the art that many modifications and variations
    may be made to the methods of the invention described herein without departing
    from the spirit and the scope of the invention.
    Orientational terms used in the specifications such as vertical, horizontal, top, bottom,
20  upper and lower are to be interpreted as relational and are based on the premise that
    the component, item, article, apparatus, device or instrument will usually be
    considered in a particular orientation, typically with the device uppermost.
25

                                                  9
   CLAIMS
   1.   A seat belt locking device for locking a vehicle seat belt and securing a child safety
        seat to a vehicle seat upon installation of the child safety seat, the vehicle seat belt
        including a tongue, a buckle and a webbing strap locatable about the child safety
 5      seat;
        the locking device including:
             a body; and
             a wedge-shaped keel projecting substantially perpendicularly from the body,
             the keel having a tip and a thickness decreasing towards the tip;
10       wherein:
             the locking device is configured such that in a locked position:
                         the body is positioned adjacent an aperture of the tongue;
                         the keel is firmly positioned within the aperture of the tongue;
                         the keel bears against the webbing strap without the webbing strap
15                       being inserted in the keel;
                         the body bears against the webbing strap;
                         the locking device secures the child safety seat to the vehicle seat
                         by restricting movement of the webbing strap relative to the
                         tongue aperture; and
20            in an unlocked position, the locking device is separate from the vehicle seat
              belt.

                                            10
   2. The locking device of claim 1, wherein the keel includes a base and side walls, the
      side walls tapering away from the base.
   3. The locking device of claim 1 or 2, wherein the keel includes an uneven surface
 5    contour which includes ridges extending between opposing edges.
   4. The locking device of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the keel is made
      from a material suitable to allow the keel to be compressed into the aperture for a
      tight fit in the locked position.
10
   5. The locking device of any one of the preceding claims, when combined with a
      secondary vehicle seat-belt related device, being a cover for a release button for
      the vehicle seat belt.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
