                                      ABSTRACT
The present invention discloses vanadium-based insulin-mimetic agent composite
coatings, application of these coatings onto implantable devices, and use of the
implantable devices for accelerating osseous healing. The invention also
encompasses methods of manufacturing implantable devices coated with
vanadium-based insulin- mimetic agent composite coatings and the implantable
devices so manufactured. The implantable devices have wide applications,
including but not limited to treating bone fracture, bone trauma, arthrodesis, and
other bone deficit conditions, as well as bone injuries incurred in military and
sports activities.

                                                 1
          IMPLANTABLE DEVICES COATED WITH INSULIN-MIMETIC AGENT
                          COMPOSITES AND METHODS THEREOF
   FIELD OF THE INVENTION
 5         The present invention relates to compositions comprising vanadium compounds as
   insulin-mimetic agents, application of such insulin-mimetic agent composite surface
   coatings upon implantable devices, the implantable devices coated with such insulin
   mimetic agent composite surface coatings, and methods of using these implantable
   devices for accelerating bone fracture or osseous healing.
10
   BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
           Diabetic osteopathy, one of the complications of long-standing, poorly controlled
   diabetes, leads to diminished bone formation, retardation of bone healing, and
   osteoporosis. Bone mineral density (BMD) and biomechanical integrity are referential
15 predictors of fracture, and patients with type 1 diabetes incur a higher incidence of
   fractures compared to healthy individuals. Therefore, BMD and histomorphometry were
   used to evaluate the potential of drugs to prevent the osteopenia associated with type 1
   diabetes (Bain S, et al., Bone, 1997; 21(2):147-153; Suzuki K, et al., Bone, 2003;
   33(1):108-114). The structural integrity of the femur or tibia was also examined in order
20 to evaluate the biomechanical consequences of diabetes (Reddy GK, et al., Diabetes Res.
   Clin. Pract., 2001; 54(l):1-8).
           In recent years, the potential use of vanadium as an alternative or adjunct
   treatment for glycemia control of diabetes has been examined (Poucheret P, et al., Mol.
   Cell. Biochem., 1998; 188(1-2):73-80). For example, vanadyl acetylacetonate (also called
25 bis(acetylacetonate)oxovanadium(IV), VO(acac) 2, or VAC) has demonstrated insulin-

   mimetic effects in studies of type 1 and type 2 diabetic animals (e{g, Crans DC, J. Inorg.
   Biochem., 2000; 80(1-2):123-131) and humans (e.g,, Goldfine AB, et al., Mol. Cell.
   Biochem., 1995; 153(1-2):217-231) and prevented some of the associated complications
   of diabetes in animal studies (e.g., Bhanot S, et al., Mol. Cell. Biochem., 1995; 153(1
 5 2):205-209). Additional pharmacological activities of VAC studied include the inhibition
   of gluconeogenesis    (Kiersztan A, Biochem. Pharmacol., 2002; 63(7):1371-1382), a
   decrease in glutamate dehydrogenase activity (Kiersztan A, et al., Pharmacol. Toxicol.
   1998;82(4):167-172), and antilipolysis (Li J, et al., Endocrinology, 1997; 138(6):2274
   2279).
10         Several studies have demonstrated VAC improved the ultimate strength, Tb,Th,
   MAR, and plasma osteocalcin in diabetic rats; however, VAC did not affect any bone
   parameters in norrnal rats in this non-injury and non fracture model of bone homeostasis
   (Facchini DM, et al., Bone, 2006; 38(3):368-377; Zhang SQ, et al., J. Bone Miner. Metab.,
   2007; 25(5):293-301). The results from an in vitro model using osteoblast-like cells
15 showed that vanadium exerted biphasic effects: a low concentration of vanadium
   stimulated osteoblast proliferation and differentiation, but a high concentration inhibited
   these effects (Bain S, et al., Bone, 1997; 21(2):147-153; Cortizo AM, et al., Toxicology,
   2000; 147(2):89-99; Cortizo AM, et al., Eur. J. Pharmacol., 2000; 400(2-3):279-285;
   Cortizo AM and Etcheverry SB, Mol. Cell. Biochem., 1995; 145(2):97-102; Suzuki K, et
20 al., Bone, 2003; 33(1):108-114). In vio studies indicate that vanadium therapy can
   improve bone quality in diabetic animal models (Facchini DM, et al., Bone, 2006;
   38(3):368-377;    Zhang SQ, et al.,     J. Bone Miner. Metab. 2007; 25(5):293-301).
   However, in vivo evaluation data on bone fracture healing in the presence of vanadium are
   still unavailable, and no evaluation of vanadium composite as a surface coating on
25 orthopedic devices for bone fracture healing or other bone regenerative processes has been
   performed.
   SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
           The present invention provides insulin-mimetic vanadium composites as surface
   coatings on orthopedic devices and methods of using such coated devices for accelerating
                                                 2

                                                  3
   osseous healing or other bone regenerative processes. The methods can accelerate bone
   regeneration by stimulating insulin signaling at a fracture site.
           In one aspect the present invention provides an implantable orthopaedic device
   coated by a composite surface coating comprising an insulin-mimetic agent. The insulin
 5 mimetic agent is preferably a vanadium compound, more preferably an organovanadium
   compound. The coating may comprise (V0 4 ) 3 species.
           In another aspect the present invention provides an insulin-mimetic agent
   composite surface coating for implantable devices, the coating preferably comprising a
   vanadium compound and more preferably comprising an organovanadium compound.
10 The coating may comprise (V0 4 )3- species.
           In another aspect the present invention provides use of an insulin-mimetic agent
   composite surface coating for manufacture of implantable devices, the insulin-mimetic
   agent comprising a vanadium compound, preferably an organovanadium compound.
           In another aspect the present invention provides a method of promoting bone
15 healing in a patient in need thereof, comprising treating the patient with an implantable device
   coated by a composite surface coating comprising an insulin-mimetic agent. The insulin
   mimetic agent is preferably a vanadium compound, more preferably an organovanadium
   compound. The agent may comprise (V0 4 ) 3 species.
           In another aspect the present invention provides a method of making an
20 implantable device, the method comprising coating an implant device with an insulin
   mimetic agent composite.      The insulin-mimetic agent is preferably an organovanadium
   compound. The agent may comprise (V0 4 ) 3- species.
           This invention, based on a novel concept, provides a significant paradigm shift
   from the present Orthopedic implant technology by providing a unique Vanadium
25 composite surface coating upon Orthopedic devices.             The methods of the present
   invention are applicable to devices including, but not limited to, plates, rods, screws,
   implants, arthroplasty implants or orthopedic devices utilized to stabilize fractures,
   osseous    defects or tendon osseous junction in conjunction with the use of
   allograft/autograft or orthopedic biocomposite.

            This invention is able not only to improve the material properties of the implant
   (by improving the surface hardness) but also to accelerate bone regeneration by the
   Vanadium composite surface coating of orthopedic device.
            The coated "device" of the present invention can take any suitable forms,
 5 including but not limited to plates, rods, screws, implants, arthroplasty implants or
   orthopedic devices utilized to stabilize fractures, osseous defects, to treat delayed union/
   non union, for allograft/ autograft incorporation, or tendon/ligament osseous junction
   healing as well as allograft/autograft or orthopedic biocomposite incorporation.
            Surface modification of the orthopedic implants provides significant advantages
10 including, but not limited to, ease of use, improved material properties, simple
   sterilization protocols, lack of storage (i.e., refrigeration) needs, and ability to use existing
   orthopedic devices made out of titanium, zirconium, cobalt-chrome, stainless steel, and
   other specialty metals or their alloys to achieve accelerated bone regeneration by coating
   the devices with a unique Vanadium composite.
15          These and other aspects of the present invention will be better appreciated by
   reference to the following drawings and detailed description.
   BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
            Figure 1 represents post-operative X-ray photographs taken immediately post
   operation. (A) Einhorn model, (B) model used in this invention. (Note in (B): the
20 Kirschner wire is going through the trochanter, which helps to stabilize the fracture site
   and prevent migration of the Kirschner wire).
            Figure 2 illustrates a Mechanical Testing Setup: (A) intact femur before embedded
   in     inch square nut with Field's Metal, (B) intact femur embedded in hex nut and
   mounted in the mechanical testing apparatus, (C) intact femur mounted in the mechanical
25 testing apparatus after torsional testing, (D) intact femur after torsional testing, (E)
   fractured femur after torsional testing showing spiral fracture indicative of healing, (F)
   fractured femur after torsional testing showing non-spiral fracture indicative of non-union.
                                                    4

           Figure 3 contains four-week micro-CT images of surface modified rods: (A) boron
   coated control rod group; (B) 0.6 mg/Kg vanadium-boron coated rod group.
           Figure 4 illustrates results of the vanadium content of the surface-modified rods
   from analysis of locally-bound vanadium pre-implantation within surgical Kirschner wire.
 5         Figure 5 contains a scanning electron microscope (SEM) image of Ti6Al4V
   implant as visualized under SEM at 12.7x (scale 1 mm).
           Figure 6 contains analysis results of a first Ti6Al4V implant sample using
   scanning electron microscope (SEM) and energy-dispersive X-ray spectroscopy (EDX):
   (A) SEM image as visualized under SEM at 73.5x (scale 100 pm); and (B) the results of
10 EDX elemental analysis weight and atomic percentages.
           Figure 7 contains analysis results of a second Ti6Al4V implant sample using
   scanning electron microscope (SEM) and energy-dispersive X-ray spectroscopy (EDX):
   (A) SEM image as visualized under SEM at 73.0x (scale 100 pm); and (B) the results of
   EDX elemental analysis weight and atomic percentages.
15 DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
           The present invention relates to implantable devices coated with insulin-mimetic
   agents, in particular vanadium compounds or compositions thereof, and use of these
   implantable devices for treatment of bone fractures.
           Although insulin or insulin-like growth factor treatment can be used to stimulate
20 fracture healing in both diabetic and healthy, non-diabetic animal models (Gandhi A, et
   al,   Bone, 2005; 37(4):482-490;       Gandhi A, et al., Bone, 2006; 38(4):540-546),
   development of a therapy using vanadium-coated implantable devices would obviate the
   need for developing specialized methods to deliver growth factors and thereby reduce
   costs associated with therapy, eliminate specialized storage, and enhance ease of use.
25         Thus, in one aspect the present invention provides an implantable device coated by
   a composite surface coating comprising an insulin-mimetic agent.
                                                 5

           In one embodiment of this aspect, the insulin-mimetic agent composite coating
   comprises a vanadium compound. Vanadium compounds suitable for the present
   invention can be those of vanadium (III), (IV), or (V), especially (IV) or (V), for example,
   in the form of vanadate (Vs), e.g., VO , or in the form of vanadyl (Vt') compounds,
 5 e.g., vanadyl sulfate (VOS04).       Although use of the vanadium compounds described
   previously for the treatment of diabetes are especially preferred, other physiologically
   tolerable vanadium salts or complexes, either inorganic or organic, can be used.
           In a preferred embodiment the insulin-mimetic agent is an organovanadium
   compound.      The organovanadium compounds have a structure of formula VOL 2 or
10 VO(OR)L 2 , wherein L is a bidentate monoprotic ligand, and R is an organic group. The
   bidentate monoprotic ligand can be, for example, a hydroxamate, thiohydroxamate., 2,4
   dione. a-hydroxypyrone, a-hydroxypyridinone, or other bidentate monoprotic groups. R
   is selected from C1 -C6 alkyl, phenyl, benzy4 or C2-C6 alkenyl group, each optionally
   substituted by one to three substituents independently selected from hydroxyl, C 1 -C 4 alkyl,
15 and halogen.
           In a more preferred embodiment the insulin-mimetic agent is selected from the
   group consisting of vanadyl acetylacetonate (VAC), vanadyl sulfate (VS), vanadyl 3
   ethyl acetylacetonate (VET). and bis(maltolato)oxovanadium (B MOV).
           In another embodiment the implantable device is selected from the group
20 consisting of plates, rods, screws, implants, arthroplasty implants, and orthopedic devices.
           In another preferred embodiment the implantable device is a bone implant.
           In another aspect the present invention provides an insulin-mimetic agent
   composite surface coating for implantable devices, the coating comprising a vanadium
   compound,
25         In one embodiment the insulin-mimetic agent comprises an organovanadium
   compound.
                                                  6

           In a preferred embodiment the insulin-mimetic agent is selected from the group
   consisting of vanadyl acetylacetonate        (VAC),     vanadyl sulfate     (VS),  vanadyl    3
   ethylacetylacetonate (VET), and bis(maltolato)oxovanadium (B MOV).
           In another aspect the present invention provides use of an insulin-mimetic agent
 5 composite surface coating for manufacture of an implantable device, the insulin-mimetic
   agent comprising a vanadiurn compound, preferably an organovanadium compound.
           In another aspect the present invention provides a method of promoting bone
   healing in a patient in need thereof, comprising treating the patient with an implantable device
   coated by a composite surface coating comprising an insulin-mimetic agent. The insulin
10 mimetic agent is preferably an organovanadium compound according to any embodiments
   described herein.
           In one embodiment of this aspect, the insulin-mimetic agent comprises a vanadium
   cornpound.
           In a preferred embodiment the insulin-mimetic agent is an organovanadium
15 compound.
           In a more preferred embodiment the insulin-mimetic agent is an organovanadium
   compound selected from the group consisting of vanadyl acetylacetonate (VAC), vanadyl
   sulfate (VS),    vanadyl 3-ethylacetylacetonate     (VET), and bis(maltolato)oxovanadium
   (BMOV), In a most preferred embodiment the insulin-mimetic agent is VAC.
20         In another embodiment the implantable device is selected from the group consisting
   of plates, rods, screws, implants, arthroplasty implants, and orthopedic devices.
           In a preferred embodiment the implantable device is a bone implant.
           The present invention is suitable for bone healing in any patients afflicted with a
   bone condition selected from the group consisting of bone fracture, bone trauma,
25 arthrodesis, and a bone deficit condition associated with post-traunatic bone surgery, post
   prosthetic   joint   surgery,  post-plastic   bone    surgery,    post-dental   surgery,   bone
                                                  7

   chemotherapy treatment, congenital bone loss, post traumatic bone loss, post surgical bone
   loss, post infectious bone loss, allograft incorporation or bone radiotherapy treatment.
            In another embodiment of this aspect, the treatment method is used in conjunction
   with administration of a cytotoxic agent, cytokine or growth inhibitory agent,
 5          In another embodiment the method is used in conjunction with administration of a
   bioactive bone agent.
            In another embodiment the method is used for treatment of fractures, osseous
   defects, delayed union or non-union, allograft/autograft incorporation or tendon/ligament
   osseous junction.
10          In another embodiment the method is used in conjunction with an allograft/autograft
   or orthopedic biocomposite.
            In another embodiment the patient is a mammalian animal.
            In a preferred embodiment the patient is a human.
            In another preferred embodiment the patient is a non-diabetic human patient.
15          In another aspect the present invention provides a method of making an implantable
   device, the method comprising coating an implant device with an insulin-mimetic agent
   composite.
            In one embodiment the insulin-mimetic agent is an organovanadium compound.
            In a preferred embodiment the insulin-mimetic agent is selected from the group
20 consisting    of vanadyl    acetylacetonate    (VAC),    vanadyl   sulfate (VS),   vanadyl 3
   ethylacetylacetonate (VET), and bis(maitol ato)oxovanadium (MOV).
            In another embodiment the implantable device is selected from the group
   consisting of plates, rods, screws, implants, arthroplasty implants, and orthopedic devices.
            In another preferred embodiment the implantable device is a bone implant.
                                                    8

           In any of the aspects of the present invention described above, other suitable
   organovanadium compounds include, but are not limited to, those disclosed in U.S. Patent
   Nos. 5,300,496; 5,527,790; 5,620,967; 5,688,784; 5,866,563; 5,888,993 and 6,268,357 to
   JI McNeill and C. Orvig et al., all of which are hereby incorporated by reference. The
 5 complexes, most of which are vanadyl hydroxamates or thiohydroxamates, include, but
   are not limited to bis(kojato)oxovanadium(IV) (vanadyl Kojate) (Kojic acid =2-hydroxy
   methyl-5-hvdroxv-y-pyrone);      bis(3-oxv- ,2 -dimethyl-4-pyridinonato)-oxovanadium(IV)
   (VO(dpp) 2);       bis(2-hydroxym ethyl-5-oxy-I -methyl-4-pyridi nonato)-oxovanadium( IV)
   (VO(hmp)2); bis[2-(2'-oxyphenyl)-2-oxazolinato]-oxovanadium(IV)         (VO(oz)2); bis[2-(2'
10 oxyphenyl)-2-thiazolinato]-oxovanadium( IV)        (V0t )2),        bis(benzohvdroxamato)
   oxovanadium(IV)           (VO(bz)2);     bis(benzohydroxamato)-methoxooxovana dium(V)
   (VO(OCH 3 )(bz)2);     bis(benzohvdrox amato )ethoxooxovanadium(V)        (VO(OC2H )(bz)2);
   bis(salicylaldehyde)-oxovanadium(IV) (VO(Sal)2); ammonium bis(maltolato)- dioxovana
   date; bis(ethylmaltolato)oxovanadium(IV) (VO(ema) 2) and EthyIBMOV).
15         Suitable organovanadiun      complexes also include oxovanadium(IV)-biguanide
   complexes and derivatives as described in UTS 6,287,586 to Orvig and McNeill, which is
   hereby incorporated by reference, for example, oxovanadium(IV) bigu anide (VO(big)2),
   oxovanadium(IV)        metformin     (VO(met)2)    and     oxova nadium(iV)      phenformin
   (VO(phen)2)).
20         Suitable organovanadium compounds also include vanadyl cysteine complexes
   disclosed in EP Patent No, 305,264 to Lazaro et al. or in JP-A-2-2/2922 17 to Komatsu et
   al., both of which are hereby incorporated by reference.           These vanadyl cysteine
   complexes were described to be used for oral treatment of diabetes,
           Optionally, and sometimes preferably, the method of the present invention is used
25 in conjunction with local administration of a same or different vanadium-based insulin
   mimetic agent as disclosed in U.S. Provisional Application No. 61/295,243, filed January
   15, 2010, and PCT Application No. PCT/US2011/021296, filed January 14, 2011, both of
   which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety for all purposes.
                                                 9

           Although the present invention is not limited by any theory, an insulin-mimetic
   coating on an implantable device of the present invention would result in a different
   biodistribution from that of a local solution intramedullary injection method. In addition,
   the present invention provides benefits including, among others, a) directed local delivery;
 5 b) less risk of systemic release into the blood stream or drug system collapse; c) less
   complications of soft tissue/bony alterations as less effect on the contiguous tissue; and d)
   lower dosage required to achieve goals of bone healing acceleration.
           Current simple and comminuted fracture treatment relies upon restoring the bone's
   anatomy and stabilizing the fractured bone until the body is able to heal the fracture with
10 newly produced bone. Adjuncts to this basic procedure such as a method to significantly
   enhance bone regeneration while maintaining appropriate blood flow and preventing
   infection have the potential to revolutionize this field. Osseous agents such as Vanadium
   compounds can enhance fracture callus strength by exploiting the healing responsiveness
   of insulin pathways. A therapy of this non-protein agent coated on implantable devices
15 has a minimal possibility of infection or systemic consequences associated with systemic
   treatments.
           Preliminary data has indicated that local Vanadium treatment is an effective
   method to treat non-diabetic patients who sustain fractures. Mechanical parameters and
   microradiography revealed that bone has bridged at 4 weeks post fracture. Spiral fractures
20 that occurred during mechanical testing reaffirm this phenomenon and suggest that local
   VAC application at the dosages tested without a carrier may heal bone more than twice as
   rapidly as saline controls. This evidence opens up many future applications to the use of
   VAC alone, or incorporated with a carrier as an option for fracture healing.
           One particular useful application of the present invention is, for example, in the
25 treatment of military injuries involving bone fractures.
           In the recent United States conflicts, significant improvements in personal body
   armor have led to fewer casualties. While this advancement in personal protection has
   reduced the number of mortalities, the morbidity of war, specifically a dramatically larger
                                                 10

   portion of battle-related injuries, has occurred in the extremities. Depending upon the
   level of energy, extremity fracture may range from simple closed fracture to large
   segmental defects with a significant bone and soft tissue loss evident. Battle-related
   fractures have very high complication rates (47% in one study) with delayed union and
 5 non-union in 31% of all the fractures followed (Pukljak D, J. Trauma., 1997; 43(2):275
   282). Many of these fractures occur in the extremities.       The kinetic energies of bullet
   wounds often severe due to the large amount of kinetic energy expends on the bone
   surface.
            Using principles learned from previous wars and the development of Level I
10 trauma centers, orthopedics care relies on the timely principles of restoration of anatomy,
   appropriate osseous stabilization, and the subsequent restoration of function. Potential
   adjuncts to this basic concept either through mechanical means (i.e. low intensity pulse
   ultrasound) or biological means (growth factors such as BMP-2 or the like) can lead to an
   acceleration of osseous healing with faster return to health and duty.
15          The high complication rate of severe military injuries with delayed union and non
   unions parallels the observations seen in the civilian population who have risk factors for
   impaired bone healing.       Risk factors include smoking, old age, steroid use, certain
   pharmaceuticals (i.e. anti-cancer drugs) and diabetes mellitus (DM).        Clearly, if one is
   able to solve the impaired osseous healing associated with high-risk populations, one
20 should be able to accelerate fracture healing in the normal, young, healthy soldiers with an
   insulin mimetic compound. The present invention provides such a solution that would at
   least partially solve the problem.
            Because up to 10% of the 6.2 million fractures sustained annually proceed to
   delayed union and non-union (Praemer A and Rice D, Am. Acad. Orhtop. Surg., 1992:85
25 124), development of an ideal osseous adjunct would ameliorate significant military issues
   and, to a greater extent, clinical challenges throughout the United States.
            The application of a unique Vanadium composite surface coating upon orthopedic
   devices at the fracture site can have even wider scope of applications. For example, the
                                                  11

   unique Vanadium composite           surface  coating upon Orthopedic       devices can find
   applications in treating both non-unions and delayed unions, for Orthopedic use in trauma
   settings, and in sports medicine to treat a variety of fractures including fatigue fractures
   and acute sports-related fractures, such as acute fractures incurred during athletic activities
 5 as a result of overloading bone (boot top tibial fractures in skiing) or from ligament to
   tendon avulsion (tibial tubercle avulsion during long jumping).         High school football
   injuries alone account for over 38,000 annual fractures (DeCoster TA, et al., Iowa Orthop.
   J., 1994; 14:81-84). Sports fractures include, but are not limited to, tibial (49%), femoral
   (7%), and tarsal (25%) fractures, which may differ depending on the individuals and
10 causes of injury. The present work examined a mid-diaphyseal fracture pattern, but it is
   likely that other fracture patterns would heal in the same fashion.
           The coatings of present invention can be formed by any methods known in the
   relevant   art,  for example,     without   limitation,  those  disclosed   in  Petrova    and
   Suwattananont, J. Electr. Mat., 2005; 34(5):575-582, and references cited therein. For
15 example, suitable methods include chemical vapor deposition (CVD), physical vapor
   deposition (PVD), thermochemical treatment, oxidation, and plasma spraying. A suitable
   coating of the present invention may also contain combinations of multiple, preferably
   two or three, layers obtained by forming first boron diffusion coating followed by CVD.
   Thermochemical treatment techniques have been well investigated and used widely in the
20 industry. This is a method by which nonmetals                or metals    are penetrated by
   thermodiffusion followed by chemical reaction into the surface. By thermochemical
   treatment, the surface layer changes its composition, structure, and properties.
           Other suitable coating techniques may include, but are not limited to, carburizing,
   nitriding, carbonitriding, chromizing, and aluminizing. Among these coating techniques,
25 boronizing, being a thermochemical process, is used to produce hard and wear-resistant
   surfaces. Thermal diffusion treatments of boron compounds used to form iron borides
   typically require process temperatures of 700-10000 C in either gaseous, solid, or salt
   media (Erdemir A and Bindal C, Surf Coating Technol., 1995; 76-77:443-449; Pengxun
   Y,. Thin Solid Films, 1992; 214, 44; Hu R, et al., Surf Coating Technol., 1990, 42:282).
                                                  12

   Boronizing is a process by which active boron atoms diffuse into the surface of substrate
   metal or alloy in order to produce a layer of borides. This treatment can be applied to
   ferrous materials, certain nonferrous materials such as titanium, tantalum, niobium,
   zirconium, molybdenum, nickel-based alloys, and cermets. Borides formed on steel
 5 surfaces increase their hardness (to about 2000 HV), wear resistance, and corrosion
   resistance. Diffusion boronizing forms boride layers on metal and steel with good surface
   performance. Other developments in boronizing include gas boronizing techniques such as
   fluidized bed boronizing and plasma boronizing. Physical vapor deposition and CVD,
   plasma spraying, and ion implantation are alternative non-thermochemical surface coating
10 processes for the deposition of boron or co-deposition of boron and metallic elements onto
   a suitable metallic on nonmetallic substrate material.
            As a person of ordinary skill in the art would understand, different coating
   techniques may be used to make the vanadium-based coatings and coated devices of the
   present invention in order to have desired properties suitable for the intended purposes.
15          One major concern related to the long-term administration of a vanadium
   compound is a significant vanadium accumulation in bones. The accumulation of
   vanadium, especially if given in a daily regimen, could potentially be toxic to bones and
   the marrow within, A pharnacokinetic study by Zhang, et al, (Zhang SQ, et al., J. Inorg.
   Biochem., 2005; 99(5):1064-1075) showed that while VAC was widely distributed to all
20 tissues, the greatest accumulation was within femur tissue, The average elimination half
   life values of VAC in femur tissue was 657.3 ± 77.9 h (27.4        3.2 days), similar to those
   of the other vanadium compounds. However, unlike other vanadium compounds which
   caused obvious signs of toxicity, such as diarrhea, VAC appeared to be better tolerated
   with no signs of toxicity after several days. Nevertheless, because of the limited current
25 work with VAC and other vanadium compounds, the tolerance for longer-term oral
   administration of VAC and its effects upon bone are still unknown.                 Therefore,
   quantification of VAC in several bones and tissues is being examined to determine the
   half-life of vanadium after a sing-le local dose.
                                                  13

           As shown below, the amount of vanadium (V) per application is down at the levels
   of approximately 280 p g/irnplantation (Table 1).
   Table 1. Analysis of surface coated rod for Vanadium content
 5
   Description                      SS-rod"             B-SS-rodb           V-B-SS-rod'
   Weight of rod (g)                0,2692              0 2713              0 2828
   Length of rod (mm)               40                  40                  40
   *Mean V pg/g                      725,7              391.3               1037.1
   StdDev V pg/g                     12.2               28.9                2
   V%                               0073                0039                0,104
   Mean V pg/mim                    4.9                 2.7                 7.3
   StdDev pg/mim                    0.08                0.2                 0.01
   a Stainless steel rod.
   bBoronized stainless steel
                              rod.
     VAC-3oronized Stainless steel rod.
10         Use of the vanadium-coated implantable devices of the present invention for
   treatment of bone fractures is advantageous also because of limited toxic effects of
   vanadium compounds, such as VAC.        Studies on the effects of accumulation of vanadium
   in other organ systems have revealed that VAC treatment does not impair the function or
   structure of kidney and liver (Zhang SQ, et al., J. Bone Miner. Metab., 2007; 25(5):293
15 301), which is consistent with study of vanadyl sulfate (Dai S, et al., Pharmacol. Toxicol.,
   1994; 74(2):101-109; Dai S, et al., Pharmacol. Toxicol.,             1994; 75(5):265-273).
   Nevertheless, examination of vanadium on other organs and systems is being evaluated in
   conjunction with the present invention to assess any toxicity issues of vanadium,
           Vanadium, which exists in +4 (vanadyl) and +5 (vanadate) compounds in the
20 biological body, have demonstrated poor absorption rates within the gastrointestinal (GI)
   tract and GI side-effects, such as diarrhea and vomiting. Thus, the present invention,
   through using vanadium composite-coated devices, provides a novel approach to
   overcome these shortcomings. In addition,         organic vanadium compounds, such as
                                                14

   vanadyl sulfate (VS), vanadyl 3-ethylacetylacetonate (VET), bis(maltolato)oxovanadium
   (BMOV), and vanadyl acetylacetonate (VAC) can increase safety, improve absorption,
   and reduce undesirable side effects associated with therapeutic vanadium. Therefore, the
   insulin-minetic organic vanadiurn compounds used in the present invention can further
 5 improve absorption and safety that may be associated with administration of vanadium
   compounds for healing bone fractures.
   EXAMPLES
   MATERIALS AND METHODS
10 The BB Wistar Rat Model
   Animal Source and Origin
           Diabetic Resistance (DR) BB Wistar rats used in the study were obtained from a
   breeding colony at UMDNJ-New Jersey Medical School (NJMS). The rats were housed
   under controlled environmental conditions and fed ad libitum.      All research protocols
15 were approved by the Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee at University of
   Medicine and Dentistry of New Jersey- New Jersey Medical School.
   DiabeticResistant BB WistarRats
           A total of 13 DR BB Wistar rats were utilized in the study.      Due to unstable
20 fixation of mechanical testing, one sample was removed. The remaining 12 animals were
   used for mechanical testing, distributed amongst the control saline (n=5), Boron coated
   rods (n=3) and Vanadium-Boron coated rods (n=4) groups.
   Closed Femoral Fracture Model
25         Surgery was performed in DR animals between ages 80 and 120 days, using a
   closed mid-diaphyseal fracture model, on the right femur as described previously (Beam
   HA, et al., J. Orthop. Res., 2002; 20(6):1210-1216; Gandhi A, et al., Bone, 2006;
   38(4):540-546).
           General anesthesia was administrated by intraperitoneal (IP) injection of
30 ketamine (60 mg/kg) and xylazine (8 mg/Kg). The right leg of each rat was shaved and
                                                15

   the incision site was cleansed with Betadine and 70% alcohol. An approximately 1 cm
   medial, parapatellar skin incision was made over the patella. The patella was dislocated
   laterally and the interchondylar notch of the distal femur was exposed. An entry hole
   was made with an 18 gauge needle and the femur was reamed with the 18 gauge needle.
 5 A Kirschner wire (316LVM stainless steel, 0.04 inch diameter, Small Parts, Inc., Miami
   Lakes, FL) which underwent thermochemical pack boarding was inserted the length of
   the medullary canal, and drilled through the trochanter of the femur. The Kirschner wire
   was cut flush with the femoral condyles. After irrigation, the wound was closed with 4-0
   Vicryl resorpable suture. A closed mid-shaft fracture was then created unilaterally with
10 the use of a three-point bending fracture machine. X-rays were taken to determine
   whether the fracture is of acceptable configuration. An appropriate fracture is an
   approximately mid-diaphyseal, low energy, transverse fracture (Figure 1). The rats were
   allowed to ambulate freely immediately post-fracture. This closed fracture model is
   commonly used to evaluate the efficacy of osseous wound healing devices and drugs.
15
   Experimental Treatments
   Orthopedic Device: IM Rod Pack Solid Boriding Technique
            During boarding of steel and other metallic and alloy surfaces, boron atoms diffuse
   into the material and form various types of metal borides. In the case of ferrous alloys,
20 most prominent borides are: Fe 2B and FeB. (Fe 3B may also form depending on the
   process parameters). Some of the boron atoms may dissolve in the structure interstitially
   without triggering any chemical reaction that can lead to boride formation. Iron borides
   (i.e., Fe 2B and FeB) are chemically stable and mechanically hard and hence can
   substantially increase the resistance of base alloys to corrosion, oxidation, adhesive,
25 erosive, or abrasive wear. Process conditions (such as duration of boarding, ambient
   temperature, type of substrate material and boarding media) may affect the chemistry and
   thickness of the borided surface layers. Due to the much harder nature of borided layers,
   boriding has the potential to replace some of the other surface treatment methods like
   carburizing, nitriding and nitrocarburizing.
                                                16

           Boride layers may achieve hardness values of more than 20 GPa depending on the
   chemical nature of the base materials. TiB 2 that forms on the surface of borided titanium
   substrates may achieve hardness values as high as 30 GPa; ReB 2 that forms on the surface
   of rhenium and its alloys may achieve hardness values as high as 50 GPa, while the
 5 hardness of boride layers forming on steel or iron-based alloys may vary between 14 GPa
   to 20 GPa. Such high hardness values provided by the boride layers are retained up to 650
   'C. Since there is no discrete or sharp interface between the boride layer and base
   material, adhesion strengths of boride layers to base metals are excellent. With the
   traditional methods mentioned above, boride layer thicknesses of up to 20 micrometer can
10 be achieved after long periods of boriding time at much elevated temperatures. In addition
   to their excellent resistance to abrasive, erosive, and adhesive wear, the boride layers can
   also resist oxidation and corrosion even at fairly elevated temperatures and in highly
   acidic or saline aqueous media.
15 Vanadium composite surface coating upon Orthopedic devices: IM ROD Manufacturing
           During boarding of steel and other metallic and alloy surfaces, boron atoms diffuse
   into the material and form various types of metal borides.
           Annealed, cleaned, 1.6 mm Kirschner wire (316LVM stainless steel, 0.04 inch
   diameter, Small Parts, Inc., Miami Lakes, FL) was packed in a boarding powder mixture
20 contained within a 5 mm thick, heat resistant steel box. This allows the surfaces to be
   borided with a layer that is 10-20 micrometer thick.          A mixture of boron carbide,
   vanadium (vanadyl acetylacetonate (VAC), Sigma Aldrich, St. Louis, MO) silicon
   carbide, and a boarding activator were pact borided according to an industry standard
   protocol (Petrova R. and Suwattananont N., J. Electr. Mat., 2005, 34(5):8).        The parts
25 conformed to the container which they were packed, and then covered with a lid, which
   rests inside the container. This container was then weighted with an iron slug to ensure
   even trickling of the boarding agent during the manufacturing.      The container was then
   heated to the boriding temperature as described in an electrically heated box with covered
   heating coils. The coated rods were allowed to cool to room temperature and wiped with
30 95% ethyl alcohol prior to surgery. In a similar fashion, cleaned 1.6 mm Kirschner wire
                                                  17

   (Ti6Al4V, 0.04 inch diameter, Small Parts, Inc., Miami Lakes, FL) was treated in a
   similar process to 1000 'C with only VAC powder in order to achieve a Vanadium
   composite surface coating upon Orthopedic implant. A scanning electron microscope
   (SEM) was used to image samples by scanning it at 12.7x (scale 1 mm) and 73.0x-73.5x
 5 (scale 100 pm) with a high-energy beam of electrons in a raster scan pattern. Electrons
   interact with the atoms that make up the sample producing signals that contain
   information about the sample's surface topography, composition, etc. This method was
   used to observe surface topography to confirm that VAC powder was coated as a film
   layer on the surface of implants. Figures 6(A) and 7(A) contain SEM images of samples
10 coated with different concentrations of VAC.
           Energy-dispersive X-ray spectroscopy (EDX), an analytical technique used for the
   elemental analysis/chemical characterization of a sample, was used to analyze vanadium
   concentrations coated to samples. It relies on the investigation of an interaction of X-ray
   excitation and the coated rods. EDX characterization capabilities are due mainly to the
15 fundamental principle that each element has a unique atomic structure allowing X-rays
   that are characteristic of an element's atomic structure to be identified uniquely from one
   another.    X-ray energy was measured in kilo-electron volts.            Elemental analysis
   determined weight and atomic percentages of two independent rod samples (Figure 6(B)
   and 7(B)).
20
   Microradiographic Evaluation
           Serial microradiographs were obtained from all animals every two weeks post
   surgery. Under the same anesthesia as described previously, the rats were positioned
   prone so lateral and anteroposterior (AP) views of their femurs could be obtained.
25 Radiographs were taken using a Hewlett-Packard Faxitron (Model 43804 - Radiographic
   Inspection System) and Kodak MinR-2000 mammography                   film. Exposures were
   performed for 30 seconds at 55 kVp. Additionally, magnified radiographs were obtained
   after the femurs were removed from the animals post-sacrifice. Qualitative analysis was
   performed on all radiographic samples. Two independent observers individually scored
30 radiographs based on endosteal and cortical bridging on both lateral and AP femoral
                                                18

   orientations. Averages amongst samples of the same group were computed to determine
   overall percentages of endosteal and cortical healing at 4 weeks.
           All analysis was conducted in a blinded fashion using a five-point radiographic
   scoring system, 0 = partial callus formation, 1 = definite callus with bony union on one
 5 cortex, 2 = definite callus with bony union on two cortices, 3 = definite callus with bony
   union on two cortices, and 4 = definite callus with bony union on all four cortices.
   Mechanical Testing
           Fractured and contralateral femora were resected 4 weeks post-fracture. Femora
10 were cleaned of soft tissue and the intramedullary rod was removed. Samples were
   wrapped in saline (0.9 % NaCl) soaked gauze and stored at -20 'C. Prior to testing, all
   femora were removed from the freezer and allowed to thaw to room temperature for three
   to four hours. The proximal and distal ends of the fractured and contralateral femora were
   embedded in % inch square nuts with Field's Metal, leaving an approximate gauge length
15 of 12 mm (Figure 2). After measuring callus and femur dimensions, torsional testing was
   conducted using a servohydraulics machine (MTS Systems Corp., Eden Prairie, MN) with
   a 20 Nm reaction torque cell (Interface, Scottsdale, AZ) and tested to failure at a rate of
   2.0 deg/sec. The maximum torque to failure and angle to failure were determined from
   the force to angular displacement data.
20         Peak torque to failure  (Tmax), torsional rigidity (TR), shear modulus (SM), and
   maximum torsional shear stress (SS)         were calculated through standard equations
   (Ekeland A, et al., Acta Orthop. Scand., 1981; 52(6):605-613; Engesaeter LB, et al.,
   Acta Orthop. Scand., 1978; 49(6):512-518).         Tmax and TR are considered extrinsic
   properties while SM and SS are considered intrinsic properties. Tmax was defined as the
25 point where an increase in angular displacement failed to produce any further increase in
   torque. TR is a function of the torque to failure, gauge length (distance of the exposed
   femur between the embedded proximal and distal end) and angular displacement. SS is
   a function of the torque to failure, maximum radius within the mid-diaphyseal region
   and the polar moment of inertia. The polar moment of inertia was calculated by
30 modeling the femur as a hollow ellipse. Engesaeter et al. demonstrated that the
   calculated polar moment of inertia using the hollow ellipse model differed from the
                                                 19

   measured polar moment of inertia by only two percent (Engesaeter LB, et al., Acta
   Orthop. Scand., 1978; 49(6):512-518).
            In order to compare the biomechanical parameters between different groups, the
   data was normalized by dividing each fractured femur value by its corresponding intact,
 5 contralateral femur value. Normalization was used to minimize biological variability due
   to differences in age and weight among rats.
            In addition to the biomechanical parameters determined through torsional testing,
   the mode of failure can also provide substantial information. The mode of torsional
   failure as determined by gross inspection provided an indication as to the extent of
10 healing. A spiral failure in the mid-diaphyseal region indicated a complete union while a
   transverse failure through the fracture site indicated a nonunion. A combination
   spiral/transverse failure indicated a partial union (Figure 2).
   Data and Statistical Analysis
15          Analysis of variance (ANOVA) was performed followed by Holm-Sidak post-hoc
   tests to determine differences (SigmaStat 3.0, SPSS Inc., Chicago, Illinois). A P value less
   than 0.05 was considered statistically significant.
   Micro-CT Methods
20
            Both fractured and non-fractured femora were dissected from each animal,
   wrapped in saline soaked gauze, and frozen in conical tubes at -20 'C following sacrifice.
   Femora were slowly defrosted in warm water and stored in an ice bath for transport after
   the intermedullary pins were carefully removed from the fractured femora. Fractured
25 femora were scanned to determine bone mineral density (BMD), and polar moment of
   inertia for several hundred transverse evenly dispersed sections using a Skyscan 1172
   micro-CT device (Kontich, Belgium). Acquired images were then reconstructed using
   Skyscan software. Following CT scans, femur dimensions and gauge lengths were
   measured using a digital caliper and torsionally tested as described above. Software
30 developed by Morgan, E.F., et al. (Bone., October 25 2008) was utilized to calculate the
   average effective polar moment of inertia of fractured femora via the transverse sections
   for each femur.
                                                  20

            Non-weighted micro-CT shear values were calculated based on the inner and outer
   boundaries of the callus. These values do not take into account the tissue mineralization,
   but provide a precise measurement of callus polar moment of inertia. Weighted micro-CT
   shear values were determined based on the intensity of tissue in the scan. The resolution
 5 of the scan was set to 17.5 tim. Threshold values were set between 0.25 and 0.28, based
   on a protocol by Morgan et al., with a global threshold of approximately 25% of the
   maximum gray value of the scan. This corresponds to approximately 45% of the
   attenuation of mature cortical bone in the cohorts of specimens measured by Morgan et al.
   The threshold was used to distinguish mineralized tissue from poorly mineralized and
10 unmineralized tissue.     Lower polar moments of inertia, calculated based on higher
   intensities (larger percentage of mineralized tissue), result in higher shear values. Micro
   CT scans were also analyzed to determine commonly investigated CT parameters. At 4
   and 5 weeks post-fracture resected femora were evaluated in terms of bone mineral
   density (BMD), bone volume fraction (BVF or BV/TV), and trabecular mineralized tissue
15 thickness (Tb. Th.).The results are shown in Figure 3 and Table 5.
   Vanadium Atomic Absorption Spectrophotometry
            BB Wistar rats were anesthetized and confirmed to be non-responsive to external
   stimuli before beginning the surgical procedure. The anesthetized rats were exsanguinated
20 by cardiac puncture using a 10 ml syringe with a 22 gauge needle after shallow puncture
   just lateral to the sternum and through the intercostal space. Following puncturing the
   dermis and cardiac wall, slight backpressure was placed on the plunger to withdraw blood
   from the ventricle. The collected blood was transferred to an appropriate container used
   for collection of plasma (heparinized) or serum (non-heparinized). Following the cardiac
25 puncture, the rats were euthanized via cervical dislocation. The pin was removed from the
   intermedullary canal of the fractured femora and stored in a clean conical tube. Other rod
   samples pre-implantation were also stored in conical tubes and appropriately labeled prior
   to atomic absorption spectrophotometry analysis.
            Each preparation involved drying 100 ml and 50 ml beakers to a constant weight
30 before introducing samples. Accompanying each batch of samples, were NIST 1643d
                                                21

   water, which has a certified value for vanadium concentration and method blanks. After
   the 100 ml beakers and contents were brought to constant weight, the rods were dissolved
   in Aqua Regia. The solution was quantitatively transferred to a centrifuge tube and spun.
   The supernatant was then transferred to a 50 ml volumetric flask. This process was
 5 repeated three times with the addition of distilled water (DW) to each tube as a rinse.
   After the final rinse and transfer to the 50 ml flask, each flask was diluted to the volume
   mark. Rod residue from the centrifuge tube was quantitatively transferred to a constant
   weight 50 ml beaker with multiple DW washes. After the last wash, beakers were placed
   on a hotplate with a surface temperature of 125 degree Celsius. The beaker contents were
10 evaporated and then placed in a 105 degree Celsius oven and brought to constant weight.
   Sulfuric acid was added to the beaker and heated. The dissolved contents were transferred
   to a 25 ml volumetric flask. Solutions were analyzed after appropriate dilution by Zeeman
   Heated    Graphite Atomization      Atomic   Absorption    Spectrophotometry.    Data from
   spectrometer output were transferred to appropriate computer software for further analysis
15 and sample vanadium level quantification. All excess mineral acid was discarded
   according to EOHSS procedures for hazardous materials disposal. All glassware was
   washed and prepared before analysis and after.
   RESULTS
   General Health
20         In this biomechanical experiment, animals among treatment groups were age
   matched. There was no statistical difference among treatment groups in percent weight
   gain from the time of surgery indicating that vanadium injected locally into the
   intramedullary canal had no effect on metabolism (Table 2). Blood glucose levels and age
   at surgery showed a significant difference between the Vanadium-Boron coated and saline
25 groups (Table 2); however, the clinical relevance of this observation is difficult to
   ascertain since this range is within the normoglycemic value of Non-DM rats.          These
   fluctuations may be a result of the small sample size and variations based on diet.
           All animals were grouped within the same age within 40 days (80-120 days) and
   the difference between the average ages between these two groups was less than 10 days.
                                                22

   Such a small age difference within this phase is unlikely to produce any major changes in
   healing rates.
   Table 2. General Health of Non-DM BB Wistar Rats: Local Vanadium (VAC)
 5 Delivery without a Carrier (Mechanical Testing)
                        Blood Glucose (mg/dl)*          Age              % Weight gain
                              Pre-Surgery           at Surgery
            Saline              81.7±4.3              99.0±1.0               3.5±2.3
            (n=5)
           Boron                91.0±4.1              89.0±0.0              15.3±8.14
           Coated
            (n=3)
        Vanadium-               90.6±2.1              89.0±0.0               14.5±1.3
           Boron
           Coated
            (n=4)
   The data represents average values ± standard deviation
   Microradiographic Evaluation
           Using a five-point radiographic scoring system, 0 = partial callus formation, 1 =
   definite callus with bony union on one cortex, 2 = definite callus with bony union on two
10 cortices, 3 = definite callus with bony union on two cortices, and 4 = definite callus with
   bony union on all four cortices, at 4 weeks post-fracture femurs treated with the
   vanadium-boron coated rod demonstrated significantly higher scores than control femurs
   (Table 3).
   Table 3. Radiographic Scoring Evaluationt
15
                                  4 Weeks Post-Fracture (# of cortices bridged)
                                  Cortical Healing         Endosteal Healing
           Saline Control            0.67 ± 0.29                1.33 ± 0.29
                                         (n=3)                     (n=3)
         Vanadium-Boron               4.0 ± 0.0*                 2.4 ± 0.0
               Coated                    (n=5)                     (n=5)
      The data represents average values ± standard deviation
    * Represent values statistically higher than control, p<0.05
                                                 23

   Mechanical Testing Results
           The effect of local vanadium therapy on healing of femur fractures in normal (non
   diabetic) rats was measured by torsional mechanical testing. At 4 weeks post-fracture, rats
   treated with vanadium displayed improved mechanical properties of the fractured femora
 5 compared to the untreated group.        The maximum torque to failure, (Saline group vs.
   Vanadium-Boron rod group P<0.05), and maximum torsional rigidity (Saline group vs.
   Vanadium-Boron rod group P<0.05), were both significantly increased compared in the
   Vanadium-Boron rod group when compared to the untreated group (Table 4). When the
   mechanical parameters of the fractured femora were normalized to the intact, contralateral
10 femora, percent peak torque (Saline group vs. Boron rod group P<0.05, Saline group vs.
   Vanadium-Boron rod group P<0.05), torsional rigidity (Saline group vs. Vanadium-Boron
   rod group P<0.05), shear modulus (Saline group vs. Vanadium-Boron rod group P<0.05),
   and shear stress (Saline group vs. Vanadium-Boron rod group P<0.05) were all
   significantly greater in the local vanadium treated groups when compared to the saline
15 group (Table 4).
           Our study demonstrated that local VAC bound to IM rods significantly improved
   the biomechanical parameters of fracture healing in non-diabetic animals.         An earlier
   study examining the effect of vanadium on mechanical strength of bone in non-diabetic
   and diabetic animals revealed that vanadium had no effect on bone homeostasis in non
20 diabetic animals (Facchini DM, et al., Bone, 2006; 38(3):368-377).      The fracture healing
   pathway is different than the bone homeostasis pathway. This is likely the primary reason
   for conflicting results presented in both models.      Other possibilities include different
   dosages and delivery methods in each study.
25 Table 4. Four weeks Post-fracture mechanical testing with vanadium (VAC)t
                                      Fractured femur values
                               Maximum        Maximum Torsional   Shear Modulus      Maximum
                           Torque to failure Rigidity (Nmm 2/rad)     (MPa)         Shear Stress
                                (Nmm)                                                 (MPa)
      Saline (n=5)             178 ±38          9,363± 5,032       235 ±102           19± 3
      Vanadium-              305 ±30*         31,078± 6,917         2,347±           60 ±33
      Boron Coated                                                   1,649
       (n=4)
                                                 24

              Fractured femur values normalized to the contralateral (intact) femur
                              Percent             Percent            Percent        Percent
                             maximum             maximum                shear      maximum
                             torque to           torsional           modulus         shear
                              failure             rigidity                           stress
      Saline (n=5)             30 ±18               19 ±11               4 ±2         11± 5
      Vanadium-               76 ±9              107±36              38±19         40±20
      Boron Coated
      (n=4)
   i The data represents average values ± standard deviation
   * Represents values significantly greater than the saline control group; p<0.05
 5 Micro-CT Results
            Micro-CT analysis of fractured and contralateral femora at 4 weeks post-fracture
   did not reveal any significant differences in effective polar moment of inertia, bone
   mineral density, or trabecular thickness between the VAC-boron coated group and boron
   coated control group (Table 5). Bone volume fraction however, was significantly higher
10 (p < 0.05) for VAC-boron coated group than boron coated control group at 4 weeks post
   fracture (Table 5) Micro-CT images at 4 weeks post-fracture suggest accelerated healing
   for the VAC-boron coated group, compared to the boron coated control group (Figure 3).
   Table 5. Four weeks Post-fractureMicro-CT Analysis with Surface Modified
15 Vanadium-Borided Rods
                             Effective           Micro-CT           Micro-CT
                               Polar             Modified           Modified
                            Moment of         Effective Polar        Effective
                           Inertia (mm 4)        Moment of              Polar
                                               Inertia (mm 4)      Moment of
                                                                      Inertia
                                                                    Weighted
                                                                       (mm4)
        Boron Coated           69 ±30               49 ±7               22    4
         Control Rod
             (n=5)
          0.6 mg/Kg           49 ±24              48 ±10              23     5
         Vanadium
        Boron Coated
          Rod (n =5)
                                                 25

                            Volumetric          Volumetric            Bone          Trabecular
                                Bone           Bone Mineral         Volume           Thickness
                             Mineral              Density          Fraction
                              Density          normalized to     (BV/TV %)
                              (g/cm 3)        Intact Femora
                                                    (%)
        Boron Coated         0.86    0.03           51 ±2           88.0 ±1.8           71 ±11
        Control Rod
             (n=5)
          0.6 mg/Kg         0.84    0.04          50 ±2           90.4± 1.1             79± 8
         Vanadium
        Boron Coated
         Rod (n =5)
   The data represents average values ± standard deviation
   * Represents values statistically higher than boron coated control
                                                                       group; p< 0 .0 5 versus
   boron coated control.
 5 Vanadium Quantification Results in Stainless Steel Implants
            When the vanadium content of surgical rods prior to implantation and 4 weeks
   post-fracture was quantified, levels of vanadium in VAC-boron coated rods were
   significantly higher (p < 0.05) than those of boron coated control rods, prior to
   implantation and at 4 weeks post-fracture (Table 6). Additionally, levels of vanadium
10 averaged amongst all runs of rod production, calculated pre-implantation, were similar for
   untreated rods compared to boron control rods (Figure 4).
            Vanadium levels in pack borided implants were calculated by adding the mass of
   vanadium that was dissolved in aqua regia, and the remaining "residue" dissolved in
   sulfuric acid, normalized to total implant mass. Table 6 summarizes normalized vanadium
15 content in each component of the coated rods. Bound vanadium per gram rod weight in
   both the aqua regia dissolved portion of the implant and the remaining residue dissolved
   in sulfuric acid were significantly higher (p < 0.05) in VAC-boron coated rods than boron
   coated control rods, prior to implantation and at 4 weeks post-fracture (Table 6). VAC
   boron coated rods and boron control rods had significant decreases in bound vanadium per
20 gram weight within the residue at 4 weeks post-fracture, compared to pre-implantation
   values (Table 6).
                                                 26

   Table 6. Analysis of Locally Bound Vanadium Pre- and Post-implantation within
   Surgical K-wire
                                           Pre-implantation
                               Total Bound          Bound Vanadium         Bound Vanadium
                             Vanadium per             per gram rod       per gram rod weight
                            gram rod weight         weight (pg) after     (kg) in residue after
                                    (kg)             dissolving rod in      dissolving rod in
                                                        aqua regia            sulfuric acid
        Boron Coated              831 ±21                  800 ±0               1,783 ±179
        Control Rod
            (n=5)
         0.6 mg/Kg            1,186 ±129*             1,142 ±112*             2,408± 9*#
         Vanadium
        Boron Coated
         Rod (n =5)
                                         4 Weeks Post-Fracture
        Boron Coated              805 27                  831 21                1,414 ±108
        Control Rod
            (n=5)
         0.6 mg/Kg             1,084 54 *              1,052 56 *              1,334 ± 56
         Vanadium
        Boron Coated
         Rod (n =5)      1
   The data represents average values ± standard deviation
   * Represents values statistically higher than boron coated control group; p<0.05 versus
 5 boron coated control.
   SEM and EDX Results of Ti6Al4V Implants
           Vanadium levels in VAC surface coated Ti6AL4V implants showed that both rod
   samples contained a greater percentage of vanadium than is found in this alloy (Figures 6
10 and 7). These results suggest that vanadium coated to these implants.
           The foregoing examples and description of the preferred embodiments should be
   taken as illustrating, rather than as limiting the present invention as defined by the
   claims. As will be readily appreciated, numerous variations and combinations of the
   features set forth above can be utilized without departing from the present invention as
15 set forth in the claims. Such variations are not regarded as a departure from the spirit
   and script of the invention, and all such variations are intended to be included within the
   scope of the following claims. All references cited hereby are incorporated by reference
   in their entirety.
                                                 27

                                              28
        Comprises/comprising and grammatical variations thereof when used in this
specification are to be taken to specify the presence of stated features, integers, steps or
components or groups thereof, but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more
other features, integers, steps, components or groups thereof.

                                                29
CLAIMS:
1.       An implantable orthopedic device coated by a composite surface coating layer,
said coating layer comprising (V0 4 ) 3- species.
2.       The implantable device of claim 1 selected from the group consisting of plates,
rods, screws, implants, arthroplasty implants, and orthopedic devices.
3.       The implantable device of claim 1, wherein the device is a bone implant.
4.       The implantable device of claim 1, wherein the underlying device is made of
stainless steel.
5.       The implantable device of claim 4, wherein the stainless steel is 316L.
6.       The implantable device of claim 1, wherein the underlying device is made of a
titanium alloy.
7.       The implantable device of claim 6, wherein the titanium alloy is Ti6AL4V.
8.       An insulin-mimetic composite surface coating for an implantable orthopedic
device, comprising (V0 4 ) 3- species.
9.       A method of promoting bone healing in a patient in need thereof comprising treating
the patient with an implantable device coated by a composite surface coating according to
claim 8.
10.      The method of claim 9, wherein the implantable device is selected from the group
consisting of plates, rods, screws, implants, arthroplasty implants, and orthopedic devices.
11.      The method of claim 9, wherein the implantable device is a bone implant.
12.      The method of claim 9, wherein said patient is afflicted with a bone condition
selected from the group consisting of bone fracture, bone trauma, arthrodesis, and bone
deficit conditions associated with post-traumatic bone surgery, post-prosthetic joint
surgery, post-plastic bone surgery, post-dental surgery, bone chemotherapy treatment,
congenital bone loss, post traumatic bone loss, post surgical bone loss, post infectious bone
loss, allograft incorporation or bone radiotherapy treatment.

                                             30
13.     The method of claim 9, wherein the method is used in conjunction with administration
of a cytotoxic agent, cytokine or growth inhibitory agent.
14.     The method of claim 9, wherein the method is used in conjunction with administration
of a bioactive bone agent.
15.     The method of claim 9, wherein the method is used for treatment of fractures,
osseous defects, delayed union or non-union, allograft/autograft incorporation or
tendon/ligament osseous junction.
16.     The method of claim 15, wherein the method is used in conjunction with an
allograft/autograft or orthopedic biocomposite.
17.     The method of claim 9, wherein said patient is a mammalian animal.
18.     The method of claim 9, wherein said patient is a human.
19.     The method of claim 9, wherein said patient is a non-diabetic human.
20.     A method of promoting bone healing in a patient in need thereof comprising
treating the patient with an implantable device according to any one of claims 1-7.
21.     Use of the insulin-mimetic composite surface coating according to claim 8 for
manufacture of an implantable device.
22.     A method of making an implantable device, comprising coating an implantable
device with an insulin-mimetic composite coating according to claim 8.
              RUTGERS, THE STATE UNIVERSITY OF NEW JERSEY
WATERMARK INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY PTY LTD

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           1/7

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           2/7

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           3/7

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           4/7

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           5/7

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           6/7

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           7/7

