            METHODS AND APPARATUS TO DETERMINE IMPRESSIONS
                USING DISTRIBUTED DEMOGRAPHIC INFORMATION
                                                ABSTRACT
        An apparatus comprises a communication interface to send a communication to a first
client device in response to a first request from the first client device, the communication to
cause the first client device to send a first identifier to a database proprietor in association
with a cookie identifier of the first client device, the first identifier corresponding to media
accessed by the first client device and a data structure to: log a first impression in association
with the first identifier corresponding to the media accessed by the first client device; and log
second impressions associated with the first identifier and corresponding to access to the
media by second client devices, the second impressions logged in response to second requests
from the second client devices. The apparatus further comprises a processor to generate a
report based on (a) the first impression and corresponding first demographic information
from the database proprietor, and (b) the second impressions and corresponding second
demographic information from an audience measurement entity different from the database
proprietor.
16182084 1

                                                1
            METHODS AND APPARATUS TO DETERMINE IMPRESSIONS
                 USING DISTRIBUTED DEMOGRAPHIC INFORMATION
                                  RELATED APPLICATIONS
[0001] This patent is a divisional application of Australian Patent Application No.
<removed-apn>, filed on 20 January 2017, in turn a divisional application of Australian Patent
Application No. 2015234530, a divisional of Australian Patent Application No. 2013203898,
which in turn was a divisional of Australian Patent Application No. 2011305429 which
claimed priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61/385,553, filed on September
22, 2010, and U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61/386,543, filed on September 26,
2010, all of which are hereby incorporated herein by reference in their entireties.
                                 FIELD OF THE DISCLOSURE
[0002] The present disclosure relates generally to monitoring media and, more particularly, to
methods and apparatus to determine impressions using distributed demographic information.
                                        BACKGROUND
[0003] Traditionally, audience measurement entities determine audience engagement levels
for media programming based on registered panel members. That is, an audience
measurement entity enrolls people who consent to being monitored into a panel. The audience
measurement entity then monitors those panel members to determine media programs (e.g.,
television programs or radio programs, movies, DVDs, etc.) exposed to those panel members.
In this manner, the audience measurement entity can determine exposure measures for
different media content based on the collected media measurement data.
[0004] Techniques for monitoring user access to Internet resources such as web pages,
advertisements and/or other content has evolved significantly over the years. Some known
systems perform such monitoring primarily through server logs. In particular, entities serving
content on the Internet can use known techniques to log the number of requests received for
their content at their server.

                                              la
                         BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0005]     FIG. 1 depicts an example system that may be used to determine advertisement
viewership using distributed demographic information.

                                           -2
[0006]      FIG. 2 depicts an example system that may be used to associate
advertisement exposure measurements with user demographic information based on
demographics information distributed across user account records of different web
service providers.
[0007]      FIG. 3 is a communication flow diagram of an example manner in which a
web browser can report impressions to servers having access to demographic
information for a user of that web browser.
[0008]      FIG. 4 depicts an example ratings entity impressions table showing
quantities of impressions to monitored users.
[0009]      FIG. 5 depicts an example campaign-level age/gender and impression
composition table generated by a database proprietor.
[0010]      FIG. 6 depicts another example campaign-level age/gender and impression
composition table generated by a ratings entity.
[0011]      FIG. 7 depicts an example combined campaign-level age/gender and
impression composition table based on the composition tables of FIGS. 5 and 6.
[0012]      FIG. 8 depicts an example age/gender impressions distribution table
showing impressions based on the composition tables of FIGS. 5-7.
[0013]      FIG. 9 is a flow diagram representative of example machine readable
instructions that may be executed to identify demographics attributable to impressions.
[0014]      FIG. 10 is a flow diagram representative of example machine readable
instructions that may be executed by a client computer to route beacon requests to
web service providers to log impressions.
[0015]      FIG. 11 is a flow diagram representative of example machine readable
instructions that may be executed by a panelist monitoring system to log impressions
and/or redirect beacon requests to web service providers to log impressions.
[0016]      FIG. 12 is a flow diagram representative of example machine readable
instructions that may be executed to dynamically designate preferred web service
providers from which to request demographics attributable to impressions.
Anaonnna                                                          M'naA~On I' O nnn A "7aO A Al lMA

                                            -3
[0017]       FIG. 13 depicts an example system that may be used to determine
advertising exposure based on demographic information collected by one or more
database proprietors.
[0018]       FIG. 14 is a flow diagram representative of example machine readable
instructions that may be executed to process a redirected request at an intermediary.
[0019]       FIG. 14 is an example processor system that can be used to execute the
example instructions of FIGS. 9, 10, 11, 12, and/or 14 to implement the example
apparatus and systems described herein.
                                 DETAILED DESCRIPTION
[0020]      Although the following discloses example methods, apparatus, systems,
and articles of manufacture including, among other components, firmware and/or
software executed on hardware, it should be noted that such methods, apparatus,
systems, and articles of manufacture are merely illustrative and should not be
considered as limiting. For example, it is contemplated that any or all of these
hardware, firmware, and/or software components could be embodied exclusively in
hardware, exclusively in firmware, exclusively in software, or in any combination of
hardware, firmware, and/or software. Accordingly, while the following describes
example methods, apparatus, systems, and articles of manufacture, the examples
provided are not the only ways to implement such methods, apparatus, systems, and
articles of manufacture.
[0021]      Techniques for monitoring user access to Internet resources such as web
pages, advertisements and/or other content has evolved significantly over the years.
At one point in the past, such monitoring was done primarily through server logs. In
particular, entities serving content on the Internet would log the number of requests
received for their content at their server. Basing Internet usage research on server
logs is problematic for several reasons. For example, server logs can be tampered
with either directly or via zombie programs which repeatedly request content from the
server to increase the server log counts. Secondly, content is sometimes retrieved
once, cached locally and then repeatedly viewed from the local cache without involving
the server in the repeat viewings. Server logs cannot track these views of cached
content. Thus, server logs are susceptible to both over-counting and under-counting
errors.
Anaonnna                                                            l"naA~OO l" nnn A "7CaO A Al lMA

                                              -4
[0022]       The inventions disclosed in Blumenau, US Patent 6,108,637, fundamentally
changed the way Internet monitoring is performed and overcame the limitations of the
server side log monitoring techniques described above. For example, Blumenau
disclosed a technique wherein Internet content to be tracked is tagged with beacon
instructions. In particular, monitoring instructions are associated with the HTML of the
content to be tracked. When a client requests the content, both the content and the
beacon instructions are downloaded to the client. The beacon instructions are, thus,
executed whenever the content is accessed, be it from a server or from a cache.
[0023]       The beacon instructions cause monitoring data reflecting information about
the access to the content to be sent from the client that downloaded the content to a
monitoring entity. Typically, the monitoring entity is an audience measurement entity
that did not provide the content to the client and who is a trusted third party for
providing accurate usage statistics (e.g., The Nielsen Company, LLC).
Advantageously, because the beaconing instructions are associated with the content
and executed by the client browser whenever the content is accessed, the monitoring
information is provided to the audience measurement company irrespective of whether
the client is a panelist of the audience measurement company.
[0024]       It is important, however, to link demographics to the monitoring information.
To address this issue, the audience measurement company establishes a panel of
users who have agreed to provide their demographic information and to have their
Internet browsing activities monitored. When an individual joins the panel, they provide
detailed information concerning their identity and demographics (e.g., gender, race,
income, home location, occupation, etc.) to the audience measurement company. The
audience measurement entity sets a cookie on the panelist computer that enables the
audience measurement entity to identify the panelist whenever the panelist accesses
tagged content and, thus, sends monitoring information to the audience measurement
entity.
[0025]       Since most of the clients providing monitoring information from the tagged
pages are not panelists and, thus, are unknown to the audience measurement entity, it
is necessary to use statistical methods to impute demographic information based on
the data collected for panelists to the larger population of users providing data for the
tagged content. However, panel sizes of audience measurement entities remain small
compared to the general population of users. Thus, a problem is presented as to how
to increase panel sizes while ensuring the demographics data of the panel is accurate.
Anaonnna                                                            l"naA~OO l" O nnn A "7Ca A Al l nA

                                            -5
[0026]       There are many database proprietors operating on the Internet. These
database proprietors provide services to large numbers of subscribers. In exchange
for the provision of the service, the subscribers register with the proprietor. As part of
this registration, the subscribers provide detailed demographic information. Examples
of such database proprietors include social network providers such as Facebook,
Myspace, etc. These database proprietors set cookies on the computers of their
subscribers to enable the database proprietor to recognize the user when they visit
their website.
[0027]       The protocols of the Internet make cookies inaccessible outside of the
domain (e.g., Internet domain, domain name, etc.) on which they were set. Thus, a
cookie set in the amazon.com domain is accessible to servers in the amazon.com
domain, but not to servers outside that domain. Therefore, although an audience
measurement entity might find it advantageous to access the cookies set by the
database proprietors, they are unable to do so.
[0028]       In view of the foregoing, an audience measurement company would like to
leverage the existing databases of database proprietors to collect more extensive
Internet usage and demographic data. However, the audience measurement entity is
faced with several problems in accomplishing this end. For example, a problem is
presented as to how to access the data of the database proprietors without
compromising the privacy of the subscribers, the panelists, or the proprietors of the
tracked content. Another problem is how to access this data given the technical
restrictions imposed by the Internet protocols that prevent the audience measurement
entity from accessing cookies set by the database proprietor. Example methods,
apparatus and articles of manufacture disclosed herein solve these problems by
extending the beaconing process to encompass partnered database proprietors and by
using such partners as interim data collectors.
[0029]       Example methods, apparatus and/or articles of manufacture disclosed
herein accomplish this task by responding to beacon requests from clients (who may
not be a member of an audience member panel and, thus, may be unknown to the
audience member entity) accessing tagged content by redirecting the client from the
audience measurement entity to a database proprietor such as a social network site
partnered with the audience member entity. The redirection initiates a communication
session between the client accessing the tagged content and the database proprietor.
The database proprietor (e.g., Facebook) can access any cookie it has set on the client
  naonnna                                                            l"naA~OO l" O nnn A "7Ca A Al lMA

                                              -6
to thereby identify the client based on the internal records of the database proprietor.
In the event the client is a subscriber of the database proprietor, the database
proprietor logs the content impression in association with the demographics data of the
client and subsequently forwards the log to the audience measurement company. In
the event the client is not a subscriber of the database proprietor, the database
proprietor redirects the client to the audience measurement company. The audience
measurement company may then redirect the client to a second, different database
proprietor that is partnered with the audience measurement entity. That second
proprietor may then attempt to identify the client as explained above. This process of
redirecting the client from database proprietor to database proprietor can be performed
any number of times until the client is identified and the content exposure logged, or
until all partners have been contacted without a successful identification of the client.
The redirections all occur automatically so the user of the client is not involved in the
various communication sessions and may not even know they are occurring.
[0030]       The partnered database proprietors provide their logs and demographic
information to the audience measurement entity which then compiles the collected data
into statistical reports accurately identifying the demographics of persons accessing
the tagged content. Because the identification of clients is done with reference to
enormous databases of users far beyond the quantity of persons present in a
conventional audience measurement panel, the data developed from this process is
extremely accurate, reliable and detailed.
[0031]        Significantly, because the audience measurement entity remains the first
leg of the data collection process (e.g., receives the request generated by the beacon
instructions from the client), the audience measurement entity is able to obscure the
source of the content access being logged as well as the identity of the content itself
from the database proprietors (thereby protecting the privacy of the content sources),
without compromising the ability of the database proprietors to log impressions for their
subscribers. Further, the Internet security cookie protocols are complied with because
the only servers that access a given cookie are associated with the Internet domain
(e.g., Facebook.com) that set that cookie.
[0032]        Example methods, apparatus, and articles of manufacture described herein
can be used to determine content impressions, advertisement impressions, content
exposure, and/or advertisement exposure using demographic information, which is
distributed across different databases (e.g., different website owners, service
  naonnna                                                           l"naA~OO l" O nnn A "7Ca A Al lMA

                                             -7
providers, etc.) on the Internet. Not only do example methods, apparatus, and articles
of manufacture disclosed herein enable more accurate correlation of Internet
advertisement exposure to demographics, but they also effectively extend panel sizes
and compositions beyond persons participating in the panel of an audience
measurement entity and/or a ratings entity to persons registered in other Internet
databases such as the databases of social medium sites such as Facebook, Twitter,
Google, etc. This extension effectively leverages the content tagging capabilities of the
ratings entity and the use of databases of non-ratings entities such as social media and
other websites to create an enormous, demographically accurate panel that results in
accurate, reliable measurements of exposures to Internet content such as advertising
and/or programming.
[0033]       In illustrated examples disclosed herein, advertisement exposure is
measured in terms of online Gross Rating Points. A Gross Rating Point (GRP) is a unit
of measurement of audience size that has traditionally been used in the television
ratings context. It is used to measure exposure to one or more programs,
advertisements, or commercials, without regard to multiple exposures of the same
advertising to individuals. In terms of television (TV) advertisements, one GRP is
equal to 1% of TV households. While GRPs have traditionally been used as a
measure of television viewership, example methods, apparatus, and articles of
manufacture disclosed herein develop online GRPs for online advertising to provide a
standardized metric that can be used across the Internet to accurately reflect online
advertisement exposure. Such standardized online GRP measurements can provide
greater certainty to advertisers that their online advertisement money is well spent. It
can also facilitate cross-medium comparisons such as viewership of TV
advertisements and online advertisements. Because the example methods,
apparatus, and/or articles of manufacture disclosed herein associate viewership
measurements with corresponding demographics of users, the information collected by
example methods, apparatus, and/or articles of manufacture disclosed herein may also
be used by advertisers to identify markets reached by their advertisements and/or to
target particular markets with future advertisements.
[0034]      Traditionally, audience measurement entities (also referred to herein as
"ratings entities") determine demographic reach for advertising and media
programming based on registered panel members. That is, an audience measurement
entity enrolls people that consent to being monitored into a panel. During enrollment,
the audience measurement entity receives demographic information from the enrolling
 naonnna                                                           l"naA~OO l" O nnn A "7Ca A Al lMA

                                            -8
people so that subsequent correlations may be made between advertisement/media
exposure to those panelists and different demographic markets. Unlike traditional
techniques in which audience measurement entities rely solely on their own panel
member data to collect demographics-based audience measurement, example
methods, apparatus, and/or articles of manufacture disclosed herein enable an
audience measurement entity to share demographic information with other entities that
operate based on user registration models. As used herein, a user registration model
is a model in which users subscribe to services of those entities by creating an account
and providing demographic-related information about themselves. Sharing of
demographic information associated with registered users of database proprietors
enables an audience measurement entity to extend or supplement their panel data with
substantially reliable demographics information from external sources (e.g., database
proprietors), thus extending the coverage, accuracy, and/or completeness of their
demographics-based audience measurements. Such access also enables the
audience measurement entity to monitor persons who would not otherwise have joined
an audience measurement panel. Any entity having a database identifying
demographics of a set of individuals may cooperate with the audience measurement
entity. Such entities may be referred to as "database proprietors" and include entities
such as Facebook, Google, Yahoo!, MSN, Twitter, Apple iTunes, Experian, etc.
[0035]       Example methods, apparatus, and/or articles of manufacture disclosed
herein may be implemented by an audience measurement entity (e.g., any entity
interested in measuring or tracking audience exposures to advertisements, content,
and/or any other media) in cooperation with any number of database proprietors such
as online web services providers to develop online GRPs. Such database
proprietors/online web services providers may be social network sites (e.g., Facebook,
Twitter, MySpace, etc.), multi-service sites (e.g., Yahoo!, Google, Experian, etc.),
online retailer sites (e.g., Amazon.com, Buy.com, etc.), and/or any other web service(s)
site that maintains user registration records.
[0036]      To increase the likelihood that measured viewership is accurately attributed
to the correct demographics, example methods, apparatus, and/or articles of
manufacture disclosed herein use demographic information located in the audience
measurement entity's records as well as demographic information located at one or
more database proprietors (e.g., web service providers) that maintain records or
profiles of users having accounts therewith. In this manner, example methods,
apparatus, and/or articles of manufacture disclosed herein may be used to supplement
 naonnna                                                           l"naA~OO l" nnn A "7CaO A Al lMA

                                              -9
demographic information maintained by a ratings entity (e.g., an audience
measurement company such as The Nielsen Company of Schaumburg, Illinois, United
States of America, that collects media exposure measurements and/or demographics)
with demographic information from one or more different database proprietors (e.g.,
web service providers).
[0037]       The use of demographic information from disparate data sources (e.g.,
high-quality demographic information from the panels of an audience measurement
company and/or registered user data of web service providers) results in improved
reporting effectiveness of metrics for both online and offline advertising campaigns.
Example techniques disclosed herein use online registration data to identify
demographics of users and use server impression counts, tagging (also referred to as
beaconing), and/or other techniques to track quantities of impressions attributable to
those users. Online web service providers such as social networking sites (e.g.,
Facebook) and multi-service providers (e.g., Yahoo!, Google, Experian, etc.)
(collectively and individually referred to herein as online database proprietors) maintain
detailed demographic information (e.g., age, gender, geographic location, race, income
level, education level, religion, etc.) collected via user registration processes. An
impression corresponds to a home or individual having been exposed to the
corresponding media content and/or advertisement. Thus, an impression represents a
home or an individual having been exposed to an advertisement or content or group of
advertisements or content. In Internet advertising, a quantity of impressions or
impression count is the total number of times an advertisement or advertisement
campaign has been accessed by a web population (e.g., including number of times
accessed as decreased by, for example, pop-up blockers and/or increased by, for
example, retrieval from local cache memory).
[0038]       Example methods, apparatus, and/or articles of manufacture disclosed
herein also enable reporting TV GRPs and online GRPs in a side-by-side manner. For
instance, techniques disclosed herein enable advertisers to report quantities of unique
people or users that are reached individually and/or collectively by TV and/or online
advertisements.
[0039]       Example methods, apparatus, and/or articles of manufacture disclosed
herein also collect impressions mapped to demographics data at various locations on
the Internet. For example, an audience measurement entity collects such impression
data for its panel and automatically enlists one or more online demographics
 naonnna                                                               l"naA~OO l" O nnn A "7Ca A Al lMA

                                             -10
proprietors to collect impression data for their subscribers. By combining this collected
impression data, the audience measurement entity can then generate GRP metrics for
different advertisement campaigns. These GRP metrics can be correlated or
otherwise associated with particular demographic segments and/or markets that were
reached.
[0040]       FIG. 1 depicts an example system 100 that may be used to determine
media exposure (e.g., exposure to content and/or advertisements) based on
demographic information collected by one or more database proprietors. "Distributed
demographics information" is used herein to refer to demographics information
obtained from at least two sources, at least one of which is a database proprietor such
as an online web services provider. In the illustrated example, content providers
and/or advertisers distribute advertisements 102 via the Internet 104 to users that
access websites and/or online television services (e.g., web-based TV, Internet
protocol TV (IPTV), etc.). The advertisements 102 may additionally or alternatively be
distributed through broadcast television services to traditional non-Internet based (e.g.,
RF, terrestrial or satellite based) television sets and monitored for viewership using the
techniques described herein and/or other techniques. Websites, movies, television
and/or other programming is generally referred to herein as content. Advertisements
are typically distributed with content. Traditionally, content is provided at little or no
cost to the audience because it is subsidized by advertisers why pay to have their
advertisements distributed with the content.
[0041]       In the illustrated example, the advertisements 102 may form one or more ad
campaigns and are encoded with identification codes (e.g., metadata) that identify the
associated ad campaign (e.g., campaign ID), a creative type ID (e.g., identifying a
Flash-based ad, a banner ad, a rich type ad, etc.), a source ID (e.g., identifying the ad
publisher), and a placement ID (e.g., identifying the physical placement of the ad on a
screen). The advertisements 102 are also tagged or encoded to include computer
executable beacon instructions (e.g., Java, javascript, or any other computer language
or script) that are executed by web browsers that access the advertisements 102 on,
for example, the Internet. Computer executable beacon instructions may additionally
or alternatively be associated with content to be monitored. Thus, although this
disclosure frequently speaks in the area of tracking advertisements, it is not restricted
to tracking any particular type of media. On the contrary, it can be used to track
content or advertisements of any type or form in a network. Irrespective of the type of
content being tracked, execution of the beacon instructions causes the web browser to
 naonnna                                                             l"naA~OO l" O nnn A "7Ca A Al lMA

                                             - 11
send an impression request (e.g., referred to herein as beacon requests) to a specified
server (e.g., the audience measurement entity). The beacon request may be
implemented as an HTTP request. However, whereas a transmitted HTML request
identifies a webpage or other resource to be downloaded, the beacon request includes
the audience measurement information (e.g., ad campaign identification, content
identifier, and/or user identification information) as its payload. The server to which the
beacon request is directed is programmed to log the audience measurement data of
the beacon request as an impression (e.g., an ad and/or content impressions
depending on the nature of the media tagged with the beaconing instruction).
[0042]       In some example implementations, advertisements tagged with such
beacon instructions may be distributed with Internet-based media content including, for
example, web pages, streaming video, streaming audio, IPTV content, etc. and used to
collect demographics-based impression data. As noted above, methods, apparatus,
and/or articles of manufacture disclosed herein are not limited to advertisement
monitoring but can be adapted to any type of content monitoring (e.g., web pages,
movies, television programs, etc.). Example techniques that may be used to
implement such beacon instructions are disclosed in Blumenau, U.S. Patent
6,108,637, which is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.
[0043]       Although example methods, apparatus, and/or articles of manufacture are
described herein as using beacon instructions executed by web browsers to send
beacon requests to specified impression collection servers, the example methods,
apparatus, and/or articles of manufacture may additionally collect data with on-device
meter systems that locally collect web browsing information without relying on content
or advertisements encoded or tagged with beacon instructions. In such examples,
locally collected web browsing behavior may subsequently be correlated with user
demographic data based on user IDs as disclosed herein.
[0044]       The example system 100 of FIG. 1 includes a ratings entity subsystem 106,
a partner database proprietor subsystem 108 (implemented in this example by a social
network service provider), other partnered database proprietor (e.g., web service
provider) subsystems 110, and non-partnered database proprietor (e.g., web service
provider) subsystems 112. In the illustrated example, the ratings entity subsystem 106
and the partnered database proprietor subsystems 108, 110 correspond to partnered
business entities that have agreed to share demographic information and to capture
impressions in response to redirected beacon requests as explained below. The
 naonnna                                                             l"naA~OO l" O nnn A "7Ca A Al l nA

                                            -12
partnered business entities may participate to advantageously have the accuracy
and/or completeness of their respective demographic information confirmed and/or
increased. The partnered business entities also participate in reporting impressions
that occurred on their websites. In the illustrated example, the other partnered
database proprietor subsystems 110 include components, software, hardware, and/or
processes similar or identical to the partnered database proprietor subsystem 108 to
collect and log impressions (e.g., advertisement and/or content impressions) and
associate demographic information with such logged impressions.
[0045]       The non-partnered database proprietor subsystems 112 correspond to
business entities that do not participate in sharing of demographic information.
However, the techniques disclosed herein do track impressions (e.g., advertising
impressions and/or content impressions) attributable to the non-partnered database
proprietor subsystems 112, and in some instances, one or more of the non-partnered
database proprietor subsystems 112 also report unique user IDs (UUIDs) attributable
to different impressions. Unique user IDs can be used to identify demographics using
demographics information maintained by the partnered business entities (e.g., the
ratings entity subsystem 106 and/or the database proprietor subsystems 108, 110).
[0046]       The database proprietor subsystem 108 of the example of FIG. 1 is
implemented by a social network proprietor such as Facebook. However, the
database proprietor subsystem 108 may instead be operated by any other type of
entity such as a web services entity that serves desktop/stationary computer users
and/or mobile device users. In the illustrated example, the database proprietor
subsystem 108 is in a first internet domain, and the partnered database proprietor
subsystems 110 and/or the non-partnered database proprietor subsystems 112 are in
second, third, fourth, etc. internet domains.
[0047]       In the illustrated example of FIG. 1, the tracked content and/or
advertisements 102 are presented to TV and/or PC (computer) panelists 114 and
online only panelists 116. The panelists 114 and 116 are users registered on panels
maintained by a ratings entity (e.g., an audience measurement company) that owns
and/or operates the ratings entity subsystem 106. In the example of FIG. 1, the TV
and PC panelists 114 include users and/or homes that are monitored for exposures to
the content and/or advertisements 102 on TVs and/or computers. The online only
panelists 116 include users that are monitored for exposure (e.g., content exposure
and/or advertisement exposure) via online sources when at work or home. In some
 naonnna                                                            l"naA~OO l" O nnn A "7Ca A Al lMA

                                            -13
example implementations, TV and/or PC panelists 114 may be home-centric users
(e.g., home-makers, students, adolescents, children, etc.), while online only panelists
116 may be business-centric users that are commonly connected to work-provided
Internet services via office computers or mobile devices (e.g., mobile phones,
smartphones, laptops, tablet computers, etc.).
[0048]       To collect exposure measurements (e.g., content impressions and/or
advertisement impressions) generated by meters at client devices (e.g., computers,
mobile phones, smartphones, laptops, tablet computers, TVs, etc.), the ratings entity
subsystem 106 includes a ratings entity collector 117 and loader 118 to perform
collection and loading processes. The ratings entity collector 117 and loader 118
collect and store the collected exposure measurements obtained via the panelists 114
and 116 in a ratings entity database 120. The ratings entity subsystem 106 then
processes and filters the exposure measurements based on business rules 122 and
organizes the processed exposure measurements into TV&PC summary tables 124,
online home (H) summary tables 126, and online work (W) summary tables 128. In the
illustrated example, the summary tables 124, 126, and 128 are sent to a GRP report
generator 130, which generates one or more GRP report(s) 131 to sell or otherwise
provide to advertisers, publishers, manufacturers, content providers, and/or any other
entity interested in such market research.
[0049]       In the illustrated example of FIG. 1, the ratings entity subsystem 106 is
provided with an impression monitor system 132 that is configured to track exposure
quantities (e.g., content impressions and/or advertisement impressions) corresponding
to content and/or advertisements presented by client devices (e.g., computers, mobile
phones, smartphones, laptops, tablet computers, etc.) whether received from remote
web servers or retrieved from local caches of the client devices. In some example
implementations, the impression monitor system 132 may be implemented using the
SiteCensus system owned and operated by The Nielsen Company. In the illustrated
example, identities of users associated with the exposure quantities are collected using
cookies (e.g., Universally Unique Identifiers (UUIDs)) tracked by the impression
monitor system 132 when client devices present content and/or advertisements. Due
to Internet security protocols, the impression monitor system 132 can only collect
cookies set in its domain. Thus, if, for example, the impression monitor system 132
operates in the "Nielsen.com" domain, it can only collect cookies set by a Nielsen.com
server. Thus, when the impression monitor system 132 receives a beacon request
from a given client, the impression monitor system 132 only has access to cookies set
  naonnna                                                             l"naA~OO l" O nnn A "7Ca A Al lMA

                                            - 14
on that client by a server in the, for example, Nielsen.com domain. To overcome this
limitation, the impression monitor system 132 of the illustrated example is structured to
forward beacon requests to one or more database proprietors partnered with the
audience measurement entity. Those one or more partners can recognize cookies set
in their domain (e.g., Facebook.com) and therefore log impressions in association with
the subscribers associated with the recognized cookies. This process is explained
further below.
[0050]       In the illustrated example, the ratings entity subsystem 106 includes a
ratings entity cookie collector 134 to collect cookie information (e.g., user ID
information) together with content IDs and/or ad IDs associated with the cookies from
the impression monitor system 132 and send the collected information to the GRP
report generator 130. Again, the cookies collected by the impression monitor system
132 are those set by server(s) operating in a domain of the audience measurement
entity. In some examples, the ratings entity cookie collector 134 is configured to collect
logged impressions (e.g., based on cookie information and ad or content IDs) from the
impression monitor system 132 and provide the logged impressions to the GRP report
generator 130.
[0051]       The operation of the impression monitor system 132 in connection with
client devices and partner sites is described below in connection with FIGS. 2 and 3.
In particular, FIGS. 2 and 3 depict how the impression monitor system 132 enables
collecting user identities and tracking exposure quantities for content and/or
advertisements exposed to those users. The collected data can be used to determine
information about, for example, the effectiveness of advertisement campaigns.
[0052]       For purposes of example, the following example involves a social network
provider, such as Facebook, as the database proprietor. In the illustrated example, the
database proprietor subsystem 108 includes servers 138 to store user registration
information, perform web server processes to serve web pages (possibly, but not
necessarily including one or more advertisements) to subscribers of the social network,
to track user activity, and to track account characteristics. During account creation, the
database proprietor subsystem 108 asks users to provide demographic information
such as age, gender, geographic location, graduation year, quantity of group
associations, and/or any other personal or demographic information. To automatically
identify users on return visits to the webpage(s) of the social network entity, the servers
138 set cookies on client devices (e.g., computers and/or mobile devices of registered
  naonnna                                                            l"naA~OO l" O nnn A "7Ca A Al lMA

                                            -15
users, some of which may be panelists 114 and 116 of the audience measurement
entity and/or may not be panelists of the audience measurement entity). The cookies
may be used to identify users to track user visits to the webpages of the social network
entity, to display those web pages according to the preferences of the users, etc. The
cookies set by the database proprietor subsystem 108 may also be used to collect
"domain specific" user activity. As used herein, "domain specific" user activity is user
Internet activity occurring within the domain(s) of a single entity. Domain specific user
activity may also be referred to as "intra-domain activity." The social network entity
may collect intra-domain activity such as the number of web pages (e.g., web pages of
the social network domain such as other social network member pages or other intra
domain pages) visited by each registered user and/or the types of devices such as
mobile (e.g., smartphones) or stationary (e.g., desktop computers) devices used for
such access. The servers 138 are also configured to track account characteristics
such as the quantity of social connections (e.g., friends) maintained by each registered
user, the quantity of pictures posted by each registered user, the quantity of messages
sent or received by each registered user, and/or any other characteristic of user
accounts.
[0053]       The database proprietor subsystem 108 includes a database proprietor
(DP) collector 139 and a DP loader 140 to collect user registration data (e.g.,
demographic data), intra-domain user activity data, inter-domain user activity data (as
explained later) and account characteristics data. The collected information is stored
in a database proprietor database 142. The database proprietor subsystem 108
processes the collected data using business rules 144 to create DP summary tables
146.
[0054]       In the illustrated example, the other partnered database proprietor
subsystems 110 may share with the audience measurement entity similar types of
information as that shared by the database proprietor subsystem 108. In this manner,
demographic information of people that are not registered users of the social network
services provider may be obtained from one or more of the other partnered database
proprietor subsystems 110 if they are registered users of those web service providers
(e.g., Yahoo!, Google, Experian, etc.). Example methods, apparatus, and/or articles of
manufacture disclosed herein advantageously use this cooperation or sharing of
demographic information across website domains to increase the accuracy and/or
completeness of demographic information available to the audience measurement
entity. By using the shared demographic data in such a combined manner with
 naonnna                                                             l"naA~OO l" O nnn A "7Ca A Al lMA

                                             -16
information identifying the content and/or ads 102 to which users are exposed,
example methods, apparatus, and/or articles of manufacture disclosed herein produce
more accurate exposure-per-demographic results to enable a determination of
meaningful and consistent GRPs for online advertisements.
[0055]      As the system 100 expands, more partnered participants (e.g., like the
partnered database proprietor subsystems 110) may join to share further distributed
demographic information and advertisement viewership information for generating
GRPs.
[0056]      To preserve user privacy, the example methods, apparatus, and/or articles
of manufacture described herein use double encryption techniques by each
participating partner or entity (e.g., the subsystems 106, 108, 110) so that user
identities are not revealed when sharing demographic and/or viewership information
between the participating partners or entities. In this manner, user privacy is not
compromised by the sharing of the demographic information as the entity receiving the
demographic information is unable to identify the individual associated with the
received demographic information unless those individuals have already consented to
allow access to their information by, for example, previously joining a panel or services
of the receiving entity (e.g., the audience measurement entity). If the individual is
already in the receiving party's database, the receiving party will be able to identify the
individual despite the encryption. However, the individual has already agreed to be in
the receiving party's database, so consent to allow access to their demographic and
behavioral information has previously already been received.
[0057]       FIG. 2 depicts an example system 200 that may be used to associate
exposure measurements with user demographic information based on demographics
information distributed across user account records of different database proprietors
(e.g., web service providers). The example system 200 enables the ratings entity
subsystem 106 of FIG. 1 to locate a best-fit partner (e.g., the database proprietor
subsystem 108 of FIG. 1 and/or one of the other partnered database proprietor
subsystems 110 of FIG. 1) for each beacon request (e.g., a request from a client
executing a tag associated with tagged media such as an advertisement or content
that contains data identifying the media to enable an entity to log an exposure or
impression). In some examples, the example system 200 uses rules and machine
learning classifiers (e.g., based on an evolving set of empirical data) to determine a
relatively best-suited partner that is likely to have demographics information for a user
 naonnna                                                            l"naA~OO l" O nnn A "7Ca A Al lMA

                                            -17
that triggered a beacon request. The rules may be applied based on a publisher level,
a campaign/publisher level, or a user level. In some examples, machine learning is not
employed and instead, the partners are contacted in some ordered fashion (e.g.,
Facebook, Myspace, then Yahoo!, etc.) until the user associated with a beacon request
is identified or all partners are exhausted without an identification.
[0058]       The ratings entity subsystem 106 receives and compiles the impression
data from all available partners. The ratings entity subsystem 106 may weight the
impression data based on the overall reach and demographic quality of the partner
sourcing the data. For example, the ratings entity subsystem 106 may refer to
historical data on the accuracy of a partner's demographic data to assign a weight to
the logged data provided by that partner.
[0059]       For rules applied at a publisher level, a set of rules and classifiers are
defined that allow the ratings entity subsystem 106 to target the most appropriate
partner for a particular publisher (e.g., a publisher of one or more of the advertisements
or content 102 of FIG. 1). For example, the ratings entity subsystem 106 could use the
demographic composition of the publisher and partner web service providers to select
the partner most likely to have an appropriate user base (e.g., registered users that are
likely to access content for the corresponding publisher).
[0060]       For rules applied at a campaign level, for instances in which a publisher has
the ability to target an ad campaign based on user demographics, the target partner
site could be defined at the publisher/campaign level. For example, if an ad campaign
is targeted at males aged between the ages of 18 and 25, the ratings entity subsystem
106 could use this information to direct a request to the partner most likely to have the
largest reach within that gender/age group (e.g., a database proprietor that maintains a
sports website, etc.).
[0061]       For rules applied at the user level (or cookie level), the ratings entity
subsystem 106 can dynamically select a preferred partner to identify the client and log
the impression based on, for example, (1) feedback received from partners (e.g.,
feedback indicating that panelist user IDs did not match registered users of the partner
site or indicating that the partner site does not have a sufficient number of registered
users), and/or (2) user behavior (e.g., user browsing behavior may indicate that certain
users are unlikely to have registered accounts with particular partner sites). In the
illustrated example of FIG. 2, rules may be used to specify when to override a user
level preferred partner with a publisher (or publisher campaign) level partner target.
Anaonnna                                                              l"naA~OO l" O nnn A "7Ca A Al lMA

                                             -18
[0062]       Turning in detail to FIG. 2, a panelist computer 202 represents a computer
used by one or more of the panelists 114 and 116 of FIG. 1. As shown in the example
of FIG. 2, the panelist computer 202 may exchange communications with the
impression monitor system 132 of FIG. 1. In the illustrated example, a partner A 206
may be the database proprietor subsystem 108 of FIG. 1 and a partner B 208 may be
one of the other partnered database proprietor subsystems 110 of FIG. 1. A panel
collection platform 210 contains the ratings entity database 120 of FIG. 1 to collect ad
and/or content exposure data (e.g., impression data or content impression data).
Interim collection platforms are likely located at the partner A 206 and partner B 208
sites to store logged impressions, at least until the data is transferred to the audience
measurement entity.
[0063]       The panelist computer 202 of the illustrated example executes a web
browser 212 that is directed to a host website (e.g., www.acme.com) that displays one
of the advertisements and/or content 102. The advertisement and/or content 102 is
tagged with identifier information (e.g., a campaign ID, a creative type ID, a placement
ID, a publisher source URL, etc.) and beacon instructions 214. When the beacon
instructions 214 are executed by the panelist computer 202, the beacon instructions
cause the panelist computer to send a beacon request to a remote server specified in
the beacon instructions 214. In the illustrated example, the specified server is a server
of the audience measurement entity, namely, at the impression monitor system 132.
The beacon instructions 214 may be implemented using javascript or any other types
of instructions or script executable via a web browser including, for example, Java,
HTML, etc. It should be noted that tagged webpages and/or advertisements are
processed the same way by panelist and non-panelist computers. In both systems, the
beacon instructions are received in connection with the download of the tagged content
and cause a beacon request to be sent from the client that downloaded the tagged
content for the audience measurement entity. A non-panelist computer is shown at
reference number 203. Although the client 203 is not a panelist 114, 116, the
impression monitor system 132 may interact with the client 203 in the same manner as
the impression monitor system 132 interacts with the client computer 202, associated
with one of the panelists 114, 116. As shown in FIG. 2, the non-panelist client 203 also
sends a beacon request 215 based on tagged content downloaded and presented on
the non-panelist client 203. As a result, in the following description panelist computer
202 and non-panelist computer 203 are referred to generically as a "client" computer.
Anaonnna                                                             l"naA~OO l" nnn A "7CaO A Al l nA

                                            -19
[0064]        In the illustrated example, the web browser 212 stores one or more partner
cookie(s) 216 and a panelist monitor cookie 218. Each partner cookie 216
corresponds to a respective partner (e.g., the partners A 206 and B 208) and can be
used only by the respective partner to identify a user of the panelist computer 202.
The panelist monitor cookie 218 is a cookie set by the impression monitor system 132
and identifies the user of the panelist computer 202 to the impression monitor system
132. Each of the partner cookies 216 is created, set, or otherwise initialized in the
panelist computer 202 when a user of the computer first visits a website of a
corresponding partner (e.g., one of the partners A 206 and B 208) and/or when a user
of the computer registers with the partner (e.g., sets up a Facebook account). If the
user has a registered account with the corresponding partner, the user ID (e.g., an
email address or other value) of the user is mapped to the corresponding partner
cookie 216 in the records of the corresponding partner. The panelist monitor cookie
218 is created when the client (e.g., a panelist computer or a non-panelist computer)
registers for the panel and/or when the client processes a tagged advertisement. The
panelist monitor cookie 218 of the panelist computer 202 may be set when the user
registers as a panelist and is mapped to a user ID (e.g., an email address or other
value) of the user in the records of the ratings entity. Although the non-panelist client
computer 203 is not part of a panel, a panelist monitor cookie similar to the panelist
monitor cookie 218 is created in the non-panelist client computer 203 when the non
panelist client computer 203 processes a tagged advertisement. In this manner, the
impression monitor system 132 may collect impressions (e.g., ad impressions)
associated with the non-panelist client computer 203 even though a user of the non
panelist client computer 203 is not registered in a panel and the ratings entity operating
the impression monitor system 132 will not have demographics for the user of the non
panelist client computer 203.
[0065]      In some examples, the web browser 212 may also include a partner-priority
order cookie 220 that is set, adjusted, and/or controlled by the impression monitor
system 132 and includes a priority listing of the partners 206 and 208 (and/or other
database proprietors) indicative of an order in which beacon requests should be sent to
the partners 206, 208 and/or other database proprietors. For example, the impression
monitor system 132 may specify that the client computer 202, 203 should first send a
beacon request based on execution of the beacon instructions 214 to partner A 206
and then to partner B 208 if partner A 206 indicates that the user of the client computer
202, 203 is not a registered user of partner A 206. In this manner, the client computer
202, 203 can use the beacon instructions 214 in combination with the priority listing of
Anaonnna                                                            l"naA~OO l" O nnn A "7Ca A Al lMA

                                           - 20
the partner-priority-order cookie 220 to send an initial beacon request to an initial
partner and/or other initial database proprietor and one or more re-directed beacon
requests to one or more secondary partners and/or other database proprietors until
one of the partners 206 and 208 and/or other database proprietors confirms that the
user of the panelist computer 202 is a registered user of the partner's or other
database proprietor's services and is able to log an impression (e.g., an ad impression,
a content impression, etc.) and provide demographic information for that user (e.g.,
demographic information stored in the database proprietor database 142 of FIG. 1), or
until all partners have been tried without a successful match. In other examples, the
partner-priority-order cookie 220 may be omitted and the beacon instructions 214 may
be configured to cause the client computer 202, 203 to unconditionally send beacon
requests to all available partners and/or other database proprietors so that all of the
partners and/or other database proprietors have an opportunity to log an impression.
In yet other examples, the beacon instructions 214 may be configured to cause the
client computer 202, 203 to receive instructions from the impression monitor system
132 on an order in which to send redirected beacon requests to one or more partners
and/or other database proprietors.
[0066]       To monitor browsing behavior and track activity of the partner cookie(s)
216, the panelist computer 202 is provided with a web client meter 222. In addition,
the panelist computer 202 is provided with an HTTP request log 224 in which the web
client meter 222 may store or log HTTP requests in association with a meter ID of the
web client meter 222, user IDs originating from the panelist computer 202, beacon
request timestamps (e.g., timestamps indicating when the panelist computer 202 sent
beacon requests such as the beacon requests 304 and 308 of FIG. 3), uniform
resource locators (URLs) of websites that displayed advertisements, and ad campaign
IDs. In the illustrated example, the web client meter 222 stores user IDs of the partner
cookie(s) 216 and the panelist monitor cookie 218 in association with each logged
HTTP request in the HTTP requests log 224. In some examples, the HTTP requests
log 224 can additionally or alternatively store other types of requests such as file
transfer protocol (FTP) requests and/or any other internet protocol requests. The web
client meter 222 of the illustrated example can communicate such web browsing
behavior or activity data in association with respective user IDs from the HTTP
requests log 224 to the panel collection platform 210. In some examples, the web
client meter 222 may also be advantageously used to log impressions for untagged
content or advertisements. Unlike tagged advertisements and/or tagged content that
include the beacon instructions 214 causing a beacon request to be sent to the
  naonnna                                                           l"naA~OO l" O nnn A "7Ca A Al lMA

                                            - 21
impression monitor system 132 (and/or one or more of the partners 206, 208 and/or
other database proprietors) identifying the exposure or impression to the tagged
content to be sent to the audience measurement entity for logging, untagged
advertisements and/or advertisements do not have such beacon instructions 214 to
create an opportunity for the impression monitor system 132 to log an impression. In
such instances, HTTP requests logged by the web client meter 222 can be used to
identify any untagged content or advertisements that were rendered by the web
browser 212 on the panelist computer 202.
[0067]       In the illustrated example, the impression monitor system 132 is provided
with a user ID comparator 228, a rules/machine learning (ML) engine 230, an HTTP
server 232, and a publisher/campaign/user target database 234. The user ID
comparator 228 of the illustrated example is provided to identify beacon requests from
users that are panelists 114, 116. In the illustrated example, the HTTP server 232 is a
communication interface via which the impression monitor system 132 exchanges
information (e.g., beacon requests, beacon responses, acknowledgements, failure
status messages, etc.) with the client computer 202, 203. The rules/ ML engine 230
and the publisher/campaign/user target database 234 of the illustrated example enable
the impression monitor system 132 to target the 'best fit' partner (e.g., one of the
partners 206 or 208) for each impression request (or beacon request) received from
the client computer 202, 203. The 'best fit' partner is the partner most likely to have
demographic data for the user(s) of the client computer 202, 203 sending the
impression request. The rules/ ML engine 230 is a set of rules and machine learning
classifiers generated based on evolving empirical data stored in the
publisher/campaign/user target database 234. In the illustrated example, rules can be
applied at the publisher level, publisher/campaign level, or user level. In addition,
partners may be weighted based on their overall reach and demographic quality.
[0068]      To target partners (e.g., the partners 206 and 208) at the publisher level of
ad campaigns, the rules/ ML engine 230 contains rules and classifiers that allow the
impression monitor system 132 to target the 'best fit' partner for a particular publisher
of ad campaign(s). For example, the impression monitoring system 132 could use an
indication of target demographic composition(s) of publisher(s) and partner(s) (e.g., as
stored in the publisher/campaign/user target database 234) to select a partner (e.g.,
one of the partners 206, 208) that is most likely to have demographic information for a
user of the client computer 202, 203 requesting the impression.
Anaonnna                                                            l"naA~OO l" nnn A "7CaO A Al lMA

                                             - 22
[0069]       To target partners (e.g., the partners 206 and 208) at the campaign level
(e.g., a publisher has the ability to target ad campaigns based on user demographics),
the rules/ ML engine 230 of the illustrated example are used to specify target partners
at the publisher/campaign level. For example, if the publisher/campaign/user target
database 234 stores information indicating that a particular ad campaign is targeted at
males aged 18 to 25, the rules/ ML engine 230 uses this information to indicate a
beacon request redirect to a partner most likely to have the largest reach within this
gender/age group.
[0070]       To target partners (e.g., the partners 206 and 208) at the cookie level, the
impression monitor system 132 updates target partner sites based on feedback
received from the partners. Such feedback could indicate user IDs that did not
correspond or that did correspond to registered users of the partner(s). In some
examples, the impression monitor system 132 could also update target partner sites
based on user behavior. For example, such user behavior could be derived from
analyzing cookie clickstream data corresponding to browsing activities associated with
panelist monitor cookies (e.g., the panelist monitor cookie 218). In the illustrated
example, the impression monitor system 132 uses such cookie clickstream data to
determine age/gender bias for particular partners by determining ages and genders of
which the browsing behavior is more indicative. In this manner, the impression monitor
system 132 of the illustrated example can update a target or preferred partner for a
particular user or client computer 202, 203. In some examples, the rules/ ML engine
230 specify when to override user-level preferred target partners with publisher or
publisher/campaign level preferred target partners. For example such a rule may
specify an override of user-level preferred target partners when the user-level preferred
target partner sends a number of indications that it does not have a registered user
corresponding to the client computer 202, 203 (e.g., a different user on the client
computer 202, 203 begins using a different browser having a different user ID in its
partner cookie 216).
[0071]       In the illustrated example, the impression monitor system 132 logs
impressions (e.g., ad impressions, content impressions, etc.) in an impressions per
unique users table 235 based on beacon requests (e.g., the beacon request 304 of
FIG. 3) received from client computers (e.g., the client computer 202, 203). In the
illustrated example, the impressions per unique users table 235 stores unique user IDs
obtained from cookies (e.g., the panelist monitor cookie 218) in association with total
impressions per day and campaign IDs. In this manner, for each campaign ID, the
  naonnna                                                           l"naA~OO l" O nnn A "7Ca A Al lMA

                                            - 23
impression monitor system 132 logs the total impressions per day that are attributable
to a particular user or client computer 202, 203.
[0072]      Each of the partners 206 and 208 of the illustrated example employs an
HTTP server 236 and 240 and a user ID comparator 238 and 242. In the illustrated
example, the HTTP servers 236 and 240 are communication interfaces via which their
respective partners 206 and 208 exchange information (e.g., beacon requests, beacon
responses, acknowledgements, failure status messages, etc.) with the client computer
202, 203. The user ID comparators 238 and 242 are configured to compare user
cookies received from a client 202, 203 against the cookie in their records to identify
the client 202, 203, if possible. In this manner, the user ID comparators 238 and 242
can be used to determine whether users of the panelist computer 202 have registered
accounts with the partners 206 and 208. If so, the partners 206 and 208 can log
impressions attributed to those users and associate those impressions with the
demographics of the identified user (e.g., demographics stored in the database
proprietor database 142 of FIG. 1).
[0073]      In the illustrated example, the panel collection platform 210 is used to
identify registered users of the partners 206, 208 that are also panelists 114, 116. The
panel collection platform 210 can then use this information to cross-reference
demographic information stored by the ratings entity subsystem 106 for the panelists
114, 116 with demographic information stored by the partners 206 and 208 for their
registered users. The ratings entity subsystem 106 can use such cross-referencing to
determine the accuracy of the demographic information collected by the partners 206
and 208 based on the demographic information of the panelists 114 and 116 collected
by the ratings entity subsystem 106.
[0074]      In some examples, the example collector 117 of the panel collection
platform 210 collects web-browsing activity information from the panelist computer 202.
In such examples, the example collector 117 requests logged data from the HTTP
requests log 224 of the panelist computer 202 and logged data collected by other
panelist computers (not shown). In addition, the collector 117 collects panelist user
IDs from the impression monitor system 132 that the impression monitor system 132
tracks as having set in panelist computers. Also, the collector 117 collects partner user
IDs from one or more partners (e.g., the partners 206 and 208) that the partners track
as having been set in panelist and non-panelist computers. In some examples, to
abide by privacy agreements of the partners 206, 208, the collector 117 and/or the
  naonnna                                                            l"naA~OO l" O nnn A "7Ca A Al lMA

                                             - 24
database proprietors 206, 208 can use a hashing technique (e.g., a double-hashing
technique) to hash the database proprietor cookie IDs.
[0075]        In some examples, the loader 118 of the panel collection platform 210
analyzes and sorts the received panelist user IDs and the partner user IDs. In the
illustrated example, the loader 118 analyzes received logged data from panelist
computers (e.g., from the HTTP requests log 224 of the panelist computer 202) to
identify panelist user IDs (e.g., the panelist monitor cookie 218) associated with partner
user IDs (e.g., the partner cookie(s) 216). In this manner, the loader 118 can identify
which panelists (e.g., ones of the panelists 114 and 116) are also registered users of
one or more of the partners 206 and 208 (e.g., the database proprietor subsystem 108
of FIG. 1 having demographic information of registered users stored in the database
proprietor database 142). In some examples, the panel collection platform 210
operates to verify the accuracy of impressions collected by the impression monitor
system 132. In such some examples, the loader 118 filters the logged HTTP beacon
requests from the HTTP requests log 224 that correlate with impressions of panelists
logged by the impression monitor system 132 and identifies HTTP beacon requests
logged at the HTTP requests log 224 that do not have corresponding impressions
logged by the impression monitor system 132. In this manner, the panel collection
platform 210 can provide indications of inaccurate impression logging by the
impression monitor system 132 and/or provide impressions logged by the web client
meter 222 to fill-in impression data for panelists 114, 116 missed by the impression
monitor system 132.
[0076]        In the illustrated example, the loader 118 stores overlapping users in an
impressions-based panel demographics table 250. In the illustrated example,
overlapping users are users that are panelist members 114, 116 and registered users
of partner A 206 (noted as users P(A)) and/or registered users of partner B 208 (noted
as users P(B)). (Although only two partners (A and B) are shown, this is for simplicity
of illustration, any number of partners may be represented in the table 250. The
impressions-based panel demographics table 250 of the illustrated example is shown
storing meter IDs (e.g., of the web client meter 222 and web client meters of other
computers), user IDs (e.g., an alphanumeric identifier such as a user name, email
address, etc. corresponding to the panelist monitor cookie 218 and panelist monitor
cookies of other panelist computers), beacon request timestamps (e.g., timestamps
indicating when the panelist computer 202 and/or other panelist computers sent
beacon requests such as the beacon requests 304 and 308 of FIG. 3), uniform
  naonnna                                                            l"naA~OO l" O nnn A "7Ca A Al lMA

                                           - 25
resource locators (URLs) of websites visited (e.g., websites that displayed
advertisements), and ad campaign IDs. In addition, the loader 118 of the illustrated
example stores partner user IDs that do not overlap with panelist user IDs in a partner
A (P(A)) cookie table 252 and a partner B (P(B)) cookie table 254.
[0077]      Example processes performed by the example system 200 are described
below in connection with the communications flow diagram of FIG. 3 and the flow
diagrams of FIGS. 10, 11, and 12.
[0078]      In the illustrated example of FIGS. 1 and 2, the ratings entity subsystem 106
includes the impression monitor system 132, the rules/ML engine 230, the HTTP
server communication interface 232, the publisher/campaign/user target database 232,
the GRP report generator 130, the panel collection platform 210, the collector 117, the
loader 118, and the ratings entity database 120. In the illustrated example of FIGS. 1
and 2, the impression monitor system 132, the rules/ML engine 230, the HTTP server
communication interface 232, the publisher/campaign/user target database 232, the
GRP report generator 130, the panel collection platform 210, the collector 117, the
loader 118, and the ratings entity database 120 may be implemented as a single
apparatus or a two or more different apparatus. While an example manner of
implementing the impression monitor system 132, the rules/ML engine 230, the HTTP
server communication interface 232, the publisher/campaign/user target database 232,
the GRP report generator 130, the panel collection platform 210, the collector 117, the
loader 118, and the ratings entity database 120 has been illustrated in FIGS. 1 and 2,
one or more of the impression monitor system 132, the rules/ML engine 230, the HTTP
server communication interface 232, the publisher/campaign/user target database 232,
the GRP report generator 130, the panel collection platform 210, the collector 117, the
loader 118, and the ratings entity database 120 may be combined, divided, re
arranged, omitted, eliminated and/or implemented in any other way. Further, the
impression monitor system 132, the rules/ML engine 230, the HTTP server
communication interface 232, the publisher/campaign/user target database 232, the
GRP report generator 130, the panel collection platform 210, the collector 117, the
loader 118, and the ratings entity database 120 and/or, more generally, the example
apparatus of the example ratings entity subsystem 106 may be implemented by
hardware, software, firmware and/or any combination of hardware, software and/or
firmware. Thus, for example, any of the impression monitor system 132, the rules/ML
engine 230, the HTTP server communication interface 232, the
publisher/campaign/user target database 232, the GRP report generator 130, the panel
  naonnna                                                           l"naA~OO l" O nnn A "7Ca A Al lMA

                                             - 26
collection platform 210, the collector 117, the loader 118, and the ratings entity
database 120 and/or, more generally, the example apparatus of the ratings entity
subsystem 106 could be implemented by one or more circuit(s), programmable
processor(s), application specific integrated circuit(s) (ASIC(s)), programmable logic
device(s) (PLD(s)) and/or field programmable logic device(s) (FPLD(s)), etc. When
any of the appended apparatus or system claims are read to cover a purely software
and/or firmware implementation, at least one of the impression monitor system 132,
the rules/ML engine 230, the HTTP server communication interface 232, the
publisher/campaign/user target database 232, the GRP report generator 130, the panel
collection platform 210, the collector 117, the loader 118, and/or the ratings entity
database 120 appearing in such claim is hereby expressly defined to include a
computer readable medium such as a memory, DVD, CD, etc. storing the software
and/or firmware. Further still, the example apparatus of the ratings entity subsystem
106 may include one or more elements, processes and/or devices in addition to, or
instead of, those illustrated in FIGS. 1 and 2, and/or may include more than one of any
or all of the illustrated elements, processes and devices.
[0079]       Turning to FIG. 3, an example communication flow diagram shows an
example manner in which the example system 200 of FIG. 2 logs impressions by
clients (e.g., clients 202, 203). The example chain of events shown in FIG. 3 occurs
when a client 202, 203 accesses a tagged advertisement or tagged content. Thus, the
events of FIG. 3 begin when a client sends an HTTP request to a server for content
and/or an advertisement, which, in this example, is tagged to forward an exposure
request to the ratings entity. In the illustrated example of FIG. 3, the web browser of
the client 202, 203 receives the requested content or advertisement (e.g., the content
or advertisement 102) from a publisher (e.g., ad publisher 302). It is to be understood
that the client 202, 203 often requests a webpage containing content of interest (e.g.,
www.weather.com) and the requested webpage contains links to ads that are
downloaded and rendered within the webpage. The ads may come from different
servers than the originally requested content. Thus, the requested content may
contain instructions that cause the client 202, 203 to request the ads (e.g., from the ad
publisher 302) as part of the process of rendering the webpage originally requested by
the client. The webpage, the ad or both may be tagged. In the illustrated example, the
uniform resource locator (URL) of the ad publisher is illustratively named
http://my.advertiser.com.
Anaonnna                                                             l"naA~OO l" nnn A "7CaO A Al lMA

                                            - 27
[0080]       For purposes of the following illustration, it is assumed that the
advertisement 102 is tagged with the beacon instructions 214 (FIG. 2). Initially, the
beacon instructions 214 cause the web browser of the client 202 or 203 to send a
beacon request 304 to the impression monitor system 132 when the tagged ad is
accessed. In the illustrated example, the web browser sends the beacon request 304
using an HTTP request addressed to the URL of the impression monitor system 132
at, for example, a first internet domain. The beacon request 304 includes one or more
of a campaign ID, a creative type ID, and/or a placement ID associated with the
advertisement 102. In addition, the beacon request 304 includes a document referrer
(e.g., www.acme.com), a timestamp of the impression, and a publisher site ID (e.g.,
the URL http://my.advertiser.com of the ad publisher 302). In addition, if the web
browser of the client 202 or 203 contains the panelist monitor cookie 218, the beacon
request 304 will include the panelist monitor cookie 218. In other example
implementations, the cookie 218 may not be passed until the client 202 or 203 receives
a request sent by a server of the impression monitor system 132 in response to, for
example, the impression monitor system 132 receiving the beacon request 304.
[0081]       In response to receiving the beacon request 304, the impression monitor
system 132 logs an impression by recording the ad identification information (and any
other relevant identification information) contained in the beacon request 304. In the
illustrated example, the impression monitor system 132 logs the impression regardless
of whether the beacon request 304 indicated a user ID (e.g., based on the panelist
monitor cookie 218) that matched a user ID of a panelist member (e.g., one of the
panelists 114 and 116 of FIG. 1). However, if the user ID (e.g., the panelist monitor
cookie 218) matches a user ID of a panelist member (e.g., one of the panelists 114
and 116 of FIG. 1) set by and, thus, stored in the record of the ratings entity subsystem
106, the logged impression will correspond to a panelist of the impression monitor
system 132. If the user ID does not correspond to a panelist of the impression monitor
system 132, the impression monitor system 132 will still benefit from logging an
impression even though it will not have a user ID record (and, thus, corresponding
demographics) for the impression reflected in the beacon request 304.
[0082]       In the illustrated example of FIG. 3, to compare or supplement panelist
demographics (e.g., for accuracy or completeness) of the impression monitor system
132 with demographics at partner sites and/or to enable a partner site to attempt to
identify the client and/or log the impression, the impression monitor system 132 returns
a beacon response message 306 (e.g., a first beacon response) to the web browser of
Anaonnna                                                              l"naA~OO l" O nnn A "7Ca A Al lMA

                                            - 28
the client 202, 203 including an HTTP 302 redirect message and a URL of a
participating partner at, for example, a second internet domain. In the illustrated
example, the HTTP 302 redirect message instructs the web browser of the client 202,
203 to send a second beacon request 308 to the particular partner (e.g., one of the
partners A 206 or B 208). In other examples, instead of using an HTTP 302 redirect
message, redirects may instead be implemented using, for example, an iframe source
instructions (e.g., <iframe src = " ">)or any other instruction that can instruct a web
browser to send a subsequent beacon request (e.g., the second beacon request 308)
to a partner. In the illustrated example, the impression monitor system 132 determines
the partner specified in the beacon response 306 using its rules/ML engine 230 (FIG.
2) based on, for example, empirical data indicative of which partner should be
preferred as being most likely to have demographic data for the user ID. In other
examples, the same partner is always identified in the first redirect message and that
partner always redirects the client 202, 203 to the same second partner when the first
partner does not log the impression. In other words, a set hierarchy of partners is
defined and followed such that the partners are "daisy chained" together in the same
predetermined order rather than them trying to guess a most likely database proprietor
to identify an unknown client 203.
[0083]        Prior to sending the beacon response 306 to the web browser of the client
202, 203, the impression monitor system 132 of the illustrated example replaces a site
ID (e.g., a URL) of the ad publisher 302 with a modified site ID (e.g., a substitute site
ID) which is discernable only by the impression monitor system 132 as corresponding
to the ad publisher 302. In some example implementations, the impression monitor
system 132 may also replace the host website ID (e.g., www.acme.com) with another
modified site ID (e.g., a substitute site ID) which is discernable only by the impression
monitor system 132 as corresponding to the host website. In this way, the source(s) of
the ad and/or the host content are masked from the partners. In the illustrated
example, the impression monitor system 132 maintains a publisher ID mapping table
310 that maps original site IDs of ad publishers with modified (or substitute) site IDs
created by the impression monitor system 132 to obfuscate or hide ad publisher
identifiers from partner sites. In some examples, the impression monitor system 132
also stores the host website ID in association with a modified host website ID in a
mapping table. In addition, the impression monitor system 132 encrypts all of the
information received in the beacon request 304 and the modified site ID to prevent any
intercepting parties from decoding the information. The impression monitor system
132 of the illustrated example sends the encrypted information in the beacon response
 naonnna                                                             l"naA~OO l" O nnn A "7Ca A Al lMA

                                           - 29
306 to the web browser 212. In the illustrated example, the impression monitor system
132 uses an encryption that can be decrypted by the selected partner site specified in
the HTTP 302 redirect.
[0084]       In some examples, the impression monitor system 132 also sends a URL
scrape instruction 320 to the client computer 202, 302. In such examples, the URL
scrape instruction 320 causes the client computer 202, 203 to "scrape" the URL of the
webpage or website associated with the tagged advertisement 102. For example, the
client computer 202, 203 may perform scraping of web page URLs by reading text
rendered or displayed at a URL address bar of the web browser 212. The client
computer 202, 203 then sends a scraped URL 322 to the impression monitor system
322. In the illustrated example, the scraped URL 322 indicates the host website (e.g.,
http://www.acme.com) that was visited by a user of the client computer 202, 203 and in
which the tagged advertisement 102 was displayed. In the illustrated example, the
tagged advertisement 102 is displayed via an ad iFrame having a URL
'my.advertiser.com,' which corresponds to an ad network (e.g., the publisher 302) that
serves the tagged advertisement 102 on one or more host websites. However, in the
illustrated example, the host website indicated in the scraped URL 322 is
'www.acme.com,' which corresponds to a website visited by a user of the client
computer 202, 203.
[0085]       URL scraping is particularly useful under circumstances in which the
publisher is an ad network from which an advertiser bought advertisement space/time.
In such instances, the ad network dynamically selects from subsets of host websites
(e.g., www.caranddriver.com, www.espn.com, www.allrecipes.com, etc.) visited by
users on which to display ads via ad iFrames. However, the ad network cannot foretell
definitively the host websites on which the ad will be displayed at any particular time.
In addition, the URL of an ad iFrame in which the tagged advertisement 102 is being
rendered may not be useful to identify the topic of a host website (e.g., www.acme.com
in the example of FIG. 3) rendered by the web browser 212. As such, the impression
monitor system 132 may not know the host website in which the ad iFrame is
displaying the tagged advertisement 102.
[0086]       The URLs of host websites (e.g., www.caranddriver.com, www.espn.com,
www.allrecipes.com, etc.) can be useful to determine topical interests (e.g.,
automobiles, sports, cooking, etc.) of user(s) of the client computer 202, 203. In some
examples, audience measurement entities can use host website URLs to correlate with
  naonnna                                                          l"naA~OO l" O nnn A "7Ca A Al lMA

                                             - 30
user/panelist demographics and interpolate logged impressions to larger populations
based on demographics and topical interests of the larger populations and based on
the demographics and topical interests of users/panelists for which impressions were
logged. Thus, in the illustrated example, when the impression monitor system 132
does not receive a host website URL or cannot otherwise identify a host website URL
based on the beacon request 304, the impression monitor system 132 sends the URL
scrape instruction 320 to the client computer 202, 203 to receive the scraped URL 322.
In the illustrated example, if the impression monitor system 132 can identify a host
website URL based on the beacon request 304, the impression monitor system 132
does not send the URL scrape instruction 320 to the client computer 202, 203, thereby,
conserving network and computer bandwidth and resources.
[0087]        In response to receiving the beacon response 306, the web browser of the
client 202, 203 sends the beacon request 308 to the specified partner site, which is the
partner A 206 (e.g., a second internet domain) in the illustrated example. The beacon
request 308 includes the encrypted parameters from the beacon response 306. The
partner A 206 (e.g., Facebook) decrypts the encrypted parameters and determines
whether the client matches a registered user of services offered by the partner A 206.
This determination involves requesting the client 202, 203 to pass any cookie (e.g.,
one of the partner cookies 216 of FIG. 2) it stores that had been set by partner A 206
and attempting to match the received cookie against the cookies stored in the records
of partner A 206. If a match is found, partner A 206 has positively identified a client
202, 203. Accordingly, the partner A 206 site logs an impression in association with
the demographics information of the identified client. This log (which includes the
undetectable source identifier) is subsequently provided to the ratings entity for
processing into GRPs as discussed below. In the event partner A 206 is unable to
identify the client 202, 203 in its records (e.g., no matching cookie), the partner A 206
does not log an impression.
[0088]        In some example implementations, if the user ID does not match a
registered user of the partner A 206, the partner A 206 may return a beacon response
312 (e.g., a second beacon response) including a failure or non-match status or may
not respond at all, thereby terminating the process of FIG. 3. However, in the
illustrated example, if partner A 206 cannot identify the client 202, 203, partner A 206
returns a second HTTP 302 redirect message in the beacon response 312 (e.g., the
second beacon response) to the client 202, 203. For example, if the partner A site 206
has logic (e.g., similar to the rules/ml engine 230 of FIG. 2) to specify another partner
  naonnna                                                           l"naA~OO l" O nnn A "7Ca A Al lMA

                                              - 31
(e.g., partner B 208 or any other partner) which may likely have demographics for the
user ID, then the beacon response 312 may include an HTTP 302 redirect (or any
other suitable instruction to cause a redirected communication) along with the URL of
the other partner (e.g., at a third internet domain). Alternatively, in the daisy chain
approach discussed above, the partner A site 206 may always redirect to the same
next partner or database proprietor (e.g., partner B 208 at, for example, a third internet
domain or a non-partnered database proprietor subsystem 110 of FIG. 1 at a third
internet domain) whenever it cannot identify the client 202, 203. When redirecting, the
partner A site 206 of the illustrated example encrypts the ID, timestamp, referrer, etc.
parameters using an encryption that can be decoded by the next specified partner.
[0089]       As a further alternative, if the partner A site 206 does not have logic to
select a next best suited partner likely to have demographics for the user ID and is not
effectively daisy chained to a next partner by storing instructions that redirect to a
partner entity, the beacon response 312 can redirect the client 202, 203 to the
impression monitor system 132 with a failure or non-match status. In this manner, the
impression monitor system 132 can use its rules/ML engine 230 to select a next-best
suited partner to which the web browser of the client 202, 203 should send a beacon
request (or, if no such logic is provided, simply select the next partner in a hierarchical
(e.g., fixed) list). In the illustrated example, the impression monitor system 132 selects
the partner B site 208, and the web browser of the client 202, 203 sends a beacon
request to the partner B site 208 with parameters encrypted in a manner that can be
decrypted by the partner B site 208. The partner B site 208 then attempts to identify
the client 202, 203 based on its own internal database. If a cookie obtained from the
client 202, 203 matches a cookie in the records of partner B 208, partner B 208 has
positively identified the client 202, 203 and logs the impression in association with the
demographics of the client 202, 203 for later provision to the impression monitor
system 132. In the event that partner B 208 cannot identify the client 202, 203, the
same process of failure notification or further HTTP 302 redirects may be used by the
partner B 208 to provide a next other partner site an opportunity to identify the client
and so on in a similar manner until a partner site identifies the client 202, 203 and logs
the impression, until all partner sites have been exhausted without the client being
identified, or until a predetermined number of partner sites failed to identify the client
202, 203.
[0090]       Using the process illustrated in FIG. 3, impressions (e.g., ad impressions,
content impressions, etc.) can be mapped to corresponding demographics even when
 naonnna                                                              l"naA~OO l" O nnn A "7Ca A Al lMA

                                            - 32
the impressions are not triggered by panel members associated with the audience
measurement entity (e.g., ratings entity subsystem 106 of FIG. 1). That is, during an
impression collection or merging process, the panel collection platform 210 of the
ratings entity can collect distributed impressions logged by (1) the impression monitor
system 132 and (2) any participating partners (e.g., partners 206, 208). As a result,
the collected data covers a larger population with richer demographics information than
has heretofore been possible. Consequently, generating accurate, consistent, and
meaningful online GRPs is possible by pooling the resources of the distributed
databases as described above. The example structures of FIGS. 2 and 3 generate
online GRPs based on a large number of combined demographic databases
distributed among unrelated parties (e.g., Nielsen and Facebook). The end result
appears as if users attributable to the logged impressions were part of a large virtual
panel formed of registered users of the audience measurement entity because the
selection of the participating partner sites can be tracked as if they were members of
the audience measurement entities panels 114, 116. This is accomplished without
violating the cookie privacy protocols of the Internet.
[0091]      Periodically or aperiodically, the impression data collected by the partners
(e.g., partners 206, 208) is provided to the ratings entity via a panel collection platform
210. As discussed above, some user IDs may not match panel members of the
impression monitor system 132, but may match registered users of one or more
partner sites. During a data collecting and merging process to combine demographic
and impression data from the ratings entity subsystem 106 and the partner
subsystem(s) 108 and 110 of FIG. 1, user IDs of some impressions logged by one or
more partners may match user IDs of impressions logged by the impression monitor
system 132, while others (most likely many others) will not match. In some example
implementations, the ratings entity subsystem 106 may use the demographics-based
impressions from matching user ID logs provided by partner sites to assess and/or
improve the accuracy of its own demographic data, if necessary. For the
demographics-based impressions associated with non-matching user ID logs, the
ratings entity subsystem 106 may use the impressions (e.g., advertisement
impressions, content impressions, etc.) to derive demographics-based online GRPs
even though such impressions are not associated with panelists of the ratings entity
subsystem 106.
[0092]      As briefly mentioned above, example methods, apparatus, and/or articles of
manufacture disclosed herein may be configured to preserve user privacy when
 naonnna                                                             l"naA~OO l" O nnn A "7Ca A Al lMA

                                             - 33
sharing demographic information (e.g., account records or registration information)
between different entities (e.g., between the ratings entity subsystem 106 and the
database proprietor subsystem 108). In some example implementations, a double
encryption technique may be used based on respective secret keys for each
participating partner or entity (e.g., the subsystems 106, 108, 110). For example, the
ratings entity subsystem 106 can encrypt its user IDs (e.g., email addresses) using its
secret key and the database proprietor subsystem 108 can encrypt its user IDs using
its secret key. For each user ID, the respective demographics information is then
associated with the encrypted version of the user ID. Each entity then exchanges their
demographics lists with encrypted user IDs. Because neither entity knows the other's
secret key, they cannot decode the user IDs, and thus, the user IDs remain private.
Each entity then proceeds to perform a second encryption of each encrypted user ID
using their respective keys. Each twice-encrypted (or double encrypted) user ID (UID)
will be in the form of E1(E2(UID)) and E2(E1(UID)), where El represents the
encryption using the secret key of the ratings entity subsystem 106 and E2 represents
the encryption using the secret key of the database proprietor subsystem 108. Under
the rule of commutative encryption, the encrypted user IDs can be compared on the
basis that El (E2(UID)) = E2(E1 (UID)). Thus, the encryption of user IDs present in
both databases will match after the double encryption is completed. In this manner,
matches between user records of the panelists and user records of the database
proprietor (e.g., identifiers of registered social network users) can be compared without
the partner entities needing to reveal user IDs to one another.
[0093]       The ratings entity subsystem 106 performs a daily impressions and UUID
(cookies) totalization based on impressions and cookie data collected by the
impression monitor system 132 of FIG. 1 and the impressions logged by the partner
sites. In the illustrated example, the ratings entity subsystem 106 may perform the
daily impressions and UUID (cookies) totalization based on cookie information
collected by the ratings entity cookie collector 134 of FIG. 1 and the logs provided to
the panel collection platform 210 by the partner sites. FIG. 4 depicts an example
ratings entity impressions table 400 showing quantities of impressions to monitored
users. Similar tables could be compiled for one or more of advertisement impressions,
content impressions, or other impressions. In the illustrated example, the ratings entity
impressions table 400 is generated by the ratings entity subsystem 106 for an
advertisement campaign (e.g., one or more of the advertisements 102 of FIG. 1) to
determine frequencies of impressions per day for each user.
Anaonnna                                                             l"naA~OO l" nnn A "7CaO A Al lMA

                                              - 34
[0094]       To track frequencies of impressions per unique user per day, the ratings
entity impressions table 400 is provided with a frequency column 402. A frequency of
1 indicates one exposure per day of an ad in an ad campaign to a unique user, while a
frequency of 4 indicates four exposures per day of one or more ads in the same ad
campaign to a unique user. To track the quantity of unique users to which impressions
are attributable, the ratings impressions table 400 is provided with a UUIDs column
404. A value of 100,000 in the UUIDs column 404 is indicative of 100,000 unique
users. Thus, the first entry of the ratings entity impressions table 400 indicates that
100,000 unique users (i.e., UUIDs = 100,000) were exposed once (i.e., frequency = 1)
in a single day to a particular one of the advertisements 102.
[0095]       To track impressions based on exposure frequency and UUIDs, the ratings
entity impressions table 400 is provided with an impressions column 406. Each
impression count stored in the impressions column 406 is determined by multiplying a
corresponding frequency value stored in the frequency column 402 with a
corresponding UUID value stored in the UUID column 404. For example, in the
second entry of the ratings entity impressions table 400, the frequency value of two is
multiplied by 200,000 unique users to determine that 400,000 impressions are
attributable to a particular one of the advertisements 102.
[0096]       Turning to FIG. 5, in the illustrated example, each of the partnered database
proprietor subsystems 108, 110 of the partners 206, 208 generates and reports a
database proprietor ad campaign-level age/gender and impression composition table
500 to the GRP report generator 130 of the ratings entity subsystem 106 on a daily
basis. Similar tables can be generated for content and/or other media. Additionally or
alternatively, media in addition to advertisements may be added to the table 500. In
the illustrated example, the partners 206, 208 tabulate the impression distribution by
age and gender composition as shown in FIG. 5. For example, referring to FIG. 1, the
database proprietor database 142 of the partnered database proprietor subsystem 108
stores logged impressions and corresponding demographic information of registered
users of the partner A 206, and the database proprietor subsystem 108 of the
illustrated example processes the impressions and corresponding demographic
information using the rules 144 to generate the DP summary tables 146 including the
database proprietor ad campaign-level age/gender and impression composition table
500.
Anaonnna                                                             l"naA~OO l" nnn A "7CaO A Al lMA

                                            - 35
[0097]      The age/gender and impression composition table 500 is provided with an
age/gender column 502, an impressions column 504, a frequency column 506, and an
impression composition column 508. The age/gender column 502 of the illustrated
example indicates the different age/gender demographic groups. The impressions
column 504 of the illustrated example stores values indicative of the total impressions
for a particular one of the advertisements 102 (FIG. 1)for corresponding age/gender
demographic groups. The frequency column 506 of the illustrated example stores
values indicative of the frequency of exposure per user for the one of the
advertisements 102 that contributed to the impressions in the impressions column 504.
The impressions composition column 508 of the illustrated example stores the
percentage of impressions for each of the age/gender demographic groups.
[0098]      In some examples, the database proprietor subsystems 108, 110 may
perform demographic accuracy analyses and adjustment processes on its
demographic information before tabulating final results of impression-based
demographic information in the database proprietor campaign-level age/gender and
impression composition table. This can be done to address a problem facing online
audience measurement processes in that the manner in which registered users
represent themselves to online data proprietors (e.g., the partners 206 and 208) is not
necessarily veridical (e.g., truthful and/or accurate). In some instances, example
approaches to online measurement that leverage account registrations at such online
database proprietors to determine demographic attributes of an audience may lead to
inaccurate demographic-exposure results if they rely on self-reporting of
personal/demographic information by the registered users during account registration
at the database proprietor site. There may be numerous reasons for why users report
erroneous or inaccurate demographic information when registering for database
proprietor services. The self-reporting registration processes used to collect the
demographic information at the database proprietor sites (e.g., social media sites)
does not facilitate determining the veracity of the self-reported demographic
information. To analyze and adjust inaccurate demographic information, the ratings
entity subsystem 106 and the database proprietor subsystems 108, 110 may use
example methods, systems, apparatus, and/or articles of manufacture disclosed in
U.S. patent application serial no. 13/209,292, filed on August 12, 2011, and titled
"Methods and Apparatus to Analyze and Adjust Demographic Information," which is
hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.
Anaonnna                                                            l"naA~OO l" nnn A "7CaO A Al l nA

                                             - 36
[0099]      Turning to FIG. 6, in the illustrated example, the ratings entity subsystem
106 generates a panelist ad campaign-level age/gender and impression composition
table 600 on a daily basis. Similar tables can be generated for content and/or other
media. Additionally or alternatively, media in addition to advertisements may be added
to the table 600. The example ratings entity subsystem 106 tabulates the impression
distribution by age and gender composition as shown in FIG. 6 in the same manner as
described above in connection with FIG. 5. As shown in FIG. 6, the panelist ad
campaign-level age/gender and impression composition table 600 also includes an
age/gender column 602, an impressions column 604, a frequency column 606, and an
impression composition column 608. In the illustrated example of FIG. 6, the
impressions are calculated based on the PC and TV panelists 114 and online panelists
116.
[0100]      After creating the campaign-level age/gender and impression composition
tables 500 and 600 of FIGS. 5 and 6, the ratings entity subsystem 106 creates a
combined campaign-level age/gender and impression composition table 700 shown in
FIG. 7. In particular, the ratings entity subsystem 106 combines the impression
composition percentages from the impression composition columns 508 and 608 of
FIGS. 5 and 6 to compare the age/gender impression distribution differences between
the ratings entity panelists and the social network users.
[0101]      As shown in FIG. 7, the combined campaign-level age/gender and
impression composition table 700 includes an error weighted column 702, which stores
mean squared errors (MSEs) indicative of differences between the impression
compositions of the ratings entity panelists and the users of the database proprietor
(e.g., social network users). Weighted MSEs can be determined using Equation 4
below.
         Equation 4
         Weighted MSE = (a*IC(RE) + (1-a)IC(DP))
[0102]       In Equation 4 above, a weighting variable (a) represents the ratio of
MSE(SN)/MSE(RE) or some other function that weights the compositions inversely
proportional to their MSE. As shown in Equation 4, the weighting variable (a) is
 naonnna                                                             l"naA~OO l" O nnn A "7Ca A Al lMA

                                            - 37
multiplied by the impression composition of the ratings entity (IC(RE)) to generate a
ratings entity weighted impression composition (a*IC(RE)). The impression composition
of the database proprietor (e.g., a social network) (IC(DP)) is then multiplied by a
difference between one and the weighting variable (a) to determine a database
proprietor weighted impression composition ((1-a) IC(DP))
[0103]       In the illustrated example, the ratings entity subsystem 106 can smooth or
correct the differences between the impression compositions by weighting the
distribution of MSE. The MSE values account for sample size variations or bounces in
data caused by small sample sizes.
[0104]       Turning to FIG. 8, the ratings entity subsystem 106 determines reach and
error-corrected impression compositions in an age/gender impressions distribution
table 800. The age/gender impressions distribution table 800 includes an age/gender
column 802, an impressions column 804, a frequency column 806, a reach column
808, and an impressions composition column 810. The impressions column 804
stores error-weighted impressions values corresponding to impressions tracked by the
ratings entity subsystem 106 (e.g., the impression monitor system 132 and/or the panel
collection platform 210 based on impressions logged by the web client meter 222). In
particular, the values in the impressions column 804 are derived by multiplying
weighted MSE values from the error weighted column 702 of FIG. 7 with corresponding
impressions values from the impressions column 604 of FIG. 6.
[0105]       The frequency column 806 stores frequencies of impressions as tracked by
the database proprietor subsystem 108. The frequencies of impressions are imported
into the frequency column 806 from the frequency column 506 of the database
proprietor campaign-level age/gender and impression composition table 500 of FIG. 5.
For age/gender groups missing from the table 500, frequency values are taken from
the ratings entity campaign-level age/gender and impression composition table 600 of
FIG. 6. For example, the database proprietor campaign-level age/gender and
impression composition table 500 does not have a less than 12 (<12) age/gender
group. Thus, a frequency value of 3 is taken from the ratings entity campaign-level
age/gender and impression composition table 600.
[0106]       The reach column 808 stores reach values representing reach of one or
more of the content and/or advertisements 102 (FIG. 1)for each age/gender group.
The reach values are determined by dividing respective impressions values from the
impressions column 804 by corresponding frequency values from the frequency
 naonnna                                                             l"naA~OO l" O nnn A "7Ca A Al lMA

                                             - 38
column 806. The impressions composition column 810 stores values indicative of the
percentage of impressions per age/gender group. In the illustrated example, the final
total frequency in the frequency column 806 is equal to the total impressions divided by
the total reach.
[0107]        FIGS. 9, 10, 11, 12, and 14 are flow diagrams representative of machine
readable instructions that can be executed to implement the methods and apparatus
described herein. The example processes of FIGS. 9, 10, 11, 12, and 14may be
implemented using machine readable instructions that, when executed, cause a device
(e.g., a programmable controller, processor, other programmable machine, integrated
circuit, or logic circuit) to perform the operations shown in FIGS. 9, 10, 11, 12, and 14.
For instance, the example processes of FIGS. 9, 10, 11, 12, and 14 may be performed
using a processor, a controller, and/or any other suitable processing device. For
example, the example process of FIGS. 9, 10, 11, 12, and 14may be implemented
using coded instructions stored on a tangible machine readable medium such as a
flash memory, a read-only memory (ROM), and/or a random-access memory (RAM).
[0108]       As used herein, the term tangible computer readable medium is expressly
defined to include any type of computer readable storage and to exclude propagating
signals. Additionally or alternatively, the example processes of FIGS. 9, 10, 11, 12,
and 14may be implemented using coded instructions (e.g., computer readable
instructions) stored on a non-transitory computer readable medium such as a flash
memory, a read-only memory (ROM), a random-access memory (RAM), a cache, or
any other storage media in which information is stored for any duration (e.g., for
extended time periods, permanently, brief instances, for temporarily buffering, and/or
for caching of the information). As used herein, the term non-transitory computer
readable medium is expressly defined to include any type of computer readable
medium and to exclude propagating signals.
[0109]       Alternatively, the example processes of FIGS. 9, 10, 11, 12, and 14may be
implemented using any combination(s) of application specific integrated circuit(s)
(ASIC(s)), programmable logic device(s) (PLD(s)), field programmable logic device(s)
(FPLD(s)), discrete logic, hardware, firmware, etc. Also, the example processes of
FIGS. 9, 10, 11, 12, and 14may be implemented as any combination(s) of any of the
foregoing techniques, for example, any combination of firmware, software, discrete
logic and/or hardware.
Anaonnna                                                            l"naA~OO l" nnn A "7CaO A Al l nA

                                            - 39
[0110]      Although the example processes of FIGS. 9, 10, 11, 12, and 14are
described with reference to the flow diagrams of FIGS. 9, 10, 11, 12, and 14, other
methods of implementing the processes of FIGS. 9, 10, 11, 12, and 14may be
employed. For example, the order of execution of the blocks may be changed, and/or
some of the blocks described may be changed, eliminated, sub-divided, or combined.
Additionally, one or both of the example processes of FIGS. 9, 10, 11, 12, and 14may
be performed sequentially and/or in parallel by, for example, separate processing
threads, processors, devices, discrete logic, circuits, etc.
[0111]      Turning in detail to FIG. 9, the ratings entity subsystem 106 of FIG. 1 may
perform the depicted process to collect demographics and impression data from
partners and to assess the accuracy and/or adjust its own demographics data of its
panelists 114, 116. The example process of FIG. 9 collects demographics and
impression data for registered users of one or more partners (e.g., the partners 206
and 208 of FIGS. 2 and 3) that overlap with panelist members (e.g., the panelists 114
and 116 of FIG. 1) of the ratings entity subsystem 106 as well as demographics and
impression data from partner sites that correspond to users that are not registered
panel members of the ratings entity subsystem 106. The collected data is combined
with other data collected at the ratings entity to determine online GRPs. The example
process of FIG. 9 is described in connection with the example system 100 of FIG. 1
and the example system 200 of FIG. 2.
[0112]      Initially, the GRP report generator 130 (FIG. 1) receives impressions per
unique users 235 (FIG. 2) from the impression monitor system 132 (block 902). The
GRP report generator 130 receives impressions-based aggregate demographics (e.g.,
the partner campaign-level age/gender and impression composition table 500 of FIG.
5) from one or more partner(s) (block 904). In the illustrated example, user IDs of
registered users of the partners 206, 208 are not received by the GRP report generator
130. Instead, the partners 206, 208 remove user IDs and aggregate impressions
based demographics in the partner campaign-level age/gender and impression
composition table 500 at demographic bucket levels (e.g., males aged 13-18, females
aged 13-18, etc.). However, for instances in which the partners 206, 208 also send
user IDs to the GRP report generator 130, such user IDs are exchanged in an
encrypted format based on, for example, the double encryption technique described
above.
Anaonnna                                                            l"naA~OO l" nnn A "7CaO A Al lMA

                                          -40
[0113]      For examples in which the impression monitor system 132 modifies site IDs
and sends the modified site IDs in the beacon response 306, the partner(s) log
impressions based on those modified site IDs. In such examples, the impressions
collected from the partner(s) at block 904 are impressions logged by the partner(s)
against the modified site IDs. When the ratings entity subsystem 106 receives the
impressions with modified site IDs, GRP report generator 130 identifies site IDs for the
impressions received from the partner(s) (block 906). For example, the GRP report
generator 130 uses the site ID map 310 (FIG. 3) generated by the impression
monitoring system 310 during the beacon receive and response process (e.g.,
discussed above in connection with FIG. 3) to identify the actual site IDs corresponding
to the modified site IDs in the impressions received from the partner(s).
[0114]      The GRP report generator 130 receives per-panelist impressions-based
demographics (e.g., the impressions-based panel demographics table 250 of FIG. 2)
from the panel collection platform 210 (block 908). In the illustrated example, per
panelist impressions-based demographics are impressions logged in association with
respective user IDs of panelist 114, 116 (FIG. 1) as shown in the impressions-based
panel demographics table 250 of FIG. 2.
[0115]      The GRP report generator 130 removes duplicate impressions between the
per-panelist impressions-based panel demographics 250 received at block 908 from
the panel collection platform 210 and the impressions per unique users 235 received at
block 902 from the impression monitor system 132 (block 910). In this manner,
duplicate impressions logged by both the impression monitor system 132 and the web
client meter 222 (FIG. 2) will not skew GRPs generated by the GRP generator 130. In
addition, by using the per-panelist impressions-based panel demographics 250 from
the panel collection platform 210 and the impressions per unique users 235 from the
impression monitor system 132, the GRP generator 130 has the benefit of impressions
from redundant systems (e.g., the impression monitor system 132 and the web client
meter 222). In this manner, if one of the systems (e.g., one of the impression monitor
system 132 or the web client meter 222) misses one or more impressions, the
record(s) of such impression(s) can be obtained from the logged impressions of the
other system (e.g., the other one of the impression monitor system 132 or the web
client meter 222).
[0116]      The GRP report generator 130 generates an aggregate of the impressions
based panel demographics 250 (block 912). For example, the GRP report generator
  naonnna                                                           l"naA~OO l" O nnn A "7Ca A Al lMA

                                           -41
130 aggregates the impressions-based panel demographics 250 into demographic
bucket levels (e.g., males aged 13-18, females aged 13-18, etc.) to generate the
panelist ad campaign-level age/gender and impression composition table 600 of
FIG. 6.
[0117]       In some examples, the GRP report generator 130 does not use the per
panelist impressions-based panel demographics from the panel collection platform
210. In such instances, the ratings entity subsystem 106 does not rely on web client
meters such as the web client meter 222 of FIG. 2 to determine GRP using the
example process of FIG. 9. Instead in such instances, the GRP report generator 130
determines impressions of panelists based on the impressions per unique users 235
received at block 902 from the impression monitor system 132 and uses the results to
aggregate the impressions-based panel demographics at block 912. For example, as
discussed above in connection with FIG. 2, the impressions per unique users table 235
stores panelist user IDs in association with total impressions and campaign IDs. As
such, the GRP report generator 130 may determine impressions of panelists based on
the impressions per unique users 235 without using the impression-based panel
demographics 250 collected by the web client meter 222.
[0118]       The GRP report generator 130 combines the impressions-based aggregate
demographic data from the partner(s) 206, 208 (received at block 904) and the
panelists 114, 116 (generated at block 912) its demographic data with received
demographic data (block 914). For example, the GRP report generator 130 of the
illustrated example combines the impressions-based aggregate demographic data to
form the combined campaign-level age/gender and impression composition table 700
of FIG. 7.
[0119]       The GRP report generator 130 determines distributions for the impressions
based demographics of block 914 (block 916). In the illustrated example, the GRP
report generator 130 stores the distributions of the impressions-based demographics in
the age/gender impressions distribution table 800 of FIG. 8. In addition, the GRP
report generator 130 generates online GRPs based on the impressions-based
demographics (block 918). In the illustrated example, the GRP report generator 130
uses the GRPs to create one or more of the GRP report(s) 131. In some examples,
the ratings entity subsystem 106 sells or otherwise provides the GRP report(s) 131 to
advertisers, publishers, content providers, manufacturers, and/or any other entity
interested in such market research. The example process of FIG. 9 then ends.
Anaonnna                                                          l"naA~OO l" O nnn A "7Ca A Al lMA

                                            - 42
[0120]      Turning now to FIG. 10, the depicted example flow diagram may be
performed by a client computer 202, 203 (FIGS. 2 and 3) to route beacon requests
(e.g., the beacon requests 304, 308 of FIG. 3) to web service providers to log
demographics-based impressions. Initially, the client computer 202, 203 receives
tagged content and/or a tagged advertisement 102 (block 1002) and sends the beacon
request 304 to the impression monitor system 132 (block 1004) to give the impression
monitor system 132 (e.g., at a first internet domain )an opportunity to log an impression
for the client computer 202, 203. The client computer 202, 203 begins a timer (block
1006) based on a time for which to wait for a response from the impression monitor
system 132.
[0121]       If a timeout has not expired (block 1008), the client computer 202, 203
determines whether it has received a redirection message (block 1010) from the
impression monitor system 132 (e.g., via the beacon response 306 of FIG. 3). If the
client computer 202, 203 has not received a redirection message (block 1010), control
returns to block 1008. Control remains at blocks 1008 and 1010 until either (1) a
timeout has expired, in which case control advances to block 1016 or (2) the client
computer 202, 203 receives a redirection message.
[0122]       If the client computer 202, 203 receives a redirection message at block
1010, the client computer 202, 203 sends the beacon request 308 to a partner
specified in the redirection message (block 1012) to give the partner an opportunity to
log an impression for the client computer 202, 203. During a first instance of block
1012 for a particular tagged advertisement (e.g., the tagged advertisement 102), the
partner (or in some examples, non-partnered database proprietor 110) specified in the
redirection message corresponds to a second internet domain. During subsequent
instances of block 1012 for the same tagged advertisement, as beacon requests are
redirected to other partner or non-partnered database proprietors, such other partner
or non-partnered database proprietors correspond to third, fourth, fifth, etc. internet
domains. In some examples, the redirection message(s) may specify an
intermediary(ies) (e.g., an intermediary(ies) server(s) or sub-domain server(s))
associated with a partner(s) and/or the client computer 202, 203 sends the beacon
request 308 to the intermediary(ies) based on the redirection message(s) as described
below in conjunction with FIG. 13.
[0123]      The client computer 202, 203 determines whether to attempt to send
another beacon request to another partner (block 1014). For example, the client
  naonnna                                                            l"naA~OO l" O nnn A "7Ca A Al lMA

                                            -43
computer 202, 203 may be configured to send a certain number of beacon requests in
parallel (e.g., to send beacon requests to two or more partners at roughly the same
time rather than sending one beacon request to a first partner at a second internet
domain, waiting for a reply, then sending another beacon request to a second partner
at a third internet domain, waiting for a reply, etc.) and/or to wait for a redirection
message back from a current partner to which the client computer 202, 203 sent the
beacon request at block 1012. If the client computer 202, 203 determines that it
should attempt to send another beacon request to another partner (block 1014), control
returns to block 1006.
[0124]       If the client computer 202, 203 determines that it should not attempt to send
another beacon request to another partner (block 1014) or after the timeout expires
(block 1008), the client computer 202, 203 determines whether it has received the URL
scrape instruction 320 (FIG. 3) (block 1016). If the client computer 202, 203 did not
receive the URL scrape instruction 320 (block 1016), control advances to block 1022.
Otherwise, the client computer 202, 203 scrapes the URL of the host website rendered
by the web browser 212 (block 1018) in which the tagged content and/or advertisement
102 is displayed or which spawned the tagged content and/or advertisement 102 (e.g.,
in a pop-up window). The client computer 202, 203 sends the scraped URL 322 to the
impression monitor system 132 (block 1020). Control then advances to block 1022, at
which the client computer 202, 203 determines whether to end the example process of
FIG. 10. For example, if the client computer 202, 203 is shut down or placed in a
standby mode or if its web browser 212 (FIGS. 2 and 3) is shut down, the client
computer 202, 203 ends the example process of FIG. 10. If the example process is
not to be ended, control returns to block 1002 to receive another content and/or tagged
ad. Otherwise, the example process of FIG. 10 ends.
[0125]       In some examples, real-time redirection messages from the impression
monitor system 132 may be omitted from the example process of FIG. 10, in which
cases the impression monitor system 132 does not send redirect instructions to the
client computer 202, 203. Instead, the client computer 202, 203 refers to its partner
priority-order cookie 220 to determine partners (e.g., the partners 206 and 208) to
which it should send redirects and the ordering of such redirects. In some examples,
the client computer 202, 203 sends redirects substantially simultaneously to all
partners listed in the partner-priority-order cookie 220 (e.g., in seriatim, but in rapid
succession, without waiting for replies). In such some examples, block 1010 is omitted
and at block 1012, the client computer 202, 203 sends a next partner redirect based on
  naonnna                                                             l"naA~OO l" O nnn A "7Ca A Al lMA

                                            - 44
the partner-priority-order cookie 220. In some such examples, blocks 1006 and 1008
may also be omitted, or blocks 1006 and 1008 may be kept to provide time for the
impression monitor system 132 to provide the URL scrape instruction 320 at block
1016.
[0126]       Turning to FIG. 11, the example flow diagram may be performed by the
impression monitor system 132 (FIGS. 2 and 3) to log impressions and/or redirect
beacon requests to web service providers (e.g., database proprietors) to log
impressions. Initially, the impression monitor system 132 waits until it has received a
beacon request (e.g., the beacon request 304 of FIG. 3) (block 1102). The impression
monitor system 132 of the illustrated example receives beacon requests via the HTTP
server 232 of FIG. 2. When the impression monitor system 132 receives a beacon
request (block 1102), it determines whether a cookie (e.g., the panelist monitor cookie
218 of FIG. 2) was received from the client computer 202, 203 (block 1104). For
example, if a panelist monitor cookie 218 was previously set in the client computer
202, 203, the beacon request sent by the client computer 202, 203 to the panelist
monitoring system will include the cookie.
[0127]       If the impression monitor system 132 determines at block 1104 that it did
not receive the cookie in the beacon request (e.g., the cookie was not previously set in
the client computer 202, 203, the impression monitor system 132 sets a cookie (e.g.,
the panelist monitor cookie 218) in the client computer 202, 203 (block 1106). For
example, the impression monitor system 132 may use the HTTP server 232 to send
back a response to the client computer 202, 203 to 'set' a new cookie (e.g., the panelist
monitor cookie 218).
[0128]       After setting the cookie (block 1106) or if the impression monitor system
132 did receive the cookie in the beacon request (block 1104), the impression monitor
system 132 logs an impression (block 1108). The impression monitor system 132 of
the illustrated example logs an impression in the impressions per unique users table
235 of FIG. 2. As discussed above, the impression monitor system 132 logs the
impression regardless of whether the beacon request corresponds to a user ID that
matches a user ID of a panelist member (e.g., one of the panelists 114 and 116 of FIG.
1). However, if the user ID comparator 228 (FIG. 2) determines that the user ID (e.g.,
the panelist monitor cookie 218) matches a user ID of a panelist member (e.g., one of
the panelists 114 and 116 of FIG. 1) set by and, thus, stored in the record of the ratings
entity subsystem 106, the logged impression will correspond to a panelist of the
 naonnna                                                             l"naA~OO l" O nnn A "7Ca A Al lMA

                                            - 45
impression monitor system 132. For such examples in which the user ID matches a
user ID of a panelist, the impression monitor system 132 of the illustrated example logs
a panelist identifier with the impression in the impressions per unique users table 235
and subsequently an audience measurement entity associates the known
demographics of the corresponding panelist (e.g., a corresponding one of the panelists
114, 116) with the logged impression based on the panelist identifier. Such
associations between panelist demographics (e.g., the age/gender column 602 of FIG.
6) and logged impression data are shown in the panelist ad campaign-level age/gender
and impression composition table 600 of FIG. 6. If the user ID comparator 228 (FIG. 2)
determines that the user ID does not correspond to a panelist 114, 116, the impression
monitor system 132 will still benefit from logging an impression (e.g., an ad impression
or content impression) even though it will not have a user ID record (and, thus,
corresponding demographics) for the impression reflected in the beacon request 304.
[0129]      The impression monitor system 132 selects a next partner (block 1110).
For example, the impression monitor system 132 may use the rules/ML engine 230
(FIG. 2) to select one of the partners 206 or 208 of FIGS. 2 and 3 at random or based
on an ordered listing or ranking of the partners 206 and 208 for an initial redirect in
accordance with the rules/ML engine 230 (FIG. 2) and to select the other one of the
partners 206 or 208 for a subsequent redirect during a subsequent execution of block
1110.
[0130]      The impression monitor system 132 sends a beacon response (e.g., the
beacon response 306) to the client computer 202, 203 including an HTTP 302 redirect
(or any other suitable instruction to cause a redirected communication) to forward a
beacon request (e.g., the beacon request 308 of FIG. 3) to a next partner (e.g., the
partner A 206 of FIG. 2) (block 1112) and starts a timer (block 1114). The impression
monitor system 132 of the illustrated example sends the beacon response 306 using
the HTTP server 232. In the illustrated example, the impression monitor system 132
sends an HTTP 302 redirect (or any other suitable instruction to cause a redirected
communication) at least once to allow at least a partner site (e.g., one of the partners
206 or 208 of FIGS. 2 and 3) to also log an impression for the same advertisement (or
content). However, in other example implementations, the impression monitor system
132 may include rules (e.g., as part of the rules/ML engine 230 of FIG. 2) to exclude
some beacon requests from being redirected. The timer set at block 1114 is used to
wait for real-time feedback from the next partner in the form of a fail status message
 naonnna                                                            l"naA~OO l" nnn A "7CaO A Al lMA

                                             -46
indicating that the next partner did not find a match for the client computer 202, 203 in
its records.
[0131]        If the timeout has not expired (block 1116), the impression monitor system
132 determines whether it has received a fail status message (block 1118). Control
remains at blocks 1116 and 1118 until either (1) a timeout has expired, in which case
control returns to block 1102 to receive another beacon request or (2) the impression
monitor system 132 receives a fail status message.
[0132]        If the impression monitor system 132 receives a fail status message (block
1118), the impression monitor system 132 determines whether there is another partner
to which a beacon request should be sent (block 1120) to provide another opportunity
to log an impression. The impression monitor system 132 may select a next partner
based on a smart selection process using the rules/ML engine 230 of FIG. 2 or based
on a fixed hierarchy of partners. If the impression monitor system 132 determines that
there is another partner to which a beacon request should be sent, control returns to
block 1110. Otherwise, the example process of FIG. 11 ends.
[0133]        In some examples, real-time feedback from partners may be omitted from
the example process of FIG. 11 and the impression monitor system 132 does not send
redirect instructions to the client computer 202, 203. Instead, the client computer 202,
203 refers to its partner-priority-order cookie 220 to determine partners (e.g., the
partners 206 and 208) to which it should send redirects and the ordering of such
redirects. In some examples, the client computer 202, 203 sends redirects
simultaneously to all partners listed in the partner-priority-order cookie 220. In such
some examples, blocks 1110, 1114, 1116, 1118, and 1120 are omitted and at block
1112, the impression monitor system 132 sends the client computer 202, 203 an
acknowledgement response without sending a next partner redirect.
[0134]        Turning now to FIG. 12, the example flow diagram may be executed to
dynamically designate preferred web service providers (or preferred partners) from
which to request logging of impressions using the example redirection beacon request
processes of FIGS. 10 and 11. The example process of FIG. 12 is described in
connection with the example system 200 of FIG. 2. Initial impressions associated with
content and/or ads delivered by a particular publisher site (e.g., the publisher 302 of
FIG. 3) trigger the beacon instructions 214 (FIG. 2) (and/or beacon instructions at other
computers) to request logging of impressions at a preferred partner (block 1202). In
this illustrated example, the preferred partner is initially the partner A site 206 (FIGS. 2
  naonnna                                                             l"naA~OO l" O nnn A "7Ca A Al lMA

                                             - 47
and 3). The impression monitor system 132 (FIGS. 1, 2, and 3) receives feedback on
non-matching user IDs from the preferred partner 206 (block 1204). The rules/ML
engine 230 (FIG. 2) updates the preferred partner for the non-matching user IDs (block
1206) based on the feedback received at block 1204. In some examples, during the
operation of block 1206, the impression monitor system 132 also updates a partner
priority-order of preferred partners in the partner-priority-order cookie 220 of FIG. 2.
Subsequent impressions trigger the beacon instructions 214 (and/or beacon
instructions at other computers 202, 203) to send requests for logging of impressions
to different respective preferred partners specifically based on each user ID (block
1208). That is, some user IDs in the panelist monitor cookie 218 and/or the partner
cookie(s) 216 may be associated with one preferred partner, while others of the user
IDs are now associated with a different preferred partner as a result of the operation at
block 1206. The example process of FIG. 12 then ends.
[0135]       FIG. 13 depicts an example system 1300 that may be used to determine
media (e.g., content and/or advertising) exposure based on information collected by
one or more database proprietors. The example system 1300 is another example of
the systems 200 and 300 illustrated in FIGS. 2 and 3 in which an intermediary 1308,
1312 is provided between a client computer 1304 and a partner 1310, 1314. Persons
of ordinary skill in the art will understand that the description of FIGS. 2 and 3 and the
corresponding flow diagrams of FIGS. 8-12 are applicable to the system 1300 with the
inclusion of the intermediary 1308, 1312.
[0136]       According to the illustrated example, a publisher 1302 transmits an
advertisement or other media content to the client computer 1304. The publisher 1302
may be the publisher 302 described in conjunction with FIG. 3. The client computer
1304 may be the panelist client computer 202 or the non-panelist computer 203
described in conjunction with FIGS. 2 and 3 or any other client computer. The
advertisement or other media content includes a beacon that instructs the client
computer to send a request to an impression monitor system 1306 as explained above.
[0137]       The impression monitor system 1306 may be the impression monitor
system 132 described in conjunction with FIGS. 1-3. The impression monitor system
1306 of the illustrated example receives beacon requests from the client computer
1304 and transmits redirection messages to the client computer 1304 to instruct the
client to send a request to one or more of the intermediary A 1308, the intermediary B
1312, or any other system such as another intermediary, a partner, etc. The
 naonnna                                                              l"naA~OO l" nnn A "7CaO A Al lMA

                                              -48
impression monitor system 1306 also receives information about partner cookies from
one or more of the intermediary A 1308 and the intermediary B 1312.
[0138]       In some examples, the impression monitor system 1306 may insert into a
redirection message an identifier of a client that is established by the impression
monitor system 1306 and identifies the client computer 1304 and/or a user thereof.
For example, the identifier of the client may be an identifier stored in a cookie that has
been set at the client by the impression monitor system 1306 or any other entity, an
identifier assigned by the impression monitor system 1306 or any other entity, etc. The
identifier of the client may be a unique identifier, a semi-unique identifier, etc. In some
examples, the identifier of the client may be encrypted, obfuscated, or varied to prevent
tracking of the identifier by the intermediary 1308, 1312 or the partner 1310, 1314.
According to the illustrated example, the identifier of the client is included in the
redirection message to the client computer 1304 to cause the client computer 1304 to
transmit the identifier of the client to the intermediary 1308, 1312 when the client
computer 1304 follows the redirection message. For example, the identifier of the
client may be included in a URL included in the redirection message to cause the client
computer 1304 to transmit the identifier of the client to the intermediary 1308, 1312 as
a parameter of the request that is sent in response to the redirection message.
[0139]       The intermediaries 1308, 1312 of the illustrated example receive redirected
beacon requests from the client computer 1304 and transmit information about the
requests to the partners 1310, 1314. The example intermediaries 1308, 1312 are
made available on a content delivery network (e.g., one or more servers of a content
delivery network) to ensure that clients can quickly send the requests without causing
substantial interruption in the access of content from the publisher 1302.
[0140]       In examples disclosed herein, a cookie set in a domain (e.g.,
"partnerA.com") is accessible by a server of a sub-domain (e.g.,
"intermediary. partnerA.com") corresponding to the domain (e.g., the root domain
"partnerA.com") in which the cookie was set. In some examples, the reverse is also
true such that a cookie set in a sub-domain (e.g., "intermediary.partnerA.com") is
accessible by a server of a root domain (e.g., the root domain "partnerA.com")
corresponding to the sub-domain (e.g., "intermediary.partnerA.com") in which the
cookie was set. As used herein, the term domain (e.g., Internet domain, domain name,
etc.) includes the root domain (e.g., "domain.com") and sub-domains (e.g.,
'a.domain.com," "b.domain.com," "c.d.domain.com," etc.).
Anaonnna                                                              l"naA~OO l" nnn A "7CaO A Al lMA

                                             -49
[0141]      To enable the example intermediaries 1308, 1312 to receive cookie
information associated with the partners 1310, 1314 respectively, sub-domains of the
partners 1310, 1314 are assigned to the intermediaries 1308, 1312. For example, the
partner A 1310 may register an internet address associated with the intermediary A
1308 with the sub-domain in a domain name system associated with a domain for the
partner A 1310. Alternatively, the sub-domain may be associated with the intermediary
in any other manner. In such examples, cookies set for the domain name of partner A
1310 are transmitted from the client computer 1304 to the intermediary A 1308 that has
been assigned a sub-domain name associated with the domain of partner A 1310
when the client 1304 transmits a request to the intermediary A 1308.
[0142]      The example intermediaries 1308, 1312 transmit the beacon request
information including a campaign ID and received cookie information to the partners
1310, 1314 respectively. This information may be stored at the intermediaries 1308,
1312 so that it can be sent to the partners 1310, 1314 in a batch. For example, the
received information could be transmitted near the end of the day, near the end of the
week, after a threshold amount of information is received, etc. Alternatively, the
information may be transmitted immediately upon receipt. The campaign ID may be
encrypted, obfuscated, varied, etc. to prevent the partners 1310, 1314 from
recognizing the content to which the campaign ID corresponds or to otherwise protect
the identity of the content. A lookup table of campaign ID information may be stored at
the impression monitor system 1306 so that impression information received from the
partners 1310, 1314 can be correlated with the content.
[0143]      The intermediaries 1308, 1312 of the illustrated example also transmit an
indication of the availability of a partner cookie to the impression monitor system 1306.
For example, when a redirected beacon request is received at the intermediary A
1308, the intermediary A 1308 determines if the redirected beacon request includes a
cookie for partner A 1310. The intermediary A 1308 sends the notification to the
impression monitor system 1306 when the cookie for partner A 1310 was received.
Alternatively, intermediaries 1308, 1312 may transmit information about the availability
of the partner cookie regardless of whether a cookie is received. Where the
impression monitor system 1306 has included an identifier of the client in the
redirection message and the identifier of the client is received at the intermediaries
1308, 1312, the intermediaries 1308, 1312 may include the identifier of the client with
the information about the partner cookie transmitted to the impression monitor system
1306. The impression monitor system 1306 may use the information about the
 naonnna                                                             l"naA~OO l" O nnn A "7Ca A Al lMA

                                             - 50
existence of a partner cookie to determine how to redirect future beacon requests. For
example, the impression monitor system 1306 may elect not to redirect a client to an
intermediary 1308, 1312 that is associated with a partner 1310, 1314 with which it has
been determined that a client does not have a cookie. In some examples, the
information about whether a particular client has a cookie associated with a partner
may be refreshed periodically to account for cookies expiring and new cookies being
set (e.g., a recent login or registration at one of the partners).
[0144]      The intermediaries 1308, 1312 may be implemented by a server associated
with a content metering entity (e.g., a content metering entity that provides the
impression monitor system 1306). Alternatively, intermediaries 1308, 1312 may be
implemented by servers associated with the partners 1310, 1314 respectively. In other
examples, the intermediaries may be provided by a third-party such as a content
delivery network.
[0145]       In some examples, the intermediaries 1308, 1312 are provided to prevent a
direct connection between the partners 1310, 1314 and the client computer 1304, to
prevent some information from the redirected beacon request from being transmitted to
the partners 1310, 1314 (e.g., to prevent a REFERRERURL from being transmitted to
the partners 1310, 1314), to reduce the amount of network traffic at the partners 1310,
1314 associated with redirected beacon requests, and/or to transmit to the impression
monitor system 1306 real-time or near real-time indications of whether a partner cookie
is provided by the client computer 1304.
[0146]       In some examples, the intermediaries 1308, 1312 are trusted by the
partners 1310, 1314 to prevent confidential data from being transmitted to the
impression monitor system 1306. For example, the intermediary 1308, 1312 may
remove identifiers stored in partner cookies before transmitting information to the
impression monitor system 1306.
[0147]      The partners 1310, 1314 receive beacon request information including the
campaign ID and cookie information from the intermediaries 1308, 1312. The partners
1310, 1314 determine identity and demographics for a user of the client computer 1304
based on the cookie information. The example partners 1310, 1314 track impressions
for the campaign ID based on the determined demographics associated with the
impression. Based on the tracked impressions, the example partners 1310, 1314
generate reports (previously described). The reports may be sent to the impression
monitor system 1306, the publisher 1302, an advertiser that supplied an ad provided
 naonnna                                                            l"naA~OO l" O nnn A "7Ca A Al lMA

                                            - 51
by the publisher 1302, a media content hub, or other persons or entities interested in
the reports.
[0148]       FIG. 14 is a flow diagram representative of example machine readable
instructions that may be executed to process a redirected request at an intermediary.
The example process of FIG. 14 is described in connection with the example
intermediary A 1308. Some or all of the blocks may additionally or alternatively be
performed by one or more of the example intermediary B 1312, the partners 1310,
1314 of FIG. 13 or by other partners described in conjunction with FIGS. 1-3.
[0149]      According to the illustrated example, intermediary A 1308 receives a
redirected beacon request from the client computer 1304 (block 1402). The
intermediary A 1308 determines if the client computer 1304 transmitted a cookie
associated with partner A 1310 in the redirected beacon request (block 1404). For
example, when the intermediary A 1308 is assigned a domain name that is a sub
domain of partner A 1310, the client computer 1304 will transmit a cookie set by
partner A 1310 to the intermediary A 1308.
[0150]      When the redirected beacon request does not include a cookie associated
with partner A 1310 (block 1404), control proceeds to block 1412 which is described
below. When the redirected beacon request includes a cookie associated with partner
A 1310 (block 1404), the intermediary A 1308 notifies the impression monitor system
1306 of the existence of the cookie (block 1406). The notification may additionally
include information associated with the redirected beacon request (e.g., a source URL,
a campaign ID, etc.), an identifier of the client, etc. According to the illustrated
example, the intermediary A 1308 stores a campaign ID included in the redirected
beacon request and the partner cookie information (block 1408). The intermediary A
1308 may additionally store other information associated with the redirected beacon
request such as, for example, a source URL, a referrer URL, etc.
[0151]      The example intermediary A 1308 then determines if stored information
should be transmitted to the partner A 1310 (block 1408). For example, the
intermediary A 1308 may determine that information should be transmitted
immediately, may determine that a threshold amount of information has been received,
may determine that the information should be transmitted based on the time of day,
etc. When the intermediary A 1308 determines that the information should not be
transmitted (block 1408), control proceeds to block 1412. When the intermediary A
1308 determines that the information should be transmitted (block 1408), the
  naonnna                                                            l"naA~OO l" O nnn A "7Ca A Al lMA

                                           - 52
intermediary A 1308 transmits stored information to the partner A 1310. The stored
information may include information associated with a single request, information
associated with multiple requests from a single client, information associated with
multiple requests from multiple clients, etc.
[0152]      According to the illustrated example, the intermediary A 1308 then
determines if a next intermediary and/or partner should be contacted by the client
computer 1304 (block 1412). The example intermediary A 1308 determines that the
next partner should be contacted when a cookie associated with partner a 1310 is not
received. Alternatively, the intermediary A 1308 may determine that the next partner
should be contacted whenever a redirected beacon request is received, associated
with the partner cookie, etc.
[0153]      When the intermediary A 1308 determines that the next partner (e.g.,
intermediary B 1314) should be contacted (block 1412), the intermediary A 1308
transmits a beacon redirection message to the client computer 1304 indicating that the
client computer 1304 should send a request to the intermediary B 1312. After
transmitting the redirection message (block 1414) or when the intermediary A 1308
determines that the next partner should not be contacted (block 1412), the example
process of FIG. 14 ends.
[0154]      While the example of FIG. 14 describes an approach where each
intermediary 1308, 1312 selectively or automatically transmits a redirection message
identifying the next intermediary 1308, 1312 in a chain, other approaches may be
implemented. For example, the redirection message from the impression monitor
system 1306 may identify multiple intermediaries 1308, 1312. In such an example, the
redirection message may instruct the client computer 1304 to send a request to each
of the intermediaries 1308, 1312 (or a subset) sequentially, may instruct the client
computer 1304 to send requests to each of the intermediaries 1308, 1312 in parallel
(e.g., using JavaScript instructions that support requests executed in parallel), etc.
[0155]      While the example of FIG .14 is described in conjunction with intermediary
A, some or all of the blocks of FIG. 14 may be performed by the intermediary B 1312,
one or more of the partners 1310, 1314, any other partner described herein, or any
other entity or system. Additionally or alternatively, multiple instances of FIG. 14 (or
any other instructions described herein) may be performed in parallel at any number of
locations.
Anaonnna                                                             l"naA~OO l" nnn A "7CaO A Al lMA

                                           - 53
[0156]      FIG. 15 is a block diagram of an example processor system 1510 that may
be used to implement the example apparatus, methods, articles of manufacture, and/or
systems disclosed herein. As shown in FIG. 15, the processor system 1510 includes a
processor 1512 that is coupled to an interconnection bus 1514. The processor 1512
may be any suitable processor, processing unit, or microprocessor. Although not
shown in FIG. 15, the system 1510 may be a multi-processor system and, thus, may
include one or more additional processors that are identical or similar to the processor
1512 and that are communicatively coupled to the interconnection bus 1514.
[0157]      The processor 1512 of FIG. 15 is coupled to a chipset 1518, which includes
a memory controller 1520 and an input/output (1/O) controller 1522. A chipset provides
1/O and memory management functions as well as a plurality of general purpose and/or
special purpose registers, timers, etc. that are accessible or used by one or more
processors coupled to the chipset 1518. The memory controller 1520 performs
functions that enable the processor 1512 (or processors if there are multiple
processors) to access a system memory 1524, a mass storage memory 1525, and/or
an optical media 1527.
[0158]      In general, the system memory 1524 may include any desired type of
volatile and/or non-volatile memory such as, for example, static random access
memory (SRAM), dynamic random access memory (DRAM), flash memory, read-only
memory (ROM), etc. The mass storage memory 1525 may include any desired type of
mass storage device including hard disk drives, optical drives, tape storage devices,
etc. The optical media 1527 may include any desired type of optical media such as a
digital versatile disc (DVD), a compact disc (CD), or a blu-ray optical disc. The
instructions of any of FIGS. 9-12 and 14 may be stored on any of the tangible media
represented by the system memory 1524 , the mass storage device 1525, and/or any
other media.
[0159]      The 1/O controller 1522 performs functions that enable the processor 1512
to communicate with peripheral input/output (1/O) devices 1526 and 1528 and a
network interface 1530 via an 1/O bus 1532. The 1/O devices 1526 and 1528 may be
any desired type of 1/O device such as, for example, a keyboard, a video display or
monitor, a mouse, etc. The network interface 1530 may be, for example, an Ethernet
device, an asynchronous transfer mode (ATM) device, an 802.11 device, a digital
subscriber line (DSL) modem, a cable modem, a cellular modem, etc. that enables the
processor system 1310 to communicate with another processor system.
Anaonnna                                                           l"naA~OO l" nnn A "7CaO A Al l nA

                                            - 54
[0160]       While the memory controller 1520 and the 1/O controller 1522 are depicted
in FIG. 15 as separate functional blocks within the chipset 1518, the functions
performed by these blocks may be integrated within a single semiconductor circuit or
may be implemented using two or more separate integrated circuits.
[0161]       Although the foregoing discloses the use of cookies for transmitting
identification information from clients to servers, any other system for transmitting
identification information from clients to servers or other computers may be used. For
example, identification information or any other information provided by any of the
cookies disclosed herein may be provided by an Adobe Flash@ client identifier,
identification information stored in an HTML5 datastore, etc. The methods and
apparatus described herein are not limited to implementations that employ cookies.
[0162]       Although certain methods, apparatus, systems, and articles of manufacture
have been disclosed herein, the scope of coverage of this patent is not limited thereto.
To the contrary, this patent covers all methods, apparatus, systems, and articles of
manufacture fairly falling within the scope of the claims either literally or under the
doctrine of equivalents.
Anaonnna                                                              M'naA~On I' O nnn A "7aO A Al lMA

                                                      55
CLAIMS:
1.       An apparatus, comprising:
         a communication interface to send a communication to a first client device in response to a
first request from the first client device, the communication to cause the first client device to send a
first identifier to a database proprietor in association with a cookie identifier of the first client
device, the first identifier corresponding to media accessed by the first client device;
         a data structure to:
                  log a first impression in association with the first identifier corresponding to the
         media accessed by the first client device; and
                  log second impressions associated with the first identifier and corresponding to
         access to the media by second client devices, the second impressions logged in response to
         second requests from the second client devices; and
         a processor to generate a report based on (a) the first impression and corresponding first
demographic information from the database proprietor, and (b) the second impressions and
corresponding second demographic information from an audience measurement entity different
from the database proprietor.
2.       The apparatus as defined in claim 1, wherein the first request and the second requests are
hypertext transfer protocol requests that do not return webpages.
3.       The apparatus as defined in claim 1, wherein the first identifier is an advertisement campaign
identifier, and the data structure is further to log the first impression and the second impressions in
association with at least one of a placement identifier or a creative identifier associated with the
media.
4.       The apparatus as defined in claim 1, wherein the database proprietor is a social network
provider.
5.       The apparatus as defined in claim 1, wherein the first client device is recognizeable by the
database proprietor based on the cookie identifier corresponding to a registered user of the database
proprietor.

                                                      56
6.      The apparatus as defined in claim 1, wherein the apparatus is in a first Internet domain, and
the database proprietor is in a second Internet domain.
7.      The apparatus as defined in claim 1, wherein the first demographic information from the
database proprietor is represented in aggregate demographic information provided by the database
proprietor, the aggregate demographic information corresponding to a plurality of registered users of
the database proprietor.
8.      A tangible machine accessible medium comprising instructions that, when executed, cause a
machine to at least:
        in response to a first request from a first client device:
                log a first impression in association with a first identifier corresponding to media
        accessed by the first client device that generated the first request, and
                send a communication to the first client device, the communication to cause the first
        client device to send the first identifier to a database proprietor in association with a cookie
        identifier of the first client device;
        log second impressions associated with the first identifier and corresponding to access to the
media by second client devices, the second impressions logged in response to second requests
received from the second client devices; and
        generate a report based on the first impression and corresponding first demographic
information from the database proprietor, and based on the second impressions and corresponding
second demographic information from an audience measurement entity different from the database
proprietor.
9.      The machine accessible medium as defined in claim 8, wherein the first request and the
second requests are hypertext transfer protocol requests that do not return webpages.
10.     The machine accessible medium as defined in claim 8, wherein the first identifier is an
advertisement campaign identifier, and the instructions are further to cause the machine to log the
first impression and the second impressions in association with at least one of a placement identifier
or a creative identifier associated with the media.

                                                      57
11.     The machine accessible medium as defined in claim 8, wherein the database proprietor is a
social network provider.
12.     The machine accessible medium as defined in claim 8, wherein the machine does not
recognize the first client device, the first client device being recognizeable by the database
proprietor based on the cookie identifier corresponding to a registered user of the database
proprietor.
13.     The machine accessible medium as defined in claim 8, wherein the machine is in a first
Internet domain, and the database proprietor is in a second Internet domain.
14.     The machine accessible medium as defined in claim 8, wherein the first demographic
information from the database proprietor is represented in aggregate demographic information
received from the database proprietor, the aggregate demographic information corresponding to
multiple registered users of the database proprietor.
15.     A method to log impressions, the method comprising:
        in response to a first request from a first client device:
                logging, with a first server, a first impression in association with a first identifier
        corresponding to media accessed by the first client device that generated the first request,
        and
                sending, with the first server, a communication to the first client device, the
        communication to cause the first client device to send the first identifier to a database
        proprietor in association with a cookie identifier of the first client device;
        logging, with the first server, second impressions associated with the first identifier and
corresponding to access to the media by second client devices, the second impressions logged in
response to second requests received from the second client devices; and
        generating a report based on the first impression and corresponding first demographic
information from the database proprietor, and based on the second impressions and corresponding
second demographic information from an audience measurement entity different from the database
proprietor.

                                                     58
16.     The method as defined in claim 16, wherein the first request and the second requests are
hypertext transfer protocol requests that do not return webpages.
17.     The method as defined in claim 16, wherein the first identifier is an advertisement campaign
identifier, and further including logging the first impression and the second impressions in
association with at least one of a placement identifier or a creative identifier associated with the
media.
18.     The method as defined in claim 16, wherein the database proprietor is a social network
provider.
19.     The method as defined in claim 16, wherein the first server does not recognize the first client
device, the first client device being recognizeable by the database proprietor based on the cookie
identifier corresponding to a registered user of the database proprietor.
20.     The method as defined in claim 16, wherein the first server is in a first Internet domain, and
the database proprietor is in a second Internet domain.
21.     The method as defined in claim 16, wherein the first demographic information from the
database proprietor is represented in aggregate demographic information received from the database
proprietor, the aggregate demographic information corresponding to multiple registered users of the
database proprietor.
                                  The Nielsen Company (us), LLC
                                 Patent Attorneys for the Applicant
                                      SPRUSON & FERGUSON

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
