     mk m o \  o  \ \  \   9 do-510/2016
                                              ABSTRACT
   An electronic document certification system including:
 5                   at least one certification data repository storing document certification
   templates for respective different types of documents to be certified, and certification
   authority data representing the certification credentials of a certification authority;
                     a server configured to receive an electronic document and user
   identification data from client devices of requesting users via a communications
10 network, the electronic document being an official document relating to specific
   persons identified in the electronic document;
                     a processor configured to process the received electronic document to
   determine a corresponding document type and a corresponding specific person
   identified    in the electronic document, and to process the corresponding              user
15 identification data to determine whether it identifies the specific person identified in
   the electronic document, and only if the assessment outcome is positive, to access the
   certification data repository to retrieve one of the stored document certification
   templates corresponding to the determined document type, and to process the
   received electronic document and the retrieved corresponding document certification
20 template to generate corresponding certified document data representing a certified
   copy of the received electronic document.

                                        1/11
                                                                              100
                                                                         116
      102                                  106
                       Client Device                        Communications
    User
                        Client Application                       Network
                                          1107
                                                                      Server Devices 108
             115              1141                             110                   1121
Transmission     Production        1      Application Devc                   Data|
  Devices         Devices                     EDC Application             Repository
                                                           105
                                              Interaction
                                                Device
                                        ----------
                                      -----                   -- -- -- -- -- -- ---
                                                           104
                                               Authority
                                    Fiaure 1

                      1-     10/-016
                         ELECTRONIC DOCUMENT CERTIFICATION
   Technical Field
 5
   The present invention relates to a system and process for electronic document
   certification.
   Background
10 Certification is an important process in the creation and distribution of documentation.
   Certifying a document ensures that a copy of a primary document is a true and valid
   copy, in the sense that the copy represents an exact replica of the primary document,
   including its information and structure. Certification allows the owner of the primary
   document to provide a copy of the document to a party, while guaranteeing that the
15 information within is identical to that within the primary document. This allows the
   owner to avoid surrendering possession of the original document, while supporting the
   dissemination of the information contained to one or more other parties. Certification
   of document copies is frequently required in various contexts of legal and official
   correspondence, including government applications, court proceedings and commercial
20 dealings.
   Traditional approaches to producing certified documents involves the reproduction of
   the physical primary document and the certification of each of the associated copies
   by an authority (such as a notary public). This type of certification takes place
25 manually and requires the authority to physically stamp, sign or affix a seal to the
   document to ensure its validity in relation to the original. This process must be
   performed individually for each physical certified document copy produced. The
   disadvantages of this approach include the inefficiency associated with the manual
   certification process when the authorised person has multiple documents, each
30 requiring a large number of certified copies, and the limitation of the certified copies
   to a physical form.
   It is generally desirable to overcome or ameliorate one or more of the above
   mentioned difficulties, or to at least provide a useful alternative.
35

     mk m o  \ o  \ \  \   9 do-510/2016
                                                 -2
   Summary
   According to some embodiments of the present invention, there is provided an
   electronic document certification system including:
 5                   at least one certification data repository storing document certification
   templates for respective different types of documents to be certified, and certification
   authority data representing the certification credentials of a certification authority;
                     a server configured to receive an electronic document and user
   identification data from client devices of requesting users via a communications
10 network, the electronic document being an official document relating to specific
   persons identified in the electronic document;
                     a processor configured to process the received electronic document to
   determine a corresponding document type and a corresponding specific person
   identified    in the electronic document, and to process the corresponding              user
15 identification data to determine whether it identifies the specific person identified in
   the electronic document, and only if the assessment outcome is positive, to access the
   certification data repository to retrieve one of the stored document certification
   templates corresponding to the determined document type, and to process the
   received electronic document and the retrieved corresponding document certification
20 template to generate corresponding certified document data representing a certified
   copy of the received electronic document.
   According to some embodiments of the present invention, there is also provided an
   electronic document certification process, including:
25          receiving, from a user, an electronic document and user identification data, the
   electronic document being an official document relating to specific persons identified in
   the electronic document;
            processing the received electronic document to determine a corresponding
   document type and a corresponding specific person identified in the electronic
30 document;
            retrieving, from a certification data repository, certification data including a
   certification template for the type of document to be certified, and certification
   authority data representing the certification credentials of a certification authority;
            processing the received electronic document and the retrieved corresponding
35 document certification data to generate corresponding certified document data

     mk m o  \ o \ \  \   9 do-510/2016
                                                -3
   representing a certified copy of the received electronic document; and
            transmitting the certified copy to the user.
   Brief Description of the Drawincis
 5
   Some embodiments of the present invention are hereafter described, by way of non
   limiting example only, with reference to the accompanying drawings in which:
   Figure 1 is a schematic diagram of an electronic document certification system in
10 accordance with an embodiment of the present invention;
   Figure 2 is a block diagram of a computer system used to implement the computing
   devices and/or the server devices of the occupant safety determination system in the
   described embodiments;
   Figure 3 is a flow diagram of a process for the certification of an electronic document
15 using the electronic document certification system;
   Figure 4 is a schematic diagram of the acquisition of a user request for electronic
   document certification;
   Figure 5 is a schematic diagram of the verification of a user by the electronic
   document certification system;
20 Figure 6 is a schematic diagram of the certification of a document by the electronic
   document certification system;
   Figure 7 is a schematic diagram of the transmission of the certified document to a
   user by the electronic document certification system;
   Figure 8a is an example of a certified driver's licence document produced by the
25 electronic document certification system;
   Figure 8b is an example of an authority verification seal for use within an embodiment
   of the electronic document certification system;
   Figure 9 is an example of an application form for the certification of a document as
   performed by the electronic document certification system; and
30 Figure 10 is an example of a document acquisition application form in accordance with
   the electronic document certification system.

     mk m o \  o  \ \   \  9 do-510/2016
                                                 -4
   Detailed Description
   General Overview
   The described embodiments of the present invention include an electronic document
 5 certification system and process that generates an electronic certified copy of a
   primary document. A primary document is received by the system in electronic form.
   Data associated with the received primary document is processed                by system
   application components configured to produce a representation of a certified copy of
   the document. Certification is performed based on data received from a certification
10 authority, which is stored within the system components and processed to generate
   data representing an endorsement of the primary document. The generated data of
   the certified electronic document is further processed to secure the document contents
   against modification. The secured certified electronic document is transmitted to the
   user via an electronic service, such as email. A physical copy of the certified document
15 is produced by the system, and is sent to the user. The electronic document
   certification system and process of the described invention provide advantages
   including:
        1) Increased efficiency by eliminating the need for the authority to complete the
            certification by manually signing, sealing or stamping the document; and
20      2) Improved       portability as resulting  from the generation     of an   electronic
            document which allows the user to store certified document copies on a mobile
            computing device.
   The electronic document certification system and            process described    herein is
25 configurable to produce certified documents automatically, based on the certification
   credentials of an authority. Certification authorities include government officials or
   persons authorised by legislation to perform document certification, such as for
   example court clerks, solicitors, and notary publics. The nature of the certification
   authority can vary according to the jurisdiction in which the system is deployed. The
30 system and process of the described embodiments are configured to produce certified
   copies of a variety of official documents under Australian            law. However, the
   requirements for, and formalities of, achieving certification for a primary document
   can vary according to national law, and the skilled addressee will note that other
   embodiments of the system and process can be implemented to produce valid
35 electronic certified documents for these jurisdictions.

     mk m o \  o \ \ \   9  do-510/2016
                                                    -5
   The described embodiments of the electronic document certification system and
   process are configured to certify official government and/or legal documents,
   including, but not limited to, driver's licences from any Australian state or territory,
 5 proof of identity cards, affirmations, affidavits, wills, oaths, state and commonwealth
   statutory declarations,        birth certificates, death certificates, marriage certificates,
   police check certificates, proof-of-age certificates, apostilles and other authentication
   certificates, and certificates of enduring power of attorney. The skilled addressee will
   appreciate that other embodiments may be configured to perform certification of any
10 arbitrary document given information             related to its type and/or properties.   For
   example, alternative embodiments may allow for the certification of academic records
   from an institution subject to the configuration of the system with details of the
   transcript document size and format.
15 As shown in Figure 1, the electronic document certification system 100 includes a
   client device 106 and server devices 108 configured for use by a user 102 and an
   authority 104 respectively, which together operate to perform electronic document
   certification, as shown in Figure 2. The server devices 108 include an application
   device 110, a data repository 112 and an interaction device 105. The client 106 and
20 application 110 devices are computing devices configured to execute client 107 and
   server 111 applications, respectively. The system 100 can additionally include
   production devices 114 for generating a physical copy of the produced electronic
   certified document, and transmission devices 115 for sending the physical certified
   document copy to the user 102.
25
   Figure 3 refers to a block diagram of a computing device 300 configured in accordance
   with the described embodiments. Those skilled in the art will recognise that the
   following descriptions relate to the architecture and configuration of a computing
   device which can be used to implement the methods and techniques described herein.
30 Other configurations may involve the implementation of the electronic document
   certification system in combination with other modules or devices.
   The computing device 300 includes a central system bus 301, a removable storage
   media 302, a memory system 303, a processor 307, a communication system 308, a
35 display interface 310, and an I/O device interface 312. The processor 307 can be any

     mkoI             6 959_do-5 10/2016
                                             -6
   microprocessor which performs the execution of sequences of machine instructions,
   and can have architectures consisting of a single or multiple processing cores. The
   processor 307 issues control signals to other computing device 300 components via
   the system bus 301, and has direct access to at least some of the memory 303.
 5
   The memory 303 provides an internal system for the electrical storage of the machine
   instructions required to execute applications. The applications can include, but are not
   limited to, a web browser and an electronic document certification system server
   application. The memory 303 can include random access memory (RAM), non-volatile
10 memory (such as ROM or EPROM), cache memory and registers for fast access by the
   processor 307, and high volume storage subsystems such as hard disk drives (HDD).
   Individual memory system components, such as the high volume storage subsystems,
   can include separate interfaces and/or buses to the main system bus in order to
   increase data transfer efficiency. A removable storage media 302 can be implemented
15 in the form of flash drives or removable high volume storage devices.
   A portion of the memory 303           can be non-volatile, and can contain a Basic
   Input/Output System (BIOS) which includes routines facilitating the communication of
   data and control signals between computing device 300 components. The memory 303
20 and removable media 302 store processor executable instructions for one or more
   programs and data, including an operating system 306, one or more application
   programs 305, and program data 304. The one or more application programs can
   include a client application operable by a user to perform processes described herein.
   Program data 304 can include data instructions and state information produced or
25 used by the electronic document certification system application. More generally,
   application programs 305 can include methods, data structures or other software
   services that define data or perform functions. The program data 304, the individual
   instructions of an application program 305, and the operating system 306 can reside
   in portions of the memory 303, including the registers, cache, main memory, and high
30 volume storage, or in the removable storage media 302. The skilled person in the art
   will appreciate that other embodiments of the memory 303 may allow for variation in
   the distribution of program data and instructions between the individual memory
   subsystems.
35

     mkoI             6 959_do-5 10/2016
                                             -7
   The system bus 300 provides a means by which data can be exchanged between the
   components of the computing device 300. The system bus allows the processor 307 to
   issue control signals to other components, including memory 303, for the purpose of
   transferring data. The system bus 300 can be of varying structure, and can possess
 5 one or more sub-buses, such as a memory bus interconnecting the memory 303
   components and/or a peripheral bus such as AGP or PCI.
   The I/O device interface 312 provides a means by which the user can interact with the
   computing device 300, and its stored application programs 305, and data 304 using
10 input devices 313 such as a mouse and keyboard. The user can additionally interact
   with the computing device 300 and its application programs 305 and data 304 using
   on-board input devices such as a touchpad or touch screen. The I/O device interface
   312 also provides a means for the computing device 300 to instruct output peripherals
   314, which can include printers, audio devices, and imaging devices.
15
   The display interface 310 can include one or more dedicated graphics interfaces, which
   transmit graphics and video signals between the computing device 300 and display
   devices 311. The display devices 311 can consist of external displays, such as CRT,
   LCD, LED or plasma monitors or TVs, projection devices, or on-board displays.
20
   The computing device 300 is operable in a networked environment via the connection
   of a communication system 308 to the components. The communication system 308
   enables the logical connection of the computing device 300 to other networks or
   computing devices through a wireless or wired transmission media. Connections to
25 networks or other computing devices are formed via wireless and/or physical
   interfaces 309. The computing device 300 can establish such connections through the
   use of specialised networking equipment, such as a router, or can connect directly to
   other communications networks or devices possessing similar interfaces 309. In a
   networked environment the programs 305 and data 304 of the computing device 300
30 can be stored, partially or fully, within the memory system of one or more remote
   devices.
   The computing device 300 can exchange information with connected networks and
   other communications devices. Protocols such as the IEEE 702.xx family can be used
35 for exchanging information wirelessly with, for example, a computer, portable device,

     mkoI              6 959_do-5 10/2016
                                               -8
   printer, scanner, or any other device or location associated with a wireless identity.
   This includes devices connected over technologies such as WiFi, WiMax and Bluetooth,
   and in the form of either structured or ad-hoc communications.
 5 Receiving requests
   The electronic document certification system 100 of the described embodiments is
   configured to accept requests to perform document certification 202 from a user 102
   via client application 107. In the described embodiments, requests are Internet based,
   and are initiated by a standard web browser application 107 executing on a client
10 device 106 and configured to load a web page hosted by the application device 110.
   The user 102 transmits a request via the browser 107 to the electronic document
   certification   (EDC)     application  111 executing on  the  application device   110.
   Transmission of data between the client 106 and application 110 devices occurs over a
   communications network 116, which can include local area networks, wide area
15 networks or mobile networks. Communication between client 106 and application 110
   devices is performed over a secure transport layer communications protocol such as
   HTTPS. Encryption is performed on the information transmitted by the user 102 to the
   application device 110, where this information can include: data representing the
   document, and an indication of the type of document, for which certification is
20 requested; and identification documents transmitted by the user 102 to verify their
   identity, as discussed below.
   With reference to Figure 4, document certification requests are received by the
   controller 412, which is configurable to process the requests and control the operation
25 of the data repository 112, the verification module 414, and the certification module
   416. Certification requests received by the controller 412 include data representing
   the primary document to be certified, and the details of the user 102 requesting the
   certification. In the described embodiments, the primary document can be in the form
   of a graphical image, such as a JPEG, PNG, TIFF or BMP document.
30
   The primary document transmitted by a user 102 for certification can be an
   electronically scanned version of the corresponding        physical document. In the
   described embodiments, certification of an electronically scanned document requires a
   minimum      document resolution, such that the characteristic information can be
35 accurately reproduced within the certified copy. The required minimum document

     mk m o \  o \ \ \   9 do-510/2016
                                               -9
   resolution can vary depending on the document type. The skilled addressee will
   recognise that other embodiments of the system may support additional document
   formats, and that the concepts and principles described herein are easily extendible to
   these alternative embodiments.
 5
   The controller 412 is configured to process document certification requests received
   from the client application 107 via communication with a data repository 112. In the
   described embodiments the data repository 112 is organised as a single database and
   includes a Database Management System (DBMS) 402. The described embodiment of
10 the system implements a MySQL DBMS, although the skilled addressee will recognise
   that other management systems, such as PostgreSQL , Microsoft SQL Server, Oracle,
   Sybase and IBM DB2, may be used in alternative embodiments. The database is
   configured to store data relating to the users 102 of the system 100 in the user table
   404. User data includes the user's name, physical address, email address, other
15 contact details (such as a phone number), and additional personal information such as
   date of birth. In other embodiments the user table 404 is configurable to store
   additional information about the user 102 such as the IP address used to access the
   system 100, hardware identifiers of the client device 106, and/or other tracking or
   referral information provided by the client application 107 during requests made to the
20 system 100 by the user 102. Document certification requests received by the
   controller 412 are stored in the requests table 408. The requests table 408 records an
   identifier of the user initiating the request, an indication of the time at which the
   request was made, and other details specific to the request, such as payment details
   and document transmission arrangements.
25
   Verification
   The system 100 performs two types of verification in order to ensure the integrity of
   the electronic document certification process: i) verification of the identity of the user
   requesting the electronic certification of a document; and ii) verification of the primary
30 document that is being certified.
   i) User identity
   In the described embodiments of the described invention, electronic document
   certification requires verification of the user's identity. User identity verification 204 is
35 performed automatically by the system 100 by the extraction of identity verification

     mk m o \ o \ \  \   9 do-510/2016
                                               -10
   data from documents submitted electronically by the user 102, and the subsequent
   processing of this information.
   The certification request involves the transmission of identification verification data
 5 from the client application 107 to the controller 412. Identification verification data
   includes: 1) user 102 details, such as the user's name and address, which collectively
   form an identity claim for the user 102; and 2) one or more verification documents,
   each containing identity information elements. The identity information elements
   within a verification document provide information about a particular attribute of the
10 subject of the document. For example, the elements of a driver's licence include the
   first name, last name, address, date of birth, licence number and signature of the
   licenced person (i.e. the subject). A user 102 seeking verification will typically submit
   verification documents         in which they are the subject, such that the identity
   information within each verification document corresponds to their claimed identity.
15
   In the described embodiments, the user 102 can select the types of the documents
   transmitted for the purposes of identity verification. The types of identification
   documents that are available to the user 102 for identity verification include official
   government documents such as driver's licences, birth certificates, social services
20 cards and passports. In alternative embodiments, the system 100 can be configured
   to accept other document types for the purpose of verification. In some embodiments,
   the system 100 is configured to accept any verification document that is interpretable
   to provide identity information of its subject. Verification document types can be
   assigned weightings reflecting the 'influence' of the document for verifying the identity
25 of the user 102. The system 100 can be configured to require that a user 102 submit
   a combination of verification documents which collectively reach a certain weighting
   threshold (such as a total number of points). In alternative embodiments, limitations
   can be placed on the types of document accepted for the verification of a user 102
   based on the type of the document for which certification is requested, and on any
30 previous verification processes 204 performed by the system 100 with respect to the
   user 102.
   The controller 412 transmits the identification verification data to the data repository
    112 for storage in the verification table 406. The records of the verification table 406
35 store data related to the verification of the identity of a user 102, including the

     mkoI              6 959_do-5 10/2016
                                               - 11
   identity verification documents transmitted by the user 102 and the claimed identity of
   the user 102. The verification table 406 is also configured to store the outcome of
   verification processes conducted by the system 100 with respect to a particular user
    102 based on the user's identity claim and their verification documents as submitted.
 5
   In the described embodiments of the invention, verification 204 of the identity of a
   user 102 is performed by the verification module 414. As shown in Figure 5, the
   analysis module 502 receives, from the controller 412, data representing the one or
   more verification documents supplied by the user 102 and an indication of the type of
10 each of these documents. The analysis module 502 automatically interprets each
   verification document to produce an indication of the identity of the subject of the
   document. In the described embodiment, optical character recognition (OCR) is used
   to generate data representing information extracted from each identity element of a
   given verification document.
15
   An application-oriented OCR method is employed in the presented invention such that
   identity data is extracted from a document based on the structure of, and the specific
   lexicon used within, the document, as inferred from its type. The OCR technique of the
   described embodiment performs an initial analysis of the verification document to
20 determine the presence of any noise (such as blur), misalignment, and/or scaling
   issues. The analysis module 502 is configured to apply pre-processing methods, such
   as de-skewing,      binarisation, filtering and/or normalisation,  in order to alleviate
   problems detected during the initial analysis. This allows the system 100 to maximise
   the accuracy with which identity information can be extracted from the verification
25 document. In some embodiments, the pre-processing stage can be configured to
   detect flaws in the verification document, such as partial or full occlusion of one or
   more identity elements. In cases where the existence of flaws renders the document
   unsuitable for verification purposes, the analysis module 502 indicates the invalidity of
   the document to the controller 412, which can subsequently transmit an informative
30 error message to the user 102.
   Line detection and segmentation is performed by the analysis module 502 to identify
   the existence of characters at pre-determined            positions within the document
   corresponding to the identity information element locations. Character recognition is
35 performed using a two-stage process of 1) feature extraction; and 2) classification.

     mkoI              6 959_do-5 10/2016
                                               - 12
   Feature extraction is performed by the calculation of a set of feature values for data
   within a region of the identity element locations, where the features include: aspect
   ratio, proportion of pixels above a horizontal half point or to the right of a vertical half
   point, number of strokes; and the average distance to the image centre. Character
 5 determination is performed by classification of the features via the use of character
   models. The k-nearest neighbours clustering technique is implemented                 in the
   described embodiments, such that the determined character is the one whose model
   centroid has minimal accumulated distance to the features extracted. The OCR
   process produces data representing a group of characters as recognised within the
10 identity information element location. A post-processing stage is subsequently applied
   to translate the determined characters into a series of words. The accuracy of the
   word recognition process is improved by using a lexicon to constrain the output based
   on the document type, and the identity information expected to be contained within a
   given element. For example, when operating on the 'address' element of a driver's
15 licence document the analysis module 502 can use a lexicon containing words
   commonly occurring within addresses, such as 'Street', 'Avenue' and 'Road', to
   influence recognition        and/or to assist in the segmentation     phase. The skilled
   addressee will appreciate that other methods for performing character detection and
   recognition    in the context of OCR, such        as matrix matching,      can be easily
20 implemented in the context of the system 100 to conduct the verification processes
   described herein above.
   OCR is applied by the analysis module 502 to each identification information element
   of a verification document to produce textual data representing the recognised words.
25 For example, if a user 102 supplies a scanned copy of a Victorian driver's licence as a
   verification document, the analysis module 502 extracts information for elements
   including the name, date of birth, address and gender of the subject of the licence.
   The OCR based analysis process is repeated for each verification document. An
   indication of identity for each verification document is determined from the extracted
30 identification element information, and is stored in the determined ID buffer 506. The
   controller transmits data representing the claimed identity of the user 102 to the
   verification module 414 for storage in the claimed ID buffer 504. In the described
   embodiment the claimed identity includes the name and address of the user 102, as
   transmitted within the request data received from the client application 107.
35

      mkoI            6 959_do-5 10/2016
                                                - 13
   The comparison module 508 is configurable to produce a verification outcome by
   comparing the identity determined from each verification document to that of the
   claimed identity. Text-based matching is used in the described embodiments, where
   the textual representation of the user's claimed identity is tested for equality against
 5 the corresponding representation extracted from each verification document. The
   comparison     process can be configured to allow minor differences in the text
   representations, such as the presence of additional whitespace or case mismatch
   within the characters.
10 To produce a positive verification, the claimed identity representation must be equal
   to the representation         extracted from each verification document. Otherwise, a
   negative verification outcome is produced. The verification outcome represents the
   validity of the user 102's claimed identity, and is stored in the verification result buffer
   510 for subsequent transmission to the controller 412 and storage in the verification
15 table 406 of repository 112. In the described embodiments, a negative outcome
   results in the rejection of the certification request by the controller 412. The system
   can be configured to send a request to the user 102 for additional verification
   documents in order to verify their identity in the situation where the certification
   request is rejected due to a negative verification outcome. The user 102 can respond
20 by submitting one or more additional verification documents, which are processed by
   the system according to the verification processes described above to re-evaluate the
   verification outcome. Alternatively, the system can be configured to cancel the user's
   certification request if the verification outcome is negative.
25 ii) Primary Document Representation
   Electronic document certification requires verification of the primary document. The
   primary document verification process 205 allows the authority 104 to verify that the
   primary document submitted by the user 102 (i.e. the scanned document copy)
   accurately and truly represents the original primary document (i.e. the physical
30 original of the document).
   The system 100 allows the authority 104 to conduct primary document verification
   205 using electronic video data. A real-time video transmission link is established
   between the client device 106 and the application device 110, through respective
35 video cameras connected to each device, enabling a verification interaction to be

     mkoI              6 959_do-5 10/2016
                                                    - 14
   performed between the authority 104 and the user 102. Specifically, this verification
   interaction serves to prove to the authority 104 that: i) the user 102 is currently in
   possession of the original primary document; and ii) this original primary document
   matches the electronic representation received by the system 100 within their
 5 certification request. For example, this can involve the user 102 demonstrating their
   possession of the original primary document to the authority 104, and presenting this
   document to the camera in a variety of configurations such that the authority 104 can
   verify its details, including the presence of any security or authentication features
   and/or     markings    (including      optically variable features such    as, for example,
10 holographic imprints, diffraction gratings, and the like). As the verification occurs over
   video data exchanged              in real-time, fraudulent certification requests based  on
   document scans which do not match the true primary document can be detected by
   authority 104. Additionally, this allows the authority 104 to recognise situations where
   unauthorised document scans are used to obtain a certified electronic copy of a
15 document, and to subsequently cancel the associated certification request.
   Certification
   The electronic document certification system 100 performs certification 206 of an
   electronic document via the certification module 416 of the EDC application 111. In
20 the described embodiments, commencement of the certification process 206 requires
   verification of the user 102. The controller 412 retrieves and processes the verification
   outcome data for the user 102 from the verification table 406, and invokes the
   certification process 206 if the outcome is positive. The skilled addressee will note that
   in other embodiments of the electronic document certification system 100 user
25 identity verification 204 may be optional such that document certification 206 may be
   performed directly following the receipt of a certification request 202.
   As shown in Figure 6, the certification module 416 is configured to store the data of
   the document to be certified, and an indication of its type, in a document buffer 602.
30 Certification is performed using: 1) document representation data, which replicates
   the primary document in the certified copy; and 2) endorsement data, which consists
   of description data and authority data.
   Description data is interpretable to provide a description of the certification of the
35 primary document by the certification authority. In the described embodiment the

      mkoI             6 959_do-5 10/2016
                                                     - 15
   description data indicates the type of document certified, the details of the authority
   performing the certification, and legal information or disclaimers relevant to the
   certified document copy. An example textual description for the certification of a
   driver's licence document according to the described embodiment is as follows:
 5
             "To Whom it may concern: The undersigned Justice of the Peace No.               of
           , been duly appointed authorize person and registered with the Department of
   Justice         and the Australian office of the Department of Foreign Affairs & Trade
   (DFA T).
10 ...
            Hereby certify that this Australian Driving Licence of            is a true copy of
   the original document that I have sighted. And also attesting to their existence and
   any alteration to this document will make invalidate or null and void."
15 The authority data is interpretable to provide a confirmation of the identity of the
   authority 104, and the intent of the authority 104 to certify the document. In the
   described embodiment the identity and intent of the authority 104 is represented by a
   signature, stamp and/or seal of the authority 104. The certificates table 410 of the
   data repository 112 is configured to store endorsement data specific to the authority
20  104. During certification the controller 412 retrieves from the data repository 112 the
   description of the certification, as appropriate for the given document type, and the
   signature, stamp or seal of the authority 104, and transmits this data to the certificate
   buffer 604.
25 The construction module 606 accepts the primary document data and an indication of
   the primary document type from the document buffer 602, and the endorsement data
   from the certificate buffer 604 to generate the certified document data. In the
   described embodiments, the certified document data is in the form of a Portable
   Document Format (PDF)               file, which is interpretable by PDF viewing software to
30 produce a representation of the certified electronic document. The certified document
   PDF file is generated           in accordance with      PDF Reference 1.7. Within the PDF
   representation the certified document data is organised as a collection of string and
   stream objects. Strings are used to represent fixed length text-only data (such as the
   description data), while embedded stream objects are used to represent other blocks
35 of data that can be of arbitrary size, such as fonts, page descriptions, security

     mkoI              6 959_do-5 10/2016
                                             - 16
   dictionaries, image data, and larger sections of text (such as the representation data).
   The certified document PDF contains additional data which conveys information about
   the document's structure, including the document size and the relative arrangement of
   the sub data components. Following completion of the certification process 206 the
 5 construction module 606 transfers the certified document representation data to the
   certified document buffer 610.
   Figure 8a shows an example of a certified driver's licence document 800 in accordance
   with the described embodiments of the presented invention. The certified document
10 800 contents consists of regions of displayable text and/or graphical information
   corresponding to the primary document content 802, and the endorsement 804 which
   consists of the certification description 806 and the authority information 808. The
   authority information 808 includes the name 810 of the authority 104, and their
   signature 812 and/or seal 814. Figure 8b illustrates an example seal 814 for a
15 registered Justice of the Peace in the State of Tasmania. The arrangement of the
   certified document contents can be configured by the authority 104 via the interaction
   device 105. The authority 104 can add additional regions of graphical and/or textual
   content to the certified document. For example, contact details of the authority 104
   may be added to the header 810 for the purpose of allowing a reader of the document
20 to contact the authority 104.
   Security
   The contents of the electronic certified document are secured 208 by the application of
   encryption techniques in order to provide protection against modification. The
25 encryption module 612 receives the certified document data from the buffer 610 and
   produces corresponding data representing the encrypted version of the certified
   document. In the described embodiments, encryption is performed on the PDF file
   data of the certified document. Encryption is applied to all strings and stream objects
   in the PDF file, but not to the document's structural data which is typically expressed
30 as a combination of integer and boolean values. Leaving these values unencrypted
   allows access to the objects within the document, while protecting the document's
   substantive contents against modification after certification by the authority 104 has
   occurred. Encryption-related information is stored in the form of encryption dictionary
   data, which includes: the preferred security handler for the document; an indication of
35 the algorithm to be used in encrypting and decrypting the document; and the length

    mkoI              6  959_do-5 10/2016
                                              - 17
   of the encryption key to be used.
   The encryption module 612 records the security handler used to perform the
   encryption process with the certified document PDF encryption dictionary. The security
 5 handler controls access to the contents of the encrypted document, and is invoked by
   applications when accessing the secured certified document PDF file. In the described
   embodiment a standard password-based PDF security handler is used allowing
   decryption of the document using a password. However, other embodiments may
   implement different security handlers designed to perform an encryption of the
10 document which is not easily reversible.
   The encryption module 612 performs encryption of the certified document PDF data
   using the symmetric key based Advanced Encryption Standard (AES) algorithm to
   produce the secured certified document copy. A 256 bit encryption key is utilised to
15 perform the encryption. The length of the data when encrypted is rounded up to a
   multiple of the block size, which is fixed in the described implementation to 16 bytes.
   Strings and streams encrypted with AES use a padding scheme according to Internet
   RFC 2898. For an original message length of M bytes, the pad consists of 16 - (M mod
   16) bytes whose value is also 16 - (M mod 16). For example, a 9-byte message has a
20 pad of 7 bytes, each with the value Ox07. The pad can be unambiguously removed to
   determine the original message length when decrypting. Note that the pad is present
   when M is evenly divisible by 16; it contains 16 bytes of Ox1O. The skilled addressee
   will appreciate that alternative embodiments may utilise other encryption algorithms,
   such as the RC4 symmetric stream cipher.
25
   An encryption key is generated by the encryption module 612 to encrypt the certified
   document data. In one possible embodiment of the system a fixed 'master' encryption
   key is used to produce the secured certified document independent of the primary
   document type, and of the details of the user 102 and/or authority 104. The
30 encryption master key can be a 'password', as chosen by the user 102 or the authority
   104. In alternative embodiments, a unique encryption key is generated for each
   secured certified document by augmenting a base encryption key with information
   specific to the certification request, and/or the details of the user 102 or the authority
   104. This allows for the protection of the contents of the certified document in the
35 case that the base encryption key is exposed. Document encryption keys are

     mkoI             6 959_do-5 10/2016
                                             - 18
   combined with a salt value, and the encryption and decryption processes are
   performed using the MD5 hash of the resultant key. The encryption key is stored
   within the certificates table 410 of the data repository 112 by the controller 412, as
   received from the encryption module 612 during the content securing process 208.
 5
   The encryption process 208 digitally signs the certified electronic document for the
   purpose of: authenticating the authority 104; verifying the integrity of the certification
   endorsement; and confirming the intent of the authority 104 to certify the document
   (i.e.   providing  non-repudiation    of the   certification endorsement).    Alternative
10 embodiments of the invention may implement other digital signing or sealing
   methods, such as the inclusion of signature and/or seal objects which are encrypted
   using a different algorithm to that used to secure the document representation data.
   The encryption module 612 stores the document access permission data within the
15 encryption dictionary of the certified document, where this permission data reflects
   the various operations which are allowed to be performed on the document. The
   permission data is in the form of flags, and dictates a user's ability to: modify the
   document's contents; copy or extract text and graphics from the document; add or
   modify text annotations; and print the document. In the described embodiments, the
20 encryption module 612 is configured to set default access permissions which prevent
   any modification, copying, extraction and/or annotation of the certified document.
   Printing of the document is enabled by the default access permissions. The skilled
   addressee will recognise that other embodiments of the system 100 may allow
   additional configurability of the access permissions applied to the secured certified
25 documents. For example, different sets of access permissions can be defined by the
   authority 104 which allow combinations of the above described operations to be
   performed on the contents of the secured certified document. The level of access
   permission applied to the document can be determined based on the document type,
   or on the degree of security desired by the user requesting certification. Following the
30 encryption based content securing process 208, the data representing the secured
   certified document is transferred from the certified document buffer 610 to the
   controller 412. The controller 412 transmits secured certified document data to the
   data repository 112 for storage in the request table 408.
35

     mk m o \ o \ \  \  9  do-510/2016
                                             -19
   Transmission
   The electronic document certification system 100 of the described embodiment is
   configured to send 210 the generated secured certified document to the user 102, as
   shown in Figure 7. The EDC application 111 includes an electronic transmission service
 5 701 configured to transmit data representing the secured certified document over a
   communications network 116, and to the user 102 via the client application 107. In
   the described embodiments, the electronic secured certified document is transmitted
   to the email address of the user 102 for retrieval by the client application 107 via an
   email service, and subsequent transmission to the user 102.
10
   The electronic transmission service 701 receives, from the controller 412, data
   representing the electronic secured certified document copy and the details of the user
    102, including a the user 102 email address. In the described embodiments, the
   electronic transmission service 701 is configured to automatically transmit the secured
15 certified document PDF to the user 102 via the extended Simple Mail Transfer Protocol
   (SMTP), as defined by RFC 5321. In alternative embodiments, other means of may be
   employed to transmit the document, such as FTP or peer-to-peer connections.
   Alternatively, the user 102 may be provided with passive access to the generated
   secured certified electronic document.
20
   The process and system 100 of the described embodiments are configured to send a
   physical copy of the secured certified document to the user 102 via a physical
   transmission service 702. The physical transmission service 702 facilitates the
   generation of a physical copy of the secured certified document from the electronic
25 copy stored within the data repository 112. The physical transmission service 702 is
   configured to communicate with production devices 114, which can include one or
   more printers 704 and one or more fax machines 706, to issue instructions for the
   production of the physical document copy. The physical transmission service 702
   additionally communicates with one or more transmission devices 115 to organise the
30 transmission of the produced physical document to the user 102. Transmission devices
    115 of the described embodiment can include packing and transportation devices
   operable to automatically package the produced physical document within a container
   such as a parcel or envelope, and to facilitate physical transmission of the produced
   document to the user 102.
35

     mk m o \  o \ \ \   9 do-510/2016
                                             -20
   For example, the physical transmission service 702 can receive, from the controller
   412, the electronic secured certified document and an indication of the document
   type. The physical transmission service 702 can subsequently direct a printer 704 to
   print a physical copy of the certified document, using the print settings, such as paper
 5 type, dimensions, and orientation, appropriate for the its type. The physical certified
   document copy produced may then be packaged into an envelope and loaded onto a
   vehicle by the transmission devices 115. The user 102 can select a specific type of
   delivery method during their request for certification of the document. For example, a
   user 102 can indicate that physical transmission of the certified document should be
10 performed via a standard postal service, or by an express courier depending on their
   preference. The options available to a user 102 are configurable by the authority 104,
   and can vary based on factors including the document type, the availability of external
   services, and/or the address of the user 102.
15 Requesting Certification of a document (UI)
   The system 100 of the described embodiments is configured to accept document
   certification requests from user 102 via web page elements rendered by the client
   browser application 107. The browser 107 is configured to display an application form
   UI pane when the user selects the document certification service. In one embodiment,
20 the system 100 is configured to allow a user 102 to complete the application form
   electronically by entering information into the fields on the UI pane. Figure 9 shows an
   example electronic application form UI pane 900 by which the user 102 can request
   certification of a document. The application form pane 900 includes an application
   details pane 902 which contains fields for the details of the user 102, such as their
25 title 904, first name 906, surname 908, date of birth 910, phone number 912, and
   address 914. A confirmation field 916 is also presented to the user 102 in order for
   the system 100 to obtain confirmation that the authority 104 may act to perform the
   requested document certification. In the described embodiment the confirmation field
   916 contains a text field by which the user 102 can enter their name to confirm that
30 they authorise authority 104 to perform the certification, and/or agree with the
   associated terms and conditions of the certification service. In other embodiments,
   authority to act can be obtained from the user 102 by means of interactive elements
   (such as a checkbox or confirmation button), or by allowing the user 102 to upload a
   digital copy of their signature.
35

      mk m o \ o \ \  \   9 do-510/2016
                                               -21
   The pane 900 contains a document selection element 918 configured to allow the user
    102 to upload electronic document files to the system 100. The electronic files which
   the user 102 is required to upload include an electronic version of the primary
   document for which certification is to be performed. In the described embodiment the
 5 selection element 918 contains an element 920, such as a button, operable to open a
   file selection dialog through which the user 102 can select the electronic primary
   document file.
   The pane 900 contains a verification element 922 configured to allow the user to
10 verify their identity with the system 100. In the described embodiments, a plurality of
   identification verification document files can be uploaded by the user 102 using a
   combination of list element and selection button pairs 924, through which the user
    102 can choose the document type and select the file, respectively. The described
   system 100 supports the upload of identification verification documents in a variety of
15 electronic file types, including, but not limited to, image files such as JPEG, BMP, GIF,
   and PNG, and other document formats such as PDF and DOCX. However, the skilled
   addressee will note that other embodiments may allow the user 102 to select
   verification documents which are not in image data format. In these embodiments the
   verification module 414 may execute conversion routines to produce the image data
20 required for the verification and/or certification process described herein above.
   The application form pane 900 of the described embodiments contains a delivery
   details element 926 configured to allow the user 102 to select a method for the
   transmission of the physical copy of the produced certified document. Example
25 delivery options include standard post, express post and direct courier. Other
   embodiments of the system 100 may be configured to provide additional delivery
   options, and/or to vary the delivery options available to a given user 102 based on
   their supplied address. The delivery element 926 provides an indication of the
   estimated delivery date of the certified document, and the cost of delivery for the
30 selected delivery option.
   The user 102 is presented with a payment details pane 928 by the application UI pane
   900 enabling the selection of a method for payment of the document certification
   service. The payment details pane 928 includes a list element configured to present
35 selectable payment options to the user 102, and payment entry fields through which

     mk m o \ o \  \ \    9 do-510/2016
                                              -22
   the user 102 can provide information required to effect a payment for the selected
   payment option. An indication of the total cost of the document certification service is
   also provided to the user 102. The user 102 can complete the document certification
   request by submitting the application form via the 'Submit' button 930.
 5
   In an alternative embodiment of the system 100, the document certification request
   can be performed using a physical application form. The application UI pane 900
   provides a button allowing the user 102 to obtain a copy of an application form PDF
   document which can be printed and completed manually by the user 102. Upon
10 receiving a completed physical application form, the authority 104 can submit a
   request for document certification on behalf of the user 102 using the electronic
   application form 900 (as described above), as rendered on a browser application
   executing on the interaction device 105.
15 Acquisition of Official Documents
   In alternative embodiments, the system 100 is configured to acquire one or more
   official government documents on behalf of a user. The user 102 can place an order
   for an official Australian Government document, such as a Birth Certificate or Marriage
   Certificate, via a document order form UI pane rendered by the browser application
20  107. Figure 10 shows an example birth certificate document order form pane 1000
   which includes an applicant details pane 1002 which contains fields for the details of
   the user 102, such as their title 1004, first name 1006, surname 1008, date of birth
    1010, phone number 1012, and street address 1014. The document order pane 1000
   contains an order details pane 1016 which includes fields enabling the user 102 to
25 specify the information required to obtain the official document requested. For
   example, within an order form for a birth certificate the order details pane 1016 can
   contain fields for the official legal name of the subject 1018, the name of the subject's
   mother 1020, the birth place 1022 and the birth date 1024.
30 The document order pane 1000 contains an authorisation pane 1026 which provides a
   disclosure of the terms and conditions under which the authority 104 may act on
   behalf of the user 102 to apply for, and take delivery of, the requested official
   government document. The user 102 is required to provide an indication 1028 of the
   acceptance of these terms in order for the document acquisition request to be
35 accepted by the system 100. The indication 1028 can be in the form of the user's

     mk m o \ o \ \  \  9 do-510/2016
                                             - 23
   uploaded signature, or other interactive elements (such as a checkbox or confirmation
   button).
   The pane 1000 contains a verification element 1030 configured to allow the user to
 5 verify their identity for the purpose of requesting an official document. In the
   described embodiments, a plurality of identification verification document files can be
   uploaded by the user 102 using a combination of list element and selection button
   pairs 1032. In some embodiments, the user 102 can choose the types of the
   verification documents to establish their identity with the system 100. In alternative
10 embodiments, the system 100 requires documents of specific types to be uploaded by
   the user 102, where the verification document types required are dependent on the
   official document requested. The verification document files selectable by the user 102
   are image files as described above.
15 The birth certificate document order form pane 1000 of the described embodiments
   contains a delivery details element 1034 configured to allow the user 102 to select a
   method for the transmission of the physical copy of the acquired document and the
   produced physical certified document copy. Example delivery options include standard
   post, express post and direct courier. Other embodiments of the system 100 may be
20 configured to provide additional delivery options, and/or to vary the delivery options
   available to a given user 102 based on their supplied address. An indication of the
   estimated cost of delivery for the selected delivery option is presented to the user 102
   within element 1034.
25 The user 102 is presented with a payment details pane 1036 by the document order
   UI pane 1000 enabling the selection of a method for payment of the document
   ordering service. The payment options offered by the system 100 for document
   acquisition are identical to those available for certification requests, as described
   above. The user 102 can complete the document acquisition request by submitting the
30 application form via the 'Submit' button 1038.
   The document acquisition process of the system 100 allows the authority 104 to
   obtain a physical copy of an official government document on behalf of, and as
   requested by, the user 102. The user 102 completes a document request form for the
35 official government document which they wish to obtain, including an "authorisation to

     mk m o \ o \ \ \   9 do-510/2016
                                             - 24
   act" form that authorises the authority 104 to apply for the official document on behalf
   of the user 102, and lodges this form with the system 100 according to the processes
   described above. The system 100 generates an official government request for the
   specific document requested by the user 102, based on the user 102's identity
 5 information, and forwards the official request and the authorisation to act form to the
   appropriate government office.
   Following the acquisition of the document, a scanning process is applied to the
   acquired physical document to produce a high resolution electronic primary document
10 copy. The electronic document certification process 200 is applied to this electronic
   primary document to produce secured electronic and physical certified document
   copies, as described herein above. The produced electronic and physical certified
   documents and the acquired original document are transmitted to the user 102.
15 In the above description, suffixes "module" and "unit" are given to components of the
   described system in consideration of only facilitation of description and do not have
   meanings or functions discriminated from each other.
   Many modifications will be apparent to those skilled in the art without departing from
20 the scope of the present invention.
   Throughout this specification,     unless the context requires otherwise, the word
   "comprise", and variations such as "comprises" and "comprising", will be understood
   to imply the inclusion of a stated integer or step or group of integers or steps but not
25 the exclusion of any other integer or step or group of integers or steps.
   The reference to any prior art in this specification is not, and should not be taken as,
   an acknowledgment or any form of suggestion that the prior art forms part of the
   common general knowledge in Australia.
30

     mk m o \  o  \ \  \   9 do-510/2016
                                                 - 25
   Claims
    1.      An electronic document certification system including:
                     at least one certification data repository storing document certification
   templates for respective different types of documents to be certified, and certification
 5 authority data representing the certification credentials of a certification authority;
                     a server configured to receive an electronic document and user
   identification data from client devices of requesting users via a communications
   network, the electronic document being an official document relating to specific
   persons identified in the electronic document;
10                   a processor configured to process the received electronic document to
   determine a corresponding document type and a corresponding specific person
   identified    in the electronic document, and to process the corresponding              user
   identification data to determine whether it identifies the specific person identified in
   the electronic document, and only if the assessment outcome is positive, to access the
15 certification data repository to retrieve one of the stored document certification
   templates corresponding to the determined document type, and to process the
   received electronic document and the retrieved corresponding document certification
   template to generate corresponding certified document data representing a certified
   copy of the received electronic document.
20
   2.       The electronic document certification system of claim 1, wherein the user
   identification data includes data representing one or more verification documents, with
   each verification document containing identity information for a subject of the
   document.
25
   3.       The electronic document certification system of claim 2, wherein processing the
   user identification data involves performing optical character recognition on each of
   the one or more identity verification documents.
30 4.       The electronic document certification system of any one of claims 1 to 3,
   wherein the certified document data includes:
            a representation of the received electronic document; and
            description data representing a description of the certification of the electronic
   document by the certification authority in accordance with the associated document
35 certification template; and

     mk m o  \ o  \ \   \   9 do-510/2016
                                                      -26
            certification authority data representing the certification credentials of the
   authority certifying the document.
   5.       The electronic document certification system of any one of claims 1 to 4,
 5 including:
            one or more production devices configured to:
                     receive certified document data generated by the application device;
            and
                     produce a physical copy of the certified document; and
10          one or more transmission devices configured to transmit the produced physical
   copy of the certified document to the user.
   6.       An electronic document certification process, including:
                     receiving, from a user, an electronic document and user identification
15          data, the electronic document being an official document relating to specific
            persons identified in the electronic document;
                     processing          the  received    electronic   document      to    determine      a
            corresponding document type and a corresponding specific person identified in
            the electronic document;
20                   retrieving,       from   a certification   data   repository,    certification    data
            including a certification template for the type of document to be certified, and
            certification authority data representing the certification credentials of a
            certification authority;
                     processing         the  received   electronic   document      and    the    retrieved
25          corresponding document certification data to generate corresponding certified
            document data          representing a certified        copy of the received electronic
            document; and
                    transmitting the certified copy to the user.
30 7.       The electronic document certification process of claim 6, including processing
   the user identification data to produce an assessment outcome which determines
   whether said user identification data identifies the specific person identified in the
   electronic document, and
            where the retrieving of the certification data, and the generation of certified
35 document data are performed only if the assessment outcome is positive.

     mk m o  \ o \ \   \    9  do-510/2016
                                                -27
   8.       The electronic document certification process of claim 7, wherein the user
   identification data includes data representing one or more verification documents, and
   where the processing of the user identification data involves performing optical
 5 character recognition on each of the one or more identity verification documents.
   9.       The electronic document certification process of any one of claims 6 to 8,
   wherein the certified document data includes:
                    a representation of the received electronic document; and
10                  description data representing a description of the certification of the
            electronic document by the certification authority in accordance with the
            associated document certification template; and
                    certification authority data representing the certification credentials of
            the authority certifying the document.
15
   10.      The electronic document certification process of any one of claims 6 to 9,
   including:
                    receiving, by one or more production devices, the certified document
            data;
20                  processing the received certified document data to produce a physical
            copy of the certified document; and
                   transmitting the produced physical copy of the certified document to the
            user.
25 11.      The electronic document certification process of any one of claims 6 to 10,
   including applying         encryption to the generated certified   document data,      said
   encryption securing the contents of the certified document against modification.
   12.      The electronic document certification process of claim 11, wherein the certified
30 document is encrypted using Advanced Encryption Standard (AES).

<removed-date>
                                                        1/11
                                                                                                      100
<removed-apn>
                                                                                                116
                    102                                        106
                                        Client Device                          Communications
                 User
                                          Client Application                      Network
                                                               107
                                                                                               Server Devices 108
                             115                114                                110                        112
              Transmission         Production              Application Device                      Data
                Devices             Devices                      EDC Application                 Repository
                                                                               105       111
                                                                 Interaction
                                                                   Device
                                                                               104
                                                                 Authority
                                                      Figure 1

<removed-date>
               2/11
                             202
                                   200
              Certification
               Request
<removed-apn>
                             204
               Identity
              Verification
                             205
               Primary
              Document
              Verification
                             206
               Document
              Certification
                             208
               Content
               Securing
                             210
                Send
              Document
              Figure 2

<removed-date>
                                     3/11
                                                                                 300
<removed-apn>
                    301                   302
                                                        304          305
                           Removable
                            Storage
                                          303    Data         Applications
                                                        OS
                            Memory
                                                               306
                                          307
                           Processor
                                                                           309
                                           308
              Bus                                             Interfaces
                          Communication
                             System
                                          310                                311
                             Display
                            Interface
                                                               Display
                                                               Devices           313
                                          312
                          I/O Interface                         Input Devices
                                                               Output Devices
                                                                  314
                                  Figure 3

<removed-date>
                                                      4/11
                                                                                             400
<removed-apn>
                                                                   116
                                     107
                                                       Communications
                Client Application
                                                          Network
                                             412                                      112          402
                                                                           Data Repository
                              Controller
                                                                               DBMS
                              416                     414   User    Request    Verification Certificates
              Certification            Verification         404          408       406             410
                Module                  Module
                                EDC Application 111
                                                      Figure 4

<removed-date>
                                        5/11
                                                                             500
<removed-apn>
                                         412
                           Controller
                   ID    Document              ID Claim                      Outcome
               documents   types
                                502                   504
                                         Claimed ID
              Analysis Module
                                           Buffer
                                506                   508                             510
              Determined ID              Comparison               Verification Result
                  Buffer                   Module                        Buffer
                                                            Verification Module 414
                                        Figure 5

<removed-date>
                                          6/11
                                                                                 600
<removed-apn>
                                          412
                           Controller
               Primary
                              Document           Endorsement                      Certified
               document
                              Type data             data                         document
               representation
               data
                        602                              604                              610
                                           Certificate                   Certified
              Document Buffer
                                            Buffer                    Document Buffer
                                                         606                              612
                                          Construction                   Encryption
                                            Module                        Module
                                                               Certification Module 416
                                          Figure 6

<removed-date>
                                                      7/11
                                                                                                700
<removed-apn>
                                                                                       116
                    102                                 107
                                                                          Communications
                 User              Client Application
                                                                             Network
                                701                                      412                        112
                               Electronic                                              Data Repository
                             Transmission             Controller
                                                                                           DBMS
                                Service
                                                                   702                                    402
                                                                                User         Request
                                                    Physical
                                                  Transmission                  404           408
                                                     Service
                                                              EDC Application 111
                              Production Devices 114
                          115                   704
                                      Printer
              Transmission
                                                706
                Devices
                                       Fax
                                                      Figure 7

<removed-date>
                          8/11
                                                   800
                    810
<removed-apn>
                                      806
                                                         804
                                            814
              812
                                             808
                    810
                                                         802
                          Figure 8a

            <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                 9/11
Figure 8b
                  814

                                                                                                          900
<removed-date>
                                                    10/11
                                                                                                           902
              Applicant Details
              Title          904         First Name(s)       906             Surname               908
              Date of Birth              910   Contact Phone                 912     Email               913
<removed-apn>
                   /     /                                                                                     914
              Unit Number/Street Number/Street Name
              Surburb/Locality                                               State           Postcode
                                                                                                               916
              Authority to Act Confirmation
              I,                                                               ,
              am hereby applying to _____ to provide me with a certification of
              a ________.
                                                                                                               918
              Certification Document
                              Drivers_licence.pdf                         920           Upload
                                                                                                               922
              Identity Verification
                                   <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2701><U+2706><U+271D> <U+271E><U+2702><U+271F><U+260E><U+2720><U+271F><U+260E>                                      Upload                 924
                                         Passport                                       Upload
                                           ...                                            ...
              Delivery Details
                                                                                                               926
                       Express Post                  Estimated Delivery:                     ...
                                                                     Cost:             $10.50
              Payment Details
                                                                                                               928
                       Credit Card                       Number:          5643 1235 ...
               Total
               Cost:               ...                    Expiry:   12 / 12 / 20         CVC:       111
                                                          Submit          930
                                                    Figure 9

                                                                                                             1000
<removed-date>
                                                 11/11
                                                                                                             1002
              Applicant Details
              Title          1004     First Name(s)       1006                  Surname              1008
              Date of Birth         1010   Contact Phone                   1012       Email            1013
<removed-apn>
                   /     /
              Unit Number/Street Number/Street Name/Postcode/Country                                1014
                                                         ...
                                                                                                                  1026
              Authorisation to Obtain Birth Certificate
              I,                                                                  ,    1028
              hereby authorise to _____ to obtain on my behalf an official
              Australian Birth Certificate.
                                                                                                                  1016
              Birth Certificate Details
              Full Legal Name                    1018            <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2721><U+2721> <U+261B><U+260E><U+261E><U+270C><U+2721> <U+270D><U+270C><U+270E><U+260E>                   1020
              Birth Place                        1022      Birth Date                 1024
                                                                    /     /
                                                                                                                  1030
              Identity Verification
                                <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2701><U+2706><U+271D> <U+271E><U+2702><U+271F><U+260E><U+2720><U+271F><U+260E>                                           Upload                  1032
                                      Passport                                            Upload
                                        ...                                                 ...
              Delivery Details
                                                                                                                  1034
                       Express Post               Estimated Delivery:                         ...
                                                                        Cost:           $10.50
              Payment Details
                                                                                                                  1036
                       Credit Card                    Number:                 5643 1235 ...
               Total
               Cost:            ...                    Expiry:     12 / 12 / 20              CVC:     111
                                                       Submit                 1038
                                                 Figure 10

