                                   ABSTRACT
The Disclosed Chain link leverage tool FIG 4. is two lengths of chain joined
with a central turnbuckle with S hooks attached to each end of the chain
lengths. The two S hooks have a 3cm length of 1Oml cut resistant clear poly
tubing fitted, there is a single larger snap hook link attached to one of the
lengths of Chain.
When the Chain tool is being used to provide a leverage point for a dent
pushing tool under the engine bay hood of a motor vehicle, the two S hooks
(FIGs 1& 2 & 3) are hooked into manufacturing holes in the underhood
bracing in such a way that the tool hangs with slack in a straight line very
close to a dent in a difficult to access area of the hood that has no leverage
point for the dent tool to push on the dent to repair it. When the central
turnbuckle (Fig 4) is rotated the chain tool is pulled up taught horizontely, the
individual chain links now provide leverage points for a dent tool within reach
of the problem dent where there was no leverage point available before.
The chain tool spreads the leverage load from tensioning up the tool with the
turnbuckle and the dent tools leveraging off the chain to push on dents in two
seperate ways.
The 3cm lengths of Poly tubing on the S hooks help to spread the load of the
turnbuckle tensioning up the chain so as not to cause undue warpage or
damage to the hook up points in the under hood bracing. The leverage load
on the bracing is spread further still because the Chain tool spreads the load
accross two hook up points instead of a single hook up point like most
previouse chain leverage tools in the Paint less dent repair industry
The Single larger Snap hook link (FIG - 5 )can be moved and fixed to any
point along the length of the Chain Tool and used as a leverage point for a
dent pushing tool that may not fit through one of the smaller chain links.

                 h ~ cm
                   3
-n,
    19 mm
     WWL 9z
               3w3
                         0
                         CD
                         OD
                        0
          -n             0)
             (           r
         0)
                         C
                        (D
                         CD
                         -- I
                         0
                         0
       ww           >

                     AUSTRALIA
                   Patents Act 1990
            COMPLETE SPECIFICATION
                INNOVATION PATENT
        IMPROVED CHAIN LINK LEVERAGE TOOL
The following statement is a full description of this invention
including the best method of performing it known to me.

IMPROVED CHAIN LINK LEVERAGE TOOL.... 1
For many years a basic chain link leverage tool has been used in the paint
less dent repair industry, by dent repair technicions repairing hail storm
damage dents to Motor vehicle engine bay hoods. Consisting of a short
length of chain of about a half dozen links, with S hooks attached to the last
link at either end of the chain length, the tool is then hung by one of the S
hooks hooked into a manufacturing hole in bracing found underneath most
motor vehicle engine bay hoods so that it hangs down verticaly. Each of the
individual chain links now becomes a leverage point for a dent pushing tool,
from the underside of the hood. A larger snap hook link that can be moved
and affixed to any link up and down along the chain creates further
adjustability of leverage points along the chain length for dent pushing tools.
The new IMPROVED CHAIN LINK LEVERAGE TOOL has been devised
because of the random nature of hail dent damage caused to motor vehicle
engine bay hoods in order to provide dent repair technicions with more
leverage point options underneath engine bay hoods when attempting to get
a tool onto a difficult to access dent where there may be no suitable leverage
point available for their dent pushing tool.
A chain link leverage tool in accordance with this invention comprises of a
central turnbuckle with hooked ends, with a length of chain hooked onto each
end of the turnbuckle, one of the lengths of chain has an adjustable snap
hook link fitted, and at the end of each length of chain is attached an S hook
which has a 3 cm length of poly tubing fitted to the upper side of the S hooks,
and the top hooking edge of the S hooks are ground off at a 45 degree angle
at the upper tip.
The chain tool is constructed in such a way so that the S hooks at each end
of the tool can be hooked into two seperate Manufacturing holes in the under
hood bracing, inline with the central turnbuckle, so that the chain tool now
hangs in a straight line with slack in the chain lengths. The Central turnbuckle
is then rotated pulling the chain up taught horizontaly. The length of the chain
tool can be adjusted to suit the distance between the two selected hook up
points, by adjusting which links along the length of each chain length hook
into the hook ends at both ends of the central turnbuckle. These adjustability
traits of the chain tool allow it to be fitted in a variety of underhood locations in
line with or sufficently close enough to create leverage points for dent tools
through or on top of the individual chain links for difficult to access dents. The
larger snap hook link can also be re located to any point along the tool to
provide leverage for any dent tool that may not fit through the smaller
individual chain links.

IMPROVED CHAIN LINK LEVERAGE TOOL....2
The chain link leverage tool is preferably constructed from two lengths of 3.8
mm X 26mm hot dipped galvanised zinc plated Genovese steel Chain,
consisting of 12 links each, with a single 5mm X 115mm steel central
turnbuckle of the hook and hook type, and two 6 mm x 50mm steel S hooks
fitted to the outer end of each chain length with a 3 cm section of clear poly
tubing fitted to each S hook at each end of the tool. A Single 5mm x 50 mm
steel snap hook link is also fitted to either one of the chain lengths
The invention may be better understood with reference to the illustrations of
embodiments of the invention which
Figure 1. is a side view sketch of one of the S hooks found at each end of the
tool with a 3cm length of 10 mm cut resistant clear poly tubing fitted.
Figure 2. is a side on view drawing showing the dimensions of the S hooks
used.
Figure 3. is a front on view of the S hooks showing the expanded shape the
clear poly tubing takes after it cools down after being heated before fitment to
the S hook.
Figure 4. is the tool fully assembled and laid out end to end ready for use
Figure 5. is a drawing of the Snap Hook link dimensions.
Figure 6 is a drawing of the central Turnbuckle dimensions
Figure 7 is a drawing of the individual chain links used by the tool.
The Tool shown is laid out ready for use to create leverage points for dent
pushing tools underneath automobile engine bay hoods. The S Hooks (figs 1&
2 &3) hook into the selected underhood bracing manufacturing holes, when
the central turnbuckle (fig 4) is rotated the chain lengths are pulled up taught
horizontely. The 3cm lengths of 10 mm cut resistant clear poly tubing fitted to
the upper side of the S hooks help to spread the load at the hook up points
caused by the turnbuckle tensioning the chain up enough for dent tools to use
anywhere along the length of chain as leverage points. The clear poly tubing
also helps to spread the leverage load caused at the hook up points when
dent tools make use of the chain as leverage points when pushing out dents.
The front on view of the S hooks Fig 3 shows the shape the clear poly tubing
cools into after it was pre heated in hot water to be more easily fitted to the S
hooks, the S hooks measure 6mm accross the distended poly tubing area
measures 15 mm accross, helping to provide a more spread out cushioned
load area at the two hook up points that enables the chain to tool to be
leveraged up tight enough in a horizontal position under the vehicle hood at
the turnbuckle to provide sufficent leverage loading points for dent tools to
take advantage of next to a difficult to access dent which had no suitable
leverage point for the dent tool beforehand.

IMPROVED CHAIN LINK LEVERAGE TOOL... .3
The Larger Snap hook link( Fig 5 )can be fitted to any point along the length
of the tool to create a leverage point for any dent tool that may be too large to
fit through the smaller chain links to use them as leverage points.
The Load caused by the Turnbuckle tensioning the chain up horizontely, and
from Dent tools leveraging off the chain links to push out dents, is also spread
further because of the two cushioned hook up points the chain tool has at
the S hooks, instead of the single bare metal hook up point used by previouse
chain link leverage tools used in the Paint less dent repair industry.
The Paint less dent repair industry has a wide variety of specialy designed
tools, that enable skilled dent repair technicions to access and work on
difficult to access dents in Automotive engine bay hoods. Yet even so
because of the Random nature of hail dent damage to vehicle hoods dent
repair techs still come accross difficult to repair dents in that because of the
unique location of the dent there is no leverage point to work the tool from to
push on the dent.
The Main adavantage of the New improved Chain link leverage tool is that it
provides a way to create leverage points for a difficult to repair dent, where
there was no leverage point available before. The chain tool has a maximum
reach of 66 centimetres, just over 25 inches from the S hooks at either end of
the tool, which is sufficent distance to find manufacturing holes in the under
hood bracing for the tool to work as designed in most motor vehicles today.
The tool is also constructed of very light weight but strong steel materials
weighing in at only 219 grams, the absolute minimum amount of dead weight
is left stressing the hook up points before turnbuckle pressure is applied to
tension up the chains.

 Editorial Note
   <removed-apn>
There is one page of claims only

                                   CLAIMS
The Claims defining the invention are as follows
 1.A chainlink leverage tool with a central turnbuckle connecting two lengths
of chain with two steel S hooks 6mmx50mm with the upper hooking end of
each S hook having a small 45 degree angle area ground off at the upper tip
connected to each end of the chain lengths,the two S hooks are also fitted
with 3cm lengths of 10mm clear poly tubing. A single snap hook link that can
be moved and fixed to any point along the length of the tool is attached to one
of the lengths of chain.
2. The chain link tool as claimed in claim 1 further comprising of a single 5mm
X 115mm Zinc plated steel turnbuckle with a hook at each end of the
turnbuckle, of the hook and hook configuration.
3. The chain link tool as claimed in claim 1 further comprising of 2 seperate
lengths of chain comprising of 12 chain links each of 3.8 mm x 26 mm
galvanised zinc chrome plated genovese steel chain.
4. The chain link tool as claimed in claim 1 further comprising of 3cm lengths
of 10mm clear cut resistant poly tubing fitted to each of the S hooks.
5. The chain link tool as claimed in claim 1 further comprising of a single zinc
chrome plated steel Snap hook 5mmx 50mm, attached to one of the lengths
of chain.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
