   ABSTRACT OF THE DISCLOSURE
        An anti-slip sock includes a sock body configured to be
   worn on a human foot. The sock body woven from fabric yarn
   threads defines opposite outer and inner surfaces and has a
   sock sole. The sock sole corresponds to a sole of the foot with
 5 the inner surface facing the foot. The sock sole is woven from
   the fabric yarn threads together with anti-slip yarn threads. The
   sock sole is provided with a protective means that prevents the
   human foot from contacting the anti-slip yarn threads. Thereby,
   contact between the anti-slip yarn threads and human skin and
10 in turn the risk of skin irritation can be eliminated.
                                    - 16-

              14
 10
11
    15
       FIG. 1

                           ANTI-SLIP SOCK
   BACKGROUND           OF THE INVENTION
   1. Field of the Invention:
 5      The   present  invention    relates   to  socks,  and  more
   particularly to an anti-slip sock.
   2. Description of the Related Art:
        Medical stockings are known to prevent embolism or blood
   clots by applying human legs with progressive pressure that
10 improves the rate of blood flow through veins. Most existing
   medical stockings having      silicone coating at outer surface
   preventing slippage.
        In the description about prior-art techniques in US Patent
   No. 6673421B1,     some known processes for coating medical
15 stockings    with  silicone  are     mentioned.   In  these known
   processes, silicone is first hot melted into liquid silicone and
   applied to the outer surface of stockings.
        However, since yarn-woven stockings always have meshes,
   liquid silicone applied thereto tends to permeate through these
20 meshes and be exposed at the inner surface of stockings.
                                    -1-

         Thus,  when users wear such medical         stockings,  direct
   contact between users' skin and silicone can give tacky feeling
   and discomfort and long-term wear may even bring about skin
   irritation. Particularly, users with leg injury are more likely to
 5 suffer irritation and discomfort caused by silicone.
   SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
         To address   the foregoing    issue,   the present  invention
   provides    an  anti-slip sock with a      sock  sole woven    from
10 anti-slip yarn threads and fabric yarn threads. The anti-slip
   sock features a protective means that allows the anti-slip yarn
   threads to be exposed at the outer surface of the sock and
   eliminates the risk of direct contact between a human foot and
   the anti-slip yarn threads, thereby protecting its users from
15 discomfort and irritation otherwise caused by the anti-slip yarn
   threads.
        According to one embodiment of the present invention, the
   anti-slip sock comprises a sock body that is configured to be
   worn on a human foot and is woven from fabric yarn threads.
20 The sock body defines opposite outer and inner surfaces. The
                                   -2-

   sock body has a sock sole. When the sock is worn by a user, the
   sock sole corresponds to a sole of the user's foot and the inner
   surface faces the foot. The sock sole is woven from the fabric
   yarn threads and anti-slip yarn threads. Each of the anti-slip
 5 yarn threads    has  spaced  anti-slip  segments.  The  anti-slip
   segments are exposed at the outer surface. The sock sole has a
   protective means that prevents the user's foot from contacting
   the anti-slip yarn threads.
        With the foregoing configuration,     the sock sole woven
10 from the fabric yarn threads and the anti-slip yarn threads is
   equipped with the protective means, so that when the sock body
   of the sock is worn on a human foot, contact between the foot
   and any of the anti-slip yarn threads is prevented. Thereby, the
   anti-slip yarn threads are exposed      at the outer surface to
15 provide anti-slip effect,   without foot discomfort caused by
   direct contact between the foot and silicone coating as seen in
   the prior art socks and stockings.
        Furthermore, the anti-slip yarn threads are woven into the
   sock sole and well secured from departing from the sock body,
20 thereby ensuring endurable and reliable anti-slip effect.
                                   -3-

   BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
        Fig.  1 is a perspective view of an anti-slip sock of the
   present invention.
 5      Fig. 2 is a back view of the anti-slip sock of Fig. 1.
        Fig. 3 is a cross-sectional    view of the sock sole taken
   along Line 3-3 of Fig. 2, showing that anti-slip segments are
   level with outside segments.
        Fig. 4 is a cross-sectional view of the sock sole according
10 to a second embodiment of the present invention, showing that
   the anti-slip segments raised from the outer surface.
        Fig. 5 is a cross-sectional view of the sock sole according
   to a third embodiment of the present invention, showing that
   the inner surface is provided with a protective sheet, and the
15 threading segments are level with the inside segments.
        Fig. 6 is a cross-sectional view of the sock sole according
   to a fourth embodiment of the present invention, showing that
   the inner surface is provided with a protective sheet, and the
   threading segments jut out from the inside segments.
20      Fig. 7 is a cross-sectional view of the sock sole according
                                   -4-

   to a fifth embodiment of the present invention, showing that
   the inner surface is provided with a protective sheet, and the
   threading segments are raised from the inner surface.
        Fig. 8 is an applied view of the anti-slip sock, wherein its
 5 inner surface is provided      with a protective     sheet,   and the
   anti-slip segments are raised from the outer surface.
   DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
        The following preferred embodiments when read with the
10 accompanying     drawings    are   made to clearly      exhibit the
   above-mentioned and other technical contents, features and
   effects of the present invention. Through the exposition by
   means of the specific embodiments,         people would further
   understand    the technical    means   and   effects   the  present
15 invention adopts to achieve the above-indicated objectives.
   However,    the   accompanying      drawings   are   intended    for
   reference   and  illustration,   but  not to   limit the    present
   invention and are not made to scale.
        Fig. 1 through Fig. 3 and Fig. 8 illustrate an anti-slip
20 sock according to a first embodiment of the present invention,
                                     -5-

   whose configuration will be described below.
        The anti-slip sock has a tubular sock body 10 to be worn
   on a human foot 1. The sock body 10 woven from fabric yarn
   threads 20 defines an outer surface 11 and an inner surface
 5 12 opposite to each other, and has a sock sole 13. The sock
   body 10 has two ends thereof formed with a first hole 14 and
   a second hole 15, respectively. Referring to Fig. 2, Fig. 3and
   Fig. 8, when a human foot 1 enters the sock body 10 through
   the first hole 14, the second hole 15 of the sock body 10
10 corresponds to toes of the foot 1, while the toes do not stick
   out  from   the   second  hole   15,   and the  sock   sole 13
   corresponds to a sole of the foot 1. At this time, the inner
   surface 12 of the sock body 10 faces the foot 1, and the outer
   surface 11 of the sock body 10 faces the outside.
15      The sock sole 13 is woven from fabric yarn threads 20
   and anti-slip yarn threads     30.   The sock sole 13 uses a
   protective means to prevent the human foot 1 wearing the
   sock body    10 from contacting      any of the anti-slip yarn
   threads 30.
20      The protective means is realized as below. The fabric
                                   -6-

   yarn threads    20  each have    alternately  arranged     outside
   segments 21 and inside segments 22, and the anti-slip yarn
   threads 30 each have alternately arranged anti-slip segment
   31   and  threading   segments   32.   Each  of   the   threading
 5 segments 32 is sandwiched between the outside segment 21
   and the inside segment 22. The anti-slip segment 31 has a
   length greater than or equal to that of the threading segment
   32. The anti-slip yarn threads 30 are exposed at the outer
   surface 11. Therein, the area of each of the anti-slip yarn
10 threads 30 exposed at the outer surface 11 of the sock sole 13
   is greater than the area of each of the fabric yarn threads 20
   exposed at the outer surface 11 of the sock sole 13. In the
   embodiment,    the  anti-slip  yarn threads    30   are   silicone
   threads.
15      Additionally, the vertical distance between the inside
   segments 22 and the outer surface 11 is defined as a first
   interval L1, and the vertical distance between the threading
   segments 32 and the outer surface 11 is defined as a second
   interval L2. The first interval Li is greater than the second
20 interval  L2.  The   vertical  distance   between    the   outside
                                   -7-

   segments 21 and the inner surface 12 is defined as a third
   interval L3, and the vertical distance between the anti-slip
   segment 31 and the inner surface 12 is defined as a fourth
   interval L4. Referring to Fig. 3, in the present embodiment,
 5 the length of each of the anti-slip segment 31 is equal to the
   length of each of the threading          segments 32.   The third
   interval L3 is equal to the fourth interval L4, and the outside
   segments 21 and the anti-slip segment 31 are level with the
   outer    surface  11. As   a   result,    the   outer  surface 11
10 corresponding to the sock sole 13 is flat.
         The sock sole 13 of the sock body 10 is woven from the
   fabric yarn threads 20 and the anti-slip yarn threads 30, and
   implements the protective means to prevent a human foot 1
   from contacting any of the anti-slip yarn threads 30. Thereby,
15 anti-slip effect is ensured by the anti-slip yarn threads 30
   exposed at the outer surface         11,  while  the risk of skin
   irritation caused by direct contact between the anti-slip yarn
   threads 30 and the foot 1 is eliminated.
        In addition, the anti-slip yarn threads 30 are interlaced
20 with the fabric yarn threads 20 to form the sock sole 13, and
                                    -8-

   secured from departing from the sock body 10,          so as to
   ensure the anti-slip effect of the sock body 10.
        Fig.  4 depicts  a second embodiment       of the present
   invention, which is different from the first embodiment for
 5 having the following distinctive features.
        In the second embodiment of the present invention, the
   length of each of the anti-slip segments 31 is equal to the
   length   of each  of the   threading  segments   32.  The first
   interval L1 is greater than the second interval L2. The third
10 interval L3 is smaller than the fourth interval L4. Each of the
   anti-slip segment 31 is farther from the outer surface 11 than
   each of the outside segments 21 is. In other words, each of
   the anti-slip segment 31 is raised from the outer surface 11,
   and the outer surface 11 corresponding to the sock sole 13 is
15 uneven.
        Fig.  5  depicts  a  third  embodiment    of  the   present
   invention, which is different from the first embodiment for
   having the following distinctive features
        In the third embodiment of the present invention, the
20 protective means further comprises a protective sheet 40.
                                   -9-

   The protective sheet 40 is adhered to or woven into the inner
   surface 12.   The protective sheet 40 covers the threading
   segments    32.  so   as to prevent      the human    foot   1 from
   contacting the anti-slip yarn threads 30. Therein, the length
 5 of each of the anti-slip segment 31 is greater than the length
   of each of the threading segments 32. The first interval L1 is
   equal to the second interval L2. The third interval L3 is
   equal to the fourth interval L4. Each of the outside segments
   21 and each of the anti-slip segments 31 are level with the
10 outer surface 11. Each of the inside segments 22 and each of
   the threading segments 32 are level with the inner surface 12,
   so that the     outer   surface  11    and the  inner   surface   12
   corresponding to sock sole 13 are even.
        Fig.  6  depicts    a fourth     embodiment   of the    present
15 invention, which is different from the first embodiment for
   having the following distinctive features.
        In the fourth embodiment of the present invention, the
   length of each of the anti-slip segment 31 is greater than the
   length   of each    of the threading      segments  32.    The first
20 interval L1 is smaller than the second interval L2. The third
                                     -10-

   interval L3 is equal to the fourth interval L4. Each of the
   outside segments 21 and each of the anti-slip segments 31 are
   level with the outer surface 11. Each of the inside segments
   22 is farther away from the inner surface 12 than each of the
 5 threading segments 32 is.      Thereby, the inner surface     12
   corresponding to the sock sole 13 is uneven.
        Fig.  7  depicts  a  fifth    embodiment   of the   present
   invention, which is different from the first embodiment for
   having the following distinctive features.
10      In the fifth embodiment of the present invention, the
   length of each of the anti-slip segment 31 is greater than the
   length   of each  of the   threading   segments   32.  The first
   interval L1 is equal to the second interval L2. The third
   interval L3 is smaller than the fourth interval L4. Each of the
15 inside segments 22 and each of the threading segments 32 are
   level with the inner surface 12. Each of the anti-slip segment
   31 is farther away from the outer surface 11 than each of the
   outside segments 21 is. In other words, each of the anti-slip
   segment 31 is raised from the outer surface 11, and thereby
20 the inner surface 12 corresponding to the sock sole 13 is even
                                   -11-

   while the outer surface 11 corresponding to the sock sole 13
   is uneven.
         To sum up,    the present invention has the following
   beneficial effects.
 5      First, the sock sole 13 of the sock body 10 is woven from
   the fabric yarn threads 20 and the anti-slip yarn threads 30 so
   that each of the anti-slip yarn threads 30 is exposed at the
   outer surface 11 of the sock body 10, and the protective
   means prevents a human foot 1 put in the sock body 10 from
10 contacting any of the anti-slip yarn threads 30. Thereby,
   anti-slip effect is ensured by the anti-slip yarn threads 30
   exposed at the outer surface          11, while the risk of skin
   irritation caused by direct contact between the anti-slip yarn
   threads 30 and the foot 1 is eliminated.
15       Second, the anti-slip yarn threads 30 are interlaced with
   the fabric yarn threads 20 to form the sock sole 13,         and
   secured from departing from the sock body 10,           so as to
   ensure the anti-slip effect of the sock body 10.
         The present invention has been described with reference
20 to the preferred embodiments and it is understood that the
                                    -12-

  embodiments are not intended to limit the scope of the
  present invention. Moreover, as the contents disclosed herein
  should be readily understood and can be implemented by a
  person   skilled  in the  art,     all equivalent changes  or
5 modifications which do not depart from the concept of the
  present invention should be encompassed by the appended
  claims.
                                 -13  -

What is claimed is:
     1. An anti-slip sock, comprising:
        a sock body, configured to be worn on a human foot,
being woven from fabric yarn threads, defining opposite outer
and inner surfaces, and having a sock sole, wherein when worn,
the sock has the sock sole corresponding to a sole of the foot
and has the inner surface facing the foot, wherein the sock sole
is  woven    from   the   fabric  yarn     threads  together   with the
anti-slip yarn threads, in which each the anti-slip yarn thread
has spaced anti-slip segments that are exposed at the outer
surface, and the sock sole has a protective means to prevent
direct contact between the foot and the anti-slip yarn threads.
     2. The anti-slip sock of claim 1, wherein the protective
means    comprises     the   fabric     yarn  threads  that   each   has
alternately arranged outside segments and inside segments, and
the anti-slip yarn threads that each has the alternately arranged
anti-slip segments and the threading segments, in which each
the threading segment is sandwiched between the one             outside
segment and the one        inside segment.
     3. The    anti-slip   sock  of claim       2, wherein   a  vertical
                                   -14-

distance between the inside segments and the outer surface is a
first   interval,  a   vertical   distance    between   the   threading
segments and the outer surface is a second interval, a vertical
distance between the outside segments and the inner surface is
a third interval, and a vertical distance between the anti-slip
segments and the inner surface is a fourth interval, in which the
first interval is greater than the second interval, and the third
interval is smaller than or equal to the fourth interval.
      4. The anti-slip sock of claim 1, wherein the protective
means comprises a protective sheet that is adhered to or woven
into the inner surface.
      5. The anti-slip sock of claim 4, wherein the protective
means further comprises the fabric yarn threads that each has
the   alternately   arranged    outside     segments  and   the   inside
segments,     and the anti-slip yarn threads that each has the
alternately    arranged    anti-slip     segments and   the   threading
segments, in which each the threading segment is sandwiched
between the one outside segment and the one inside segment,
and the protective sheet covers the threading segments.
                                   - 15-

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
