                                   ABSTRACT
The invention belongs to the public safety field and provides a feedback method
for abnormal door-opening conditions of an elevator and an elevator. The method
comprises of recording the longest time threshold value and an alarm terminal of
an elevator door in single opening; detecting the opening time of the current
elevator door when the elevator door is opened; and raising the alarm to the
alarm terminal when the opening time of the current elevator door is greater than
the longest time threshold value of the elevator door in single opening. The
feedback method provided in the invention can monitor the opening condition of
the elevator door in a real time manner so as to find the abnormal occupation or
fault of the elevator timely.

                                         1/1
                                               -S                       8100
                Recording-the-longest-time-threshold-value-and-an
                  alarm terminal- of an- elevator- door-r in 'n single
                                                                 s gI
                                             lvtr     do
                 opening;v
)Detecting-            the opening- time- of- the curren             8101
            levator-door-when-the-elevator-door-is-opened;
                Raising-the-alarm-to-the-alarm-terminal-when-the          S102
                3pening- time- of the- current- elevator door is
                7reater-than-the-longest time-threshold-value-o
                 -he elevator-door-in single -opening;1
                                        Figure 1
                                    21
                                                                            22
         Recording Unit                           The detection unit
                                                                23
                                      alarm unit
                                        Figure 2

                                               1
     FEEDBACK METHOD FOR ABNORMAL DOOR-OPENING CONDITIONS OF
                              ELEVATOR AND ELEVATOR
   TECHNICAL FIELD
 5         The invention belongs to the public safety field and provides a feedback
   method for abnormal door-opening conditions of an elevator and an elevator.
   BACKGROUND TECHNOLOGY
           Elevator is necessary in today's urban life. The current situation is that:
10 generally, there are many elevators in one building; and such setting on the one
   hand increases the use efficiency of the elevator and the flow velocity of
   population. But, on the other hand, people may have a mind of liability exemption:
   "there are many elevators, so it doesn't matter when I occupy one." With this in
   mind, when the users move house, etc., the users will block the elevator door and
15 occupy the elevator for a long time, which affects the use efficiency of the
   elevator.
           Another case is that, the elevator door delays to close when the elevator
   breaks down; and the elevator management company needs a long time to find
   the faults.
20         In conclusion, with the existing technology, the elevator maintainer or
   responsible party of the property cannot find the above abnormal conditions
   timely when the elevator door is abnormally opened, which will result in delay
   treatment and affect the use efficiency of the elevator.
25 CONTENTS OF INVENTION
           In consideration of the fact that when the elevator door is abnormally
   opened, the elevator maintainer or responsible party of the property cannot find
   the above abnormal conditions timely, which will result in delay treatment and
   affect the use efficiency of the elevator, the embodiment of the invention needs to
30 provide a feedback method for abnormal door-opening conditions of an elevator.
           The invention is realized as the following: a feedback method for abnormal
   door-opening conditions of an elevator, comprising the following methods:

                                               2
           recording the longest time threshold value and an alarm terminal of an
   elevator door in single opening;
           detecting the opening time of the current elevator door when the elevator
   door is opened; and
 5         raising the alarm to the alarm terminal when the opening time of the
   current elevator door is greater than the longest time threshold value of the
   elevator door in single opening.
           The embodiment of the invention further provides an elevator, which
   comprises:
10         a recording unit, a detection unit and an alarm unit, wherein
           the recording unit is used for recording the longest time threshold value
   and the alarm terminal of the elevator door in single opening;
           the detection unit is used for detecting the opening time of the current
   elevator door when the elevator door is opened;
15         the alarm unit, the input ends of which are respectively connected with the
   output end of the recording unit and the output end of the detection unit; is used
   for sending out alarm to the alarm terminal when the opening time of the current
   elevator door is greater than the longest time threshold value of the elevator door
   in single opening.
20         The feedback method provided in the invention can monitor the opening
   condition of the elevator door in a real-time manner so as to find the abnormal
   occupation or fault of the elevator timely.
   BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
25         FIG.1 is a process diagram of the feedback method for abnormal door
   opening condition of the elevator provided in the embodiment.
           FIG.2 is the structure diagram of the elevator provided in the embodiment.
   EMBODIMENTS
30         In order to illustrate the purpose, technical scheme and advantages of the
   invention clearly, the invention is further described in details in combination with
   the drawings and embodiments. It should be understood that the specific

                                              3
   embodiment described here is used for explaining the invention only instead of
   limiting the invention.
           FIG.1 is a process diagram of the feedback method for abnormal door
   opening condition of the elevator provided in the embodiment. For explaining
 5 conveniently, the part related to the embodiment of the invention is shown only.
           In step S100, recording to the longest time threshold value and an alarm
   terminal of the elevator door in single opening.
           In this embodiment, the recorded longest time threshold value of the
   elevator door in single opening is 5min; meanwhile, the record alarm terminal is
10 the alarm and monitor at the property management office.
           In step S101, detecting the opening time of the current elevator door when
   the elevator door is opened;
           In step S102, raising the alarm to the alarm terminal when the opening
   time of the current elevator door is greater than the longest time threshold value
15 of the elevator door in single opening.
           In this embodiment, when the opening time of the elevator door is greater
   than 5min, the system will judge it as abnormal condition; at this time, the system
   will send out alarm information to the alarm and monitor at the property
   management office.
20         The feedback method provided in the invention can monitor the opening
   condition of the elevator door in a real-time manner so as to find the abnormal
   occupation or fault of the elevator timely.
           FIG.2 is the structure diagram of the elevator provided in the embodiment;
   and the elevator comprises:
25         a recording unit 21, a detection unit 22 and an alarm unit 23, wherein
           the recording unit 21 is used for recording the longest time threshold value
   and the alarm terminal of the elevator door in single opening;
           the detection unit 22 is used for detecting the opening time of the current
   elevator door when the elevator door is opened;
30         the alarm unit 23, the input ends of which are respectively connected with
   the output end of the recording unit 21 and the output end of the detection unit 22,
   is used for sending out alarm to the alarm terminal when the opening time of the

                                              4
   current elevator door is greater than the longest time threshold value of the
   elevator door in single opening.
          Working principles: the user can record the longest time threshold value
   and the alarm terminal of the elevator door in single opening in the recording unit
 5 21; when the elevator door is opened, the detection unit 22 detects the opening
   time of the current elevator door; and when the opening time of the current
   elevator door is greater the longest time threshold value of the elevator door in
   single opening, the alarm unit 23 sends out alarm to the alarm terminal.
          The feedback method provided in the invention can monitor the opening
10 condition of the elevator door in a real-time manner so as to find the abnormal
   occupation or fault of the elevator timely.
          The above is the better embodiment of the invention, not for limiting the
   invention. Any alteration, equivalent replacement and improvement without
   departing from the spirit and principle of the invention should be in the protection
15 scope of the invention.

                                               5
   CLAIMS:
    1.    A feedback method for abnormal door-opening conditions of an elevator,
   comprising:
           recording the longest time threshold value and an alarm terminal of an
 5 elevator door in single opening;
           detecting the opening time of the current elevator door when the elevator
   door is opened; and
           raising the alarm to the alarm terminal when the opening time of the
   current elevator door is greater than the longest time threshold value of the
10 elevator door in single opening.
   2.     An elevator, comprising:
           a recording unit, a detection unit and an alarm unit, wherein
           the recording unit is used for recording the longest time threshold value
   and the alarm terminal of the elevator door in single opening;
15         the detection unit is used for detecting the opening time of the current
   elevator door when the elevator door is opened;
           the alarm unit, the input ends of which are respectively connected with the
   output end of the recording unit and the output end of the detection unit; is used
   for sending out alarm to the alarm terminal when the opening time of the current
20 elevator door is greater than the longest time threshold value of the elevator door
   in single opening.
25

                                    1/1
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
                                    Figure 1
                               21
                                                                    22
              Recording Unit                   The detection unit
                                                             23
                                alarm unit
                                    Figure 2

