                               [0100]           ABSTRACT
                                      [0101]
     The present invention provides novel watermelon cultivar SP-7 and plant parts,
seed, and tissue culture therefrom. The invention also provides methods for producing
a watermelon plant by crossing the watermelon plants of the invention with themselves
or another watermelon plant. The invention also provides watermelon plants produced
from such a crossing as well as plant parts, seed, and tissue culture therefrom. Further
provided are methods of producing triploid watermelon seed and plants and seedless
watermelon fruit produced therefrom as well as the triploid watermelon seed and plants
and the seedless fruits produced by such methods.
                                      [0102]
                                             64

                            Australan PatentsAct .1990
              ORIGINAL COMPLETE SPECIFICATION
                             STANDARD PATENT
                                      Invention Title
                              Watermelon pollenizer SP-7
The following statement is a full description of this invention, including the best method
                           of performing it known to me/us:-

                                 FIELD OF THE INVENTION
This invention is in the field of watermelon plants, in particular, the invention relates to a
 novel watermelon pollenizer, which can be used to pollinate triploid watermelon plants
                        for production of seedless watermelon fruit.
                            BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
    This invention relates to a new and unique watermelon variety, designated SP-7.
  Watermelon is an important horticultural crop that accounts for 2% of the world area
devoted to vegetable crops. There were 3,810,535 hectares (Ha) of watermelon grown
in the world, and 51,110 Ha of watermelons grown in the United States in 2009. Asia is
  by far the most important watermelon production site with 78% of the world area and
83.4% of the world production of 100,687,056 metric tons. The estimated annual world
watermelon value exceeded $7.6 billion when using the United States average price for
 1995-1997. Watermelon is grown in at least forty-four states in the United States, with
 Florida, Georgia, California, and Texas, having long warm growing seasons, being the
major producing states. In the United States, watermelon production has increased from
 1.2 M tons in 1980 to 3.8 M tons in 2009, with an annual farm value of $470 million (U.
                 S. Department of Agriculture, Agricultural Statistics, 2009).
      In recent years, there has been an increase in consumer demand for seedless
    watermelons, and production of seedless watermelon has increased significantly.
   Triploid seedless watermelons have been commercially grown in the United States
 since the late 1980's. Currently, over 80% of the watermelons produced in the United
States are triploid seedless watermelons. Seedless watermelon receives well above the
average price for seeded watermelons in the market. Triploid seedless watermelon also
               produces higher yields than the diploid seeded watermelons.
                                              1a

  Triploid seedless watermelon is a true F1 hybrid between a tetraploid watermelon, as
     the female parent, and a diploid watermelon, as the male parent (Kihara, H. 1951,
      Triplood Watermelons, Proceedings of American Society for Horticultural Science,
      58:217-230). Diploid watermelons have 22 chromosomes (2N = 2X = 22) in their
somatic cells, and tetraploid watermelons have 44 chromosomes (2N = 4X = 44) in their
somatic cells. Cells with three sets of homologous chromosomes are said to be triploid
and are designated as 3X. When female flowers of tetraploid plants are cross pollinated
by the male flowers of diploid plants, the fruits produced by the tetraploid plants contain
  triploid seeds that produce triploid plants. The triploid seedless watermelons have 33
 chromosomes (2N = 3X = 33) in their somatic cells. When the triploid plants are grown
 with diploid plants in the same field, the triploid plants produce fruits that are seedless.
     The seedless condition in triploid watermelon is the result of the presence of three
      homologous sets of chromosome per somatic cell rather than the usual two. The
  inability of the triploid zygote to produce normal viable gametes (pollen and egg cells)
 causes the absence of seeds in triploid fruits. Typically, seedless watermelons contain
             small edible white ovules, similar to those in immature cucumbers.
    Watermelon, in general, and seedless watermelon in particular, is an important and
    valuable vegetable crop. Thus, there is an ongoing need for improved watermelon
                pollenizer varieties for production of seedless watermelon fruit.
                                SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
    According to the invention, there is provided a novel watermelon pollenizer variety,
 designated SP-7, characterized by small (e.g, in the range of about 1 to 3.5 kg), round
fruits with a light green (Charleston Gray) skin color, brittle rind and yellow flesh; a dark
        brown mottled seed color; thin (lacy) vines; small leaves with deep lobes; and
resistances to Anthracnose Race 1, Fusarium Wilt Races 1 and 2, and Powdery Mildew
      Race 1. SP-7 is further characterized by earlier presentation of male flowers and
                                                 2

   production of larger male flowers, with more male flowers at peak flowering time, as
                                       compared with SP-6.
  The invention also encompasses the seeds of watermelon cultivar SP-7, the plants of
   watermelon cultivar SP-7, plant parts of the watermelon cultivar SP-7 (including fruit,
seed, gametes, rootstock, shoots), methods of producing seed from watermelon cultivar
     SP-7, and methods for producing a watermelon plant by crossing the watermelon
       cultivar SP-7 with itself or another watermelon plant, methods for producing a
   watermelon plant containing in its genetic material one or more transgenes, and the
  transgenic watermelon plants produced by that method. The invention also relates to
 methods for producing other watermelon plants derived from watermelon cultivar SP-7
      and to watermelon plants, parts thereof and seed produced by the use of those
 methods. The present invention further relates to hybrid watermelon seeds and plants
  (and parts thereof including fruit) produced by crossing watermelon cultivar SP-7 with
     another watermelon plant, e.g., hybrid triploid seeds produced by crossing with a
 tetraploid watermelon plant and diploid plants produced by crossing SP-7 with another
   diploid plant. The invention further relates to methods of producing triploid, seedless
   watermelon fruit by crossing watermelon cultivar SP-7 as a pollenizer with a female
               triploid line, and to the seedless watermelon fruits so produced.
       The invention further contemplates grafted watermelon plants and methods of
 producing a grafted watermelon plant, where watermelon variety SP-7 can be used as
                                 either the rootstock or the scion.
    In another aspect, the present invention provides regenerable cells for use in tissue
     culture of watermelon line SP-7. In embodiments, the tissue culture is capable of
  regenerating plants having all or essentially all of the physiological and morphological
  characteristics of the foregoing watermelon plant and/or of regenerating plants having
   the same or substantially the same genotype as the foregoing watermelon plant. In
 embodiments, the regenerated plant is a diploid plant. In exemplary embodiments, the
 regenerable cells in such tissue cultures are meristematic cells, cotyledons, hypocotyl,
                                                  3

 leaves, pollen, embryos, roots, root tips, anthers, pistils, ovules, shoots, stems, petiole,
  pith, flowers, capsules and/or seeds as well as callus and/or protoplasts derived from
   any of the foregoing. Still further, the present invention provides watermelon plants
                     regenerated from the tissue cultures of the invention.
As a further aspect, the invention provides a method of producing watermelon seed, the
 method comprising crossing a plant of watermelon cultivar SP-7 with itself or a second
   watermelon plant (e.g, a diploid or tetraploid plant) and allowing seed to form (e.g,
  diploid or triploid hybrid seed, respectively). Optionally, the method further comprises
                                       collecting the seed.
    Another aspect of the invention provides methods for producing hybrids and other
 watermelon plants derived from watermelon cultivar SP-7. Watermelon plants derived
 by the use of these methods are also part of the invention as well as plant parts, seed,
         gametes and tissue culture from such hybrid or derived watermelon plants.
  In representative embodiments, a watermelon plant derived from watermelon cultivar
      SP-7 comprises cells comprising at least one set of chromosomes derived from
  watermelon cultivar SP-7. In embodiments, the derived watermelon plant is a diploid
         plant. In embodiments, the derived watermelon plant is a triploid plant. In
               embodiments, the derived watermelon plant is a tetraploid plant.
  In embodiments, a watermelon plant or population of watermelon plants derived from
   watermelon cultivar SP-7 comprises, on average, at least 6.25%, 12.5%, 25%, 30%,
35%, 40%, 45%, 50%, 55%, 60%, 65%, 70%, 80%, 85%, 90%, 95%, 96%, 97%, 98% or
 99% of its alleles (I.e., theoretical allelic content; TAC) from watermelon line SP-7, e.g,
 at least about 6.25%, 12.5%, 25%, 30%, 35%, 40%, 45%, 50%, 55%, 60%, 65%, 70%,
       80%, 85%, 90%, 95%, 96%, 97%, 98% or 99% of the genetic complement of
       watermelon line SP-7, and optionally may be the result of a breeding process
        comprising one or two breeding crosses and one or more of selfing, sibbing,
  backcrossing and/or double haploid techniques in any combination and any order. In
                                                  4

 embodiments, the breeding process does not include a breeding cross, and comprises
 selfing, sibbing, backcrossing and or double haploid technology. In embodiments, the
  derived watermelon plant is a diploid plant. In embodiments, the derived watermelon
   plant is a triploid plant. In embodiments, the derived watermelon plant is a tetraploid
 plant. In embodiments, the watermelon plant derived from watermelon cultivar SP-7 is
 one, two, three, four, five or more breeding crosses removed from watermelon cultivar
                                              SP-7.
  In embodiments, a hybrid or derived plant from watermelon cultivar SP-7 comprises a
desired added trait(s). In representative embodiments, a watermelon plant derived from
        watermelon line SP-7 comprises all of the morphological and physiological
 characteristics of watermelon cultivar SP-7 (e.g, as described in Table 1 and shown in
     Figures 1-3), with the addition of the desired added trait(s). In embodiments, the
watermelon plant derived from watermelon cultivar SP-7 comprises essentially all of the
     morphological and physiological characteristics of watermelon line SP-7 (e.g, as
  described in Table 1 and Figures 1-3), with the addition of a desired added trait(s). In
 embodiments, the plant derived from cultivar SP-7 is a diploid plant. In embodiments,
     the plant derived from cultivar SP-7 is a triploid plant. In embodiments, the plant
                         derived from cultivar SP-7 is a tetraploid plant.
The invention also relates to methods for producing a watermelon plant comprising in its
     genetic material one or more transgenes and to the transgenic watermelon plant
       produced by those methods (and progeny watermelon plants comprising the
transgene). Also provided are plant parts, seed and tissue culture from such transgenic
watermelon plants, optionally wherein one or more cells in the plant part, seed, or tissue
       culture comprises the transgene. The transgene can be introduced via plant
                          transformation and/or breeding techniques.
   In another aspect, the present invention provides for single gene converted plants of
 watermelon cultivar SP-7. Plant parts, seed, and tissue culture from such single gene
converted plants are also contemplated by the present invention. The single transferred
                                                5

gene may be a dominant or recessive allele. In representative embodiments, the single
       transferred gene confers such traits as male sterility, herbicide resistance, pest
    resistance (e.g, insect and/or nematode resistance), modified fatty acid metabolism,
 modified carbohydrate metabolism, disease resistance (e.g, for bacterial, fungal and/or
   viral disease), male fertility, enhanced nutritional quality, improved appearance (e.g,
color), improved salt tolerance, industrial usage, or any combination thereof. The single
     gene may be a naturally occurring watermelon gene or a transgene introduced into
                      watermelon through genetic engineering techniques.
 The invention further provides methods for developing watermelon plants (e.g, diploid,
     triploid or tetraploid) in a watermelon plant breeding program using plant breeding
techniques including, for example, recurrent selection, backcrossing, pedigree breeding,
       double haploid techniques, restriction fragment length polymorphism enhanced
         selection, genetic marker enhanced selection and/or transformation. Seeds,
watermelon plants, and parts thereof, produced by such breeding methods are also part
                                            of the invention.
     The invention also provides methods of multiplication or propagation of watermelon
  plants of the invention, which can be accomplished using any method known in the art,
                      for example, via vegetative propagation and/or seed.
    The invention also contemplates methods of producing triploid seedless watermelon
   fruits by pollinating a triploid watermelon plant with diploid pollenizer SP-7 to produce
 triploid seedless watermelon fruits. The invention further provides the triploid, seedless
                                           watermelon fruits.
 Additional aspects of the invention include harvested products and processed products
 from the watermelon plants of the invention. A harvested product can be a whole plant
     or any plant part, as described herein. Thus, in some embodiments, a non-limiting
  example of a harvested product includes a seed, a fruit (e.g, including the flesh and/or
                                  rind), a rootstock and/or a shoot.
                                                     6

 In representative embodiments, a processed product includes, but is not limited to: cut,
 sliced, ground, pureed, dried, canned, jarred, washed, packaged, frozen and/or heated
  fruit (including the fruit flesh and/or rind) of the watermelon plants of the invention, or
 any other part thereof. In embodiments, a processed product includes a sugar or other
    carbohydrate, fiber, protein and/or aromatic compound that is extracted, purified or
    isolated from a watermelon plant of the invention. In embodiments, the processed
   product includes washed and sliced fruit (or parts thereof, e.g, the fruit flesh with or
                                 without the rind) of the invention.
   The seed of the invention can optionally be provided as an essentially homogenous
 population of seed of a single plant or cultivar. Essentially homogenous populations of
   seed are generally free from substantial numbers of other seed, e.g, at least about
                           90%, 95%, 96%, 97%, 98% or 99% pure.
  In representative embodiments, the invention provides a seed of watermelon cultivar
                                                SP-7.
      As a further aspect, the invention provides a plant of watermelon cultivar SP-7.
  As an additional aspect, the invention provides a watermelon plant, or a part thereof,
  having all or essentially all of the physiological and morphological characteristics of a
  plant of watermelon cultivar SP-7. Optionally, the plant having all or essentially all of
the physiological and morphological characteristics of a plant of watermelon line SP-7 is
                                          a diploid plant.
 The invention further provides triploid, seedless watermelon fruit produced by crossing
 watermelon line SP-7 as the male parent with a triploid watermelon plant as the female
                                               parent.
                                                  7

 As another aspect, the invention provides fruit and/or seed of the watermelon plants of
      the invention and a processed product from the fruit and/or seed of the inventive
                                       watermelon plants.
As still another aspect, the invention provides a method of producing watermelon seed,
    the method comprising crossing a watermelon plant of the invention with itself or a
     second watermelon plant (where the second watermelon plant can be a diploid or
tetraploid plant). In embodiments, the method is practiced to produce seed of line SP-7
  (e.g, seed increase). The invention also provides seed produced by this method and
           plants, and parts thereof including fruit, produced by growing the seed.
  As yet a further aspect, the invention provides a method for producing a seed (e.g, a
 diploid seed) of a watermelon plant derived from watermelon cultivar SP-7, the method
 comprising: (a) crossing a watermelon plant of watermelon cultivar SP-7 with a second
   watermelon plant, which can optionally be a diploid plant; and (b) allowing seed of a
 watermelon plant derived from watermelon cultivar SP-7 to form. In embodiments, the
  method further comprises: (c) growing a plant from the seed derived from watermelon
     cultivar SP-7 of step (b); (d) selfing the plant of step (c) or crossing it to a second
 watermelon plant (e.g, a diploid watermelon plant) to form additional watermelon seed
  derived from watermelon cultivar SP-7, and (e) optionally repeating steps (c) and (d)
     one or more times to generate further derived watermelon seed from watermelon
 cultivar SP-7, wherein in step (c) a plant is grown from the additional watermelon seed
  of step (d) in place of growing a plant from the seed of step (b). In embodiments, the
method comprises: (e) repeating steps (c) and (d) one or more times (e.g, one to three,
     one to five, one to six, one to seven, one to ten, three to five, three to six, three to
seven, three to eight or three to ten times) to generate further derived watermelon seed.
   As another option, the method can comprise collecting the seed. The invention also
       provides seed produced by these methods and watermelon plants (e.g, diploid
                     watermelon plants) produced by growing the seed.
                                                8

       Still further, as another aspect, the invention provides a method of vegetatively
     propagating a plant of watermelon line SP-7, e.g, via shoot proliferation and then
rooting in tissue culture. Detailed methods are described by Zhang et al. (Zhang, X.P.,
 B.B. Rhodes, H.T. Skorupska, W.C. Bridges. 1995. Generating Tetraploid Watermelon
   Using Colchicine in Vitro. G. Lester & J. Dunlap et al. (eds.), Cucurbitaceae'94: 134
 139). In a non-limiting example, the method comprises: (a) collecting tissue capable of
    being propagated from a plant of watermelon line SP-7; (b) cultivating the tissue to
     obtain proliferated shoots; and (c) rooting the proliferated shoots to obtain rooted
   plantlets. Optionally, the invention further comprises growing plants from the rooted
 plantlets. The invention also encompasses the plantlets and plants produced by these
                     methods, as well as seed and fruits produced therefrom.
As a further aspect, the invention provides a method of producing a grafted watermelon
            plant, wherein cultivar SP-7 is used as either the rootstock or the scion.
As an additional aspect, the invention provides a method of introducing a desired added
  trait into watermelon cultivar SP-7, the method comprising: (a) crossing a first plant of
    watermelon cultivar SP-7 with a second watermelon plant (e.g, a diploid plant) that
     comprises a desired trait to produce F1 progeny; (b) selecting an F1 progeny that
  comprises the desired trait; (c) crossing the selected F1 progeny with watermelon line
  SP-7 to produce backcross progeny; and (d) selecting backcross progeny comprising
the desired trait to produce a plant derived from watermelon cultivar SP-7 comprising a
                                           desired trait.
    In embodiments, the selected progeny produces a small fruit. In embodiments, the
     selected progeny produces a round fruit. In embodiments, the selected progeny
     produces a fruit having a light green (Charleston Gray) skin. In embodiments, the
    selected progeny produces a fruit with a brittle rind. In embodiments, the selected
 progeny produces a fruit with a yellow flesh. In embodiments, the seed of the selected
   progeny has a dark brown mottled color. In embodiments, the selected progeny has
 thin (lacy) vines. In embodiments, the selected progeny produces small, deeply lobed
                                                 9

        leaves. In embodiments, the selected progeny has one or more of the following
       resistances, in any combination: resistance to Anthracnose Race 1, resistance to
           Fusarium Wilt Races 1 and 2, and resistance to Powdery Mildew Race 1. In
    embodiments, the selected progeny is characterized by earlier presentation of male
    flowers, production of larger male flowers and/or production of more male flowers at
 peak flowering time as compared with watermelon cultivar SP-6. In embodiments, the
   selected progeny comprises all or essentially all the morphological and physiological
  characteristics of watermelon line SP-7 (e.g, a described in Table 1 and Figures 1-3).
   Optionally, the method further comprises: (e) repeating steps (c) and (d) one or more
  times (e.g, one to three, one to five, one to six, one to seven, one to ten, three to five,
      three to six, three to seven, three to eight or three to ten times) to produce a plant
  derived from watermelon cultivar SP-7 comprising the desired trait, wherein in step (c)
the selected backcross progeny produced in step (d) is used in place of the selected F1
         progeny of step (b). In embodiments, the plant derived from cultivar SP-7 and
 comprising the desired added trait is a diploid plant. In embodiments, the plant derived
         from cultivar SP-7 and comprising the desired added trait is a diploid plant. In
   embodiments, the plant derived from cultivar SP-7 and comprising the desired added
        trait is a triploid plant. In embodiments, the plant derived from cultivar SP-7 and
                         comprising the desired added trait is a tetraploid plant.
    In representative embodiments, the invention also provides a method of producing a
         plant of watermelon cultivar SP-7 comprising a desired added trait, the method
          comprising introducing a transgene conferring the desired trait into a plant of
watermelon cultivar SP-7. The transgene can be introduced by transformation methods
         (e.g, genetic engineering) or breeding techniques. In embodiments, the plant
comprising the transgene produces a small fruit. In embodiments, the plant comprising
        the transgene produces a round fruit. In embodiments, the plant comprising the
            transgene produces a fruit having a light green (Charleston Gray) skin. In
 embodiments, the plant comprising the transgene produces a fruit with a brittle rind. In
  embodiments, the plant comprising the transgene produces a fruit with a yellow flesh.
      In embodiments, the seed of the plant comprising the transgene has a dark brown
                                                  10

mottled color. In embodiments, the plant comprising the transgene has thin (lacy) vines.
     In embodiments, the plant comprising the transgene produces small, deeply lobed
   leaves. In embodiments, the plant comprising the transgene has one or more of the
following resistances, in any combination: resistance to Anthracnose Race 1, resistance
        to Fusarium Wilt Races 1 and 2, and resistance to Powdery Mildew Race 1. In
          embodiments, the plant comprising the transgene is characterized by earlier
    presentation of male flowers, production of larger male flowers and/or production of
 more male flowers at peak flowering time as compared with watermelon cultivar SP-6.
  In embodiments, the plant comprising the transgene comprises all or essentially all of
the morphological and physiological characteristics of watermelon cultivar SP-7 (e.g, as
                             described in Table 1 and Figures 1-3).
      The invention also provides watermelon plants (e.g, a diploid watermelon plant)
      produced by the methods of the invention, wherein the watermelon plant has the
      desired added trait as well as seed and fruits from such watermelon plants. The
   invention also provides seed that produces the plants derived from cultivar SP-7 and
                               comprising a desired added trait.
   According to the foregoing methods, the desired added trait can be any suitable trait
known in the art including, for example, male sterility, male fertility, herbicide resistance,
insect or pest (e.g, insect and/or nematode) resistance, modified fatty acid metabolism,
 modified carbohydrate metabolism, disease resistance (e.g, for bacterial, fungal and/or
     viral disease), enhanced nutritional quality, increased sweetness, increased flavor,
improved ripening control, improved salt tolerance, industrial usage, or any combination
                                              thereof.
    In representative embodiments, a transgene conferring herbicide resistance confers
  resistance to glyphosate, sulfonylurea, imidazolinone, dicamba, glufosinate, phenoxy
         proprionic acid, L-phosphinothricin, cyclohexone, cyclohexanedione, triazine,
                            benzonitrile, or any combination thereof.
                                                 11

   In representative embodiments, a transgene conferring pest resistance (e.g, insect
          and/or nematode resistance) encodes a BacIllus fburingiens/sendotoxin.
     In representative embodiments, transgenic plants, transformed plants (e.g, using
     genetic engineering techniques), single gene converted plants, hybrid plants and
   watermelon plants derived from watermelon cultivar SP-7 are characterized by, e.g,
  one or more of small fruit, round fruit, a fruit with a light green (Charleston Gray) skin
color, a fruit with a brittle rind, a fruit with yellow flesh; a dark brown mottled seed color,
 thin (lacy) vines, small leaves with deep lobes, one or more of the disease resistances
  of SP-7 (e.g, resistance to Anthracnose Race 1, resistance to Fusarium Wilt Races 1
     and 2 and/or resistance to Powdery Mildew Race 1), earlier presentation of male
flowers as compared with cultivar SP-6, production of larger male flowers as compared
   with cultivar SP-6 and/or production of more male flowers at peak flowering time as
  compared with SP-6, in any combination. In representative embodiments, transgenic
        plants, transformed plants, hybrid plants and watermelon plants derived from
         watermelon cultivar SP-7 have at least 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10 or more of the
      morphological and physiological characteristics of watermelon cultivar SP-7 (for
    example, as described in the preceding sentence, and as described in Table 1 and
      Figures 1-3), or even all of the morphological and physiological characteristics of
   watermelon line SP-7, so that said plants are not significantly different for said traits
 than watermelon cultivar SP-7, as determined at the 5% significance level when grown
    in the same environmental conditions; optionally, with the presence of one or more
        desired additional traits (e.g, male sterility, disease resistance, pest or insect
                         resistance, herbicide resistance, and the like).
   In one embodiment, the present invention discloses a method for producing triploid,
seedless watermelon fruit comprising the steps of interplanting watermelon variety SP-7
 and triploid watermelon plants, e.g, in a field or a greenhouse; and allowing pollination
  of said triploid watermelon plants by pollen of said plant of watermelon variety SP-7 to
     obtain triploid, seedless watermelon fruit. In one embodiment, the method further
           comprises harvesting seedless watermelon fruit from the triploid plant.
                                                  12

     The step of "interplanting" the diploid pollenizer and triploid plants can comprise: (i)
    planting seed of both pollenizer SP-7 and the triploid plant to produce the plants; (ii)
   planting transplants (e.g, young plants) of both pollenizer SP-7 and the triploid plant;
 (iii) planting seed of pollenizer SP-7 and transplants of the triploid plant; or (iv) planting
                  transplants of pollenizer SP-7 and seed of the triploid plants.
    The present invention also provides a method for interplanting plants of watermelon
  variety SP-7 amongst triploid watermelon plants, e.g, in a field or a greenhouse. The
invention also provides a method of increasing the yield of triploid seedless watermelon
      plants by plants of watermelon variety SP-7, wherein the fruit are not harvested for
                                       human consumption.
    In one embodiment, the present invention discloses a method of producing seeds of
       watermelon variety SP-7 comprising growing a plant of watermelon variety SP-7;
     allowing pollination of said plants, for example, open-pollination of said plants in an
    isolated plot or field; and harvesting seeds from said plants. In one embodiment, the
                     method further comprises washing and drying said seed.
     As a further aspect, the invention provides a method of producing triploid, seedless
watermelon fruit, the method comprising: (a) crossing a watermelon plant of cultivar SP
  7 as the pollenizer with a triploid watermelon plant as the female; (b) allowing triploid,
seedless fruits to form on the triploid watermelon plant; and (c) optionally, harvesting the
        resultant triploid watermelon fruit. Also provided is a seedless watermelon fruit
                                produced by the foregoing method.
    The invention further provides a method of developing a watermelon variety (e.g, a
        diploid watermelon variety) in a watermelon plant breeding program using plant
 breeding techniques, which include employing a watermelon plant, or a part thereof, as
         a source of plant breeding material, the method comprising: (a) obtaining the
                                                 13

  watermelon plant, or a part thereof, of cultivar SP-7 as a source of breeding material;
                          and (b) applying plant breeding techniques.
The invention also encompasses plant parts, plant material, pollen, ovules, leaves, fruit
and seed from the watermelon plants of the invention. The invention also provides seed
 that produces the watermelon plants of the invention. Also provided is a tissue culture
 of regenerable cells from the watermelon plants of the invention, where optionally, the
  regenerable cells are: (a) embryos, meristem, leaves, pollen, cotyledons, hypocotyls,
  roots, root tips, anthers, flowers, pistils, ovules, seed, shoots, stems, stalks, petioles,
  pith and/or capsules; or (b) callus or protoplasts derived from the cells of (a). Further
     provided are watermelon plants regenerated from a tissue culture of the invention.
    In still yet another aspect, the invention provides a method of determining a genetic
     characteristic of watermelon cultivar SP-7 or a progeny thereof, e.g, a method of
      determining a genotype of watermelon cultivar SP-7 or a progeny thereof using
 molecular genetic techniques. In embodiments, the method comprises detecting in the
 genome of a SP-7 plant, or a progeny plant thereof, at least a first polymorphism, e.g,
  comprises nucleic acid amplification and/or nucleic acid sequencing. To illustrate, in
embodiments, the method comprises obtaining a sample of nucleic acids from the plant
and detecting at least a first polymorphism in the nucleic acid sample (e.g, using one or
 more molecular markers). Optionally, the method may comprise detecting a plurality of
     polymorphisms (e.g, two or more, three or more, four or more, five or more, six or
 more, eight or more or ten or more polymorphisms, etc.) in the genome of the plant. In
   representative embodiments, the method further comprises storing the results of the
 step of detecting the polymorphism(s) on a computer readable medium. The invention
         further provides a computer readable medium produced by such a method.
 In addition to the exemplary aspects and embodiments described above, the invention
        is described in more detail in the description of the invention set forth below.
                                                14

                           BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
 Figure 1 shows flowering time for SP-7 (left bars) and SP-6 (right bars) as recorded in
       multiple field trials. Flowering time was measured as the number of days after
    transplant when 50% of the plants in each plot presented open male flowers. The
      relative difference in flowering time (in days) for SP-7 as compared with SP-6 is
                               indicated above the bars on the left.
Figure 2 shows male flower diameter (cm) of watermelon cultivars SP-7 (upper line) and
SP-6 (lower line) as measured over multiple years. From 2013-2015, flower diameters
were recorded in a greenhouse at the Woodland, CA station. In 2016, flower diameters
were measured under open field cultivation in a replicated, randomized complete block
                                              design.
Figure 3 shows the number of male flowers produced by watermelon cultivar SP-7 as a
percentage of SP-6 male flower number, measured at peak flowering time. Male flower
  number was estimated by counting the number of open male flowers within a square
 meter of area. For each plot, two measurements were taken on a weekly basis. Peak
   flowering time was determined as the week when the most open male flowers were
  recorded across all plots. Data for SP-7 (left bars) are presented as a percentage of
  SP-6 (right bars; set at 100%), where % male flower = ([SP-7 male flower number]      +
   [SP-6 male flower number])       x 100. The average percentages for SP-7 are indicated
                                     above the bars on the left.
                        DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
    The present invention is based, in part, on the development of a novel watermelon
 pollenizer variety characterized by small (e.g, in the range of about 1 to 3.5 kg), round
                                                15

fruits with a light green (Charleston Gray) skin color, brittle rind and yellow flesh; a dark
         brown mottled seed color, thin (lacy) vines, small leaves with deep lobes, and
resistances to Anthracnose Race 1, Fusarium Wilt Races 1 and 2, and Powdery Mildew
      Race 1. SP-7 is further characterized by earlier presentation of male flowers and
    production of larger male flowers, with more male flowers at peak flowering time, as
   compared with SP-6. In embodiments of the invention, a brittle rind of a watermelon
     fruit breaks under a pressure in the range of about 800 g to about 1,500 g when a
                         Wagner Fruit Test TM
                                               FT11 with a 2mm tip is used.
     It should be appreciated that the invention can be embodied in different forms and
  should not be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth herein. Rather, these
   embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will be thorough and complete, and
              will fully convey the scope of the invention to those skilled in the art.
      Unless the context indicates otherwise, it is specifically intended that the various
      features and embodiments of the invention described herein can be used in any
                                            combination.
   Moreover, the present invention also contemplates that in some embodiments of the
   invention, any feature or combination of features set forth herein can be excluded or
         omitted. To illustrate, if the specification states that a composition comprises
          components A, B and C, it is specifically intended that any of A, B or C, or a
   combination thereof, can be omitted and disclaimed singularly or in any combination.
  Unless otherwise defined, all technical and scientific terms used herein have the same
      meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art to which this
 invention belongs. The terminology used in the description of the invention herein is for
the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting
                                          of the invention.
                                                  16

All publications, patent applications, patents, and other references mentioned herein are
                         incorporated by reference in their entirety.
                                          Definitions.
     In the description and tables that follow, a number of terms are used. In order to
 provide a clear and consistent understanding of the specification and claims, including
          the scope to be given such terms, the following definitions are provided:
As used in the description of the invention and the appended claims, the singular forms
  "a," "an" and "the" are intended to include the plural forms as well, unless the context
                                 clearly indicates otherwise.
As used herein, "and/or" refers to and encompasses any and all possible combinations
 of one or more of the associated listed items, as well as the lack of combinations when
                             interpreted in the alternative ("or").
    The term "about," as used herein when referring to a measurable value such as a
dosage or time period and the like, is meant to encompass variations of ± 20%,        10%,
                +5%,    1%,    0.5%, or even ± 0.1% of the specified amount.
      The term "comprise," "comprises" and "comprising" as used herein, specify the
       presence of the stated features, integers, steps, operations, elements, and/or
      components, but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other
   features, integers, steps, operations, elements, components, and/or groups thereof.
As used herein, the transitional phrase "consisting essentially of" means that the scope
 of a claim is to be interpreted to encompass the specified materials or steps recited in
 the claim "and those that do not materially affect the basic and novel characteristic(s)"
of the claimed invention. See, In re Herz, 537 F.2d 549, 551-52, 190 U.S.P.Q. 461, 463
                                               17

    (CCPA 1976) (emphasis in the original); see also MPEP § 2111.03. Thus, the term
"consisting essentially of" when used in a claim or the description of this invention is not
                  intended to be interpreted to be equivalent to "comprising."
"Allele". An allele is any of one or more alternative forms of a gene, all of which relate to
    a trait or characteristic. In a diploid cell or organism, the two alleles of a given gene
              occupy corresponding loci on a pair of homologous chromosomes.
     "Backcrossing". Backcrossing is a process in which a breeder repeatedly crosses
hybrid progeny back to one of the parents, for example, a first generation hybrid F1 with
                         one of the parental genotype of the F1 hybrid.
"Cotyledon". One of the first leaves of the embryo of a seed plant; typically one or more
         in monocotyledons, two in dicotyledons, and two or more in gymnosperms.
 "Double haploid line". A stable inbred line achieved by doubling the chromosomes of a
      haploid line, e.g, from anther culture. For example, some pollen grains (haploid)
cultivated under specific conditions develop plantlets containing 1n chromosomes. The
     chromosomes in these plantlets are then induced to "double" (e.g, using chemical
  means) resulting in cells containing 2n chromosomes. The progeny of these plantlets
   are termed "double haploid" and are essentially not segregating any more (e.g, are
    stable). The term "double haploid" is used interchangeably herein with "dihaploid."
    "Essentially all the physiological and morphological characteristics". A plant having
     "essentially all the physiological and morphological characteristics" means a plant
     having the physiological and morphological characteristics of the recurrent parent,
               except for the characteristics derived from the converted gene(s).
   "First water date". The date the seed first receives adequate moisture to germinate.
                        This can and often does equal the planting date.
                                                  18

 "Gene". As used herein, "gene" refers to a segment of nucleic acid comprising an open
  reading frame. A gene can be introduced into a genome of a species, whether from a
    different species or from the same species, using transformation or various breeding
                                              methods.
         "Inbred line": As used herein, the phrase "inbred line" refers to a genetically
    homozygous or nearly homozygous population. An inbred line, for example, can be
  derived through several cycles of sib crossing and/or selfing and/or via double haploid
     production. In some embodiments, inbred lines breed true for one or more traits of
  interest. An "inbred plant" or "inbred progeny" is an individual sampled from an inbred
                                                 line.
"Plant." As used herein, the term "plant" includes plant cells, plant protoplasts, plant cell
tissue cultures from which plants can be regenerated, plant calli, plant clumps, and plant
       cells that are intact in plants or parts of plants, such as leaves, pollen, embryos,
     cotyledons, hypocotyl, roots, root tips, anthers, pistils, flowers, ovules, seeds, fruit,
                                         stems, and the like.
  "Plant material". The terms "plant material" and "material obtainable from a plant" are
     used interchangeably herein and refer to any plant material obtainable from a plant
   including without limitation, leaves, stems, roots, flowers or flower parts, fruits, pollen,
  ovules, zygotes, seeds, cuttings, cell or tissue cultures, or any other part or product of
                                              the plant.
  "Plant part". As used herein, a "plant part" includes any part, organ, tissue or cell of a
        plant including without limitation an embryo, meristem, leaf, pollen, cotyledon,
hypocotyl, root, root tip, anther, flower, flower bud, pistil, ovule, seed, shoot, stem, stalk,
 petiole, pith, capsule, a scion, a rootstock and/or a fruit including callus and protoplasts
   derived from any of the foregoing. In representative embodiments, the plant part is a
                     non-propagating plant part, for example, is not a seed.
                                                   19

 "Quantitative Trait Loci". Quantitative Trait Loci (QTL) refers to genetic loci that control
       to some degree, numerically representable traits that are usually continuously
                                             distributed.
 "Regeneration". Regeneration refers to the development of a plant from tissue culture.
 "Resistance". As used herein the terms "resistance" and "tolerance" (and grammatical
   variations thereof) are used interchangeably to describe plants that show reduced or
essentially no symptoms to a specific biotic (e.g, a pest, pathogen or disease) or abiotic
   (e.g, exogenous or environmental, including herbicides) factor or stressor. In some
 embodiments, "resistant" or "tolerant" plants show some symptoms but are still able to
      produce marketable product with an acceptable yield, e.g, the yield may still be
  reduced and/or the plants may be stunted as compared with the yield or growth in the
     absence of the biotic and/or abiotic factor or stressor. Those skilled in the art will
appreciate that the degree of resistance or tolerance may be assessed with respect to a
      plurality or even an entire field of plants. A watermelon plant may be considered
"resistant" or "tolerant" if resistance/tolerance is observed over a plurality of plants (e.g,
    an average), even if particular individual plants may be susceptible to the biotic or
                                     abiotic factor or stressor.
   "RHS". RHS refers to the Royal Horticultural Society of England which publishes an
    official botanical color chart quantitatively identifying colors according to a defined
      numbering system. The chart may be purchased from Royal Horticulture Society
            Enterprise Ltd., RHS Garden; Wisley, Woking; Surrey GU236QB, UK.
 "Single gene converted". A single gene converted or conversion plant refers to a plant
     that is developed by plant breeding techniques (e.g, backcrossing) or via genetic
    engineering wherein essentially all of the desired morphological and physiological
 characteristics of a line are recovered in addition to the single gene transferred into the
                line via the plant breeding technique or via genetic engineering.
                                                  20

  "Substantially equivalent characteristic". A characteristic that, when compared, does
         not show a statistically significant difference (e.g, p=0.05) from the mean.
   "Transgene". A nucleic acid of interest that can be introduced into the genome of a
      plant by genetic engineering techniques (e.g, transformation) or breeding. The
 transgene can be from the same or a different species. If from the same species, the
  transgene can be an additional copy of a native coding sequence or can present the
native sequence in a form or context (e.g, different genomic location and/or in operable
 association with exogenous regulatory elements such as a promoter) than is found in
    the native state. The transgene can comprise an open reading frame encoding a
          polypeptide or can encode a functional non-translated RNA (e.g, RNAi).
                       Botanical Description of the Watermelon Line SP-7.
  Characteristics. Diploid watermelon line SP-7is characterized by a number of traits
including, without limitation: small round fruits with a light green (Charleston Gray) skin
  color, brittle rind and yellow flesh; a dark brown mottled seed color, thin (lacy) vines,
  small leaves with deep lobes, and resistances to Anthracnose Race 1, Fusarium Wilt
 Races 1 and 2, and Powdery Mildew Race 1. SP-7 is further characterized by earlier
   presentation of male flowers and production of larger male flowers, with more male
                    flowers at peak flowering time, as compared with SP-6.
        Watermelon line SP-7 has shown uniformity and stability within the limits of
   environmental influence. It has been self-pollinated for numerous generations with
     careful attention to uniformity of plant type. The variety has been increased with
    continued observation for uniformity. No variant traits have been observed or are
                                expected in watermelon line SP-7.
                                                21

  Watermelon cultivar SP-7 was compared with diploid watermelon cultivar SP-6 (U.S.
  Patent No. 8,212,118 B1). Watermelon cultivar SP-6 was selected as the comparison
variety because of its ploidy and similar maturity, fruit shape, skin appearance and plant
                                   type as compared with SP-7.
 Watermelon cultivar SP-7 can be distinguished from SP-6 at least on the basis of seed
    color, time to produce open male flowers, and the size and number of male flowers
  produced. The seed of SP-7 is a dark brown mottled color (RHS 200D) as compared
      with SP-6, which has a tan colored seed (RHS 164B). Watermelon cultivar SP-7
  presents open male flowers at an earlier time point post-transplant as compared with
 SP-6 (Figure 1, Example 1). In addition, SP-7 presents significantly larger male flowers
than SP-6 (Figure 2, Example 1), with significantly more male flowers being produced at
                         the time of peak flowering (Figure 3, Example 1).
   A more detailed botanical description of SP-7 and comparison with SP-6 is shown in
                                            Table 1 below.
     Table 1. Description of SP-7 and comparison with SP-6 based on open field trials in
     Woodland, California (summer, 2016).
     Characteristic:                 SP-7                       SP-6
     General fruit type:             Round, very small          Round, very small
     Area of best                    Most U.S. areas            Most U.S. areas
     adaptation:
     Maturity - No. of days          19                         23
     from emergence of
     anthesis:
     Maturity -No. of days           28                         32
     from pollination to
     maturity:
     Relative maturity               71                         75
     (days):
     Maturity category:              Medium                     Medium
     Ploidy:                         Diploid                    Diploid
     Cotyledon shape:                Flat                       Flat
                                                  22

Plant sex form:           Monoecious              Monoecious
Number of Main Stems      4                       7
at crown:
Number of flowers per     57.2 staminate          18.7 staminate
plant at first fruit set: 8 pistillate            8 pistillate
                          2 perfect               2 perfect
Stem:                     Round in cross-section, Round in cross-section,
                          7 mm diameter at        7 mm diameter at
                          second node,            second node,
                          pubescent surface       pubescent surface
Vine length at last       330                     330
harvest (cm):
No. internodes at last    38                      38
harvest:
Ratio - cm vine           9                       9
length/internodes at
last harvest:
Leaf shape:               Ovate                   Ovate
Leaf lobes:               Lobed                   Lobed
Leaf length (cm):         13.3                    16
Leaf width (cm):          8.5                     8.3
Leaf dorsal surface       Smooth                  Smooth
pubescence:
Leaf ventral surface      Pubescent               Pubescent
pubescence:
Leaf color:               Dark green              Dark green
                          (RHS 137A)              (RHS 137A)
Flower: diameter          3.9                     2.2
across staminate (cm):
Flower: diameter          3.5                     2.4
across pistillate (cm):
Flower: diameter          Not applicable          Not applicable
across perfect (cm):
Flower color:             Yellow (RHS 7D)         Yellow (RHS 7D)
Mature fruit shape:       Round                   Round
Mature fruit length       14.8                    15
(cm):
Mature fruit diameter at  14.5                    14
midsection (cm);
Mature fruit average      1.7                     1.4
weight (kg)
Mature fruit maximum      3                       2
                                       23

fruit weight (kg)
Mature fruit index=      10.2                    11
(length / diameter) x 10
Mature fruit surface:    Smooth                  Smooth
Mature fruit skin color  Solid                   Mottle/Net
pattern:
Mature fruit skin        Light green (Charleston Light green (Charleston
primary color:           Grey; RHS 143C)         Grey; RHS 143C)
Mature fruit skin        Yellow green            Yellow green
secondary color:         (RHS 160B)              (RHS 160B)
Rind texture:            Brittle                 Brittle
Rind thickness blossom   5                       5
end (mm)
Rind thickness sides     5                       5
(mm)
Flesh texture:           Crisp                   Crisp
Flesh coarseness:        Fine                    Fine
Flesh color:             Yellow (RHS 7D)         Yellow (RHS 7D)
Flesh - Refractometer:   9.2                     7
% solids of juice
(center of fruit):
Flesh % hollow heart:    0                       0
Flesh % placental        0                       0
separation:
Flesh % transverse       0                       0
crack:
Seed (no seed in F1      Large seed,             Large seed,
fruit):                  11 mm long x 6.3 mm     11 mm long x 6.5 mm
                         wide x 2.6 mm thick;    wide x 2.3 mm thick;
                         77.4 gm per 1000        72 gm per 1000 seeds;
                         seeds;                  590 seeds per fruit;
                         240 seeds per fruit;
                         dark brown mottled      tan color (RHS 163A)
                         color (RHS 200D)
Anthracnose, Race 1:     Resistant               Resistant
Fusarium Wilt, Race 1    Resistant               Resistant
and 2:
Powdery Mildew, Race     Resistant               Resistant
1:
                                      24

                                        Tissue Culture.
        In embodiments, watermelon plants can be propagated by tissue culture and
      regeneration. Tissue culture of various plant tissues and regeneration of plants
        therefrom is well known. For example, reference may be had to Teng, et al.,
HortScience, 27:9, 1030-1032 (1992); Teng, et al., HortScience, 28:6, 669-1671 (1993);
   Zhang, et al., Journal of Genetics and Breeding, 46:3, 287-290 (1992); Webb, et al.,
     Plant Cell Tissue and Organ Culture, 38:1, 77-79 (1994); Curtis, et al., Journal of
      Experimental Botany, 45:279, 1441-1449 (1994); Nagata, et al., Journal for the
 American Society for Horticultural Science, 125:6, 669-672 (2000); and Ibrahim, et al.,
Plant Cell Tissue and Organ Culture, 28(2), 139-145 (1992). It is clear from the literature
that the state of the art is such that these methods of obtaining plants are routinely used
   and have a high rate of success. Thus, another aspect of this invention is to provide
  cells which upon growth and differentiation produce watermelon plants having desired
  characteristics of watermelon line SP-7 (e.g, one or more of, small fruit, round fruit, a
 fruit with a light green (Charleston Gray) skin color, a fruit with a brittle rind, a fruit with
 yellow flesh; a dark brown mottled seed color, thin (lacy) vines, small leaves with deep
 lobes, one or more of the disease resistances of SP-7 (e.g, resistance to Anthracnose
     Race 1, resistance to Fusarium Wilt Races 1 and 2 and/or resistance to Powdery
   Mildew Race 1), earlier presentation of male flowers as compared with cultivar SP-6,
  production of larger male flowers as compared with cultivar SP-6 and/or production of
  more male flowers at peak flowering time as compared with SP-6, in any combination,
 e.g, as described in Table 1 and shown in Figures 1-3). Optionally, watermelon plants
 can be regenerated from the tissue culture of the invention comprising all or essentially
    all of the physiological and morphological characteristics of watermelon line SP-7.
   As used herein, the term "tissue culture" indicates a composition comprising isolated
cells of the same or a different type or a collection of such cells organized into parts of a
  plant. Exemplary types of tissue cultures are protoplasts, calli, meristematic cells, and
   plant cells that can generate tissue culture that are intact in plants or parts of plants,
                                              25

      such as leaves, pollen, embryos, roots, root tips, anthers, pistils, flowers, seeds,
 petioles, suckers, and the like. Means for preparing and maintaining plant tissue culture
   are well known in the art. By way of example, a tissue culture comprising organs has
   been used to produce regenerated plants. U.S. Pat. Nos. 5,959,185, 5,973,234, and
                             5,977,445 describe certain techniques.
           Watermelon Pollenizers and Production of Seedless Watermelon Fruit
 The primary use of dedicated watermelon pollenizers is to pollenize triploid watermelon
     plants to produce seedless watermelon fruit. Triploid watermelons are created by
 crossing a tetraploid (4X) female line with a diploid (2X) male line. The resulting triploid
(3X) watermelon seeds are planted along with a diploid watermelon pollenizer line. The
 fruit produced on the triploid watermelon plants are seedless. Watermelon cultivar SP
 7, a dedicated pollenizer that does not produce a harvestable fruit for consumption, can
be planted in a narrower row than the triploid watermelon plants, thereby providing more
     field area for production of triploid seedless watermelon fruit as compared with a
     conventional pollenizer such as, for example, Sangria T M (Syngenta Seeds, Inc.).
        An important use of watermelon cultivar SP-7 is to produce triploid, seedless
 watermelon fruit. The SP-7 pollenizer is used as the male parent to cross with a triploid
               female watermelon line to produce the triploid, seedless fruits.
  Accordingly, the invention contemplates as one aspect a method of producing triploid
seedless watermelon fruit, the method comprising: (a) crossing the watermelon plant of
line SP-7 as a male parent with a triploid watermelon plant as the female parent; and (b)
   allowing triploid seedless watermelon fruit to form; and (c) optionally, harvesting the
    seedless fruit. In embodiments, the method comprises planting triploid watermelon
  seed / transplants and pollenizer SP-7 seed / transplants in one or more rows, and the
  plants are allowed to mature and develop seedless fruit. In embodiments, diploid and
                    triploid seed / transplants are planted in the same row.
                                                26

                                 Additional Breeding Methods.
This invention is also directed to methods for producing a watermelon plant by crossing
a first parent watermelon plant with a second parent watermelon plant wherein the first
       and/or second parent watermelon plant is a plant of watermelon line SP-7. In
       embodiments, both the first and second parent watermelon plants are diploid
  watermelon plants. Thus, any of the following exemplary methods using watermelon
 line SP-7 are part of this invention: selfing, backcrosses, hybrid production, crosses to
      populations, double haploid production, and the like. All plants produced using
    watermelon line SP-7 as at least one parent are within the scope of this invention,
including those developed from watermelon plants derived from watermelon line SP-7.
   Advantageously, watermelon line SP-7 can be used in crosses with other, different,
watermelon plants to produce first generation (F1 ) watermelon hybrid seeds and plants
with desirable characteristics. The watermelon plants of the invention can also be used
 for transformation where exogenous transgenes are introduced and expressed by the
    plants of the invention. Genetic variants created either through traditional breeding
 methods or through transformation of the cultivars of the invention by any of a number
of protocols known to those of skill in the art are intended to be within the scope of this
                                            invention.
       The following describes exemplary breeding methods that may be used with
    watermelon line SP-7 in the development of further watermelon plants. One such
   embodiment is a method for developing watermelon line SP-7 progeny watermelon
     plants (e.g, a diploid progeny watermelon plant) in a watermelon plant breeding
    program comprising: obtaining a plant, or a part thereof, of watermelon line SP-7,
     utilizing said plant or plant part as a source of breeding material, and selecting a
       watermelon line SP-7 progeny plant with molecular markers in common with
    watermelon line SP-7 and/or with some, all or essentially all morphological and/or
physiological characteristics of watermelon line SP-7 (see, e.g, Table 1 and Figures 1
                                                27

  3). In representative embodiments, the progeny plant has at least 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8,
  9, 10 or more of the morphological and physiological characteristics of watermelon line
      SP-7 (for example, one or more of small fruit, round fruit, a fruit with a light green
    [Charleston Gray] skin color, a fruit with a brittle rind, a fruit with yellow flesh; a dark
  brown mottled seed color, thin (lacy) vines, small leaves with deep lobes, one or more
  of the disease resistances of SP-7 [e.g, resistance to Anthracnose Race 1, resistance
   to Fusarium Wilt Races 1 and 2 and/or resistance to Powdery Mildew Race 1], earlier
  presentation of male flowers as compared with cultivar SP-6, production of larger male
 flowers as compared with cultivar SP-6 and/or production of more male flowers at peak
flowering time as compared with SP-6, in any combination, e.g, as described in Table 1
        and shown in Figures 1-3), or even all of the morphological and physiological
    characteristics of watermelon line SP-7 so that said progeny watermelon plant is not
 significantly different for said traits than watermelon line SP-7, as determined at the 5%
significance level when grown in the same environmental conditions; optionally, with the
presence of one or more desired additional traits (e.g, male sterility, disease resistance,
  pest or insect resistance, herbicide resistance, and the like). Breeding steps that may
    be used in the breeding program include pedigree breeding, backcrossing, mutation
breeding and/or recurrent selection. In conjunction with these steps, techniques such as
      RFLP-enhanced selection, genetic marker enhanced selection (for example, SSR
             markers) and/or and the making of double haploids may be utilized.
Another representative method involves producing a population of watermelon line SP-7
 progeny plants (e.g, diploid progeny plants), comprising crossing watermelon line SP-7
   with another watermelon plant (e.g, a diploid watermelon plant), thereby producing a
  population of watermelon plants that, on average, derives at least 6.25%, 12.5%, 25%,
  30%, 35%, 40%, 45%, 50%, 55%, 60%, 65%, 70%, 80%, 85%, 90%, 95%, 96%, 97%,
     98% or 99% of its alleles (1e., TAC) from watermelon line SP-7, e.g, at least about
    6.25%, 12.5%, 25%, 30%, 35%, 40%, 45%, 50%, 55%, 60%, 65%, 70%, 80%, 85%,
90%, 95%, 96%, 97%, 98% or 99% of the genetic complement of watermelon line SP-7.
 One embodiment of this invention is the watermelon plant produced by this method and
 that has obtained at least 6.25%, 12.5%, 25%, 30%, 35%, 40%, 45%, 50%, 55%, 60%,
                                                28

 65%, 70%, 80%, 85%, 90%, 95%, 96%, 97%, 98% or 99% of its alleles (Xe., TAC) from
        watermelon line SP-7, and optionally may be the result of a breeding process
         comprising one or two breeding crosses and one or more of selfing, sibbing,
   backcrossing and/or double haploid techniques in any combination and any order. In
  embodiments, the breeding process does not include a breeding cross, and comprises
                selfing, sibbing, backcrossing and or double haploid technology.
 One of ordinary skill in the art of plant breeding would know how to evaluate the traits of
two plant varieties to determine if there is or is not significant difference between the two
     traits expressed by those varieties. For example, see Fehr and Walt, Principles of
Cultivar Development, pp. 261-286 (1987). Thus, the invention includes watermelon line
 SP-7 progeny watermelon plants characterized by e.g, one or more of small fruit, round
fruit, a fruit with a light green (Charleston Gray) skin color, a fruit with a brittle rind, a fruit
  with yellow flesh; a dark brown mottled seed color, thin (lacy) vines, small leaves with
       deep lobes, one or more of the disease resistances of SP-7 (e.g, resistance to
   Anthracnose Race 1, resistance to Fusarium Wilt Races 1 and 2 and/or resistance to
 Powdery Mildew Race 1), earlier presentation of male flowers as compared with cultivar
        SP-6, production of larger male flowers as compared with cultivar SP-6 and/or
  production of more male flowers at peak flowering time as compared with SP-6, in any
    combination. In embodiments, the invention encompasses progeny plants having a
       combination of at least 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10 or more of the characteristics as
 described herein for watermelon line SP-7, so that said progeny watermelon plant is not
 significantly different for said traits than watermelon line SP-7, as determined at the 5%
 significance level when grown in the same environmental conditions. Using techniques
 described herein and those known in the art, molecular markers may be used to identify
 said progeny plant as progeny of watermelon line SP-7. Mean trait values may be used
      to determine whether trait differences are significant, and optionally the traits are
            measured on plants grown under the same environmental conditions.
        Progeny of watermelon line SP-7 may also be characterized through their filial
 relationship with watermelon line SP-7, as for example, being within a certain number of
                                                 29

       breeding crosses of watermelon line SP-7. A breeding cross is a cross made to
  introduce new genetics into the progeny, and is distinguished from a cross, such as a
  self or a sib cross or a backcross to SP-7 as a recurrent parent, made to select among
  existing genetic alleles. The lower the number of breeding crosses in the pedigree, the
    closer the relationship between watermelon line SP-7 and its progeny. For example,
 progeny produced by the methods described herein may be within 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 or more
                          breeding crosses of watermelon line SP-7.
 In representative embodiments, a watermelon plant derived from watermelon line SP-7
  comprises cells comprising at least one set of chromosomes derived from watermelon
   line SP-7. In embodiments, the watermelon plant or population of watermelon plants
derived from watermelon line SP-7 comprises, on average, at least 6.25%, 12.5%, 25%,
  30%, 35%, 40%, 45%, 50%, 55%, 60%, 65%, 70%, 80%, 85%, 90%, 95%, 96%, 97%,
     98% or 99% of its alleles (Ie., TAC) from watermelon line SP-7, e.g, at least about
   6.25%, 12.5%, 25%, 30%, 35%, 40%, 45%, 50%, 55%, 60%, 65%, 70%, 80%, 85%,
90%, 95%, 96%, 97%, 98% or 99% of the genetic complement of watermelon line SP-7,
 and optionally may be the result of one or more of selfing, sibbing, backcrossing and/or
  double haploid techniques in any combination. In embodiments, the watermelon plant
      derived from watermelon line SP-7 is one, two, three, four, five or more breeding
                         crosses removed from watermelon line SP-7.
  In representative embodiments, a plant derived from watermelon line SP-7 is a double
  haploid plant, a hybrid plant, an inbred plant, a tetraploid plant, a triploid plant and/or a
                                         diploid plant.
In embodiments, a derived plant from watermelon line SP-7 comprises a desired added
 trait. In representative embodiments, a watermelon plant derived from watermelon line
SP-7 comprises all of the morphological and physiological characteristics of watermelon
       line SP-7 (e.g, as described in Table 1 and Figures 1-3). In embodiments, the
   watermelon plant derived from watermelon line SP-7 comprises essentially all of the
                                               30

      morphological and physiological characteristics of watermelon line SP-7 (e.g, as
      described in Table 1 and Figures 1-3), with the addition of a desired added trait.
Those skilled in the art will appreciate that any of the traits described herein with respect
   to plant transformation methods can be introduced into a plant of the invention (e.g,
     watermelon line SP-7 and hybrid watermelon plants and other watermelon plants
                         derived therefrom) using breeding techniques.
                             Further Embodiments of the Invention.
  With the advent of molecular biological techniques that have allowed the isolation and
 characterization of genes that encode specific protein products, scientists in the field of
plant biology developed a strong interest in engineering the genome of plants to contain
    and express foreign nucleic acids including additional or modified versions of native
(endogenous) nucleic acids (optionally driven by a non-native promoter) in order to alter
  the traits of a plant in a specific manner. Any nucleic acid sequences, whether from a
different species or from the same species, which are introduced into the genome using
     transformation or various breeding methods, are referred to herein collectively as
     "transgenes." Over the last fifteen to twenty years, several methods for producing
    transgenic plants have been developed, and in particular embodiments the present
   invention also relates to transformed versions of watermelon plants disclosed herein.
    Genetic engineering techniques can be used (alone or in combination with breeding
       methods) to introduce one or more desired added traits into plant, for example,
           watermelon line SP-7 or progeny or watermelon plants derived thereof.
Plant transformation generally involves the construction of an expression vector that will
  function in plant cells. Optionally, such a vector comprises one or more nucleic acids
    comprising a coding sequence for a polypeptide or an untranslated functional RNA
        under control of, or operatively linked to, a regulatory element (for example, a
                                                31

      promoter). In representative embodiments, the vector(s) may be in the form of a
      plasmid, and can be used alone or in combination with other plasmids, to provide
   transformed watermelon plants using transformation methods as described herein to
          incorporate transgenes into the genetic material of the watermelon plant.
   Additional methods include, but are not limited to, expression vectors introduced into
      plant tissues using a direct nucleic acid transfer method, such as microprojectile
 mediated delivery (e.g, with a biolistic device), DNA injection, Agrobacterium-mediated
    transformation, electroporation, and the like. Transformed plants obtained from the
  plants (and parts and tissue culture thereof) of the invention are intended to be within
                                     the scope of this invention.
               Expression Vectors for Plant Transformation - Selectable markers.
 Expression vectors typically include at least one nucleic acid comprising or encoding a
   selectable marker, operably linked to a regulatory element (for example, a promoter)
 that allows transformed cells containing the marker to be either recovered by negative
selection, e.g, inhibiting growth of cells that do not contain the selectable marker, or by
    positive selection, e.g, screening for the product encoded by the selectable marker.
Many commonly used selectable markers for plant transformation are well known in the
  transformation art, and include, for example, nucleic acids that code for enzymes that
     metabolically detoxify a selective chemical agent which may be an antibiotic or an
     herbicide, or nucleic acids that encode an altered target which is insensitive to the
                 inhibitor. Positive selection methods are also known in the art.
        One commonly used selectable marker for plant transformation is a neomycin
  phosphotransferase II (nptll) coding sequence, for example, isolated from transposon
Tn5, which when placed under the control of plant regulatory signals confers resistance
to kanamycin. Fraley, et al., PNAS, 80:4803 (1983). Another commonly used selectable
    marker is hygromycin phosphotransferase, which confers resistance to the antibiotic
                hygromycin. Vanden Elzen, et al., Plant Mol. Biol., 5:299 (1985).
                                                 32

    Additional selectable markers of bacterial origin that confer resistance to antibiotics
           include gentamycin acetyl transferase, streptomycin phosphotransferase,
 aminoglycoside-3'-adenyl transferase, the bleomycin resistance determinant. Hayford,
   et al., Plant Physiol., 86:1216 (1988); Jones, et al., Mol. Gen. Genet., 210:86 (1987);
  Svab, et al., Plant Mol. Biol., 14:197 (1990); Hille, et al., Plant Mol. Biol., 7:171 (1986).
        Other selectable markers confer resistance to herbicides such as glyphosate,
glufosinate, or bromoxynil. Comai, et al., Nature, 317:741-744 (1985); Gordon-Kamm, et
     al., Plant Cell, 2:603-618 (1990); and Stalker, et al., Science, 242:419-423 (1988).
  Selectable markers for plant transformation that are not of bacterial origin include, for
   example, mouse dihydrofolate reductase, plant 5-enolpyruvylshikimate-3-phosphate
  synthase, and plant acetolactate synthase. Eichholtz, et al., Somatic Cell Mol. Genet.,
13:67 (1987); Shah, et al., Science, 233:478 (1986); and Charest, et al., Plant Cell Rep.,
                                           8:643 (1990).
      Another class of selectable marker for plant transformation involves screening of
presumptively transformed plant cells rather than direct genetic selection of transformed
cells for resistance to a toxic substance such as an antibiotic. These selectable markers
     are particularly useful to quantify or visualize the spatial pattern of expression of a
 transgene in specific tissues and are frequently referred to as a reporter gene because
  they can be fused to transgene or regulatory sequence for the investigation of nucleic
   acid expression. Commonly used reporters for screening presumptively transformed
        cells include alpha-glucuronidase (GUS), alpha-galactosidase, luciferase and
    chloramphenicol, acetyltransferase. Jefferson, R. A., Plant Mol. Biol., 5:387 (1987);
Teeri, et al., EMBO J., 8:343 (1989); Koncz, et al., PNAS, 84:131 (1987); and DeBlock,
                                 et al., EMBO J., 3:1681 (1984).
     In vivo methods for visualizing GUS activity that do not require destruction of plant
 tissues are available. Molecular Probes, Publication 2908, IMAGENE GREEN, pp. 1-4
                   (1993) and Naleway, et al., J. Cell Biol., 115:151a (1991).
                                                33

Green Fluorescent Protein (GFP) is also utilized as a marker for nucleic acid expression
  in prokaryotic and eukaryotic cells. Chalfie, et al., Science, 263:802 (1994). GFP and
                    mutants of GFP may be used as screenable markers.
                 Expression Vectors for Plant Transformation-Promoters.
      Transgenes included in expression vectors are generally driven by a nucleotide
sequence comprising a regulatory element (for example, a promoter). Numerous types
of promoters are well known in the transformation arts, as are other regulatory elements
                 that can be used alone or in combination with promoters.
  As used herein, "promoter" includes reference to a region of DNA upstream from the
  start of transcription and involved in recognition and binding of RNA polymerase and
    other proteins to initiate transcription. A "plant promoter" is a promoter capable of
                              initiating transcription in plant cells.
        Examples of promoters under developmental control include promoters that
preferentially initiate transcription in certain tissues, such as leaves, roots, seeds, fibers,
 xylem vessels, tracheids, or sclerenchyma. Such promoters are referred to as "tissue
 preferred." Promoters that initiate transcription only in certain tissue are referred to as
    "tissue-specific." A "cell type" specific promoter preferentially drives expression in
 certain cell types in one or more organs, for example, vascular cells in roots or leaves.
An "inducible" promoter is a promoter that is under environmental control. Examples of
  environmental conditions that may affect transcription by inducible promoters include
anaerobic conditions or the presence of light. Tissue-specific, tissue-preferred, cell type
specific, and inducible promoters constitute the class of "non -constitutive" promoters. A
"constitutive" promoter is a promoter that is active under most environmental conditions.
                                                 34

                                   A.      Inducible Promoters:
    An inducible promoter is operably linked to a nucleic acid for expression in a plant.
Optionally, the inducible promoter is operably linked to a nucleotide sequence encoding
 a signal sequence which is operably linked to a nucleic acid for expression in the plant.
      With an inducible promoter, the rate of transcription increases in response to an
                                          inducing agent.
Any inducible promoter can be used in the instant invention. See Ward, et al., Plant Mol.
  Biol., 22:361-366 (1993). Exemplary inducible promoters include, but are not limited to,
 that from the ACEI system which responds to copper (Melt, et al., PNAS, 90:4567-4571
(1993)); promoter from the In2 gene from maize which responds to benzenesulfonamide
 herbicide safeners (Hershey, et al., Mol. Gen. Genet., 227:229-237 (1991) and Gatz, et
  al., Mol. Gen. Genet., 243:32-38 (1994)) or Tet repressor from Tn10 (Gatz, et al., Mol.
   Gen. Genet., 227:229-237 (1991)). A representative inducible promoter is a promoter
       that responds to an inducing agent to which plants do not normally respond. An
  exemplary inducible promoter is the inducible promoter from a steroid hormone gene,
      the transcriptional activity of which is induced by a glucocorticosteroid hormone.
                            Schena, et al., PNAS, 88:0421 (1991).
                                  B.     Constitutive Promoters:
  A constitutive promoter is operably linked to a nucleic acid for expression in a plant or
 the constitutive promoter is operably linked to a nucleotide sequence encoding a signal
         sequence which is operably linked to a nucleic acid for expression in a plant.
                                                 35

Many different constitutive promoters can be utilized in the instant invention. Exemplary
 constitutive promoters include, but are not limited to, the promoters from plant viruses
 such as the 35S promoter from CaMV (Odell, et al., Nature, 313:810-812 (1985)) and
    the promoters from such genes as rice actin (McElroy, et al., Plant Cell, 2:163-171
       (1990)); ubiquitin (Christensen, et al., Plant Mol. Biol., 12:619-632 (1989) and
Christensen, et al., Plant Mol. Biol., 18:675-689 (1992)); pEMU (Last, et al., Theor. Appl.
   Genet., 81:581-588 (1991)); MAS (Velten, et al., EMBO J., 3:2723-2730 (1984)) and
        maize H3 histone (Lepetit, et al., Mol. Gen. Genet., 231:276-285 (1992) and
     Atanassova, et al., Plant J., 2 (3):291-300 (1992)). The ALS promoter, Xbal/Ncol
    fragment 5' to the Brassica napus ALS3 structural gene (or a nucleotide sequence
     similarity to said Xbal/Ncol fragment), represents a particularly useful constitutive
                       promoter. See PCT Application No. WO 96/30530.
                     C.    Tissue-Specific or Tissue-Preferred Promoters:
 A tissue-specific promoter is operably linked to a nucleic acid for expression in a plant.
    Optionally, the tissue-specific promoter is operably linked to a nucleotide sequence
 encoding a signal sequence which is operably linked to a nucleic acid for expression in
   a plant. Plants transformed with a nucleic acid of interest operably linked to a tissue
specific promoter transcribe the nucleic acid of interest exclusively, or preferentially, in a
                                        specific tissue.
 Any tissue-specific or tissue-preferred promoter can be utilized in the instant invention.
Exemplary tissue-specific or tissue-preferred promoters include, but are not limited to, a
  root-preferred promoter, such as that from the phaseolin gene (Murai, et al., Science,
23:476-482 (1983) and Sengupta-Gopalan, et al., PNAS, 82:3320-3324 (1985)); a leaf
  specific and light-induced promoter such as that from cab or rubisco (Simpson, et al.,
 EMBO J., 4(11):2723-2729 (1985) and Timko, et al., Nature, 318:579-582 (1985)); an
    anther-specific promoter such as that from LAT52 (Twell, et al., Mol. Gen. Genet.,
 217:240-245 (1989)); a pollen-specific promoter such as that from Zm13 (Guerrero, et
                                                36

al., Mol. Gen. Genet., 244:161-168 (1993)) or a microspore-preferred promoter such as
             that from apg (Twell, et al., Sex. Plant Reprod., 6:217-224 (1993)).
           Signal Sequences for Targeting Proteins to Subcellular Compartments.
  Transport of polypeptides produced by transgenes to a subcellular compartment such
 as the chloroplast, vacuole, peroxisome, glyoxysome, cell wall, or mitochondrion, or for
  secretion into the apoplast, is generally accomplished by means of operably linking a
 nucleotide sequence encoding a signal sequence to the 5' and/or 3' region of a nucleic
  acid encoding the polypeptide of interest. Signal sequences at the 5' and/or 3' end of
    the coding sequence target the polypeptide to particular subcellular compartments.
   The presence of a signal sequence can direct a polypeptide to either an intracellular
     organelle or subcellular compartment or for secretion to the apoplast. Many signal
sequences are known in the art. See, for example, Becker, et al., Plant Mol. Biol., 20:49
    (1992); Close, P. S., Master's Thesis, Iowa State University (1993); Knox, C., et al.,
"Structure and Organization of Two Divergent Alpha-Amylase Genes from Barley," Plant
Mol. Biol., 9:3-17 (1987); Lerner, et al., Plant Physiol., 91:124-129 (1989); Fontes, et al.,
  Plant Cell, 3:483-496 (1991); Matsuoka, et al., PNAS, 88:834 (1991); Gould, et al., J.
  Cell. Biol., 108:1657 (1989); Creissen, et al., Plant J, 2:129 (1991); Kalderon, et al., A
   short amino acid sequence able to specify nuclear location, Cell, 39:499-509 (1984);
and Steifel, et al., Expression of a maize cell wall hydroxyproline-rich glycoprotein gene
         in early leaf and root vascular differentiation, Plant Cell, 2:785-793 (1990).
                Foreign Polypeptide Transgenes and Agronomic Transgenes.
     With transgenic plants according to the present invention, a foreign protein can be
 produced in commercial quantities. Thus, techniques for the selection and propagation
of transformed plants, which are well understood in the art, yield a plurality of transgenic
  plants which are harvested in a conventional manner, and a foreign polypeptide then
 can be extracted from a tissue of interest or from total biomass. Protein extraction from
                                                37

     plant biomass can be accomplished by known methods which are discussed, for
               example, by Heney and Orr, Anal. Biochem., 114:92-6 (1981).
       According to a representative embodiment, the transgenic plant provided for
   commercial production of foreign protein is a watermelon plant of the invention. In
another embodiment, the biomass of interest is seed. For the relatively small number of
      transgenic plants that show higher levels of expression, a genetic map can be
      generated, for example via conventional RFLP, PCR, and SSR analysis, which
 identifies the approximate chromosomal location of the integrated DNA molecule. For
  exemplary methodologies in this regard, see Methods in Plant Molecular Biology and
  Biotechnology, Glick and Thompson Eds., 269:284, CRC Press, Boca Raton (1993).
Map information concerning chromosomal location is useful for proprietary protection of
a subject transgenic plant. If unauthorized propagation is undertaken and crosses made
   with other germplasm, the map of the integration region can be compared to similar
  maps for suspect plants, to determine if the latter have a common parentage with the
   subject plant. Map comparisons can involve hybridizations, RFLP, PCR, SSR, and
                   sequencing, all of which are conventional techniques.
 Likewise, by means of the present invention, agronomic transgenes and other desired
added traits can be expressed in transformed plants (and their progeny, e.g, produced
    by breeding methods). More particularly, plants can be genetically engineered to
     express various phenotypes of agronomic interest or other desired added traits.
   Exemplary nucleic acids of interest in this regard conferring a desired added trait(s)
                  include, but are not limited to, those categorized below:
              A.     Transgenes that Confer Resistance to Pests or Disease:
    1.     Plant disease resistance transgenes. Plant defenses are often activated by
  specific interaction between the product of a disease resistance gene (R) in the plant
 and the product of a corresponding avirulence (Avr) gene in the pathogen. A plant line
    can be transformed with a cloned resistance transgene to engineer plants that are
                                              38

resistant to specific pathogen strains. See, for example, Jones, et al., Science, 266:789
 (1994) (cloning of the tomato Cf-9 gene for resistance to Cladosporium fulvum); Martin,
     et al., Science, 262:1432 (1993) (tomato Pto gene for resistance to Pseudomonas
    syringae pv. tomato encodes a protein kinase); and Mindrinos, et al., Cell, 78:1089
          (1994) (Arabidopsis RSP2 gene for resistance to Pseudomonas syringae).
   2.       A Bacillus thuringiensis protein, a derivative thereof, or a synthetic polypeptide
  modeled thereon. See, for example, Geiser, et al., Gene, 48:109 (1986), who disclose
    the cloning and nucleotide sequence of a Bt delta-endotoxin gene. Moreover, DNA
molecules encoding delta-endotoxin transgenes can be purchased from American Type
   Culture Collection, Manassas, Va., for example, under ATCC Accession Nos. 40098,
                                    67136, 31995, and 31998.
3.        A lectin. See, for example, the disclosure by Van Damme, et al., Plant Mol. Biol.,
        24:25 (1994), who disclose the nucleotide sequences of several Clivia miniata
                               mannose-binding lectin transgenes.
    4.       A vitamin-binding protein such as avidin. See, e.g, PCT Application No. US
       93/06487. The application teaches the use of avidin and avidin homologues as
                                 larvicides against insect pests.
      5.      An enzyme inhibitor, for example, a protease or proteinase inhibitor, or an
      amylase inhibitor. See, for example, Abe, et al., J. Biol. Chem., 262:16793 (1987)
(nucleotide sequence of rice cysteine proteinase inhibitor); Huub, et al., Plant Mol. Biol.,
  21:985 (1993) (nucleotide sequence of cDNA encoding tobacco proteinase inhibitor I);
and Sumitani, et al., Biosci. Biotech. Biochem., 57:1243 (1993) (nucleotide sequence of
                      Streptomyces nitrosporeus alpha-amylase inhibitor).
  6.       An insect-specific hormone or pheromone, such as an ecdysteroid and juvenile
      hormone, a variant thereof, a mimetic based thereon, or an antagonist or agonist
  thereof. See, for example, the disclosure by Hammock, et al., Nature, 344:458 (1990),
                                                39

of baculovirus expression of cloned juvenile hormone esterase, an inactivator of juvenile
                                            hormone.
 7.       An insect-specific peptide or neuropeptide which, upon expression, disrupts the
   physiology of the affected pest. For example, see the disclosures of Regan, J. Biol.
Chem., 269:9 (1994) (expression cloning yields DNA coding for insect diuretic hormone
     receptor) and Pratt, et al., Biochem. Biophys. Res. Comm., 163:1243 (1989) (an
    allostatin is identified in Diploptera puntata). See also, U.S. Pat. No. 5,266,317 to
        Tomalski, et al., who disclose transgenes encoding insect-specific, paralytic
                                           neurotoxins.
    8.      An insect-specific venom produced in nature, by a snake, a wasp, etc. For
      example, see Pang, et al, Gene, 116:165 (1992), for disclosure of heterologous
      expression in plants of a transgene coding for a scorpion insectotoxic peptide.
       9.      An enzyme responsible for a hyper-accumulation of a monoterpene, a
   sesquiterpene, a steroid, hydroxamic acid, a phenylpropanoid derivative, or another
                         non-protein molecule with insecticidal activity.
       10.    An enzyme involved in the modification, including the post-translational
    modification, of a biologically active molecule; for example, a glycolytic enzyme, a
    proteolytic enzyme, a lipolytic enzyme, a nuclease, a cyclase, a transaminase, an
  esterase, a hydrolase, a phosphatase, a kinase, a phosphorylase, a polymerase, an
      elastase, a chitinase, and a glucanase, whether natural or synthetic. See PCT
       Application No. WO 93/02197 in the name of Scott, et al., which discloses the
  nucleotide sequence of a callase transgene. DNA molecules which contain chitinase
  encoding sequences can be obtained, for example, from the ATCC under Accession
   Nos. 39637 and 67152. See also, Kramer, et al., Insect Biochem. Mol. Biol., 23:691
   (1993), who teach the nucleotide sequence of a cDNA encoding tobacco hornworm
     chitinase, and Kawalleck, et al., Plant Mol. Biol., 21:673 (1993), who provide the
             nucleotide sequence of the parsley ubi4-2 polyubiquitin transgene.
                                               40

 11.      A molecule that stimulates signal transduction. For example, see the disclosure
    by Botella, et al., Plant Mol. Biol., 24:757 (1994), of nucleotide sequences for mung
 bean calmodulin cDNA clones, and Griess, et al., Plant Physiol., 104:1467 (1994), who
            provide the nucleotide sequence of a maize calmodulin cDNA clone.
      12.    A hydrophobic moment peptide. See PCT Application No. WO 95/16776
  (disclosure of peptide derivatives of tachyplesin which inhibit fungal plant pathogens)
  and PCT Application No. WO 95/18855 (teaches synthetic antimicrobial peptides that
                                   confer disease resistance).
  13.     A membrane permease, a channel former, or a channel blocker. For example,
see the disclosure of Jaynes, et al., Plant Sci., 89:43 (1993), of heterologous expression
 of a cecropin-beta, lytic peptide analog to render transgenic tobacco plants resistant to
                                  Pseudomonas solanacearum.
  14.     A viral-invasive protein or a complex toxin derived therefrom. For example, the
 accumulation of viral coat proteins in transformed plant cells imparts resistance to viral
 infection and/or disease development effected by the virus from which the coat protein
     transgene is derived, as well as by related viruses. See Beachy, et al., Ann. Rev.
    Phytopathol., 28:451 (1990). Coat protein-mediated resistance has been conferred
 upon transformed plants against alfalfa mosaic virus, cucumber mosaic virus, tobacco
 streak virus, potato virus X, potato virus Y, tobacco etch virus, tobacco rattle virus, and
                                    tobacco mosaic virus. Id.
     15.    An insect-specific antibody or an immunotoxin derived therefrom. Thus, an
   antibody targeted to a critical metabolic function in the insect gut would inactivate an
     affected enzyme, killing the insect. See Taylor, et al., Abstract #497, Seventh Int'l
     Symposium on Molecular Plant-Microbe Interactions, Edinburgh, Scotland (1994)
   (enzymatic inactivation in transgenic tobacco via production of single-chain antibody
                                            fragments).
                                                41

 16.      A virus-specific antibody. See, for example, Tavladoraki, et al., Nature, 366:469
  (1993), who show that transgenic plants expressing recombinant antibody transgenes
                                are protected from virus attack.
      17.    A developmental-arrestive protein produced in nature by a pathogen or a
        parasite. Thus, fungal endo-alpha-1,4-D-polygalacturonases facilitate fungal
colonization and plant nutrient released by solubilizing plant cell wall homo-alpha-1,4-D
    galacturonase. See Lamb, et al., Bio/technology, 10:1436 (1992). The cloning and
characterization of a transgene which encodes a bean endopolygalacturonase-inhibiting
                protein is described by Toubart, et al., Plant J., 2:367 (1992).
  18.     A developmental-arrestive protein produced in nature by a plant. For example,
   Logemann, et al., Bio/technology, 10:305 (1992), have shown that transgenic plants
 expressing the barley ribosome-inactivating transgene have an increased resistance to
                                        fungal disease.
     19. A watermelon mosaic potyvirus (LMV) coat protein transgene introduced into
  Lactuca sat/vain order to increase its resistance to LMV infection. See Dinant, et al.,
                               Moi Breed/,g, 3:1, 75-86 (1997).
 Any disease or present resistance transgenes, including those exemplified above, can
    be introduced into a watermelon plant of the invention through a variety of means
                   including but not limited to transformation and breeding.
                 B.     Transgenes that Confer Resistance to an Herbicide:
     Exemplary polynucleotides encoding polypeptides that confer traits desirable for
herbicide resistance include acetolactate synthase (ALS) mutants that lead to herbicide
   resistance such as the S4 and/or Hra mutations ((resistance to herbicides including
                                                42

       sulfonylureas, imidazolinones, triazolopyrimidines, pyrimidinyl thiobenzoates);
 glyphosate resistance (e.g, 5-enol-pyrovyl-shikimate-3-phosphate-synthase (EPSPS)
   transgene, including but not limited to those described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 4,940,935,
   5,188,642, 5,633,435, 6,566,587, 7,674,598 as well as all related application; or the
  glyphosate N-acetyltransferase (GAT) transgene, described in Castle et al., Science,
  2004, 304:1151-1154; and in U.S. Patent Application Publication Nos. 20070004912,
  20050246798, and 20050060767)); glufosinate resistance (e.g, BAR; see e.g, U.S.
 Pat. No. 5,561,236); 2,4-D resistance (e.g, aryloxy alkanoate dioxygenase or AAD-1,
       AAD-12, or AAD-1 3), HPPD resistance (e.g, Pseudomonas HPPD) and PPO
resistance (e.g, fomesafen, acifluorfen-sodium, oxyfluorfen, lactofen, fluthiacet-methyl,
    saflufenacil, flumioxazin, flumiclorac-pentyl, carfentrazone-ethyl, sulfentrazone,); a
  cytochrome P450 or variant thereof that confers herbicide resistance or tolerance to,
    inter alia, HPPD-inhibiting herbicides, PPO-inhibiting herbicides and ALS-inhibiting
     herbicides (U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 20090011936; U.S. Pat. Nos.
   6,380,465; 6,121,512; 5,349,127; 6,649,814; and 6,300,544; and PCT International
Publication No. WO 2007/000077); dicamba resistance (e.g, dicamba monoxygenase),
 and traits desirable for processing or process products such as high oil (e.g, U.S. Pat.
    No. 6,232,529); modified oils (e.g, fatty acid desaturase transgenes (U.S. Pat. No.
 5,952,544; PCT International Publication No. WO 94/11516)); modified starches (e.g,
      ADPG pyrophosphorylases (AGPase), starch synthases (SS), starch branching
enzymes (SBE), and starch debranching enzymes (SDBE)); and polymers or bioplastics
  (e.g, U.S. Pat. No. 5,602,321; beta-ketothiolase, polyhydroxybutyrate synthase, and
      acetoacetyl-CoA reductase (Schubert et al., J. Bacteriol., 1988, 170:5837-5847)
                    facilitate expression of polyhydroxyalkanoates (PHAs)).
 In embodiments, the polynucleotide encodes a polypeptide conferring resistance to an
 herbicide selected from glyphosate, sulfonylurea, imidazolinone, dicamba, glufosinate,
 phenoxy proprionic acid, L-phosphinothricin, cyclohexone, cyclohexanedione, triazine,
                                         and benzonitrile.
                                                43

 Any transgene conferring herbicide resistance, including those exemplified above, can
  be introduced into the watermelon plants of the invention through a variety of means
 including, but not limited to, transformation (e.g, genetic engineering techniques) and
                                            crossing.
           C.      Transgenes that Confer or Contribute to a Value-Added Trait:
 1. Increased iron content of the watermelon, for example, by introducing into a plant a
soybean ferritin transgene as described in Goto, et al., Acta Horiculturae., 521, 101-109
                                             (2000).
2. Decreased nitrate content of leaves, for example, by introducing into a watermelon a
   transgene coding for a nitrate reductase. See, for example, Curtis, et al., Plan/ Cell
                                 Rep., 18:11, 889-896 (1999).
     3. Increased sweetness of the watermelon by introducing a transgene coding for
  monellin that elicits a flavor 100,000 times sweeter than sugar on a molar basis. See
                    Penarrubia, et al., B/o/technology 10:561-564 (1992).
     4.     Modified fatty acid metabolism, for example, by introducing into a plant an
  antisense sequence directed against stearyl-ACP desaturase to increase stearic acid
             content of the plant. See Knultzon, et al., PNAS, 89:2625 (1992).
   5.      Modified carbohydrate composition effected, for example, by introducing into
plants a transgene coding for an enzyme that alters the branching pattern of starch. See
    Shiroza, et al., J. Bacteria, 170:810 (1988) (nucleotide sequence of Streptococcus
   mutants fructosyltransferase transgene); Steinmetz, et al., Mol. Gen. Genet., 20:220
  (1985) (nucleotide sequence of Bacillus subtilis levansucrase transgene); Pen, et al.,
   Bio/technology, 10:292 (1992) (production of transgenic plants that express Bacillus
  lichenifonnis alpha-amylase); Elliot, et al., Plant Mol. Biol., 21:515 (1993) (nucleotide
                                               44

sequences of tomato invertase transgenes); Sogaard, et al., J. Biol. Chem., 268:22480
 (1993) (site-directed mutagenesis of barley alpha-amylase transgene); and Fisher, et
  al., Plant Physiol., 102:1045 (1993) (maize endosperm starch branching enzyme II).
       Any transgene that confers or contributes a value-added trait, including those
     exemplified above, can be introduced into the watermelon plants of the invention
  through a variety of means including, but not limited to, transformation (e.g, genetic
                             engineering techniques) and crossing.
                         D.      Transgenes that Control Male-Sterility:
 1.       Introduction of a deacetylase transgene under the control of a tapetum-specific
  promoter and with the application of the chemical N-Ac-PPT. See, e.g, International
                                    Publication WO 01/29237.
     2.       Introduction of various stamen-specific promoters. See, e.g, International
                         Publications WO 92/13956 and WO 92/13957.
  3.       Introduction of the barnase and the barstar transgenes. See, e.g, Paul, et al.,
                               Plant Mol. Biol., 19:611-622 (1992).
  Any transgene that controls male sterility, including those exemplified above, can be
     introduced into the watermelon plants of the invention through a variety of means
 including, but not limited to, transformation (e.g, genetic engineering techniques) and
                                             crossing.
                               Methods for Plant Transformation.
 Numerous methods for plant transformation have been developed, including biological
and physical, plant transformation protocols. See, for example, Miki, et al., "Procedures
                                                 45

    for Introducing Foreign DNA into Plants" in Methods in Plant Molecular Biology and
    Biotechnology, Glick and Thompson Eds., CRC Press, Inc., Boca Raton, pp. 67-88
     (1993). In addition, expression vectors and in vitro culture methods for plant cell or
      tissue transformation and regeneration of plants are available. See, for example,
 Gruber, et al., "Vectors for Plant Transformation" in Methods in Plant Molecular Biology
   and Biotechnology, Glick and Thompson Eds., CRC Press, Inc., Boca Raton, pp. 89
                                          119 (1993).
                       A.     Agrobacterium-Mediated Transformation.
    One method for introducing an expression vector into plants is based on the natural
    transformation system of Agrobacterium. See, for example, Horsch, et al., Science,
    227:1229 (1985); Curtis, et al., Journal of Experimental Botany, 45:279, 1441 -1449
  (1994); Torres, et al., Plant Cell Tissue and Organ Culture, 34:3, 279-285 (1993); and
 Dinant, et al., Molecular Breeding, 3:1, 75-86 (1997). A. tumefaciens and A. rhizogenes
 are plant pathogenic soil bacteria which genetically transform plant cells. The Ti and Ri
plasmids of A. tumefaciens and A. rhizogenes, respectively, carry genes responsible for
 genetic transformation of the plant. See, for example, Kado, C. I., Crit. Rev. Plant Sci.,
         10:1 (1991). Descriptions of Agrobacterium vector systems and methods for
 Agrobacterium-mediated transgene transfer are provided by Gruber, et al., supra, Miki,
et al., supra, and Moloney, et al., Plant Cell Rep., 8:238 (1989). See also, U.S. Pat. No.
                                5,591,616 issued Jan. 7, 1997.
                              B.     Direct Transgene Transfer.
    Several methods of plant transformation collectively referred to as direct transgene
         transfer have been developed as an alternative to Agrobacterium-mediated
transformation. A generally applicable method of plant transformation is microprojectile
     mediated transformation wherein DNA is carried on the surface of microprojectiles
                                              46

  measuring 1 micron to 4 micron. The expression vector is introduced into plant tissues
 with a biolistic device that accelerates the microprojectiles to speeds of 300 m/s to 600
   m/s which is sufficient to penetrate plant cell walls and membranes. Russell, D. R., et
al., Plant Cell Rep., 12 (3, Jan.), 165-169 (1993); Aragao, F. J. L., et al., Plant Mol. Biol.,
  20 (2, Oct.), 357-359 (1992); Aragao, F. J. L., et al., Plant Cell Rep., 12 (9, July), 483
 490 (1993); Aragao, Theor. Apple. Genet., 93:142-150 (1996); Kim, J., Minamikawa, T.,
      Plant Sci., 117:131-138 (1996); Sanford, et al., Part. Sci. Technol., 5:27 (1987);
   Sanford, J. C., Trends Biotech., 6:299 (1988); Klein, et al., Bio/technology, 6:559-563
(1988); Sanford, J. C., Physiol. Plant, 7:206 (1990); Klein, et al., Bio/technology, 10:268
                                             (1992).
     Another method for physical delivery of DNA to plants is sonication of target cells.
    Zhang, et al., Bio/technology, 9:996 (1991). Alternatively, liposome and spheroplast
   fusion have been used to introduce expression vectors into plants. Deshayes, et al.,
   EMBO J., 4:2731 (1985) and Christou, et al., PNAS, 84:3962 (1987). Direct uptake of
      DNA into protoplasts using CaCI.sub.2 precipitation, polyvinyl alcohol, or poly-L
   ornithine has also been reported. Hain, et al., Mol. Gen. Genet., 199:161 (1985) and
    Draper, et al., Plant Cell Physiol., 23:451 (1982). Electroporation of protoplasts and
     whole cells and tissues have also been described. Saker, M., Kuhne, T., Biologia
    Plantarum, 40(4):507-514 (1997/98); Donn, et al., In Abstracts of VIlth International
Congress on Plant Cell and Tissue Culture IAPTC, A2-38, p. 53 (1990); D'Halluin, et al.,
  Plant Cell, 4:1495-1505 (1992); and Spencer, et al., Plant Mol. Biol., 24:51-61 (1994).
               See also Chupean, et al., Bio/technology, 7:5, 503-508 (1989).
    Following transformation of plant target tissues, expression of the above-described
    selectable marker transgenes allows for preferential selection of transformed cells,
 tissues and/or plants, using regeneration and selection methods now well known in the
                                               art.
     The foregoing methods for transformation would typically be used for producing a
transgenic watermelon line. The transgenic watermelon line could then be crossed with
                                               47

   another (non-transformed or transformed) line in order to produce a new transgenic
watermelon line. Alternatively, a genetic trait that has been engineered into a particular
   plant cultivar using the foregoing transformation techniques could be introduced into
   another line using traditional breeding (e.g, backcrossing) techniques that are well
known in the plant breeding arts. For example, a backcrossing approach could be used
 to move an engineered trait from a public, non-elite inbred line into an elite inbred line,
or from an inbred line containing a foreign transgene in its genome into an inbred line or
   lines which do not contain that transgene. As used herein, "crossing" can refer to a
      simple X by Y cross, or the process of backcrossing, depending on the context.
                                        Gene Conversions.
  When the term "watermelon plant" is used in the context of the present invention, this
     term also includes any gene conversions of that plant or variety. The term "gene
      converted plant" as used herein refers to those watermelon plants (e.g, diploid
       watermelon plants) that are developed, for example, by backcrossing, genetic
  engineering and/or mutation, wherein essentially all of the desired morphological and
  physiological characteristics of a variety (e.g, small fruit, round fruit, a fruit with a light
  green (Charleston Gray) skin color, a fruit with a brittle rind, a fruit with yellow flesh; a
  dark brown mottled seed color, thin (lacy) vines, small leaves with deep lobes, one or
     more of the disease resistances of SP-7 (e.g, resistance to Anthracnose Race 1,
 resistance to Fusarium Wilt Races 1 and 2 and/or resistance to Powdery Mildew Race
  1), earlier presentation of male flowers as compared with cultivar SP-6, production of
   larger male flowers as compared with cultivar SP-6 and/or production of more male
      flowers at peak flowering time as compared with SP-6, in any combination) are
recovered in addition to the one or more genes transferred into the variety. To illustrate,
backcrossing methods can be used with the present invention to improve or introduce a
   characteristic into the variety. The term "backcrossing" as used herein refers to the
 repeated crossing of a hybrid progeny back to the recurrent parent, e.g, backcrossing
   1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, or more times to the recurrent parent. The parental plant that
                                                48

contributes the gene for the desired characteristic is termed the "nonrecurrent" or "donor
     parent." This terminology refers to the fact that the nonrecurrent parent is generally
  used one time in the breeding e.g, backcross) protocol and therefore does not recur.
        The gene that is transferred can be a native gene, a mutated native gene or a
     transgene introduced by genetic engineering techniques into the plant (or ancestor
   thereof). The parental plant into which the gene(s) from the nonrecurrent parent are
    transferred is known as the "recurrent" parent as it is used for multiple rounds in the
        backcrossing protocol. Poehlman & Sleper (1994) and Fehr (1993). In a typical
     backcross protocol, the original variety of interest (recurrent parent) is crossed to a
         second variety (nonrecurrent parent) that carries the gene(s) of interest to be
       transferred. The resulting progeny from this cross are then crossed again to the
recurrent parent and the process is repeated until a plant is obtained wherein essentially
all of the desired morphological and physiological characteristics of the recurrent parent
        are recovered in the converted plant in addition to the transferred gene(s) and
                        associated trait(s) from the nonrecurrent parent.
Many gene traits have been identified that are not regularly selected in the development
 of a new line but that can be improved by backcrossing techniques. Gene traits may or
    may not be transgenic. Examples of these traits include, but are not limited to, male
  sterility, modified fatty acid metabolism, modified carbohydrate metabolism, herbicide
      resistance, pest or disease resistance (e.g, resistance to bacterial, fungal, or viral
        disease), insect resistance, enhanced nutritional quality, increased sweetness,
  increased flavor, improved ripening control, improved salt tolerance, industrial usage,
 yield stability, and yield enhancement. These genes are generally inherited through the
                                              nucleus.
                          Genetic Analysis of Watermelon Line SP-7.
                                                49

    The invention further provides a method of determining a genetic characteristic of
watermelon line SP-7 or a progeny thereof, e.g, a method of determining a genotype of
  watermelon line SP-7 or a progeny thereof. In embodiments, the method comprises
    detecting in the genome of a SP-7 plant, or a progeny plant thereof, at least a first
 polymorphism (e.g, by detecting a nucleic acid marker by a method comprising nucleic
  acid amplification and/or nucleic acid sequencing). To illustrate, in embodiments, the
  method comprises obtaining a sample of nucleic acids from the plant and detecting at
    least a first polymorphism in the nucleic acid sample. Optionally, the method may
 comprise detecting a plurality of polymorphisms (e.g, two or more, three or more, four
 or more, five or more, six or more, eight or more or ten or more polymorphisms, etc.) in
the genome of the plant. In representative embodiments, the method further comprises
 storing the results of the step of detecting the polymorphism(s) on a computer readable
   medium. The invention further provides a computer readable medium produced by
                                       such a method.
 The invention will now be described with reference to the following examples. It will be
 appreciated by those skilled in the art that these examples do not limit the scope of the
claims to the invention, but are rather intended to be exemplary of certain embodiments.
  Other embodiments of the invention may be practiced without departing from the spirit
 and the scope of the invention, the scope of which is defined by the disclosure and the
                                      appended claims.
                                         EXAMPLES
                                          Example 1.
Watermelon varieties SP-7 and SP-6 were compared in multiple field trials for flowering
            time, male flower diameter, and number of male flowers produced.
                                               50

    Flowering time was measured in field trials over two years and two locations as the
   number of days after transplant when 50% of the plants in each plot presented open
 male flowers. As shown in Figure 1, SP-7 (left bars) consistently produced male flowers
at an earlier time than SP-6 (right bars). Despite variation in climate during the different
   seasons, on average, SP-7 presents male flowers approximately seven days earlier
                                            than SP-6.
    Male flower diameter (cm) was measured at the widest point across fully open male
     flowers for SP-7 and comparison variety SP-6 over multiple seasons and years in
        Woodland, California. From 2013-2015, flower diameters were recorded in a
 greenhouse at the Woodland station. In 2016, flower diameters were measured under
     open field cultivation in a replicated, randomized complete block design. Figure 2
    presents the average male flower diameter recorded for SP-7 (upper line) and SP-6
   (lower line). SP-6 had an average male flower diameter of 2.8 cm, and SP-7 had an
average of 4.3 cm. These results indicate that SP-7 has consistently larger male flower
                               diameters as compared with SP-6.
  To evaluate the number of male flowers produced by SP-7 versus comparison variety
     SP-6, field experiments were replicated in two locations over multiple seasons and
   years. Plots of each variety were cultivated in open field conditions with 24" spacing
  between plants. Male flower number was estimated by counting the number of open
    male flowers within a square meter of area. For each plot, two measurements were
  taken on a weekly basis. Peak flowering time was determined as the week when the
most open male flowers were recorded across all plots. The results are shown in Figure
   3. Data for SP-7 (left bars) are presented as a percentage of SP-6 (right bars; set at
       100%), where % male flower = ([SP-7 male flower number]     + [SP-6 male flower
 number])    x 100. The average percentages for SP-7 are indicated above the bars on the
left. As shown, across all years and locations, cultivar SP-7 produced on average 175%
               more male flowers at peak flowering time than did cultivar SP-6.
                                            Example 2.
                                                51

     Triploid watermelon plants are planted in parallel rows 7 feet apart and 3 feet apart
  within each row. However, plants of watermelon variety SP-7 are planted in a narrow
row 3.5' wide (1/2 the width of the triploid rows) between every second and third triploid
     row. For example, rows A and B are two consecutive rows of triploids, each 7-foot
wide. Row C is a diploid row that is 3.5 feet wide. Row D and E are the following two 7
    foot wide rows of triploids, followed by the 3.5-foot wide row F of diploid plants. This
   pattern is repeated across the width of the field. Because the diploid row is narrower
   according to the method of the invention, the distance between rows B and D is 10.5
   feet instead of a traditional distance of 14 feet. Using this ratio of 1 pollenizer row for
  every 2 triploid rows (1:2), 33.3% of the field would normally be used for the pollenizer
       plants. Reducing the width of the pollenizer row according to the method of the
  invention by one-half, the gain of space for planting additional triploid plants would be
                                  33.3%/2 or approximately 17%.
                                           Example 3.
     Triploid watermelon plants are again planted in parallel rows 7 feet apart and 3 feet
apart within each row. As in Example 1, plants of watermelon variety SP-7 are planted
   in a narrow row 3.5' wide, but are planted between every third and fourth triploid row.
 For example, rows A, B, and C, are three consecutive rows of triploids, each row being
7'wide. The following row D is a diploid row that is 3.5 feet wide. Row E, F, and G are
   the following three rows of triploids, all 7 feet wide, followed by a 3.5 foot wide row of
plants of watermelon variety SP-7. This pattern is repeated across the width of the field.
      Because the diploid row is narrower according to the method of the invention, the
distance between rows B and D is again 10.5 feet instead of a traditional distance of 14
  feet. Using this ratio of 1 pollenizer row for every 3 triploid rows (1:3), 25% of the field
  would normally be used for the pollenizer plants. Reducing the width of the pollenizer
 row according to the method of the invention by one-half, the gain of space for planting
               additional triploid plants would be 25%/2 or approximately 12%.
                                           Example 4.
                                                 52

    Triploid watermelons are planted in parallel rows 8 feet apart and 3 feet apart within
  each row. Plants of watermelon variety SP-7 are planted in a narrow row 4.0 feet wide
     (1/2 the width of the triploid rows) between every second and third triploid row. For
  example, rows A and B are two consecutive rows of triploids, each 8 foot wide. Row C
     is a diploid row that is 4.0 feet wide. Row D and E are the following two 8 foot wide
    rows of triploids, followed by the 4.0 foot wide row F of diploid plants. This pattern is
 repeated across the width of the field. Because the diploid row is narrower according to
the method of the invention, the distance between rows B and D is 12.0 feet instead of a
traditional distance of 16 feet. Using this ratio of 1 pollenizer row for every 2 triploid rows
  (1:2), 33.3% of the field would normally be used for the pollenizer plants. Reducing the
width of the pollenizer row according to the method of the invention by one-half, the gain
  of space for planting additional triploid plants would be 33.3%/2 or approximately 17%.
                                               Example 5.
   Referring to the above three examples, when triploids are planted in rows 8 feet apart,
 and the ratio of diploid to triploid is 1:3, it is now clear that the reduction of the pollenizer
                  row width by one-half will gain space for planting additional 12%.
                                               Example 6.
         It is also within the scope of the invention to reduce the pollenizer row width to
        approximately 1/3 that of the triploid row width. Thus, according to the present
           invention, at any row width, when the ratio of diploid rows to triploid rows is:
            (a.)    1:2, the savings of field area for additional triploid plants is (33% x 2/3) or
                    22%.
            (b)     1:3, the savings of field area for additional triploid plants is (25% x 2/3) or
                    16.5%.
            (c)     1:4, the savings of field area for additional triploid plants is (20% x 2/3) or
                    13.2%.
                                                    53

         It is also within the scope of the invention to reduce the pollenizer row width to
                            approximately 2/3 that of the triploid row width.
                                              Example 7.
  It is also within the scope of the present invention to inter-plant the diploid plants within
the rows of triploid plants. According to the invention, the triploid plants are first planted
 by machine or by hand in regularly spaced rows. The triploid plants within each row are
  planted, for example, 3 feet apart. After the triploid plants are in the field as described,
     the diploid pollenizer watermelon plants of the invention are inter-planted, by hand,
 within each row approximately midway between the triploid plants. When the transplant
          machine is properly set up, both the triploid plant and pollenizer plant can be
     transplanted at the same pass. Thus, in this example, the diploid plants are planted
      approximately 1.5 feet from the flanking triploid plants within the row. Due to the
 characteristics of watermelon variety SP-7, the diploid plants can be inter-planted within
 each row after every 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, or 10 consecutive triploid plants. It is currently
   preferred in the industry to plant the diploid plants after every 2 (1:2) or 3 (1:3) triploid
        plants within the row. A 1:4 ratio has been reported, but is not normally used in
  commercial fields due to inadequate pollenization of the triploid plants. The field area
   saved under this example, when compared with both the current methods of planting
              diploids in separate rows or within a row at the ratios (diploid:triploid) of:
                    (a) 1:2, is 33.3%,
                    (b) 1:3, is 25%,
                    (c) 1:4, is 20%.
 Methods of the present invention comprise planting plants of watermelon variety SP-7 in
       rows that are narrower than the rows containing the triploid plants. Although the
narrower row will encourage growth of plants of watermelon variety SP-7 into the triploid
   plant row, the characteristics of watermelon variety SP-7 allow it maintain its ability to
   sufficiently pollinate the triploid plants in the field. Thus, watermelon variety SP-7 and
    method of the present invention increase the yield of seedless watermelon in a field.
                                                   54

In one aspect, a method of the present invention includes planting a plant of watermelon
variety SP-7 within a row of triploid watermelon plants. In one embodiment, a method of
the present invention includes planting a plant of watermelon variety SP-7 and a triploid
  watermelon plant in the same hole. In one embodiment, plants of watermelon variety
 SP-7 and triploid watermelon plants are planted in a ratio of 3 - 4 : 1, i.e. in every 3 rd or
   4th hole both a plant of watermelon variety SP-7 and a triploid watermelon plant are
   planted in the same hole. In one embodiment, a plant of watermelon variety SP-7 is
               planted within pollinating distance of a triploid watermelon plant.
      In another aspect, a method of the present invention includes sowing a seed of
     watermelon variety SP-7 with a seed of triploid watermelon in the same cell of a
     seedling tray. In one aspect, a method of sowing watermelon seeds is provided,
       comprising the steps of (1) providing a mechanical seeder; and (2) using said
 mechanical seeder to seed a seedling tray with triploid seedless watermelon seed and
 SP-7 watermelon pollenizer seed. In a further aspect, the triploid seedless watermelon
seed is planted in each cell of the seedling tray. In another aspect, the SP-7 watermelon
 pollenizer seed is planted into every 2nd, 3rd or 4th cell of the seedling tray. In another
  aspect, the ratio of triploid seedless watermelon seeds to SP-7 watermelon pollenizer
                                seeds is 6:1, 5:1, 4:1, 3:1 or 2:1.
                           Production of dihaploid watermelon plants
                                           Example 8.
   Anthers of watermelon plants are gamma-ray (produced by cobalt60 ) irradiated for a
 dose of 0.4 KGy, or 0.3 - 0.6 KGy of soft X-rays. Irradiated pollen is gently transferred
    from the anthers to the receptive stigma on or before anthesis. Each ovary of the
   pollinated female receives an application of 50ppm CPPU (a plant cytokinin growth
 regulator) to stimulate fruit development. Plants are monitored for pollination take and
         fruit development. Fruit is harvested 14 days or 21 days post-pollination.
  Harvested immature fruit are carefully cut open under sterile conditions and the seeds
    are meticulously removed from the flesh. The distal portion of each seed is cut off
                                                55

    before plating about 40 seeds to each plate of culture medium. Sealed plates with
seeds are cultured at 25 0 C with a 16-hour photoperiod in a culture room on a Murashige
 and Skoog Basal Medium, 30g/L sucrose, 10g/L agar supplemented either with 10 piM
     BA (2.25 mg/L) or 22.2 pM BA (5 mg/L) and 2.85 ptM IAA (0.5 mg/L), pH 5.8 and
                     dispensed into 100x15 petri dishes after autoclaving.
 After 30 days, seeds are screened for greenish immature embryos for embryo rescue.
   Those with embryos are moved to fresh medium. As the embryos germinated and
    elongated, they are transferred to small culture jars with the same medium. When
  sufficient leaf tissue is present on the plantlet, a leaf is sampled and ploidy analysis is
     carried out measuring DNA content using flow cytometry (Zhang, Xingping, B.B.
Rhodes and J.F. Whitesides, 1994. Determination of watermelon ploidy level using flow
 cytometry. Cucurbit Genetics Cooperative Rpt 17:102-105), or counting the number of
   chloroplast in guard cells (N. Sari et al., 1999, Comparison of ploidy level screening
      methods in watermelon: Citrullus lanatus (Thunb.) Matsum. and NakaiScientia,
                                  Horticulturae 82: 265±277).
Once the plantlets have been confirmed haploid, cuttings/clones are made and rooted in
 vitro. The medium consists of half strength MS basal salts, 20 g/L sucrose, 1.0 pM IBA
     (0.2 mg/L), 4 g/L agar and 1g/L Phytagel, pH 5.8. Once a good root system has
       developed, plantlets are moved into the greenhouse and planted in trays. The
    chromosome doubling occurs in the greenhouse by applying 58 pM oryzalin (from
 product Surflan) to all apical and axillary nodes. Once plants are established and new
      flowers exhibit the presence of pollen confirming restored fertility, they are self
 pollinated and seed is harvested. Further increase can be done in a field isolated from
   any other watermelon plant, or physically isolated in a net cage. The chromosome
  doubling process can also be conducted tissue cultures stage (Zhang, Xingping, B.B.
   Rhodes, H.T. Skorupska and W. Bridges, 1995. Generating tetraploid watermelons
 using colchicine in vitro. In G.E. Lester and J.R. Dunlap (eds) Cucurbitaceae '94 p144
                             147. Gateway Printing, Edinburg, TX).
                                               56

    The above examples clearly illustrate the advantages of the invention. Although the
       present invention has been described with reference to specific details of certain
        embodiments thereof, it is not intended that such details should be regarded as
limitations upon the scope of the claimed invention except as and to the extent that they
                             are included in the accompanying claims.
                                      DEPOSIT INFORMATION
Applicants have made a deposit of at least 2500 seeds of watermelon line SP-7 with the
American Type Culture Collection (ATCC), 10801 University Boulevard, Manassas, Va.,
20110-2209 U.S.A. under ATCC Deposit No PTA-123747 on December 14, 2016. This
deposit of watermelon variety SP-7 will be maintained in the ATCC depository, which is
a public depository, for a period of 30 years, or 5 years after the most recent request, or
 for the effective life of the patent, whichever is longer, and will be replaced if any of the
    deposited seed becomes nonviable during that period. Additionally, Applicants have
        satisfied all the requirements of 37 C.F.R. §§1.801-1.809, including providing an
  indication of the viability of the samples. Access to this deposit will be made available
  during the pendency of this application to the Commissioner upon request. Upon the
issuance of a patent on the variety, the variety will be irrevocably and without restriction
   released to the public by providing access to the deposit of at least 2500 seeds of the
       variety with the ATCC. Applicants impose no restrictions on the availability of the
 deposited material from the ATCC; however, Applicants have no authority to waive any
  restrictions imposed by law on the transfer of biological material or its transportation in
    commerce. Applicants do not waive any infringement of its rights granted under this
             patent or under the Plant Variety Protection Act (7 USC § 2321 et seq.).
The foregoing invention has been described in detail by way of illustration and example
     for purposes of clarity and understanding. However, it will be apparent that certain
         changes and modifications such as single gene modifications and mutations,
 somaclonal variants, variant individuals selected from large populations of the plants of
      the instant cultivar and the like may be practiced within the scope of the invention.
                                                 57

The reference in this specification to any prior publication (or information derived from
        it), or to any matter which is known, is not, and should not be taken as an
 acknowledgment or admission or any form of suggestion that that prior publication (or
     information derived from it) or known matter forms part of the common general
           knowledge in the field of endeavour to which this specification relates.
 Throughout this specification and the claims which follow, unless the context requires
otherwise, the word "comprise", and variations such as "comprises" and "comprising",
will be understood to imply the inclusion of a stated integer or step or group of integers
or steps but not the exclusion of any other integer or step or group of integers or steps.
                                             58

             THE CLAIMS DEFINING THE INVENTION ARE AS FOLLOWS:
1.     A seed of watermelon cultivar SP-7, a representative sample of seed having
been deposited under ATCC Accession No. PTA-123747.
2.     A plant of watermelon cultivar SP-7, a representative sample of seed having
been deposited under ATCC Accession No. PTA-123747.
3.     A watermelon plant, or a part thereof, having all the physiological and
morphological characteristics of the watermelon plant of claim 2.
4.     A seed that produces the plant of claim 3.
5.     A progeny watermelon plant derived from the plant of claim 2, wherein the
progeny watermelon plant comprises at least 90% of the alleles of the plant of claim 2.
6.     A plant part of the plant of claim 2.
7.     The plant part of claim 6, wherein the plant part is a fruit, an F1 seed, a shoot,
pollen, an ovule, an anther, a root, or a cell.
8.     A tissue culture of regenerable cells of the watermelon plant of claim 2.
9.     A watermelon plant regenerated from the tissue culture of claim 8 or a selfed
progeny thereof, wherein said watermelon plant comprises all of the physiological and
morphological characteristics of watermelon line SP-7.
10.    A method of producing watermelon seed, the method comprising crossing the
plant of claim 2 with itself or a second watermelon plant and harvesting the resulting
seed.
11.    An F1 seed produced by the method of claim 10.
                                              59

12.     A watermelon plant, or part thereof, produced by growing the seed of claim 11.
13.     A grafted watermelon plant comprising a rootstock and a scion, wherein the plant
of claim 2 is used as the rootstock and the scion is from a different watermelon plant.
14.     A method of producing a grafted watermelon plant, the method comprising:
        (a)     providing a rootstock from the plant of claim 2; and
        (b)     grafting a scion from a different watermelon plant to the rootstock.
15.     A method of developing a watermelon line in a watermelon plant breeding
program using plant breeding techniques, which include employing a watermelon plant,
or its parts, as a source of plant breeding material, comprising:
        (a)     obtaining the watermelon plant, or its parts, of claim 2 as a source of
                breeding material; and
        (b)     applying plant breeding techniques.
16.     A method for producing a seed of a watermelon plant derived from the
watermelon cultivar SP-7, the method comprising:
        (a)     crossing the plant claim 2 with a different watermelon plant; and
        (b)     allowing seed to form;
        (c)    growing a plant from the seed of step (b) to produce a plant derived from
               watermelon cultivar SP-7;
        (d)     selfing the plant of step (c) or crossing it to a second watermelon plant to
               form additional watermelon seed derived from watermelon cultivar SP-7;
               and
        (e)    optionally repeating steps (c) and (d) one or more times to generate
               further derived watermelon seed from watermelon cultivar SP-7, wherein
                in step (c) a plant is grown from the additional watermelon seed of step (d)
                in place of growing a plant from the seed of step (b).
                                                60

17.    A method of vegetatively propagating watermelon cultivar SP-7, the method
comprising:
       (a)     collecting tissue capable of being propagated from the plant of claim 2;
       (b)     cultivating the tissue to obtain proliferated shoots;
       (c)     rooting the proliferated shoots to obtain rooted plantlets; and
       (d)     optionally, growing plants from the rooted plantlets.
18.    A watermelon plantlet or plant obtained by the method of claim 17, wherein the
watermelon plantlet or plant comprises all of the physiological and morphological
characteristics of watermelon cultivar SP-7.
19.    A method of introducing a desired added trait into watermelon cultivar SP-7, the
method comprising:
       (a)    crossing the plant of claim 2 with a watermelon plant that comprises a
              desired added trait to produce F1 progeny;
       (b)     selecting an F1 progeny that comprises the desired added trait;
       (c)     crossing the selected F1 progeny with watermelon cultivar SP-7 to
               produce backcross progeny;
       (d)     selecting a backcross progeny comprising the desired added trait and; and
       (e)    optionally repeating steps (c) and (d) one or more times to produce a plant
              derived from watermelon cultivar SP-7 comprising a desired added trait
              and essentially all of the physiological and morphological characteristics of
              watermelon cultivar SP-7, wherein in step (c) the selected backcross
               progeny produced in step (d) is used in place of the selected F1 progeny
              of step (b).
20.    A watermelon plant produced by the method of claim 19 or a selfed progeny
thereof, wherein the watermelon plant has the desired added trait.
21.    Seed that produces the plant of claim 20.
                                               61

22.     A method of producing a plant of watermelon cultivar SP-7 comprising a desired
added trait, the method comprising introducing a transgene conferring the desired trait
into the plant of claim 2.
23.     A watermelon plant produced by the method of claim 22 or a selfed progeny
thereof, wherein the watermelon plant comprises the transgene and has the desired
added trait.
24.     Seed that produces the plant of claim 23.
25.     A method of producing triploid, seedless watermelon fruit, wherein the method
comprises:
        (a)     interplanting a diploid watermelon plant according to claim 2 and a triploid
                watermelon plant; and
        (b)     allowing pollination of the triploid watermelon plant by pollen of the diploid
                watermelon plant to obtain triploid, seedless watermelon fruit.
26.     The method according to claim 25, wherein the method further comprises
harvesting the triploid, seedless watermelon fruit.
27.     The method according to claim 25, wherein the step of interplanting the diploid
watermelon plant and the triploid watermelon plant comprises planting seed to produce
the diploid watermelon plant and/or the triploid watermelon plant.
28.      The method according to claim 25, wherein the step of interplanting the diploid
watermelon plant and the triploid watermelon plant comprises planting a diploid
watermelon transplant and/or a triploid watermelon transplant.
29.     A triploid, seedless watermelon fruit produced by the method according to claim
30.     A method of sowing watermelons seeds, the method comprising:
        (a)     providing a mechanical seeder; and
                                                 62

(b) using the mechanical seeder to seed a seeding tray with (i) the seed of
    claim 1, and (ii) triploid watermelon seed.
                                    63

       <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
1/ 3

       <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
2/ 3

       <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
3/ 3

