                                    ABSTRACT
   A connector   assembly,   having an upper connector coupled to a lower
   connector and a gusset plate sandwiched between the upper and lower
   connectors. Also, disclosed is a hoistable connector assembly, a lifting frame
 5 assembly,   a coupling   system   for  modular  frame  units, a method       for
   assembling a module unit using the connector assembly, and a modular
   frame unit and building having the connector assembly.
10

          1/43
 FIG. 1
25
20
           .   0
30
 10
        r        a

                                           - 1
     MODULAR BUILDING UNITS, AND METHODS OF CONSTRUCTING
                              AND TRANSPORTI NG SAME
   CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
 5 [0001]        The disclosure of the complete specification of Australian Patent
   Application No. 2014221181 as originally filed is incorporated herein by
   reference. This application claims the benefit of and priority to US provisional
   applications 61/768,328 filed February 22, 2013, 61/837,451 filed June 20,
   2013, and 61/935,992 filed February 5, 2014, having the title MODULAR
 0 BUILDING UNITS, AND METHODS OF CONSTRUCTING AND TRANSPORTING
   SAME. The content of the above patent applications is hereby expressly
   incorporated herein by reference in into the detailed description thereof.
   FI ELD
   [0002]         The invention relates to a connector assembly, a hoistable
 5 connector assembly using the connector assembly, a lifting frame assembly, a
   coupling system for modular frame units, a jig for forming a modular frame unit
   having the connector assembly, a method for coupling modular frame units
   having the connector assembly, a method of assembling a modular unit having
   the connector assembly and a building having the connector assembly.
 0
   BACKGROUND
   [0003]          It is widely known that prefabricating modular building units
   constructed from standardized components in a controlled factory setting is
   desirable due to the lowered costs and the increased quality which is obtainable
25 in comparison to performing similar work on an outdoor construction job site.
   [0004]        Thus prefabricated modular building units having a floor, walls and
   an overhead structure, and which contain all the systems and furnishings pre
   installed within them are preferred and well known in the art. Building assembly
   systems composed of the means and methods to join two or more modular
30 building units together to form a larger structure are also well known in the art.

                                              - 2
   [0005]          Devices which engage a specially prepared aperture on the upper or
   side surface of the structural frame so as to provide a releasable connection for
   the purpose of lifting and moving the modular building units are well known in
   the art.
 5 [0006]          A limitation to the construction of slender or tall buildings using
   factory-built modules is the inability of economically constructed modules to
   resist and transmit the large moments resulting from wind and seismic forces
   and the large compression loads resulting from the effect of gravity on the
   building and occupants. Further, all of these force types are exaggerated by
 0 narrowness in one or both axes of the building. These effects are greatest in the
   lower floors and rise in proportion to increasing height and slenderness, so
   forces are also largest at the lower floors. It is a characteristic of many modular
   construction systems that the pinned nature of the connections between
   adjacent modules and the lack of diagonal bracing beyond that necessary for
 5 integrity in shipping limits the effectiveness of force transmission through a
   larger assembly of conventional module types.
   [0007]          The state of the art for constructing tall or slender building using
   modules as taught in the art cited herein is to maintain the economies of scale in
   production by either reinforcing the entirety of all modules of which the building
 0 is composed, so all contribute to resisting the forces in a distributed fashion as a
   stack of ocean freight containers do; or to employ large columns which are
   situated within or outside of the walls of all of the modules, creating an alternate
   load path; or to construct an adjoining or interconnected brace frame which by
   passes the modules and transmits the large loads to the ground through the
?5 secondary structure; or to make use of a tension rod or cable which passes
   vertically through the building to anchor the modules against uplift and lateral
   drift. All of the above noted approaches can have limitations in the achievable
   resistance to forces and transmission of forces, or require the erection of an
   additional structure, which in turn can limit the achievable height or increases
30 the amount of material used, therefore increasing the cost.
   [0008]          Additionally, methods of construction which employ large columns,
   particularly when grouped at corners or where occurring at intermediate
   locations within the walls result in larger spaces between modules, and / or walls

                                             - 3
   of increased thickness which reduces the useful floor area of the resulting
   building, and / or projections which limit the free use of the voids and walls for
   the purposes of installing fixtures such as cabinets and shower stalls, and / or
   which imposes other limitations on the use of the space by the inhabitants,
 5 thereby decreasing the value of the resultant building.
   [0009]        Additionally, methods of modular building construction which
   employ secondary frames add to the assembly time for the building, increasing
   the cost and duration of construction and reducing the useful floor area, thereby
   decreasing the value of the resultant building.
 0 [0010]        Creating a multiplicity of dissimilar module types each having
   unique details relative to the forces acting on the module within a building is
   undesirable, as increased variation increases the number of unique components
   which must be measured, cut and inventoried until use. Additionally, setups of
   the manufacturing tooling required to accurately locate these parts relative to
 5 each other for assembly is error-prone and therefor normally executed by skilled
   persons, so any increase in the number of setups adds to both production time
   and cost.
   [0011]         Because the members comprising a networked structure must be of
   nearly identical length, creating the numerous features required to accurately
 0 assemble modules by welding or other means, the subsequent location and
   connection of the subassemblies of which a module is made, the rigging and
   hoisting of the completed modules and the fastening of the modules to form
   structurally sound groupings which provide redundant and adequate load paths
   as currently practiced, requires a number of precision cutting and assembly
?5 operations which increase cost.
   [0012]         It is well known in the art that a moment-connected module frame
   or building frame reduces the need for diagonal reinforcing elements which
   otherwise obstruct the view of the occupants and hinder the installation and
   maintenance of building services. However moment connections which require
30 expansive splice plates as a means of connection require clear access to one or
   more faces of the module, thus increasing the amount of enclosing and finishing
   work which must be completed at the site.

                                             - 4
   [0013]          Some embodiments of a modular building which best suit the site
   conditions, the needs of the occupants and the aesthetic tastes of the architect
   or owner may be composed of module forms having non-orthogonal shapes,
   including tapering, curving, polygonal etc. however existing systems for the
 5 construction of structural modules suited to tall building construction are by
   nature not suited to non-orthogonal shapes.
   [0014]          Varying shapes of modules and the varying location of walls,
   fixtures and other components causes the centre of gravity of modules used to
   construct a building or to furnish a single floor of said building, to vary. To
 0 facilitate placement while reducing the clearances to a minimum it is desirable to
   have the side walls of the modules oriented as closely to perpendicular as
   possible during hoisting. It has been the case that lengthy delays and repeated
   trial lifts are required to effect adjustments of the rigging so as to achieve this
   desirable condition. The time required to make the required changes in turn
 5 increases the total duration of the hoisting operation, thus increasing costs for
   both labour and equipment such as cranes as well as delaying the completion of
   the building.
   [0015]          The requirement to place and inter-connect modules which are not
   accurate increases the amount of space required between modules, which
 0 increases the difficulty of fireproofing the structure and the difficulty of
   interconnecting the members so as to achieve the greatest possible strength as
   well as making integration of modules in to structural groups more difficult and
   wasting space and providing space for the circulation of sound, smoke and
   vermin.
?5 [0016]          The dimensions of a module and the positional disposition of the
   members within it defines the position and size of the outer wall facings, of the
   mechanical services, of the abutting and adjoining modules and of the support
   structures beneath the building and a such there is an interdependent
   relationship between all the elements of which a modular building is composed.
30 [0017]          The present invention can help to address the need for a compact,
   accurate, load-bearing, moment-connected, versatile and complete system of
   interrelated components for the orientation and assembly of module frames,

                                              - 5
   which can facilitate quick and dependable rigging and hoisting of the completed
   modules and can provide for the connection of the modules to each other and to
   other necessary components of the building without the need for excessive
   unfinished areas so as to take full advantage of the structural properties of the
 5 modules and which defines and reduces the number of parts, provides features
   without the need for the fabrication of complex connections in the joining areas,
   excessive precision in the cutting of the required materials, the execution of
   difficult welds in difficult positions and a multiplicity of precision setups.
   [0018]         Specifically, the present invention consists of a system of
 0 components for the fabrication and assembly of building modules and to
   interconnect the modules to form buildings composed of those modules,
   together with a method for the definition of the number, selection and
   articulation of those components to be used in creating a modules suited to a
   specific configuration.
 5 [0019]         The present invention can also help to address the need for a
   system of components and work methods which allow a fabricator to
   economically and safely construct buildings of a wide range of types, from single
   family dwellings to towers of over 20 stories in a plurality of forms, including but
   not limited to orthogonal, tapering, radiating and curving shapes.
 0
   BRI EF DESCRI PTI ON OF THE DRAW NGS
   [0020]         Reference will now be made, by way of example, to the
?5 accompanying drawings which show example embodiments of the present
   application, and in which:
   [0021]         FIG 1 is an exploded isometric view of a typical corner connection
   block;
   [0022]         FIG. 1.1 is a perspective view of a lower corner block;
30 [0023]         FIG. 1.2 is a side view of a lower corner block showing the tapered
   locating coring;

                                              - 6
   [0024]         FIG. 1.3 is a perspective view of an upper corner block;
   [0025]         FIG. 2 is a perspective view of a gusset plate;
   [0026]         FIG 2.1 is a perspective view of a gusset plate joining 4 columns;
   [0027]         FIG 2.2 is a perspective view of a gusset plate joining 2 columns;
 5 [0028]         FIG. 3 is a partial exploded perspective view of a module corner ;
   [0029]         FIG. 3.1 is a partial perspective view of the connection between two
   adjacent stacks of modules;
   [0030]         FIG 3.3 is a vertical section through arms, gusset plate and HSS at
   a connection;
 0 [0031]         FIG 3.4 is an isometric view of the connection between two modules
   in a single stack;
   [0032]         FIG 3.5 is a partial front view of the connection between two
   adjacent stacks of modules;
   [0033]         FIG. 3.6 is a partial side view of the connection between two
 5 modules in a single stack;
   [0034]         FIG. 4 illustrates the resistance to racking of the corner connection
   between two adjacent stacks of modules;
   [0035]         FIG. 5 is an exploded isometric view of a module;
   [0036]         FIG. 5.1 is a partial isometric view of the inside of a module corner
?0 showing the vertical stiffeners and diagonal bracing;
   [0037]         FIG. 5.2 is a group of 3 top section views showing progressive
   alternate embodiments of a reinforced column;
   [0038]         FIG. 5.3 is a group of 6 top section views showing progressive
   alternate embodiments of a reinforced column;
?5 [0039]         FIG. 6 is is an isometric view of a group of 18 modules joined to
   form a building with central hallways on all floors;
   [0040]         FIG. 7 is a side view of a group of modules joined to form a
   building;

                                            - 7
   [0041]        FIG. 7.1 is a front view of a group of modules joined to form a
   building;
   [0042]        FIG. 9 is a transparent perspective view of a hallway slab and an
   end view of the slab installed in a building;
 5 [0043]        FIG. 10 is a partial exploded isometric view of the connection
   between two stacks of modules and the hallway floor at the point of connection
   between two consecutive hallway slabs;
   [0044]        FIG. 11 is a side section view through an extra tall module
   composed of two joined modules;
 0 [0045]        FIG. 15 is an isometric view of two stacked stair tower modules
   with a front view of the mateline in adjacent columns;
   [0046]        FIG. 16 is a partial perspective view of the blind connection of the
   stair at the mateline;
   [0047]        FIG. 17 is a top view of the pin layout of the floor / ceiling layout
 5 and fabricating fixture;
   [0048]        FIG. 17.1 is a partial top view and a partial side view of the floor!
   ceiling layout and fabricating fixture;
   [0049]        FIG. 17.2 is a group of views showing the workpiece location pins
   (left) and two embodiments of the elevation blocks;
?0 [0050]        FIG. 17.3 is a partial top view of the location of the welds between
   typical members (centre) and a view of a single pin with clearances (bottom
   left);
   [0051]        FIG. 19 is a side section view of the hoisting fitting and the body of
   the upper block;
?5 [0052]        FIG. 20 is an isometric view of the hoisting fitting and upper block;
   [0053]        FIG. 21 is an isometric view of the hoisting rig engaged to a
   module;
   [0054]        FIG. 21.1 is an isometric view of a typical sliding hoist point;

                                            - 8
   [0055]        FIG. 22 is a partial end view of the hoisting frame shown engaged
   to a typical module;
   [0056]        FIG. 23 (upper) is a top view showing the effect on the lateral
   centre of gravity of moving the hoist points on the hoist frame (Bottom left) the
 5 combined hoisting point (bottom right) an end view of the shift in CG from
   centre to one side;
   [0057]        FIG. 23.1 is a partial perspective view of one corner of the hoisting
   frame;
   [0058]        FIG 24 is a side view of one of a pair of the rotating module
 0 assembly fixtures required to assemble a module;
   [0059]        FIG 25 is an isometric view of the platen of the device in FIG 24;
   [0060]        FIG. 26 is a partial isometric view of the locating stop rack which is
   part of FIG. 25;
   [0061]        Fig 27 is a section view through a split column;
 5 [0062]        FIG 28 is a section through an extendable mateline gasket;
   [0063]        FIG 29 is an exploded view of the facade system;
   [0064]        FIG. 30 is a partially exploded view of the connection between an
   upper floor module built with reinforced columns and a lower floor module built
   with built-up mega columns;
?0 [0065]        FIG. 31 is a horizontal section of a panelized structure constructed
   with panels framed by built-up mega columns;
   [0066]        FIG. 32 is an exploded vertical view of a stack of modules showing
   the use of gusset plates of varying thickness and number to maintain the correct
   total height and alignment of a stack of modules;
?5 [0067]        FIG. 33 is an exploded horizontal section of a row of modules
   showing the use of shims of varying thickness and number to maintain the
   correct total width and alignment of a row of modules;
   [0068]        Similar reference numerals may have been used in different figures
   to denote similar components.

                                            - 9
   DESCRIPTION OF EXAMPLE EMBODIMENTS
   [0069]        The specification has been subdivided in to a section for each
   component or group of components for convenience in reading.
 5 [0070]        Corner Blocks
   [0071]        The current invention provides upper and lower load-bearing
   connector or blocks which in one embodiment are corner blocks. In a particular
   embodiment, the blocks are substantially quadrilateral and in other
   embodiments have polygonal or asymmetrical shapes. These blocks can be
 0 mass-produced with features that provide a multiplicity of functions so as to
   concentrate the precision operations in a small number and size of objects and
   reduce the amount and complexity of work that must be performed on other
   members. The upper and lower blocks are of distinct forms and located on the
   upper and lower ends of the vertical corner members (columns) of generally
 5 angular, tubular or built-up form, which perform the function of multi-story
   columns when modules so constructed are joined using the features on the
   blocks to form a larger or taller structure.
   [0072]        Likewise other features on the blocks engage the horizontal
   members of the building and perform the function of continuous horizontal
?0 members when modules so constructed are joined to form a larger or wider
   structure.
   [0073]        In a particular embodiment, the blocks have tapering arms
   projecting at a plurality of angles including but not limited to perpendicular to
   the faces of the blocks providing for the location and welding of adjoining
?5 members at a plurality of angles. In a particular embodiment, the present
   invention thus facilitates the fabrication and erection of modules including but
   not limited to orthogonal, tapering, radiating and curving shapes. The threaded
   and unthreaded holes in the arms achieve the positioning of threaded fasteners
   and the vertical walls of the arms provide an increase in the load-bearing

                                            - 10
   capacity and transmission of the compression and tension forces created by the
   forces acting on the building and by the action of the fasteners.
   [0074]        In a particular embodiment, the blocks have holes in both the body
   and the arms for the passage and receiving of bolts with nuts or are threaded to
 5 receive bolts, so as to provide continuity of vertical tension through the columns
   and a moment resisting interconnection between adjacent modules or other
   building structures. The tension resistance resulting from the connection of the
   columns in the vertical plane enables the structure to resist uplift where it occurs
   and produces friction on the gusset plate so as to convey forces to the lateral
 0 members in the horizontal plane with a high level of fixity.
   [0075]        More specifically, during assembly, the surfaces of the arms which
   are closest to the interior surface of the HSS which bears against the gusset
   plate is made tight, with all tolerance being on the opposite end, such that the
   tension imparted by the action of the bolt to the arms compresses the
 5 connecting surfaces and does not crush the HSS.
   [0076]        In a particular embodiment, the bolts are accessible within the wall
   cavity or other such places and can be arranged flush or below the surface such
   that a removable patch can be easily configured to cover the location of the bolt
   and ensure continuity of the fireproofing materials surrounding the load-bearing
?0 structures.
   [0077]        In a particular embodiment, the blocks have projecting features on
   the exterior and interior faces of the block located to provide backing for the
   assembly welding, reducing the structural impact of a weld to a connecting
   member that is cut to short or with an out-of square end or other imperfection
?5 reducing the probability of a worker executing a non-conforming welded
   connection between the corner blocks and the members which are welded to the
   block and a beveled feature so located on the outside of the block located so as
   to reduce the likelihood that a weld will project beyond the surface and conflict
   with an adjoining module.

                                          - 11
   [0078]        The holes in the corner blocks provide a means of connection to tie
   downs and hoisting devices. In a particular embodiment, the upper face of the
   block is prepared with an opening in to which a quick-release connector can be
   inserted so as to provide a means of quickly and dependably connecting and
 5 disconnecting the module to a lifting device.
   [0079]        Gusset Plate
   [0080]        Another component is a plate which is interposed between the
   blocks at the top and bottom ends of columns or groups of columns, which has
   upward-facing tapered locating pins for engaging and directing a descending
 0 module by sliding contact with a corresponding locating recess on the underside
   of a the corner block thus locating the module in the correct position for
   fastening. The plate also provides through holes for use in connecting adjacent
   modules with bolts to provide structural continuity in the horizontal plane both
   during construction and in the completed building and by virtue of its ductility,
 5 for accommodating slight variations in column length so as to ensure a
   continuous load path which bears equally on all members of the column group
   thus formed. As can be appreciated by someone knowledgeable in the art, the
   plate can be shaped to fit between a single vertical column or between two or
   more columns arranged in an orthogonal or other disposition. In a particular
 0 embodiment shims of a similar dimension and prepared with appropriate holes
   are placed in one or both sides of the connection to accommodate for variations
   in the finished dimensions of the modules thus maintaining the correct geometry
   of the modules stack.
   [0081]        Stairwells and elevator shafts
?5 [0082]        The system of the present invention allows for the fabrication of
   modules within which are installed stairs or elevating devices and which separate
   at the mateline between two modules without a significant visual or functional
   disruption.
   [0083]        Overheight modules

                                           - 12
   [0084]         The system of the present invention allows for the fabrication of
   modules which comprise the upper and lower halves of habitable volumes which
   are taller than shipping restrictions will normally allow and which are joined at
   the mateline between two or more stacked modules without a significant visual
 5 or functional disruption.
   [0085]         Hallways
   [0086]         Another group of components of the present invention is a
   structural hallway floor that is made from a suitable material such as reinforced
   concrete, sandwich plate, wood or formed metal together with supporting
 0 pedestals. In a particular embodiment, the slab is composed of reinforced
   concrete with reinforcement bars placed so that features on the support
   pedestals engage them so as to resist bending of the pedestals, thus creating a
   moment connection between stacks of adjacent modules thus connected. The
   pedestals are provided with holes that align with corresponding holes in the
 5 upper and lower corner blocks and serve to connect two parallel stacks of
   modules as well as connecting the adjacent columns within a stack on one side
   so as to create a combined load path. The pedestals and floor slabs may also be
   connected to the sides or ends of a stack of modules on one side of the slab and
   a balcony support frame on the outside to form a building with balconies or
 0 breezeways. The floor slab and pedestal assemblies can also be used as
   convenient carriers for building services such as ducts, pipes and wiring to
   facilitate the fabrication of these components off site in the factory environment.
   [0087]         System of interdependent detailing
   [0088]         The present invention also comprises a pre-determined grid upon
?5 which the dimensioning of the interconnected elements of subject building are
   based together with a system of fixtures which ensure the grid is maintained
   throughout all fabricated assemblies in all axes which ensures an accurate and
   interdependent relationship extending from corner blocks, to members, to
   subassemblies, to modules and to whole buildings in all axes. The dimensioning
30 system thus serves to reduce fractional element and module sizing, to increase

                                            - 13
   the number of common parts and to reduce the difficulty of coordination with
   foundation and podium contractors and which facilitates the work of all internal
   or external suppliers of components to be integrated in the modules so
   fabricated.
 5 [0089]         In a particular embodiment, the system is based on increments of
   no more or no less than two inches in three axes with a centre-to-centre
   accuracy between holes used for fastening of plus or minus 1/32" and an outside
   to outside dimensional accuracy of all mating surfaces of plus 0" minus 1/16".
   [0090]         Fixtures
 0 [0091]         The present invention includes a system for the assembly of the
   module frames which ensures that modules conform to the grid established
   above, and that no part of a module projects beyond the outermost ideal
   dimension, which increases the achievable speed of assembly and accuracy of
   the structure and, eliminates the possibility of additive dimensional drift,
 5 resulting in a reduction in the difficulty of erection, the difficulty of fireproofing,
   the possibility of interconnecting modules with a greater degree of fixity and a
   reduction in wall thickness and wasted space.
   [0 092]        Table fixture
   [0093]         A component of the system of the present invention is an
20 adjustable fixture consisting of a flat table or a flat table mounted on trunions to
   allow pivoting, which is of sufficient thickness and prepared with a grid of holes
   to receive vertical pins so located as to orient the components of a module
   ceiling or floor frame for assembly welding, thus creating module subassemblies
   such as floors, ceilings and walls. The locating holes are laid out so as to ensure
25 that modules conform to the grid established above, which is coordinated with
   other building elements to ensure that the modules thus produced are easily
   assembled in to form a complete module and the complete module can be
   assembled to form a building. The pins are equipped with a system of spacers
   used in ensuring the correct elevation of the components of the assembly so as

                                            - 14
   to produce flush conditions as required for the application of floor or ceiling
   surfaces. The fixture is thus configured to ensure that welding is executed in a
   position ideal for the structural welding and so as to ensure that the completed
   parts do not exceed the tolerance envelope resulting in accumulating tolerance
 5 conditions.
   [0094]         Rotating fixture
   [0095]         Another component of the present invention is an adjustable and
   rotatable fixture which orients a ceiling frame, a floor frame, the corner columns,
   the intermediate columns, the column reinforcements and the diagonal bracing,
 0 all of a plurality of dimensions; relative to each other for assembly welding so as
   to ensure that modules conform to the grid established above ensuring ease in
   the interconnection of modules and so as to ensure that the completed parts do
   not exceed the tolerance envelope and to ensure the parts can be oriented in a
   position ideal for the execution of the structural welds.
 5 [0096]         Quick connect hoisting connector
   [0097]         Another component of the present invention is a releasable and
   compact quick-connector which is employed in the attachment of the hoisting
   apparatus to the module, which is installed in a specially prepared opening in the
   corner blocks, from above, without tools, which is resistant to being accidentally
?0 released and which can be removed without tools. In a particular embodiment,
   the connector is structurally ideal in that the upward-facing bearing surface of
   the toggle and the corresponding downward-facing bearing surface of the
   receiving block and the tension-loaded part of the toggle shaft which conveys
   the load from the bearing surface to the hoisting apparatus are in ideal
?5 proportion so as to maximize the load-bearing capacity of the combined
   elements within the most compact space and while maintaining the dimensional
   limits of the assembly within the top face of the corner block.
   [0098]         Hoisting frame

                                          - 15
   [0099]        Another component of the present invention is a hoisting apparatus
   which is arranged so as to suspend the load in an ideal posture for placement in
   the building, which in a particular embodiment is horizontal and which provides
   for the rapid adjustment of the position of all of the connection points from
 5 which lines pass to the crane hook so as to compensate for differences in the
   centre of gravity which occur in the length of a module. The device described
   also allows for altering the spread between pairs of cables on one side of the
   frame effecting a change in the dependant angle from vertical of the pair of lines
   which pass to the crane hook on one side of the module so as to move the
 0 centre of crane attachment to one side of the long axis of the frame so as to
   compensate for changes in the centre of gravity of loads which occur in the
   width of the module suspended from it.
   [001 00]      Reinforcing members
   [00101]       Further the invention comprise a system of standardized reinforcing
 5 members which connect with each other and with the columns, lateral framing,
   diagonal bracing and corner blocks described herein, eliminating the need for
   case-by-case design and fabrication or customization of reinforcement
   com ponents.
   [00102]       Reinforcement analysis
?0 [00103]       Further, the present invention comprises a work method for
   systematically analysing the forces acting on a building composed of modules,
   defining the optimum location for the application of the standardized reinforcing
   systems, selecting from a list of standardized reinforcements with progressive
   buckling and uplift resistance and thereby incorporating only such
?5 reinforcements as are minimally necessary to strengthen the areas under
   additional stress, without adding unnecessary structural material to more
   locations than required, without significantly disrupting the application of
   fireproofing materials and without requiring additional thickness of the walls of
   the module.

                                            - 16
   [00104]       Built up columns
   [00105]        Further, the present invention comprises a method for the
   fabrication and connection of the outer columns so they form groupings with
   greater resistance to the compressive and tensile forces resulting from the loads
 5 encountered in the construction of tall and / or slender buildings.
   [00106]        Extendable gasket
   [00107]        Further, the present invention comprises a gasket which extends to
   meet another opposed gasket after the module is placed by the action so as to
   prevent damage to the gasket surface during the hoisting and placement
 0 operation
   [00108]       Benefits
   [00109]        Increases height without frame
   [00110]       The system of components and work methods of the present
   invention, by means of involving the whole of the modular building units thus
 5 created and connected, can serve to increase the height of a building which can
   be built without the requirement for a secondary external or internal bracing
   frame, and to increase its useable floor area due to involving a larger portion of
   the members in the structural function and the enhanced fixity of the
   connections, the creation and assurance of multiple and redundant load paths,
?0 the integration of the brace frame in to the module walls and the resulting
   efficient transfer of the external, internal and self-loads imposed on the
   completed building through the adjacent modules and thence to the ground.
   [00111]        Increases height with frame
   [00112]       By reducing the amount of steel required in upper floors and thus
?5 its total weight, this invention also serves to increases the height of a building

                                          - 17
   which is built with the use of a secondary external or internal bracing frame of a
   given size.
   [00113]       Reduces number of unique parts, number of locations and size of
   members
 5 [00114]       By analyzing the loads applied and more efficiently involving more
   of the required members in the structural function the invention also reduces the
   size of members required and limits the number, size and locations where
   unique reinforcement details and the related complexity of the fireproofing is
   required, thereby reducing the cost of such buildings.
 0 [00115]       Reduces requirement for precision
   [00116]       The present invention reduces the precision of the parts which must
   be made by workers in the modular production facility, which reduces the cost of
   the fabrication.
   [00117]       Reduces complex fabrication
 5 [00118]       The present invention concentrates many of the complex features
   required to join members, hoist modules and join modules in a single mass
   produced component, reducing both the complexity and the requirement for
   skilled work necessary to construct a module.
   [00119]       Allows taller and wider
?0 [00120]       Additionally the system allows the building of taller modules
   composed of two stacked frames one of which has openings in the ceiling and
   the other of which has openings in the floor, longer modules due to the
   performance of the bracing and wider modules due to the improved behavior of
   the apertures in the ends, thus providing greater flexibility to designers of
?5 buildings so constructed.

                                           - 18
   [00121]        Reduces wall thickness
   [00122]        By more perfectly distributing the load-bearing components the
   present invention reduces the wall thickness required to accommodate structure
   and services.
 5 [00123]        Reduces site labour for patching
   [00124]        By placing the tension connections within the wall cavity and
   concentrating the connection means in the vicinity of the column, the present
   invention can reduce both the number and the extent of the leave-out areas
   which must be subsequently patched.
 0 [00125]        Eliminates gasket damage during erection
   [00126]        By shipping and erecting the modules with the gasket in retracted
   position and then extending it post-erection, the present invention decreases the
   possibility of damage to the gasket and the attendant reduction in the
   performance of the building envelope.
 5 [00127]        The invention in accordance with an embodiment disclosed in the
   specification will now be described with reference to the accompanying drawings.
   [00128]        FIG. 1 Connector assembly 1 having Upper connector 10 and Lower
   connector 20 shown with gusset plate 30
   [00129]        Figure 1 discloses an embodiment of a connector assembly 1 that is
?0 made up of an upper connector 10, a lower connector 20 and a gusset plate 30
   sandwiched between the upper connector 10 and lower connector 20. The terms
   "upper" and "lower" are relative and can be interchanged.     However, for the
   purpose of describing the connector assembly 1, upper connector 10 refers to
   connector that would typically be positioned at an upper corner or upper end of
?5 a modular frame that can be lifted and positioned on a second (or lower)
   modular frame. While lower connectors 20 refer to connectors positioned on the

                                           - 19
   lower corner or lower end of a modular frame, and that would be closer to
   ground or floor (than the upper connector).
   [00130]       In the embodiment shown, the upper corner connector 10 and
   lower corner connector 20 can be made from hollow castings of steel.      In
 5 addition, the upper connector 10 has an opening at one end (first end 2) that is
   formed for receiving a column, post or other structural unit of a modular frame,
   so that the upper connector can be coupled to an end of the of the first modular
   frame. While the second end 3 of the upper connector 10 is designed to allow
   coupling of the upper connector 10 to the gusset plate 30. The lower connector
 0 20 can also be provided with an opening on both the first end 4 and the second
   end 5; with the first end 4 adapted for coupling to the gusset plate 30, while the
   second end 5 allows coupling to an end or corner of the second modular frame.
   The connectors can have mechanical properties such as tensile strength and
   ductility equal to or greater than mild steel and metallurgical properties such
 5 that the connector can be welded to mild steel with standard practices such as
   structural metal inert gas (MIG) welding.
   [00131]       In a further embodiment, the upper and lower connectors (10, 20)
   each have a hollow body (2, 4), respectively. The upper connector hollow body
   2 and the lower connector hollow body 4 can have a variety of shapes depending
 0 upon the design and application requirements.      However, in the figures, the
   upper and lower connectors (10, 20) have a hollow body (2, 4) that has a shape
   having a square cross-section. Provided on the outer surface of the hollow body
   2 of the upper connector 10 are bosses 6.     Similar bosses 18 are also provided
   on the outer surface of the hollow body (4) of the lower connector 20.
?5 [00132]       The upper connector 10 is provided by at least a pair of arms 11
   that extend from the bosses 18. The lower connector 20 is also provided with at
   least a pair of arms 11 that extend from the bosses 18. In the embodiment
   shown, the arms 11 extend normally from the surface of the bosses 18. In
   addition, the arms 11 are positioned to be perpendicular to each other, i.e., one
30 arm extends at nearly 900 to the second arm.      However, the position of the
   arms 11 can be varied depending upon the design and application requirements,

                                          - 20
   and the arms 11 can be present at angles less than or greater than 900. The
   arms 11 on the upper connector 10 can be provided with apertures 12 that can
   be used for coupling of the upper or lower connector to the connector assembly
   1.
 5 [00133]        In one embodiment, the central hollow bodies (2, 4) are 4" square
   to accept a 4" x 4" Hollow Structural Section (HSS). In another embodiment, the
   central hollow bodies (2, 4) are 6" square to accept a 6" x 6" HSS.   Connectors
   10 and 20 have adequate thickness for the intended function and details such as
   draft angles and uniformity of sections which facilitate casting. In a particular
 0 embodiment, the casting are drilled and surfaces milled to an accuracy of +0
   0.010 inches as measured between centres of the apertures 12 and the locating
   surfaces of the arms 11, or other tolerances as may be convenient. In another
   embodiment, the connector is made by assembling one or more of rolled
   sections, flat or brake-formed plate by welding or mechanical means. In a
 5 further embodiment, the part is made by casting non-ferrous, plastic,
   cementitious or any other suitable material. In another embodiment, the
   portions of the blocks to which the columns and arms will be connected can have
   features to locate the HSS and facilitate welding.
   [00134]        The connector assembly 1 can be formed by sandwiching the gusset
 0 plate 30 between the upper connector 10 and lower connector 20. The gusset
   plate 30 shown has two faces, where the first face can be in contact with lower
   connector 20 and the second face can be contact with the upper connector 10.
   In addition, the gusset plate 30 is provided with through holes 31, which align
   with apertures 12 on the upper connector 10 and lower connector 20, allowing
25 fastening of the connectors (10, 20) using fastening means. The fastening
   means is not particularly limited, and can include nut and bolts, screws.
   [00135]        FIG. 1.1 Lower connector 20
   [00136]        The lower corner connector has bosses 18 which provide location to
   the longitudinal and transverse members of the module frame and backing for
30 the assembly welds. In the embodiment shown, the edges of the hollow body of

                                           - 21
   the upper and lower connectors have beveled edges. Bevels 19 provide a
   location for the exterior surface of the weld bead which allows the weld to lie
   flush and eliminates the need to bevel the connected member. The outer faces
   of lower connector 20 can have a plurality of holes (or bores) 21 which are
 5 threaded or unthreaded as required by circumstances for use in the connection
   of column groups, hallway slabs, fixtures, hoisting means or other useful
   features through the use of bolts, pins, clips, joining plates or other fastening
   means. In another embodiment, the connector 20 is taller and additional holes
   are provided for the use of additional fasteners or the addition of additional
 0 bracing or other features. In another embodiment, the connector 20 is more or
   less than 4-sided and not quadrilateral, but rather has trapezoidal, parallelogram
   or other shapes so as to facilitate the production of round, curving, tapering,
   star-shaped or other building forms.
   [00137]        The lower connector 20 has arms 11 with holes (or apertures) 12
 5 for the passage of tension bolts 25 which pass through gusset plate 30 to secure
   the module vertically and provide a continuous tension and moment connection
   which passes loads through the connection between the stacked columns and
   the horizontal beams. In a further embodiment, these arms project
   perpendicular to the surface, in another embodiment they have tapered sides 22
 0 so as to permit the connection of members at an angle and in another
   embodiment the whole of the arms projects at an angle.
   [00138]        FIG. 1.2 Lower connector 20
   [00139]        In one embodiment, the connector 20 has dimensions as shown in
   Figure 1.2. As described by the hidden lines the bottom face has an opening the
25 sides of which are perpendicular or tapered in relation to the bottom face 23. A
   plurality of these openings on a module having a radial relationship to the
   module centre receive corresponding tapering locating pin 33 in the gusset
   plates 30 below, thus locating the module on top of the module below and in the
   correct position for connection.
30 [00140]        FIG. 1.3 Upper connector 10

                                            - 22
   [00141]         The upper corner connector 10 has bosses 18 which provide
   location to the longitudinal and transverse members of the module frame and
   backing for the assembly welds. Similar to the lower connector 20,         in the
   embodiment shown, the edges of the hollow body of the upper and lower
 5 connectors have beveled edges. Bevels 19 provide a location for the exterior
   weld bead which allows the weld to lie flush and eliminates the need to bevel the
   connected member. The outer faces of block 10 have a plurality of holes (or
   bores) 21 which are threaded or unthreaded as required by circumstances for
   use in the connection of column groups, hallway slabs, or other useful features
 0 through the use of bolts, pins, clips, joining plates or other fastening means. In
   another embodiment the block is taller and additional holes are provided for the
   use of additional fasteners or the addition of additional bracing or other features.
   In another embodiment the block is more or less than 4-sided and not
   quadrilateral, but rather has trapezoidal, parallelogram or other shapes so as to
 5 facilitate the production of round, curving, tapering, star-shaped or other
   building forms. In a further embodiment these arms project perpendicular to the
   surface, in another embodiment they have tapered sides 22 so as to permit the
   connection of members at an angle and in another embodiment the whole of the
   arms projects at an angle.
 0 [00142]         In another further embodiment, the upper connector 10 has arms
   11 with threaded holes (or second aperture) 12 closest to the body of the block
   for the receipt of tension bolts 25 and threaded holes (or first aperture) 13 most
   distant from the block for the receipt of gusset plate screws 34. In a particular
   embodiment these arms project perpendicular to the surface, in another
?5 embodiment they have tapered sides 22 so as to permit the connection of
   members at an angle and in another embodiment the whole of the arms projects
   at an angle.
   [00143]         The top face of the block has T-shaped hole 14, which engages with
   steel lifting fitting 15 shown in FIG. 19 and 20, and as described herein.
30 [00144]         FIG. 2 Gusset plate 30

                                            - 23
   [00145]        In one embodiment, the gusset plate 30 is cut from steel plate or
   other material having adequate thickness and mechanical properties for the
   intended function. In a further embodiment, it is 3/8" thick. The gusset plate has
   through holes 31, countersunk holes 32 and locating pins 33. Flathead screws 34
 5 passed through holes 32 and threaded in to holes 13 in upper connector 10
   accurately unite adjacent columns and thus whole modules. The ductility of plate
   30 in the vertical plane ensures that the column groups are acting together to
   sustain large loads. The precision of the location of holes 32 for the flathead
   screws and the corresponding holes in the connectors ensures module-to-module
 0 tolerances are maintained and controlled.
   [00146]       The gusset plate 30 can be sized to fit on top of 1, 2, 3, 4 or more
   columns providing equivalent vertical separation in all locations and forming
   groups of 2, 3, 4 or more modules. As shown in Fig. 2.1 which discloses an
   embodiment of a gusset plate joining 4 modules, while Fig. 2.2 discloses a
 5 gusset plate 30 joining 2 modules. In the embodiment of the gusset plate 30
   shown in Fig. 2.2, the plate is provided with a projecting edge for support of an
   adjacent component, as disclosed further herein.
   [00147]        FIG. 3 Assembly of a module
   [00148]       To create the floor frame of a module, longitudinal floor beam 41
?0 and lateral floor beam 42 are cut to length and provided with holes 43 which
   generally correspond with but do not interfere with the locations of the holes in
   arms 11 on the connector 10. In a particular embodiment, these beams are 3" x
   8" HSS for the perimeter and 3" x 6" HSS for the infill members. Because the
   locating and welding fixture (Fig. 17), described herein, positions the pre
?5 machined connecting blocks and defines the hole locations and their locations
   relative to each other, provides the exterior dimensions of the assembly, the
   fixture ensures that modules made using the fixture conform to the established
   grid previously described. In addition, the features on the blocks ensure that the
   beams do not require beveling on the edges of the ends and the cutting to
30 length operation is not critical in either length or squareness. The beams are

                                           - 24
   slipped over the corresponding arms 11 on the lower corner connector 20 and
   welded in the manner previously described.
   [00149]       A person skilled in the art should recognize that the assembly of the
   ceiling follows a similar process using members of an appropriate size placed in
 5 the same fixture. In a particular embodiment, these are 3" x 3" HSS for the
   perimeter with 2" x 2" HSS for the infill members. Thus both top and bottom
   frames capture the outer dimensions of the same fixture and are coordinated.
   [00150]       A suitable material 44 such as fibre-cement board, or steel sheet
   deck and concrete toping, or steel-composite sheet decking is applied to the top
 0 face of the floor beams of the module floor thus built, and fastened
   appropriately, or concrete or other material is filled between the framing so as to
   support occupant loads and provide the necessary diaphragm action to the
   module and in turn to a building composed of modules. Similarly, material such
   as drywall or fire-proof board and insulation of a variety of types depending on
 5 conditions is applied to the surfaces of the framing and boards and in voids in
   walls and ceilings to provide a variety of functions such as privacy to the
   occupants, to provide fireproofing to the structure and to limit the transmission
   of sound.
   [00151]        FIG 3.1, 3.4, 3.5, 3.6 Vertical connection of modules to form a
?0 moment-resistant structure
   [00152]       As previously described, lower connector tube 41 has an oversize
   holes 43 which communicates with the hole in arms 22 through which pass
   tension bolts 25 which thread in to the threaded hole in the top face of arm 11
   on upper block 10 inside upper wall framing tube 45, trapping and clamping
?5 gusset plate 30 and transferring vertical tension loads through the connection.
   [00153]       As tension bolts 25 are threaded to the correct torque value in to
   the female threads in hole 12 of the of arm 11 on upper connector 20 of the
   module below, the tension created pulls the upper and lower frame tubes and
   the gusset plate together so as to establish the continuous moment action

                                            - 25
   (25.1)which passes from column to column through the connection thus formed
   and is prevented from rotating in the vertical plane by the adjacent frame tubes,
   especially the deeper members which comprise the floor frame. The racking
   action which is a feature of all buildings subjected to wind, earthquake and other
 5 loads is thus reduced. In a particular embodiment, bolts 25 are composed of
   high-strength steel such as Grade 8 such that the combination of the tensile
   strength and the number of bolts is sufficient to resist the wind or seismic
   induced uplift on the structure thus connected.
   [00154]        FIG. 5 Exploded view of typical frame
 0 [00155]        Floor frame 40 is connected to ceiling frame 47 by corner columns
   50 and intermediate columns 51 which in a particular embodiment are
   substantially perpendicular to the floor and ceiling frames and welded in place.
   In another embodiment the connections between the upper and lower horizontal
   members and the intermediate vertical columns 48 is constructed with an
 5 intermediate connector 49 similar in form to the connectors described in FIG. 1.1
   and 1.3. but having opposed arms. In another embodiment the columns are of
   various lengths and mitred to fit against each other or against the blocks such
   that a plurality of angular relationships between the ceiling and floor is realized.
   [0 0156]       FIG. 5.1 View of sidewall bracing
20 [00157]        If the loads acting on the module are sufficiently large to warrant
   the addition of diagonal reinforcement, the rigidifying and diagonal bracing
   system shown in FIG 5.1 is installed. The diagonal reinforcing system consists of
   vertical reinforcing bars 60, which in a particular embodiment are of the form
   and installed in the location shown in FIG. 5.1 or of the forms and locations of
25 other particular embodiments as shown in FIG 5.2a or 5.2b. Diagonal bars 61
   are welded or bolted to these members or in the case of lighter structures
   having smaller loads they are welded directly to the vertical or horizontal frame
   members or both. The module thus formed when connected to other modules by
   the moment-resistant corner connection as described in FIG. 4 creates a
30 moment and tension resistant structure which transmits the loads throughout

                                            - 26
   itself in all axes. In a particular embodiment, the bars are diagonally opposed,
   %" in section and function in tension. In another they are diagonally opposed, of
   1" x 3" in section and function in tension. In another they are single, of 3" x 4"
   HSS or other dimension and function in both tension and compression as suited
 5 to the loads they are to resist.
   [00158]         FIG. 5.2a and 5.2b Vertical stiffeners
   [00159]         Figure 5.2a and 5.2b are sequentially arranged figures showing
   progressive means of reinforcing columns against buckling and uplift starting
   with the weakest at the top and ending with the strongest at the bottom.
 0 [00160]         As shown in FIG 5.2a and FIG 5.2b vertical stiffening and increasing
   of the cross section of the columns so as to increase load-bearing capacity and
   resistance to buckling and bending without increasing the thickness of the wall
   or introducing a separate brace frame is achieved by any of the means shown
   and applied in a progressive manner as warranted by loads and cost: Increasing
 5 wall thickness, filling the columns with grout, adding fins to the corners,
   grouping sections, using larger sections and grouping those sections. The
   particular embodiment is the approach which adds least to the thickness of the
   walls, especially where columns are grouped or are located in the centres of
   walls or where useful space would be obstructed.
?0 [00161]         FIG. 6 View of a small building
   [00162]         Modules fabricated as described in FIG. 3 are typically connected to
   form larger structures as shown. In a particular embodiment, a central hallway
   90 is present and can provide access to the module ends for fastening, for
   completing the interconnection of mechanical services and for the use of the
?5 occupants in accessing their units.
   [00163]         FIG. 7 Side view of a small building

                                            - 27
   [00164]        A side view of a typical structure with a centrally-located hallway 76
   is shown, together with the diagonal bracing 60 described in FIG. 5.1.
   [00165]        FIG. 7.1 Front view of a small building
   [00166]        A front view of a typical structure is shown.
 5 [00167]        FIG. 9 View of hallway floor system
   [001 68]       A section of floor is shown consisting of concrete slab 70, with
   reinforcing bars 71 and supported by pedestals 72 which are prevented from
   rotating by being bolted to connector blocks 10 and 20 by means of holes 74
   creating a moment connection; and prevented from pulling out of the concrete
 0 by shear studs 73 which engage the concrete and the reinforcing bars. In a
   particular embodiment, the pedestals span vertically over upper and lower
   corner connectors and are bolted to them adding to the fixity of the vertical
   connection between columns. In another particular embodiment the slab is long
   enough that the pedestals span over two or more adjacent modules, adding to
 5 the fixity of the horizontal diaphragm action.
   [00169]        In another particular embodiment, the hallway slab is composed of
   formed plate, or any other suitable material such as wood or steel-urethane
   sandwich plate or composites.
   [00170]        In a particular embodiment the hallway is used as a convenient
?0 support and carrier for common services such as electrical or liquid supply lines
   75 which are typically found in buildings and thus provides a means to pre
   fabricate these elements, transport them to the building site and hoist them in to
   place without additional handling.
   [00171]        In an embodiment shown in Fig. 9, the pedestal 72 are in contact
?5 and positioned on the gusset plate 30. The gusset plate 30 used extends
   beyond the module frame to provide a surface for placing the pedestals 72 for
   supporting the slab.

                                           - 28
   [00172]        FIG. 10 Exploded isometric view of connections to hallway floor
   system
   [00173]       When installed as described for use as the floor of a hallway
   between two stacks of modules separated by a suitable space, the structure thus
 5 formed unites the adjacent stacks with a moment resistant connection, such that
   the hallway floor structure increases the resistance of the entire building to
   lateral loads, thereby reducing both the number and size of diagonal
   reinforcement required.
   [00174]        In another particular embodiment the hallway slab structure is
 0 connected to the outer face of a stack of modules and supported by a column
   grid or diagonal tension braces or diagonal struts to provide a breezeway or
   balcony. In the embodiment shown in Fig. 10, the pedestals 72 of the hallway
   70 are each provided with a pair of holes 74. The first set of holes 74 in the
   pedestal that are positioned closer to the floor 70 can be coupled to the lower
 5 connector 20 in the upper modular frame. While the second set of holes 74 in
   the pedestal that are positioned away from the floor 70 can be coupled to the
   upper connector 10 in a lower modular frame. Consequently, in the embodiment
   shown in Fig 10, the pedestals are not positioned on the gusset plate 30, which
   lack the extension shown in Fig. 9.
20 [00175]        FIG. 11 Double height modules
   [00176]       When it is desirable to create spaces which are taller than one piece
   shipment by road will allow modules are joined using bolts through the
   horizontal frame members. FIG. 11 shows an open-topped module 80 joined to
   an open-bottomed module 81 using bolts 83. Diagonal bracing 82 is configured
25 to provide the continuous diagonal bracing action required.
   [00177]        FIG. 15 Stair tower showing mateline
   [001 78]      Stairs and stair stringers 150 and doors 151 are shown factory
   installed in consecutive module frames 152 and 153 which are prepared for

                                               - 29
   connection on site with the system of gusset plates and corner connectors
   previously described.
   [00179]        FIG. 16 Invisible splice in stair stringers
   [001 80]      The riser is split horizontally on the same plane as the module
 5 within which it is installed. So as to minimize the visual impact of the horizontal
   mateline between modules, the stairs are joined by hidden plates 154 on the
   inside faces of the stringers 155 under and behind the treads 156 and risers
   157.
   [00181]        FIG. 17 Floor, ceiling and wall assembly fixture
 0 [001 82]       Floors, ceilings, infill walls and other structures as required are built
   in fixture 100 so as to ensure vertical alignment and regularity of features. The
   use of the fixture ensures that modules conform to the established grid
   previously described.
   [00183]        FIG. 17.1, Fixture, jig pins and jig pin locations
 5 [001 84]      To position the members of a module floor for welding, perimeter
   beams 40 and 41 are passed over the arms of connector 20 as the assembly is
   placed in fixture 100 which locates the block in locator 105 in contact with
   buttons 102 which contact the centres of the two outer vertical faces and lower
   face of the connector and thus maintains perpendicularity of the connector and
?0 can help to establish the outside dimensions of the module so as to prevent
   accumulation of error, or maintain any other geometric relationship as may be
   desirable. The outer face of the perimeter beams are located by means of
   contact with the sides of pins 101 which are not stepped and the inside faces are
   located by contact with stepped pins 101.1 which are stepped so as to allow for
?5 the small variations which occur in the production of sections and ensure that no
   part of the assembly exceeds the tolerance envelope. The intermediate floor
   beams 42 are placed in accordance with the pre-defined grid established by

                                             - 30
   contact with stepped pins 101.1 which can in this instance be used on both sides
   of the member so located.
   [001 85]       A floor assembly is complete by welding the perimeter beams and
   intermediate beams to the corner connectors and to each other.
 5 [00186]        FIG. 17.2 Elevating blocks
   [001 87]       If it is not convenient to assemble the frame in an inverted position,
   or if steps in the floor height are required, the members are elevated using
   variable-height spacers 103 sized and selected as required to orient the top
   faces correctly. In another embodiment the spacers are cut from HSS in the
 0 form shown in 104 and placed loosely over the pins.
   [00188]        FIG 17.3 Jig clearances
   [001 89]       The beams are welded in place exploiting the clearances provided
   by the position of the pins, positioned horizontally by the sides of the pins and
   elevated by the spacers.
 5 [00190]        FIG. 19 and 20 Hoistable connector assembly
   [00191]        Figure 19 discloses an embodiment of a hoistable connector
   assembly that can be used for connection and hoisting of a modular frame that
   has an upper connector 10, as described herein.
   [00192]        As previously described, the top face of the upper corner connector
?0 10 can have a T-shaped hole (or opening) 14, which engages with a "T"-shaped
   engaging means on the body 15 of the lifting device. In the embodiment shown,
   the body of the lifting device has a T-shaped end that can be inserted into the T
   shaped opening in the connector 10. In a further embodiment, as shown in the
   figures, the lifting device is provided with a block 16, which is coupled to the
?5 body of the lifting device. The block 16 can move from a first disengaged
   position to a second engaged position.      The first disengaged position (as shown

                                             - 31
   in Fig 19) allows the T-shaped end to be inserted or removed from the T-shaped
   opening in the connector 10. While in the second engaged position, the block 16
   slides into the T-shaped opening (see arrow in Fig. 19 that shows the sliding
   direction of the block 16), and prevents removal of the T-shaped end from the
 5 connector 10 and locking the connection in place.
   [00193]       To connect the lifting frame to the module to be lifted, block 16 is
   raised to clear the lifting feature on body 15 and the feature introduced in to the
   slot then moved sideways (see arrow present inside connector in Fig. 19). Once
   engaged in hole 14, the fitting is locked in place by the action of gravity which
 0 causes block 16 to slide downward between guides 17 so as to occupy the wider
   entry portion of the slot, thus preventing backward movement and accidental
   releases of the lifting fitting. Block 16 is held to the face of the body 15 by a
   retainer 15.1 running freely in recess 18 which is fastened to stand off 19 which
   moves vertically in slot 19.1. The relatively delicate features of the block retainer
 5 are thus flush with the surface so as to prevent damage by inadvertent contact
   during handling. So as to prevent fouling by the rising chain or cable, block 16
   is manipulated using a finger inserted in depression 20 in the surface of block. In
   another particular embodiment the block is pressed in to the entry slot
   independently of the effect of gravity by a supplementary spring interposed
 0 between the top surface of the standoff 18 and the underside of the slot 19. In
   another embodiment a sensor is positioned so as to detect the proper position of
   the locking block in the lifting slot. A signal thus generated is transmitted to the
   controls of the equipment or to the operator so as to prevent lifting of the load if
   the lifting device is not fully and properly engaged.
?5 [00194]         As shown in Fig. 20, the distal end (distal from the T-shaped end)
   can be provided with a hole, which can be used for coupling and lifting the
   hoistable connector assembly.
   [00195]        FIG. 21 and 23.1 Liftable frame assembly
   [00196]       A lifting frame is provided for the reduction of the compression
30 loads on the module frame members attributable to the pyramidal displacement

                                             - 32
   of the lifting lines, and to provide a means to accurately level the modules
   during all phases of the lift and irrespective of the length of line passing upward
   to the crane, so as to facilitate placement of the modules without inadvertent
   contact which can damage frames, seals, insulation and finishes.
 5 [00197]        Beams 80 are joined by struts 81 through flanges 82 using bolts.
   Eight sliding hoist points 83 are provided which slide on beams 80 and are
   prevented from moving when locked in place using locking pins 84 in rows of
   holes 85. Load-bearing cables 86 pass upwards and converge on master hoisting
   fitting 87 shown in FIG. 23.
 0 [00198]        In the embodiment shown in Fig. 21, the beam 80 can be an I
   beam that has an upper end and a lower end. A first set of four hoist blocks 83
   are provided on the upper end of the beam 80 and a second set of hoist blocks
   83 are provided on the lower end of the beam 80. The hoist blocks 83 are
   coupled to the beam and can move (for instance by sliding the hoist block) from
 5 a first position to a second position, as may be required for lifting a frame. The
   I-beam can also be provided with a plurality of holes near the first and second
   ends, which allows affixing of the hoist blocks 83 in place on the I-beam by use
   of fasteners, such as bolts and nuts.
   [00199]        The first set of hoist blocks 83 present on the upper end (or first
?0 end) of the I-beam are attached to load bearing cables 86, which are attached to
   a master hoisting fitting 87 shown in Fig. 23. The lifting frame structure be
   balanced to reduce load on any particular portion of the modular frame by
   moving the hoist blocks 83 on the I-beam 80, and fastening the hoist blocks 83
   in a different position.
?5 [00200]        FIG. 22 Hoisting rigging
   [00201]        Fig 22 shows a side view of a portion of the liftable frame assembly
   of Fig. 21.   The hoistable connector assembly 15 is connected by shackle 88 to
   chain or wire rope 89 which is connected by another shackle to the lower portion

                                            - 33
   of a typical sliding hoist point 83 located on the lower end of a lifting frame 80.
   Locking pin or pins 84 prevent movement of the sliding blocks.
   [00202]        FIG 23 Hoisting geometry
   [00203]        In preparation for hoisting a module, the centre of gravity of the
 5 module is determined by the use of a computer program capable of calculating
   the centre of gravity based on the recorded weights and positions of the masses
   which comprise the module as represented in a computer model, or iteratively
   by one or more trial lifts. The data thus gathered is recorded and provided with
   the module. A table is prepared using a computer program or trigonometry
 0 which specifies the hole locations to be used to adjust the combined centre of
   gravity of the module and hoisting frame system to level the module to be
   hoisted. Prior to connecting the hoisting frame to the module, the table is
   consulted and the sliding blocks are located and locked in place in the stated
   positions.
 5 [00204]        To move the centre of gravity of the system along the long axis of
   the system, hoist points 83 are moved as a group towards the centre of gravity
   of the load, maintaining an equidistant (quadrilateral) arrangement. To move the
   centre of gravity sideways, 88, at right angles to the long axis of the system, the
   hoist points 83 on one side only of the beams 80 are brought together or spread
?0 apart so as to increase or decrease the angle between them thus changing the
   angular relationship between the hoisting lines passing upwards to common
   hoisting point 87.
   [00205]        In another embodiment the hoist points are moved independently
   to achieve other desirable objectives, such as equalizing the load on the slings or
?5 to tilt the load intentionally.
   [00206]        In another embodiment the frame is composed of a single beam, in
   another embodiment the frame is not quadrilateral but triangular, polygonal or
   any other shape as may be convenient for the purpose of best supporting and
   balancing the load.

                                            - 34
   [00207]        FIG. 21.1 View of a single sliding block with fabrication details
   [00208]        Fig. 21.1 discloses an embodiment of a hoist block in accordance
   with the invention.    The hoist block can be made of a block having a T-shaped
   channel extending from one face to another face of the block, and having an
 5 opening on an upper end of the block. The opening on the upper end extends to
   the T-shaped opening in the block. The block also has a first flange extending
   upwardly from the upper face of the block and a second flange extending from
   the lower end of the block. Each flange is provided with an opening for coupling
   the block. In a particular embodiment, the block is machined from solid steel or
 0 cast or fabricated from another suitable material. In another particular
   embodiment, the block is welded from plate as shown.
   [00209]        FIG. 24 Module assembly fixture
   [00210]        To assemble a complete module frame, the completed floor is
   placed in the stops on the platens of two opposed and mirror imaged powered
 5 rotatable fixture 120 (FIG 24, 25, 26). Tower 121 moves on rollers 122 which
   are equipped with flanges so as to locate accurately and squarely on track
   122.1. A pin through a bracket on the base of tower 121 engages a row of holes
   adjacent to track 122.1 so as to ensure consistency with the defined dimensional
   grid previously described. Slewing bearing 124 supports platen 125 and allows
20 the platen to rotate so as to position the work in the ideal posture for assembly
   and welding. An identical structure is located on the same track and opposes the
   structure shown and supports the opposite end of the frame.
   [00211]        FIG. 25 Platen and FIG. 26 Movable stop racks
   [00212]        Platen 125 has two or more movable stop racks 126 mounted to its
25 vertical face, to which are mounted side work supports 127 and top / bottom
   work supports 128 (FIG. 26) which locate to the outer and lower and outer and
   upper faces of the corresponding corner connectors in the same orientation as
   the fixture in which it was built. The holes in the work supports match the holes
   in the corresponding connectors thus ensuring that modules built in the fixture

                                           - 35
   will interconnnect with the corresponding components built in this and other
   fixtures.
   [00213]       Column 50 is slipped over the locating projections on lower corner
   connector 20 if present or oriented proximally if not, and restrained by clamps
 5 121 (not shown) which act against column support bars 122. Then corner
   connectors 10 located at the corners of the upper frame assembly are placed
   upon the top end of the columns and located by the upper and outer faces of the
   corner blocks, then the intermediate vertical tubes 51 are placed in the
   intermediate clamp-on receivers (not shown) and restrained with additional
 0 clamps 130 (not shown). The locating projections on the interior outer faces of
   the column support bars combined with the clamps prevent the frame
   components from moving during assembly welding which proceeds in an ideal
   position as facilitated by the rotation of the fixture.
   [00214]       The fixture is equipped with a plurality of frame width defining holes
 5 131 and frame height defining holes 132 so as to facilitate accurate and rapid
   adjustment of the jig for the production of modules of varying shapes and in
   logical increments and which ensure that the parts thus constructed coordinate
   with other components constructed in accordance with the scheme of the
   present invention.
?0 [00215]       Fig 27 is a section view through a split column
   [00216]       Fig 27 discloses a particular embodiment of a shared structural
   column.    A built-up "C" section 152 spanning the height of the module is bolted
   in multiple locations with bolts 153 to a similar section 151 forming a column
   which is twice as wide thus providing greater resistance to buckling forces.
?5 Baseplate 156 which occurs at both the top and bottom forms a transition to
   lighter columns 154 or heavier columns as appropriate depending on the loads.
   Diagonal braces 150 as required are connected to the extended web of column
   151. A removeable section of fire-proof wall board 155 is provided for access to
   the bolts during erection of the structure.

                                           - 36
   [00217]       FIG 28 is a section through an extendable mateline gasket
   [00218]       A particular embodiment of an extendable mateline gasket is
   shown. Molded or extruded elastic material 168 with multiple sealing features is
   fastened to channel 166, which slides in gasket 167 which is fastened to the
 5 inner surface of channel 169 and is extended by captive screw 164 travelling in
   threaded socket 165 and actuated by rotating head 163. The assembly is
   mounted to support channel 160 which can be of any convenient depth to which
   is fastened acoustic and fire-resistant material 170. Access to operate the gasket
   advancing screw is through cover 161 which can, in a particular embodiment, be
 0 decorative and fastened in a removable manner.
   [00219]       To form a seal between a first modular unit with a second modular
   unit, the modular units are each provided with a channel 166. In the
   embodiment shown, a gasket 167 is present in the channel 160, along with a
   toothed connector 168. The toothed connector has a profile that is
 5 complementary to the toothed profile in the channel in the second modular unit.
   In a particular embodiment, the gasket 167 allows movement of the toothed
   connector 168 in one direction only, which is away from the modular frame.
   This can be achieved by, for instance, providing angled tabs that extend from a
   surface of the toothed connector and corresponding receptacles in the gasket
 0 167 for receiving the tabs. Once the tabs are inserted into the receptacles, the
   gasket is locked in place and can prevent the toothed connector from moving
   back into the channel 160.
   [00220]       Initially, the two modular units are brought in contact with each
   other and the channels aligned. The toothed connector in the second modular
?5 frame can be present in an extended position, where it extends beyond the
   mateline of the two modular frames and also beyond the cavity of the channel
   160. Once in place, the toothed connector in the first channel can be extended
   from a disengaged position, where the toothed connector is positioned within the
   cavity of the channel to an engaged position, where it extends outside the cavity
30 of the channel and the teeth of the toothed connector in the first modular frame

                                            - 37
   engage and align with the complementary teeth of the toothed connector in the
   second modular frame.
   [00221]        FIG 29 is an exploded view of the facade system
   [00222]        A particular embodiment of a facade system for modular
 5 construction is shown together with the associated structural frame. The
   structural frame 171 with moment blocks 181 is fireproofed with insulating board
   layer 172 and decked with flooring board 182 and is shown supported by one
   half of progressively reinforced split column 179 connected to the adjacent
   column (not shown) using bolts inserted in holes 183. Spacer frame 173 is
 0 acoustically and fire insulated with board layer 178 and is provided with holes
   177 to access gasket extension screws 164 (FIG 28). Fagade infill and gasket
   mounting frame 175 is equipped with gasket assembly 176 and faced with
   exterior wall panel 174. The transition to a built up structural column 179 with
   slip-critical bolting 183 is shown.
 5 [00223]        Figure 30 is an exploded view of the vertical transition at a shared
   structural column
   [00224]        A particular embodiment of both halves of a shared structural
   column at the point of transition to a lighter column is shown. Built up "C"
   sections 152 are bolted to one another to form an "I" section. The members of
20 structural frame 171 are welded to the "C" channels in lieu of the moment blocks
   in the frames where the "C" sections are used. Moment block 181 rests on
   combined shiming and gusset plate 30 (greater detail can be found in figure 2)
   which is in turn fastened to the top end of columns 152. Fagade framing 173 is
   fastened to the face of the assembly in a manner similar to Fig.29
25 [00225]        Figure 31 is a horizontal section of a structural panelized facade
   system
   [00226]        A particular embodiment of a structural facade system for a
   modular building is shown. Built up sections 152 are joined in the manner

                                           - 38
   previously described by headers top and bottom to form assemblies with window
   units 190, but unlike the volumetric modules previously described, the facade
   units are shipped and erected separate from the floors and interior walls. Beams
   191 support floor slabs 178. Fireproof covering 178 insulates the steel structure.
 5 Fagade panel 50 provides insulation and appearance. As someone skilled in the
   art will appreciate, 45 degree split corner column 192 performs a similar function
   at a 90 degree outside corner. In another particular embodiment the angle of
   the split corner column is greater than or less than 45 degrees so as to facilitate
   the construction of structures with variable geometry.
 0 [00227]       Figure 32 is a simplified exploded view of a vertical stack of
   modules
   [00228]       As previously described, upper corner connector 10 is joined to
   lower corner connector 20 by bolts passing through gusset plate 30. In a
   particular embodiment, gusset plate 30 is provided in a variety of thicknesses
 5 which can be selected during assembly of the building and interposed in the
   connection as required to compensate for variations in the dimensions of the
   modules, such that the total dimension of the stack of modules conforms to the
   correct value as measured at 195. In another particular embodiment, a partial
   plate 192 is provided with the corresponding hole pattern and in a variety of
 0 thicknesses to compensate for differences in the dimensions of adjacent
   modules.
   [0 0229]      Figure 33 is a simplified exploded view of a horizontal row of
   modules
   [00230]       As previously described, built up "C" section columns composed of
?5 two halves 152 are bolted together to join adjacent modules and to form a
   larger section. In a particular embodiment, shim 178 is provided in a variety of
   thicknesses and with pre-cut holes for the passage of connecting bolts. During
   assembly of the building the appropriate shim can be selected and interposed in
   the connection as required to compensate for variations in the accumulated
30 horizontal dimension of the modules as measured at 196.

                                       - 39
[00231]      Certain adaptations and modifications of the described
embodiments can be made. Therefore, the above discussed embodiments are
considered to be illustrative and not restrictive.

                                            - 40
    WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
    1.   A connector assembly, comprising an upper connector coupled to a lower
         connector and a gusset plate sandwiched between the upper and lower
         connectors,
  5      the lower connector comprising:
                 a lower connector hollow body having lower connector first and
         second ends, the first end being adapted for receiving a first end of a first
         module frame and the second end being adapted for coupling to the
         gusset plate;
  0              at least a pair of lower connector bosses coupled to the lower
         connector hollow body; and
                 at least a pair of lower connector arms, each lower connector arm
         being coupled to and extending from the lower connector boss and having
         an aperture for receiving a fastening means to couple the lower connector
  5      to the upper connector;
         the upper connector comprising:
                 an upper connector hollow body having upper connector first and
         second ends, the first end being adapted for coupling to the gusset plate
         and the second end being adapted for receiving a first end of a second
..0      module frame;
                 at least a pair of upper connector bosses coupled to the upper
         connector hollow body; and
                 at least a pair of upper connector arms, each upper connector arm
         being coupled to and extending from the upper connector boss and having
25       first and second apertures, the first aperture adapted for receiving a
         coupling means to couple the upper connector to the gusset plate and the
         second aperture adapted for receiving the fastening means to couple the
         lower connector to the upper connector; and
         the gusset plate comprising:
30               a first face, a second face and through holes for receiving the

                                       - 41
      coupling and fastening means to couple the upper and lower connectors.
   2. The connector assembly according to claim 1, further comprising a
      locating pin positioned on the first face of the gusset plate for engaging
      the second end of the lower connector hollow body for positioning the
 5    second connector on the gusset plate.
   3. The connector assembly according to claim 1 or 2, wherein the lower
      connector hollow body and/or the upper connector hollow body have one
      or more bores adapted for receiving affixing means.
   4. The connector assembly according to any one of claims 1 to 3, wherein
 0    the upper connector hollow body has a generally T-shaped opening at the
      first end of the body.
   5. The connector assembly according to any one of claims 1 to 4, wherein
      the hollow body of the upper and lower connector has beveled edges for
      cooperatively engaging a frame structure.
 5 6. The connector assembly according to any one of claims 1 to 5, wherein
      the lower connector hollow body and the upper connector hollow body
      have a square shaped cross-section.
   7. A hoistable connector assembly, comprising a connector and a lifting
      device detachably attachable to the connector,
-0    the connector comprising a hollow body having a generally T-shaped
      opening at a first end of the hollow body; and
      the lifting device comprising a lifting device body having a generally T
      shaped engaging means on an engaging end of the lifting device for
      engaging the T-shaped opening and slidably moveable from a first
25    disengaging position to a second engaging position in the T-shaped
      opening, and a block coupled to the lifting device body and slidably
      moveable from a first disengaged position to a second engaged position,
      wherein the block in the second engaged position engages the T-shaped
      opening with the T-shaped engaging means in the second position and
30    preventing movement of the T-shaped engaging means to the first
      position.

                                          - 42
   8.  The hoistable connector assembly according to claim 7, having a hole at a
       distal end of the lifting device body and adapted for receiving means for
       lifting the lifting connector assembly.
   9.  The hoistable connector assembly according to claim 7 or 8, further
 5     comprising a guide for guiding slidable movement of the block from the
       first disengaged position to the second engaged position.
   10. The hoistable connector assembly according to any one of claims 7 to 9,
       wherein the connector is the upper connector defined in any one of claims
       1 to 6.
 0 11. A liftable frame assembly, comprising:
       at least a pair of beams having an upper end and a lower end;
       struts coupled to the at least pair of beams forming a liftable frame
       structure;
       a plurality of first hoist blocks releasably affixed to the upper ends of the
 5     beams and slidably moveable from a first position to a second position on
       the beams when released;
       load bearing cables coupled to the plurality of first hoist blocks;
       a plurality of second hoist blocks releasably affixed to the lower end of the
       beams and slidably moveable from the first position to the second position
20     of the beams when released; and
       a lifting connector assembly coupled to the plurality of second hoist blocks
       on one end of the lifting connector assembly and to a modular frame unit
       on another end of the lifting connector assembly.
   12. The liftable frame assembly according to claim 11, wherein the beams
25     have apertures adapted for affixing the hoist blocks to the beam.
   13. The liftable frame assembly according to claim 11 or 12, wherein the
       liftable connector is as defined in any one of claims 7 to 10.
   14. The liftable frame assembly according to any one of claims 11 to 13,
       wherein the liftable connector is coupled to the connector assembly as
30     defined in any one of claims 1 to 6, and wherein the connector assembly

                                       - 43
       is attached to a modular frame unit.
   15. A system of modular frame units for forming a modular building,
       com prising:
       - a first module frame unit having a first end coupled to a lower
 5     connector;
       - a second module frame unit having a first end coupled to an upper
       connector; and
       - the upper and lower connected being coupled and sandwiching a gusset
       plate,
 0     wherein the upper connector, lower connector and gusset plate are as
       defined in any one of claims 1 to 6.
   16. A system for coupling adjacent modular frame units for forming a modular
       building, comprising:
       - a first module frame unit having a first module frame unit first end
 5     coupled to a first module frame unit connector;
       - a second module frame unit positioned adjacent to the first module
       frame unit and having a second module frame unit first end having a
       second module frame unit connector; and
       - a floor section having pedestals coupled to a slab, the pedestals having
20     an opening adapted for coupling the pedestals to the first and second
       module frame unit connectors; and
       wherein the first and second module frame unit connectors are one of the
       upper or lower connectors defined in any one of claims 1 to 6, and having
       a bore in the hollow body adapted for receiving and coupling the
25     pedestals.
   17. A system for vertically and horizontally joining modular frame units for
       forming a modular building, comprising the system as defined in claims 15
       and 16.
   18. A method for coupling modular frame units for forming a modular
30     building, comprising:

                                          - 44
       - coupling a lower connector to a first end of first module frame unit;
       - coupling an upper connector to a first end of second module frame unit;
       and
       - sandwiching a gusset plate and coupling the upper and lower connectors
 5     to form modular frame units, wherein the upper connector, lower
       connector and gusset plate are as defined in any one of claims 1 to 6.
   19. A method for assembling a module unit, comprising:
       - coupling components of one end of the module unit to a first adjustable
       fixture, the first adjustable fixture having a grid establishing dimensions of
 0     the one end of the module unit;
       - coupling components of a second end of the module unit to a second
       adjustable fixture, the second adjustable fixture having a grid establishing
       dimensions of the second end of the module unit; and
       - coupling the one end of the module to the second end of the module to
 5     form the module unit.
   20. A method for fabrication and connection of outer columns of modular
       frames, the columns having a generally C-shaped cross-section having a
       face and arms extending from the face, the method comprising:
       - coupling a face of a column of a first module unit to a column of a
20     second module and having arms of the first column extending away from
       arms of the second column.
   21. The method of claim 20, wherein the first column is fastened to the
       second column using fasteners.
   22. A method of sealing a first modular unit to a second modular unit or
25     frame, the first modular unit and the second modular unit or frame each
       having a channel, the channel in the first modular unit having an
       extendable alignment and coupling means positioned therein for engaging
       a complementary alignment and coupling means positioned in the channel
       of the second modular unit or frame, the method comprising:
30     - engaging the first modular unit to the second modular unit or frame;

                                         - 45
       - aligning the channel in the first modular unit with the channel in the
       second modular unit or frame; and
       - extending the extendable alignment and coupling means from a
       disengaged position to an engaged position to engage and couple the
 5     complementary alignment and coupling means.
   23. The method of claim 22, wherein the complementary alignment and
       coupling means is also extendable from a disengaged position to an
       engaged position in the channel of the second modular unit or frame.
   24. The method of claim 22 or 23, wherein the extendable alignment and
 0     coupling means comprises:
       - a support bracket positioned in the channel in the first modular unit; and
       - an actuator coupled to the support bracket and adapted for actuating a
       toothed connector from the disengaged position to the engaged position.
   25. A module frame unit comprising the upper connector and the lower
 5     connector as defined in any one of claims 1 to 6.
   26. A building comprising the module frame unit of claim 25 or the connector
       assembly as defined in any one of claims 1 to 6.
   27. Ajig system for forming a floor, ceiling or wall assembly, the jig system
       com prising:
20     a frame having a plurality of locator blocks positioned on the frame for
       defining the perimeter edges of the assembly, each of the locator blocks
       being adapted for coupling to a connector of the assembly;
       a plurality of buttons positioned proximate to the locator blocks and
       adapted for engaging and ensuring proper alignment of the connector of
25     the assembly; and
       a plurality of pins adapted for contacting a plurality of perimeter beams of
       the assembly for defining the perimeter of the assembly.
   28. The jig system of claim 27, further comprising a plurality of intermediate
       pins positioned to define a grid for positioning intermediate beams of the
30     assem bly.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
