ABSTRACT
Provided in one embodiment is an herbal composition for the prevention or treatment of
disorders of the prostate, for example, benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH), prostatitis, and
prostatic intraepithelial neoplasia, and for overactive bladder (OAB), urinary incontinence (UI),
nocturia, poor urinary stream, and straining to urinate associated with these prostate disorders.
Specifically one embodiment provides compositions that contain Crateva nurvala, Equisetum
arvense, Lindera aggregata,and Serenoa repens, and methods of use thereof.
                                                  1

HERBAL COMPOSITIONS FOR THE PREVENTION OR TREATMENT OF BENIGN
                PROSTATIC HYPERPLASIA AND RELATED DISORDERS
                      CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
[0001] This application is a divisional of Australian Application No. 2013245319, filed April 1,
2013, and claims the benefit, under 35 U.S.C. § 119(e), of U.S. Provisional Ser. No. 61/619106,
filed April 2, 2012, the entire contents of which are hereby incorporated herein by reference.
[0002] All publications, patents, and patent applications cited in this Specification are hereby
incorporated by reference in their entirety.
                                            BACKGROUND
[0003] The prostate is a male reproductive gland. Benign Prostate Hypertrophy (BPH) or
prostate enlargement is a condition of aging. According to the National Institutes of Health
(NIH), BPH affects more than 50% of men over the age of 60 and as many as 90% of men over
the age of 70. The increase in size of the prostate gland that occurs with BPH exerts pressure on
the urethra, resulting in obstruction and difficulty with urine flow.
[0004] The exact cause of BPH is uncertain. It is possible that the condition is associated with
hormonal changes that occur as men age. The testes produce the hormone testosterone, which is
converted to dihydrotestosterone (DHT) and estradiol (estrogen) in certain tissues. High levels
of dihydrotestosterone, a testosterone derivative involved in prostate growth, may accumulate
and cause hypertrophy. How and why levels of DHT increase remain a subject of research.
However, approaches to block 5 alpha reductase and therefore the conversion of testosterone to
DHT (dihydrotestosterone) are shown to be effective in treating BPH.
[0005] The symptoms of BPH result from the impact the prostate enlargement has on the
bladder and lower urinary tract. Common symptoms include dribbling after voiding; feeling
that the bladder has not emptied completely after urination; frequent urination, particularly at
night (i.e., nocturia); a hesitant, interrupted, or weak urine stream caused by decreased force;
leakage of urine (i.e., overflow incontinence); the need for pushing or straining to begin
                                                    1

urination; recurrent, sudden, urgent need to urinate; irritated bladder or urethra; blood in the
urine (i.e., hematuria), caused by straining to void.
[00061     Prostatitis is a term that describes inflammatory conditions of the prostate gland.
Bacterial infections are the cause in many cases, but evidence of infection is not always
found. Prostatitis can affect men of any age and it is estimated that 50% of men experience
the disorder during their lifetime. Prostatitis is the most common urological disorder in men
over the age of 50 years old and the third most common disorder in men younger than 50
years old. There are four types of prostatitis: acute bacterial prostatitis (ABP) is
inflammation of the prostate gland caused by bacteria such as Escherichiacoli and
Klebsiella; chronic bacterial prostatitis (CBP) is a recurrent infection and inflammation of the
prostate and urinary tract; nonbacterial prostatitis is an inflamed prostate without bacterial
infection: and prostatodynia, sometimes called chronic pelvic pain syndrome (CPPS), is the
occurrence of prostatitis symptoms, without inflammation or bacterial infection.
[00071     Prostatic intraepithelial neoplasia (PIN) has been identified as a precursor lesion to
prostatic carcinoma. PIN refers to the precancerous end of a morphologic spectrum involving
cellular proliferation within prostatic ducts, ductules, and acini. Bostwick and Brawer
introduced the term PIN in 1987. At an international conference in 1989, the term PIN
replaced a variety of terms (e.g., intraductal hyperplasia, hyperplasia with malignant change,
large acinar atyical hvnernlasia, marked atyia, ductal-acinar dysplasia). The frequency of
PIN in men with prostate cancer is significantly higher than in those without cancer. PIN
appears to precede cancer by more than 10 years, with a parallel age-related increase in the
frequency of PIN and cancer. PIN has been found in 9% of men in the second decade of life,
22% of men in the third decade, and 40% of men in the fourth decade. By the time men
reach age 80 years old, the prevalence of PIN is 7 0 %.
[00081     Symptoms of the above prostate disorders are similar. Common symptoms are
urinary and include dribbling after voiding: feeling that the bladder has not emptied
completely after urination frequent urination, particularly at night (i.e., nocturia); hesitant,
interrupted, or weak urine stream caused by decreased force; leakage of urine (i.e., overflow
incontinence); pushing or straining to begin urination; recurrent, sudden, urgent need to
urinate: and blood in the urine (i.e., hematuria) caused by straining to void.
                                                    2

[00091     There are two main classes of drugs that are prescribed for treating prostate
disorders: alpha-blockers and 5-alpha-reductase inhibitors.
[00101     Alpha-blockers relax the smooth muscles of the arteries, the prostate, and the
bladder neck. Relaxing the smooth muscles around the bladder neck helps relieve urinary
obstruction. While alpha-blockers help alleviate some of the symptoms, this drug does not
cure BPH. There are several different alpha-blockers. Currently, these are alfuzosin (Xatral),
doxazosin (Cardura), indoramin (Doralese), prazosin (Hyovase), terazosin (Hytrin BPH),
and tamsulosin (Flomax MR). Side effects can include headaches, dizziness, low blood
pressure, fatigue, weakness, and difficulty breathing. Long-term risks and benefits have not
been studied.
[00111     5-Alpha-reductase inhibitors inhibit the production of the enzyme that converts
testosterone to DHT. Thus, 5-alpha-reductase inhibitors are able to reverse BPH to some
extent and shrink the prostate. Side effects include reduced libido, impotence, problems with
ejaculation, breast tenderness and enlargement, and reduced sperm count. Long-term risks
and benefits have not been studied. Safety of 5 alpha reductase inhibitors is a concern for
pregnant women who may be exposed to broken capsules, and patients on this medication
should stop for 6 months before donating blood.
[0012]     Surgery is also an option for relief of symptoms of BPH and prostatitis and is
recommended for patients who experience serious complications, and has the most
complications including urinary incontinence, overactive bladder and a possible worsening of
urinary symptoms as well as impotence, retrograde ejaculation (dry climax), and possibly
sterility. Prostatectomy complications include incontinence and impotence.
[00131     Natural therapies may be used to treat prostate disorders. Saw palmetto (i.e..
Serenoa repens) acts as a 5-alpha-reductase inhibitor reducing the production of DHT and
also preventing DHT from binding to the prostate. Schneider et al., Fortschr. Med. 113: 37
40 (1995); Kock and Biber, Urologe 334: 90-95 (1994). Side effects include mild digestive
distress as well as some of the side effects associated with the 5-alpha-reductase inhibiting
drug medications, such as mild pruritis, headache, hypertension, erectile dysfunction,
eiaculatory disorders, and decreased libido. Pygeum (Pygeum africanum) contains three
compounds that may help the prostate: pentacyclic triterpenoids, which have a diuretic
                                                  3

action; phytosterols, which have anti-inflammatory activity; and ferulic esters, which help rid
the prostate of any cholesterol deposits that accompany BPH. Andro and Riffaud, Curr. Ther.
Res. 56: 796-817 (1995). Stinging nettles (Urtica dioica) can also reduce BPH symptoms
and may increase urinary volume and the maximum flow rate of urine in men with early
stage BPH. Kock and Biber, Urologe 334:90-95 (1994). Side effects include digestive
distress.
[00141    All of the mentioned treatment options for prostate disorders have some associated
side effects. Pharmaceutical drug and herbal treatment options commonly do not completely
resolve symptoms of urinary incontinence and overactive bladder that may be associated with
the disorders. The bladder and urethra are significantly impacted by BPH, contributing to
long term weakness in this area and resultant impaired bladder tone and function.
[0015]    There is currently a need for new compositions for the prevention and treatment of
prostate disorders with emphasis not just on the prostate but also on the bladder and its
associated symptoms, including overactive bladder (OAB), nocturia, poor urinary stream and
urinary incontinence (UI). There is a need for these new compositions without many of the
unwanted side effects. There is also a need for these improvements in prostate and bladder
symptoms to occur within a shorter time frame of weeks rather than many months.
                                          SUMMARY
[0016]    One embodiment described herein is related to herbal compositions for the
prevention or treatment of disorders of the prostate, for example, enlarged prostate or benign
prostatic hyperplasia (hereinafter, "BPH"), prostatitis, prostatic intraepithelial neoplasia, and
the symptoms of BPH, including overactive bladder (OAB), nocturia, poor urinary stream
and urinary incontinence (UI) and straining to urinate. The herb-containing compositions
provide herein can be formulated in a dry delivery system, liquid delivery system, or a
controlled-release vehicle. In one embodiment, the herb-containing compositions are
formulated as oral dosage units which include a tablet; dry powder; capsule; and caplet.
[0017]    One embodiment provides an herb-containing composition, comprising (i) a Crateva
nurvala extract preparation; (ii) an Equisetum arvense extract preparation; (iii) a Lindera
aggregataextract preparation; and (iv) a Serenoa repens extract preparation; wherein the
herb-containing composition is formulated as an oral dosage unit.
                                                4

[0018]    An alternative embodiment provides an herb-containing composition, comprising:
(i) a Crateva nurvala extract preparation present; (ii) an Equisetum arvense extract
preparation; (iii) a Lindera aggregataextract preparation; and (iv) a Serenoa repens extract
preparation; wherein the herb-containing composition is formulated as an oral dosage unit,
and wherein the Equisetum arvense stem extract preparation and the Lindera aggregataroot
extract preparation are present at the same concentration.
[0019]    An effective daily amount of each herb ranges from about 1 g to 18 g Crateva
nurvala, about 750 mg to 12 g Equisetum arvense, about 750 mg to 12 g Lindera aggregata,
and about 1 g to 18 g Serenoa repens. In an alternative embodiment, an effective daily
amount of each herb ranges from about 3 g to 12 g Crateva nurvala, about 1.5 g to 6 g
Equisetum arvense, about 1.5 g to 6 g Lindera aggregata,and about 2 g to 12 g Serenoa
repens. In another alternative embodiment, an effective daily amount of each herb ranges
from about 4 g to 8 g Crateva nurvala, about 2 g to 4 g Equisetum arvense, about 2 g to 4 g
Lindera aggregata,and about 3 g to 8 g Serenoa repens. In another alternative embodiment,
an effective daily amount of each herb contains about 6 g Crateva nurvala, about 3 g
Equisetum arvense, about 3 g Lindera aggregata,and about 6 g Serenoa repens.
[0020]    In an alternative embodiment, the effective daily amount is taken in two equivalent
doses. For example, in one embodiment, each doses contains about 3 g Crateva nurvala,
about 1.5 g Equisetum arvense, about 1.5 g Lindera aggregata,and about 3 g Serenoa
repens.
[0021]    In another alternative embodiment, the effective daily amount is taken in three
equivalent doses. For example, in one embodiment, each dose contains about 2 g Crateva
nurvala, about 1 g Equisetum arvense, about 1 g Lindera aggregata,and about 3.2 g Serenoa
repens.
[0022]    An alternative embodiment provides an herb-containing composition with at least
one of the herbal components as a standardized preparation. In an alternative embodiment,
the herb-containing composition has two of the herbal components as standardized
preparations. In another embodiment, the herb-containing composition has three of the
herbal components as standardized preparations. In another embodiment, all four herbal
                                               5

components of the herb-containing composition (Crateva nurvala, Equisetum arvense,
Lindera aggregata,and Serenoa repens) are standardized preparations.
[0023]    An alternative embodiment provides a kit for the prevention or treatment of the
symptoms of urinary incontinence or overactive bladder comprising Crateva nurvala,
Equisetum arvense, Lindera aggregata,and Serenoa repens, each separately in the form of a
tablet. In an alternative embodiment, two, three, or four herbs are combined in a single tablet.
In an alternative embodiment, the kit comprises sufficient tablets for the prevention or
treatment of the symptoms of BPH in a subject for 30 days. In alternative embodiments, the
kit comprises sufficient tablets for the prevention or treatment of the symptoms of BPH in a
subject for 7, 14, 21, or 28 days. In another alternative embodiments, the kit comprises a
sufficient number of tablets for the prevention or treatment of the symptoms of BPH in a
subject for 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 9, or 12 months.
[0024]    Another embodiment provides a method for the prevention or treatment of the
symptoms of BPH. The method comprises administering an herb-containing composition to
a subject in need thereof, the herb-containing composition comprising: (i) a Crateva nurvala
stem/bark extract preparation; (ii) an Equisetum arvense stem extract preparation; (iii) a
Lindera aggregataroot extract preparation; and (iv) a Serenoa repens leaf/berry extract
preparation; wherein the herb-containing composition is formulated as an oral dosage unit.
                           BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0025]    The invention will be more fully understood by reference to the following drawings,
which are for illustrative purposes only:
[0026]    FIG. 1 is a histogram graph showing the Average Urinary Frequency (per day) in a
participant population during clinical assessment in one embodiment
[0027]    FIG. 2 is a histogram graph showing the frequency that a participant population
experienced the symptoms of nocturia (per night) during clinical assessment in one
embodiment.
[0028]    FIG. 3 is a histogram graph showing the average International Prostate Symptom
Scores (IPSS) in a participant population in one embodiment.
                                                 6

[0029]     FIG. 4 is a histogram showing the Urinary Distress Index (UDI) by percent affected
in one embodiment.
[0030]     FIG. 5 is a histogram graph showing the effects of Prorox@ vs a blend of herbs
containing saw palmetto upon percentage (%) reduction in total IPSS scores in a participant
population in one embodiment.
                                    DETAILED DESCRIPTION
[0031]     It is to be appreciated that certain aspects, modes, embodiments, variations and
features of the invention are described below in various levels of detail in order to provide a
substantial understanding of the present invention. In general, such disclosure provides
beneficial herb-containing compositions, combinations of such compositions with other
dietary supplement compositions, and related methods of producing and using the same.
[0032]     Accordingly, the various aspects of the present invention relate to therapeutic or
prophylactic uses of certain particular herb-based compositions in order to prevent or treat a
disease, injury or condition related to BPH. Accordingly, various particular embodiments
that illustrate these aspects follow.
[0033]     It is to be appreciated that the various modes of treatment or prevention of medical
conditions as described are intended to mean "substantial", which includes total but also less
than total treatment or prevention, and wherein some biologically or medically relevant result
is achieved.
[0034]     A "subject" as described in some embodiments herein can be a mammal, such as a
human, but can also be an animal, such as domestic animals (e.g., dogs, cats and the like),
farm animals (e.g., cows, sheep, pigs, horses and the like), and laboratory animals (e.g., rats,
mice, guinea pigs and the like).
[0035]     An "effective amount" of a composition as described in some embodiments herein
can be a quantity sufficient to achieve a desired therapeutic and/or prophylactic effect, for
example, an amount which results in the prevention of, or a decrease in the symptoms
associated with, a disease that is being treated. The amount of composition administered to
the subject, particularly one in need of the composition, can depend on the type and severity
of the disease and on the characteristics of the individual, such as general health, age, sex,
                                                   7

body weight and tolerance to drugs. It can also depend on the degree, severity and type of
disease. A skilled artisan will be able to determine appropriate dosages depending on these
and other factors. Typically, an effective amount of the compositions described herein can be
sufficient for achieving a therapeutic or prophylactic effect.
[0036]     In some embodiments, it can be advantageous to formulate oral compositions in a
dosage unit form for ease of administration and uniformity of dosage. Dosage unit forms
described in some embodiments can refer to physically discrete units suited as unitary
dosages for the subject to be treated; each unit containing a predetermined quantity of active
composition calculated to produce the desired therapeutic effect in association with the
suitable pharmaceutical carrier. The specification for the dosage unit forms provided in one
embodiment may be dictated by and directly dependent on the characteristics of the dietary
supplement and the particular therapeutic effect to be achieved, and the limitations inherent in
the art of producing such an active composition for the treatment of individuals. The
pharmaceutical compositions can be included in a container, pack, or dispenser, together with
instructions for administration. Generally, in some embodiments an oral dose is taken two
times to four-times daily, until symptom relief is apparent. The compositions provided herein
can also be administered in combination with each other, or with one or more additional
therapeutic compositions.
Herbal Ingredients
[0037]     Crateva nurvala (or "C. nurvala") is a moderate-sized tree attaining a height of over
15 meters; it is named after cratevas (Krateuas), a Greek naturalist and physician of the first
Century B.C. Common throughout India, the much-branched tree with a head of glossy
trifoliate leaves looks very majestic when in full bloom from March to May (earlier in the
South). The bark of the tree is reported to be used as a demulcent, antipyretic, sedative,
alterative and tonic.
[0038]     Equisetum arvense (or "E. arvense") (botanical synonyms and common names
include, for example, Horsetail; Shave-grass; Bottle-brush; Paddock-pipes; Dutch Rushes;
Pewterwort; Shavegrass; Pewterwort; Bottlebrush; Horsetail rush; Paddock-pipes; Dutch
rushes; Mare's tail) is a European herb that grows in moist waste places throughout temperate
regions of the world and is cultivated in Yugoslavia. This perennial plant is common to
                                                8

moist loamy or sandy soil all over North America and Eurasia. Compared to the other herbs
in the plant kingdom, horsetail is very rich in silicon. Equisetum is used medicinally. The
sterile stems are harvested in summer and dried. The barren stems are useful as medicine,
appearing after the fruiting stems have died down, and are used in their entirety, cut off just
above the root. The herb is used either fresh or dried, but can be most efficacious when fresh
in one embodiment. A fluid extract is prepared from it. The ashes of the plant are also
employed.
[0039]     Lindera aggregata(or "L. aggregata")(botanical synonyms and common names
include Lindera strychnifolia, Japanese evergreen spicebush, Chinese allspice, Evergreen
Lindera, Kosterm, Uyaku (Japanese), Oyak (Korean)) is a Chinese herb grown in locations
including Zhejiang, Hunan, Anhui, Guangdong, and Guangxi. (Bensky and Gamble). Lindera
is an evergreen Shrub growing to 9 m (29 ft 6 in). The flowers are dioecious (i.e., individual
flowers are either male or female, but only one sex is to be found on any one plant so both
male and female plants must be grown if seed is needed). The plant is not self-fertile. The
plant tends to prefer light (sandy), medium (loamy) and heavy (clay) soils, preferring moist
soil. The plant tends to prefer acid and neutral soils and can grow in very acid soils and in
semi-shade (light woodland). It can be harvested in winter or spring (Bensky and Gamble).
The root and leaves are used therapeutically.
[0040]     Serenoa repens (botanical synonyms and common names include Serenoa serrulata,
Sabal serrulata,Sabal, Sabalfructus, Zwegpalme, and saw palmetto (Mills and Bone, 2000).
Saw palmetto is a member of the Palmae (palm) family and is native to the southern eastern
area of North America. The leaves are palmate, without a continuing rib and are divided into
lance-shaped linear-lanceolate leaflets.
[0041]     The petiole has a sharp spiny edge that can cut clothing or legs, hence the name
"saw" and the palmetto is derived from the plants palm-like appearance. The fruit, a one
seeded, dark brown, olive-like mesocarp drupe, also known as the berry, is used medicinally.
Liposterolic extracts are commonly used therapeutically; however, extracts and tinctures are
also documented as having therapeutic benefits.
[0042]     Herbs are useful in various forms, for example, as a homogenized mixture obtained
by grinding or chopping an herb. The herbs are optionally subjected to processing such as
                                                 9

extractions, for example by obtaining a filtrate by filtering or a supernatant by centrifugation.
Known methods are readily used to extract a leaf, root, seed, stem, bark etc as appropriate. In
certain embodiments, extracts that contain purified active ingredients are prepared. An
isolated active ingredient is an ingredient purified from C. nurvala, E. arvense, L. aggregata,
or S. repens, that has activity to control (i.e., typically reduce) the symptoms of BPH in a
subject. Administration or use of an isolated active ingredient of another herb of the
compositions herein, is considered to be a use or administration of the herb itself. The
inventor has identified certain compounds in the herbs above without wishing to be bound by
theory about compounds and metabolites in the herbs and mechanisms of how the herbs in
the compositions herein control the symptoms of BPH.
[0043]    In one embodiment, the C. nurvala herb preparation can be extracted from the stem
and/or bark of the plant, and the preparation is present at a concentration at least about
3,000 mg dry weight equivalents per oral dosage unit. That is, the starting material is
3,000 mg of C. nurvala dry stem/bark. This starting material is eventually concentrated
during the manufacturing process to a ratio ("extract ratio") of at least about 10 (i.e., 10:1),
such as at least about 20, such as at least about 25, such as at least about 30, such as at least
about 35, such as at least about 40. In one embodiment, the ratio is between about 25 and
about 35. As an illustrative example, a ratio of 10 would be equivalent to 300 mg of
C. nurvala preparation. Accordingly, 300 mg of C. nurvala stem/bark preparation (which is
concentrated) is equivalent to 3,000 mg dry weight of C. nurvala stem/bark or 3,000 mg of
C. nurvala dry stem/bark starting material. In one embodiment, the C. nurvala herb
preparation is derived from the stem and/or bark parts of the C. nurvala herb, i.e., a
C. nurvala stem/bark extract preparation.
[0044]    The E. arvense herb preparation can be extracted from the stem of the plant, and the
preparation is present at a concentration of at least about 1,500 mg dry weight equivalents per
oral dosage unit. That is, the starting material is 1,500 mg of E. arvense herb. This starting
material is eventually concentrated during the manufacturing process to an extract ratio of at
least about 5, such as at least about 8, such as at least about 10, such as at least about 15. As
an illustrative example, a ratio of 4 or 5 would be equivalent to 375 mg or 300 mg,
respectively, of E. arvense herb preparation. Thus, in the case of a concentration ratio of 5,
for example, 300 mg of E. arvense herb preparation (which is concentrated) is equivalent to
                                                   10

1,500 mg dry weight of E. arvense herb or 1,500 mg of E. arvense dry herb starting material.
In one embodiment, the E. arvense herb preparation is derived from the stem parts of the
E. arvense herb, i.e., a E. arvense stem extract preparation.
[0045]     The L. aggregataherb preparation can be extracted from the stem of the plant, and
the preparation is present at a concentration of at least about 1,500 mg dry weight equivalents
per oral dosage unit. That is, the starting material is 1,500 mg of L. aggregataherb. This
starting material is eventually concentrated during the manufacturing process to an extract
ratio of at least about 5, such as at least about 8, such as at least about 10, such as at least
about 15. As an illustrative example, a ratio of 4 or 5 would be equivalent to 375 mg or
300 mg, respectively, of L. aggregata herb preparation. Thus, in the case of a concentration
ratio of 5, for example, 300 mg of L. aggregataherb preparation (which is concentrated) is
equivalent to 1,500 mg dry weight of L. aggregataherb or 1,500 mg of L. aggregatadry herb
starting material. In one embodiment, the L. aggregata herb preparation is derived from the
root parts of the L. aggregataherb, i.e., a L. aggregataroot extract preparation.
[0046]     In one embodiment, the S. repens herb preparation can be extracted from the leaf
and/or berry of the plant, and the preparation is present at a concentration at least about
3,200 mg of S. repens dry leaves and/or berries. This starting material is eventually
concentrated during the manufacturing process to an extract ratio of at least about 5, such as
at least about 8, such as at least about 10, such as at least about 15. As an illustrative
example, a ratio of 10 would be equivalent to 320 mg of the S. repens herb preparation.
Thus, in the case of a concentration ratio of 5, for example, 640 mg of S. repens herb
preparation (which is concentrated) is equivalent to 3,200 mg dry weight of S. repens herb or
3,200 mg of S. repens dry herb starting material. In one embodiment, the S. repens herb
preparation is derived from the leaf and/or berry parts of the S. repens herb, i.e., a S. repens
leaf and/or berry extract preparation.
[0047]     In one embodiment, any of the herb preparations, including the C. nurvala,
E. arvense, L. aggregata,and S. repens herb preparations, can be extracted using alcohol
(e.g., 45-95% ethanol). In another embodiment, the S. repens herb preparation can be
extracted using carbon dioxide (C0 2 ). In another embodiment, the S. repens herb preparation
can be extracted using a super-critical fluid extraction (SFE) method of separating one
component (the extract) from another (the matrix) using super-critical fluids as the extracting
                                                  11

solvent. Extraction is usually from a solid matrix, but can also be from liquids. Carbon
dioxide (C0 2 ) is commonly used as the super-critical fluid, sometimes modified with co
solvents such as ethanol or methanol. Extraction conditions for super-critical CO 2 may be
above the critical temperature of 3 10 C and critical pressure of 74 bar.
[0048]    In some embodiments, the herbal ingredients described herein, alone or in
combination, can provide the following remedy or support:
Bladder and Tone Control
[0049]    The herbs Crateva, Horsetail, and Lindera, are traditionally recommended in herbal
medicine for both BPH and symptoms of bladder weakness such as frequency, urgency and
bladder accidents. 1,2,,4 Clinical research using Crateva has shown it acts as a bladder tonic in
men, decreases residual urine volume and allows for more complete bladder emptying.1 It
has tonic effects on the bladder and is recommended for poor bladder tone and symptoms of
incontinence.
[0050]    Clinical research has shown the effectiveness Crateva and Horsetail in addressing
bladder symptoms in men with BPH such as nocturia, increased frequency, overactive
bladder and difficulty voiding, as well as improving quality of life for those affected.
[0051]    Crateva has beneficial effects on neurogenic bladder and post-prostatectomic atony
of the bladder.' Crateva is shown to produce a significant reduction in retention of urine in
men with hypotonic bladder as a result of benign prostatic hypertrophy. Crateva acts to
increase the tone of the bladder and the expulsive force of urine, thereby helping effective
evacuation. 1 Crateva normalizes the tone of the urinary bladder and significantly decreases
residual urine volume.
[0052]    Research also supports the effectiveness of the combined Crateva and Horsetail for
bladder control. 5 ' 6 A pilot study using this combination showed improvements in bladder
frequency, leakage, urgency and bladder pain or discomfort.6 A larger scale placebo
controlled trial also shows this combination improves bladder symptoms of incontinence,
frequency, nocturia, urgency and bladder discomfort, with over 79% participants
experiencing improvement.
Prostate Support
                                                  12

[0053]    Saw palmetto (Serenoa serrulata)is documented as providing relief from BPH
symptoms. Saw palmetto acts as a 5 alpha reductase inhibitor therefore lowering DHT and is
an antioestrogenic agent.    Experimental evidence also suggests Saw palmetto extract blocks
the binding of DHT to prostate cells. It does not appear to have the level of side effects that
are associated with 5 alpha reductase inhibiting drugs. The fatty acids and sterols in Saw
palmetto, including oleic acid, lauric acid, campasterol, stigmasterol, beta-sitosterol and
others, are believed to be responsible for these actions. 7 9
[0054]    Clinical studies conducted over the last fifteen years suggest Saw palmetto extract
can exert effective activity in the maintenance and support of prostate health. Saw palmetto
extract has been reported to improve urinary functions and prostate function. Quality of life
scores have also improved. The results with Saw palmetto extract have been duplicated in
                                                  7-14
open trials and controlled, double-blind studies.
Renal Protection
[0055]    Crateva and Lindera are also shown to have kidney protective effects; Crateva has
been shown to be nephroprotective in rat's exposed to toxic doses of cadmium, while Lindera
                                                                 15
preserves renal function in animals with diabetic nephropathy. ' 16
Reduce Inflammation
[0056]    Crateva and Lindera have anti-inflammatory and antibacterial properties. -20 They
help to inhibit acute, sub- acute and chronic inflammations and are beneficial with Saw
palmetto for prostatitis. -14
Antioxidant protection
[0057]    Lindera has potent antioxidant effects to preserve tissue and function of the genito
urinary system. Lindera, Selenium and lycopene (derived from tomato, Lycopersicon
esulentum) prevent disease of the prostate and are beneficial in cases of BPH.
[0058]    The human prostate contains a high concentration of zinc, which is known to be a
key mineral for prostate health. Zinc acts as a 5 alpha reductase inhibitor and is considered to
play an important role in the etiology of BPH.2 2 ,23
Prostate Protection
                                                13

[0059]    Vitamin D absorption and production decreases with age. Vitamin D appears to be
actively metabolized in the prostate and Vitamin D influences androgen receptors. Research
suggests that vitamin D deficiency may increase the initiation and progression of prostate
        2627
cancer.
Kidney/Bladder Stones
[0060]     Crateva and Horsetail balance urinary minerals and reduce the likelihood of stone
formation. 29,30 A key constituent of Crateva, lupeol, has been shown in a number of studies
to have anti-oxaluric and anti-calcuric effects leading to increased spontaneous passing of
these two most common forms of stones as well as symptomatic relief.2 9 ,3 1 ,3 2 Horsetail
constituents inhibit xanthine oxidase and subsequent urate calculi formation.3 4 It is thought
that this effect is promoted by a tonic contractile effect of Crateva and Horsetail on the
                                                            29 3 1
smooth muscle, which also assists with bladder control.1, ,
Incontinence/Over Active Bladder (OAB)
[0061]     Crateva and Horsetail help to improve the tone of the bladder wall. Crateva has
beneficial effects on neurogenic bladder and post-prostatectomic atony of the bladder.
Crateva is shown to produce a significant reduction in urinary symptoms of frequency,
incontinence, pain and retention of urine in men with hypotonic bladder as a result of benign
prostatic hypertrophy. Crateva acts to increase the tone of the bladder and the expulsive force
of urine, thereby helping effective evacuation.1 Crateva normalizes the tone of the urinary
bladder and significantly decreases residual urine volume.
[0062]    Animal studies support this. Crateva has been shown to increase the tone of both
smooth and skeletal muscle in vitro. 3 Forty days of treatment produced dramatic
improvement.
[0063]    Research also supports the effectiveness of the combined Crateva and Horsetail for
bladder control.   5,6 This combination showed improvements in bladder emptying frequency,
leakage, urgency and bladder pain or discomfort with best results occurring after two to three
months of treatment. 5'
                                                 14

[0064]      Lindera has a long history of use in Traditional Chinese Medicine for kidney and
bladder health and is specific for frequent urination and loss of bladder control. 4 '40 Lindera is
also recommended for the treatment of renal disease. 4
Quality of Life
[0065]      Poor bladder control is shown to negatively affect emotional health and to reduce
quality of life for the sufferer. 35,36 Research has shown the Crateva and Horsetail combined
significantly improved quality of life measurements including feeling less frustration,
increased social activities, and better travel. 5'6
Anti-Inflammation
[0066]      All of three herbs, Crateva, Lindera and Horsetail,show anti-inflammatory effects.
17-20,37-39 Crateva and Lindera have anti-inflammatory and antibacterial properties.17-20,37-39
The positive effect on chronic urinary tract infections is most likely a combination of anti
bacterial and anti-inflammatory actions.
Kidney Protection
[0067]      Crateva and Lindera are also shown to have kidney protective effects; Crateva has
been shown to be nephroprotective in rats exposed to toxic doses of cadmium, while Lindera
preserves renal function in animals with diabetic nephropathy.    15,16
[0068]      Animal research demonstrates that Lindera slows the progression of diabetic
nephropathy (destruction of the kidneys that can occur as a complication of diabetes) and
could therefore be used as a preventative approach to protect renal function from
deterioration.16 Use of Lindera can result in improved renal function, as evaluated by
creatinine clearance and serum creatinine. Kidneys of the Lindera treated group showed
glomeruli with greater area and cell population.
Anti-oxidant/Anti-aging
[0069]      More recent research has shown that Lindera has potent antioxidant effects to
preserve tissue and function of urinary system. It has potent antioxidant scavenging activity
against ROS and RNS (reactive oxygen species and reactive nitrogen species - both common
oxidants that damage body tissues) that effectively inhibits lipid peroxidation. 41     Lindera
extracts show protection against neuronal oxidative injury and may be of benefit to protect
                                                  15

against neuronal Central nervous system degeneration.42 Lindera also has antibacterial
effects. 4
Joint Support
[0070]     Lindera is also used traditionally for rheumatic complaints, and multiple studies
have shown that Lindera or Lindera extracts reduce inflammation. 11'20,38 Alkaloids derived
from Lindera have been shown in animal studies to have anti-inflammatory effects and to be
of benefit for rheumatoid arthritis (RA).38 Lindera has also been shown to inhibit the effects
of inflammatory mediators from macrophages. These help illustrate therapeutic efficiency on
the inflammation and joint destruction in RA. 19 This supports the use of Lindera for
analgesic and anti-inflammatory actions to improve symptoms of RA and protect joints from
destruction.   20
Cardiovascular Support
[0071]     Lindera is traditionally recommended for the treatment of cardiac support. Animal
studies have shown that Lindera can improve heart function. 4
Herb-containing Compositions
[0072]     One embodiment described herein provides herb-containing compositions useful in
a method of prophylaxis or treatment of disorders of BPH - e.g., urinary incontinence,
enuresis (e.g., bed-wetting), benign prostatic hyperplasia, urinary calculi, cystitis, and urinary
tract infection (or "UTI"). In particular, one embodiment provides a composition, which
contains C. nurvala, E. arvense, L. aggregataand S. repens; in one embodiment the
composition is useful in the prevention and treatment of disorders of BPH. In one
embodiment, the herb-containing composition contains C. nurvala extract preparation,
E. arvense extract preparation, L. aggregata extract preparation, and S. repens extract
preparation.
[0073]     In one embodiment, the herb-containing composition is an oral supplement included
in a dry delivery system, e.g., tablet, dry powder, and dry meal replacement mixture. In
another embodiment, the herb-containing composition is an oral supplement included in a
liquid delivery system, e.g., capsule, caplet, or beverage. In another embodiment, the herb
                                                  16

containing composition is an oral supplement included in a controlled-release vehicle, e.g.,
tablet, caplet, and capsule.
[0074]    In one embodiment, the herb-containing composition contains from about 1,000 mg
to about 6,000 mg dry weight equivalents C. nurvala stem/bark extract per oral dosage unit.
In another embodiment, the herb-containing composition contains from about 1,000 mg to
about 4,000 mg dry weight equivalents C. nurvala stem/bark extract per oral dosage unit. In
another embodiment, the herb-containing composition contains from about 2,500 mg to about
3,500 mg dry weight equivalents C. nurvala stem/bark extract per oral dosage unit. In one
embodiment, the herb-containing composition contains about 3,000 mg dry weight
equivalents C. nurvala stem/bark extract per oral dosage unit. A C. nurvala stem/bark extract
is an extract prepared using both the stem parts and bark of the C. nurvala herb.
[0075]    In another embodiment, the herb-containing composition contains from about
1,000 mg to about 6,000 mg dry weight equivalents C. nurvala stem extract per oral dosage
unit. In another embodiment, the herb-containing composition contains from about 1,000 mg
to about 4,000 mg dry weight equivalents C. nurvala stem extract per oral dosage unit. In
another embodiment, the herb-containing composition contains from about 2,500 mg to about
3,500 mg dry weight equivalents C. nurvala stem extract per oral dosage unit. In one
embodiment, the herb-containing composition contains about 3,000 mg dry weight
equivalents C. nurvala stem extract per oral dosage unit.
[0076]    In another embodiment, the herb-containing composition contains from about
1,000 mg to about 6,000 mg dry weight equivalents C. nurvala bark extract per oral dosage
unit. In another embodiment, the herb-containing composition contains from about 1,000 mg
to about 4,000 mg dry weight equivalents C. nurvala bark extract per oral dosage unit. In one
embodiment, the herb-containing composition contains from about 2,500 mg to about
3,500 mg dry weight equivalents C. nurvala bark extract per oral dosage unit. In one
embodiment, the herb-containing composition contains about 3,000 mg dry weight
equivalents C. nurvala bark extract per oral dosage unit.
[0077]    In one embodiment, to prepare the herb-containing composition, the bark and/or
stems of C. nurvala are isolated from the rest the C. nurvala plant and dried. The dried bark
and stems of C. nurvala are extracted using 70% ethanol/water. The liquid extract is then
                                               17

concentrated to a ratio of 10:1. Maltodextrin is used as an excipient. The final product, i.e.,
C. nurvala stem/bark extract, used in the herb-containing composition is a brown to dark
brown powder. In an alternative embodiment, the liquid extract is then concentrated to a
ratio of between about 25 and 35. Maltodextrin is used as an excipient.
[0078]    In one embodiment, the E. arvense herb preparation component of the herb
containing composition is derived from the leaf of the E. arvense herb. In one embodiment,
the E. arvense herb preparation component of the herb-containing composition is derived
from the stem of the E. arvense herb. In another embodiment, the E. arvense herb
preparation component of the herb-containing composition is derived from a mixture of plant
parts of the E. arvense herb. In another embodiment, the E. arvense herb preparation
component of the herb-containing composition is derived from all the parts of the plant that
extend above-ground. In one embodiment, the herb-containing composition contains from
about 1 mg to about 3,000 mg dry weight equivalents E. arvense herb preparation per oral
dosage unit. In another embodiment, the herb-containing composition contains from about
500 mg to about 2,500 mg dry weight equivalents E. arvense herb preparation per oral dosage
unit. In another embodiment, the herb-containing composition contains from about 1,000 mg
to about 2,000 mg dry weight equivalents E. arvense herb preparation per oral dosage unit.
In another embodiment, the herb-containing composition contains from about 1,300 mg to
about 1,600 mg dry weight equivalents E. arvense herb preparation per oral dosage unit. In
one embodiment, the herb-containing composition contains about 1,500 mg dry weight
equivalents E. arvense stem extract per oral dosage unit.
[0079]    In one embodiment, the L. aggregataherb preparation component of the herb
containing composition is derived from the roots of the L. aggregataherb. In one
embodiment, the L. aggregataherb preparation component of the herb-containing
composition is derived from the leaf and/or stem of the L. aggregataherb. In another
embodiment, the L. aggregataherb preparation component of the herb-containing
composition is derived from a mixture of plant parts of the L. aggregataherb. In another
embodiment, the L. aggregataherb preparation component of the herb-containing
composition is derived from all the parts of the plant that extend above-ground and/or below
ground. In one embodiment, the herb-containing composition contains from about 1 mg to
about 3,000 mg dry weight equivalents L. aggregata herb preparation per oral dosage unit. In
                                               18

another embodiment, the herb-containing composition contains from about 500 mg to about
2,500 mg dry weight equivalents L. aggregataherb preparation per oral dosage unit. In
another embodiment, the herb-containing composition contains from about 1,000 mg to about
2,000 mg dry weight equivalents L. aggregataherb preparation per oral dosage unit. In
another embodiment, the herb-containing composition contains from about 1,300 mg to about
1,600 mg dry weight equivalents L. aggregataherb preparation per oral dosage unit. In some
embodiments, the L. aggregata herb preparation can be present at a comparable, such as the
same, concentration as the E. arvense preparation. In one embodiment, the herb-containing
composition contains about 1,500 mg dry weight equivalents L. aggregataroot extract per
oral dosage unit.
[0080]    In one embodiment, the herb-containing composition contains from about 1,000 mg
to about 6,000 mg dry weight equivalents S. repens leaf/berry extract per oral dosage unit.
In another embodiment, the herb-containing composition contains from about 1,000 mg to
about 4,000 mg dry weight equivalents S. repens leaf/berry extract per oral dosage unit. In
another embodiment, the herb-containing composition contains from about 2,500 mg to about
3,500 mg dry weight equivalents S. repens leaf/berry extract per oral dosage unit. In one
embodiment, the herb-containing composition contains about 3,200 mg dry weight
equivalents S. repens leaf/berry extract per oral dosage unit. A S. repens leaf/berry extract is
an extract prepared using both the leaves and berries of the S. repens herb.
[0081]    In another embodiment, the herb-containing composition contains from about
1,000 mg to about 6,000 mg dry weight equivalents S. repens leaf extract per oral dosage
unit. In another embodiment, the herb-containing composition contains from about 1,000 mg
to about 4,000 mg dry weight equivalents S. repens leaf extract per oral dosage unit. In
another embodiment, the herb-containing composition contains from about 2,500 mg to about
3,500 mg dry weight equivalents S. repens leaf extract per oral dosage unit. In one
embodiment, the herb-containing composition contains about 3,200 mg dry weight
equivalents S. repens leaf extract per oral dosage unit.
[0082]    In another embodiment, the herb-containing composition contains from about
1,000 mg to about 6,000 mg dry weight equivalents S. repens berry extract per oral dosage
unit. In another embodiment, the herb-containing composition contains from about 1,000 mg
to about 4,000 mg dry weight equivalents S. repens berry extract per oral dosage unit. In one
                                                19

embodiment, the herb-containing composition contains from about 2,500 mg to about
3,500 mg dry weight equivalents S. repens berry extract per oral dosage unit. In one
embodiment, the herb-containing composition contains about 3,200 mg dry weight
equivalents S. repens berry extract per oral dosage unit.
[0083]    In one embodiment, to prepare the herb-containing composition, the leaves and/or
berries of S. repens are isolated from the rest the S. repens plant and dried. The dried leaves
and berries of S. repens can be extracted using 45-90% ethanol/water or using CO 2 . The
liquid extract is then concentrated to a ratio of about 10:1. Maltodextrin may be used as an
excipient. The final product, i.e., S. repens leaf/berry extract, used in the herb-containing
composition is a brown to dark brown powder. In an alternative embodiment, the liquid
extract is then concentrated to a ratio of between about 5:1 and about 20:1. In an alternative
embodiment, the liquid extract is then concentrated to a ratio of between about 5:1 and about
15:1. In an alternative embodiment, the liquid extract is then concentrated to a ratio of about
10:1. Maltodextrin may be used as an excipient.
[0084]    Other embodiments of the herbal composition are presented in Table 1.
Table 1: Ranges of effective daily amounts of the herbal composition
Component                 Range A (g/day)           Range B (g/day)          Range C (g/day)
C. nurvala                1-18                      3-12                     4-8
E. arvense                0.75-12                   1.5-6                    2-4
L. aggregata              0.75-12                   1.5-6                    2-4
S. repens                 1-18                      2-12                     3-8
STANDARDIZATION
[0085]    An alternative embodiment provides an herb-containing composition with at least
one of the herbal components as a standardized preparation. In an alternative embodiment,
the herb-containing composition has two of the herbal components as standardized
preparations. In another embodiment, the herb-containing composition has three of the
herbal components as standardized preparations. In another embodiment, all four herbal
components of the herb-containing composition (Crateva nurvala, Equisetum arvense,
Lindera aggregata,and Serenoa repens) are standardized preparations. Various
                                                 20

embodiments of the standardized preparations are provided in Table 2. For example, in
alternative embodiment A, all four herbs are non-standardized, while in embodiment P, all
four herbs are standardized.
Table 2: Various embodiments of the standardized preparations of the herbal composition
Embodiment               C. nurvala               E. arvense            L. aggregata             S. repens
          A
          B                    *
          C                                             *
          D                                                                     *
           F                   *                        *
          G                                             *                      *
          H                                                                     *                     *
           I                   *                          --                                          *
           J                   *                          -*
          K                                             *                                             *
          L                    *                        *                       *
          M                    *                        *-                                            *
          N                    *                          -*                                          *
          0                                             *                       *                     *
           P                   *                        *                       *                     *
NOTE: Herbs denoted with an asterisk (*) are standardized; herbs denoted with a dash (-) are non
standardized.
[00861      One embodiment provides a pharmaceutical composition comprising the herb
containing composition of any one of embodiments A-P in Table 2 and a pharmaceutically
acceptable carrier.
[00871      In some embodiments, it has been determined that batch variation in the silicon
content and/or flavonoid content expressed as isoquercetrin of E. arvense herb preparations
can have negative effects on the biological activity of the composition described herein. This
problem has been resolved in some embodiments by providing . arvense herb preparations
                                                    21

with optimized, standardized silicon content and/or flavonoid content expressed as
isoquercetrin. One embodiment provides an herb-containing composition, comprising a
C. nurvala preparation, a L. aggregatapreparation, and a standardized E. arvense herb
preparation with a silicon content from about 3% to about 13% silicon based on total dry
weight of the E. arvense preparation, wherein the herb-containing composition is formulated
as an oral dosage unit. Accordingly, for 1,500 mg dry weight of E. arvense herb or 1,500 mg
of E. arvense dry herb starting material, which produces 300 mg of E. arvense herb
preparation (which is concentrated), a silicon content from about 3% to about 13% would
represent approximately 9 to 39 mg silicon.
[0088]    In some instances, silicon is identified as a contributor to the biological activity of
E. arvense herb. Non-standardized preparations of E. arvense herb generally contain silicon
from about 1.2% to about 6.9% silicon based on total dry weight of preparation. In one
embodiment, it has been determined that batch variation in the silicon content of E. arvense
herb preparations can have negative effects on the biological activity of the composition
described herein. This problem can be resolved in one embodiment by providing an
E. arvense herb preparation with optimized, standardized silicon content. Accordingly, in
one embodiment, the silicon content of the E. arvense herb preparation in the herb-containing
preparation can be standardized. The use of a standardized preparation E. arvense herb can
be advantageous because the inter-batch variation of silicon can be reduced, thus the
composition described herein can yield more consistent preventative or therapeutic effect. In
one embodiment, the E. arvense herb preparation is standardized to contain from about 3%
silicon to about 13% silicon based on the total dry weight of the E. arvense herb preparation.
In another embodiment, the E. arvense herb preparation is standardized to contain from about
50% silicon to about 10% silicon based on the total dry weight of the E. arvense herb
preparation. In another embodiment, the E. arvense herb preparation is standardized to
contain at least about 6% silicon based on the total dry weight of the E. arvense herb
preparation.
[0089]    In addition to silicon, E. arvense contains about 5 percent of a saponin, designated
equisetonin, and several flavone glycosides (i.e., flavonoids) including isoquercetrin,
galuteolin, and equisetrin. Isoquercetrin (i.e., isoquercitrin; Quercetin 3-0-p-D
glucopyranoside; 4H-1-Benzopyran-4-one, 2-(3,4-dihydroxy-phenyl)-3-(p-D
                                                 22

glucofuranosyloxy)-5,7-dihydroxy-).        Flavonoids, e.g., isoquercetrin, may have important
pharmacological properties. Many flavonoids are diuretic, some are antispasmodic, anti
inflammatory, antiseptic and even antitumor. However, the predominant action of the
flavonoids as a group is on the vascular system. The flavone glycosides and the saponin
likely combine to account for the diuretic action of E. arvense.
[0090]     One embodiment provides an herb-containing composition, comprising: a
C. nurvala stem/bark preparation present at a concentration at least about 3,000 mg dry
weight equivalents per oral dosage unit; an E. arvense stem extract preparation at a
concentration of at least about 1,500 mg dry weight equivalents per oral dosage unit; a
L. aggregataroot extract preparation at a concentration of at least about 1,500 mg dry weight
equivalents per oral dosage unit; and a S. repens leaf/berry preparation present at a
concentration at least about 3,000 mg dry weight equivalents per oral dosage unit.
Optionally, the composition can further comprise a total silicon concentration of at least
about 32.5 mg dry weight equivalents per oral dosage unit; a phosphorous concentration of at
least about 24.9 mg dry weight equivalents per oral dosage unit; a magnesium concentration
of at least about 14.5 mg dry weight equivalents per oral dosage unit; and a calcium
concentration of at least about 16.3 mg dry weight equivalents per oral dosage unit.
[0091]     Another embodiment provides an herb-containing composition, comprising a
C. nurvala stem/bark preparation, an E. arvense stem extract preparation with a total
flavonoid content from about 0.010%to about 3% total flavonoids based on the total dry
weight of the E. arvense preparation, a L. aggregataroot extract preparation; wherein the
total flavonoid content is expressed as isoquercetrin and wherein the herb-containing
composition is formulated as an oral dosage unit; and a S. repens leaf/berry preparation,
wherein the S. repens preparation can be standardized to have at least one of the following
based on total weight of the Serenoa repens extract preparation: (i) about 85% to about 95%
fatty acids; (ii) lycopene not less than 750 gg dry weight equivalents per oral dosage unit;
(iii) zinc (e.g., citrate) not less than 7 mg dry weight equivalents per oral dosage unit; (iv)
selenium (e.g., selenomethionine) not less than 12 gg dry weight equivalents per oral dosage
unit; and (v) vitamin D (e.g., cholecalciferol) not less than 5 gg dry weight equivalents per
oral dosage unit. In one embodiment, the E. arvense herb preparation can be a standardized
E. arvense stem extract preparation. In one embodiment, the standardized E. arvense herb
                                                  23

preparation further comprises a total flavonoid content from about 0.1% to about 2.50% total
flavonoids based on the total dry weight of the E. arvense preparation and expressed as
isoquercetrin. In one embodiment, the standardized E. arvense herb preparation comprises a
total flavonoid content from about 0.5% to about 1.5% total flavonoids based on the total dry
weight of the E. arvense preparation, wherein the total flavonoid content is expressed as
isoquercetrin. In one embodiment, the standardized E. arvense herb preparation comprises a
total flavonoid content from at least about 0.8% total flavonoids based on the total dry weight
of the E. arvense preparation, wherein the total flavonoid content is expressed as
isoquercetrin.
[0092]     In one embodiment, the standardized E. arvense herb preparation further comprises
a total flavonoid content from about 0.010%to about 30% total flavonoids based on the total
dry weight of the E. arvense preparation, wherein the total flavonoid content is expressed as
isoquercetrin. In one embodiment, the standardized E. arvense herb preparation further
comprises a total flavonoid content from about 0.l1% to about 2.50% total flavonoids based on
the total dry weight of the E. arvense preparation and expressed as isoquercetrin. In one
embodiment, the standardized E. arvense herb preparation further comprises a total flavonoid
content from about 0.5% to about 1.5% total flavonoids based on the total dry weight of the
E. arvense preparation, wherein the total flavonoid content is expressed as isoquercetrin. In
one embodiment, the standardized E. arvense herb preparation further comprises a total
flavonoid content from at least about 0.8% total flavonoids based on the total dry weight of
the E. arvense preparation, wherein the total flavonoid content is expressed as isoquercetrin.
[0093]     In another embodiment, it has been determined that batch variation in the total
flavonoid content (expressed as isoquercetrin content) of E. arvense herb preparations can
have negative effects on the biological activity of the composition described herein. This
problem has been resolved in some embodiments by providing an E. arvense herb preparation
with optimized, standardized total flavonoid content (expressed as isoquercetrin content).
Accordingly, in one embodiment, the total flavonoid content (expressed as isoquercetrin
content) of the E. arvense herb preparation in the herb-containing preparation is standardized.
The use of a standardized preparation E. arvense herb is advantageous because the inter-batch
variation of total flavonoid content (expressed as isoquercetrin content) is reduced, thus the
composition provided herein can yield more consistent preventative or therapeutic effect. In
                                               24

one embodiment, the E. arvense herb preparation is standardized to contain from about
0.01% flavonoids to about 3% flavonoids based on the total dry weight of the E. arvense herb
preparation, wherein the total flavonoids are expressed as isoquercetrin equivalents. In
another embodiment, the E. arvense herb preparation is standardized to contain from about
0.1% flavonoids to about 2.5% flavonoids based on the total dry weight of the E. arvense
herb preparation, wherein the total flavonoids are expressed as isoquercetrin equivalents. In
another embodiment, the E. arvense herb preparation is standardized to contain from about
0.5% flavonoids to about 1.5% flavonoids based on the total dry weight of the E. arvense
herb preparation, wherein the total flavonoids are expressed as isoquercetrin equivalents. In
another embodiment, the E. arvense herb preparation is standardized to contain at least about
0.8% flavonoids based on the total dry weight of the E. arvense herb preparation, wherein the
total flavonoids are expressed as isoquercetrin equivalents.
[0094]    In one embodiment, the E. arvense herb preparation is standardized to organic
silicon content by a solvent extraction process using raw material with a silicon content that
met a minimum silicon content, e.g., 3% silicon. In one embodiment, the E. arvense herb
preparation of the herb-containing composition is derived from the stems of the E. arvense
herb and standardized for silica content (i.e., E. arvense stem extract preparation). Briefly,
stem parts of the E. arvense herb are removed from the plant and dried. They are then
measured for a minimum of 2.5% silicon content via HPLC analysis before being accepted
for the extraction process. An extract was obtained using 65%(v/v) ethanol/water extraction
solvent. The extract was concentrated to a ratio of approximately 4:1. The extract is then
tested again for minimum 3% silicon content via HPLC. The final extract dry concentrate
appeared as a fine brown powder with a characteristic odor and taste.
[0095]    In another embodiment, the E. arvense herb preparation is standardized to organic
silicon by a solvent extraction process. Briefly, stem parts of the E. arvense herb are
removed from the plant and dried. Morphological examination of the starting biomass (this
includes both microscopic and macroscopic characteristics) can help facilitate using the
correct species (e.g., an authenticated voucher specimen is stored on file for species
identification). An extract is obtained using hot water (between about 50'C and about
100C) as a solvent. The extract is concentrated to a ratio of approximately 5:1. The extract
is then dried. The extract is tested for a minimum of approximately 3% silicon content via
                                                 25

UV-Vis Spectrophotometry (silicon dioxide is used as a reference substance). In one
embodiment, if the extract falls outside the desired standards above, it is titrated with a dried
extract that had undergone the same process as above. The final extract dry concentrate
appear as a yellow-brown colored powder.
[0096]    In one embodiment, the E. arvense herb preparation of the herb-containing
composition is derived from the stems of the E. arvense herb and standardized for total
flavonoid content, i.e., E. arvense stem extract preparation.
[0097]    In another embodiment, the E. arvense herb preparation is standardized to flavonoid
(expressed as isoquercetrin) content by a solvent extraction process. Briefly, stem parts of
the E. arvense herb are removed from the plant and dried. They are then identified by TLC.
(isoquercetrin is used as reference substance). Morphological examination of the starting
biomass (this included both microscopic and macroscopic characteristics) can help facilitate
using the correct species (e.g., an authenticated voucher specimen was stored on file for
species identification). An extract was obtained using hot water (between about 50'C and
about 100C) as a solvent. The extract is concentrated to a ratio of approximately 5:1. The
extract is then dried. The extract is tested for a minimum of approximately 0.01%
isoquercetrin via UV-Vis Spectrophotometry (isoquercetrin is used as reference substance).
If the extract falls outside the desired standards above, it is titrated with a dried extract that
had undergone the same process as above. The final extract dry concentrate appears as a
yellow-brown colored powder.
[0098]    In one embodiment, the E. arvense herb preparation is standardized to organic
silicon content and flavonoid content (expressed as isoquercetrin) using the methods
described above.
[0099]    In certain embodiments, the Serenoa repens extract preparation can be standardized,
alone, or in addition to the other herbal preparations also being standardized, as described
herein. In certain embodiments, the Serenoa repens extract preparation can be standardized to
have at least one of the following based on total weight of the Serenoa repens extract
preparation: (i) about 85% to about 95% fatty acids; (ii) lycopene not less than 750 gg dry
weight equivalents per oral dosage unit; (iii) zinc (e.g., citrate) not less than 7.5 mg dry
weight equivalents per oral dosage unit; (iv) selenium (e.g., selenomethionine) not less than
                                                 26

12 gg dry weight equivalents per oral dosage unit; and (v) vitamin D (e.g., cholecalciferol)
not less than 5 gg dry weight equivalents per oral dosage unit.
[0100]    In one embodiment, the S. repens herb preparation is standardized to contain from
about 75% to about 99% fatty acids based on the total dry weight of the S. repens herb
preparation. In another embodiment, the S. repens herb preparation is standardized to contain
from about 85% to about 95% fatty acids based on the total dry weight of the S. repens herb
preparation. In another embodiment, the S. repens herb preparation is standardized to contain
from about 90% fatty acids based on the total dry weight of the S. repens herb preparation.
[0101]    In another embodiment, the S. repens herb preparation is standardized to contain
lycopene not less than 10 gg dry weight equivalents per oral dosage unit based on the total
dry weight of the S. repens herb preparation. In another embodiment, the S. repens herb
preparation is standardized to contain lycopene not less than 500 gg dry weight equivalents
per oral dosage unit based on the total dry weight of the S. repens herb preparation. In
another embodiment, the S. repens herb preparation is standardized to contain lycopene not
less than 750 gg dry weight equivalents per oral dosage unit based on the total dry weight of
the S. repens herb preparation. In another embodiment, the S. repens herb preparation is
standardized to contain lycopene not less than 2,000 gg dry weight equivalents per oral
dosage unit based on the total dry weight of the S. repens herb preparation.
[0102]    In another embodiment, the S. repens herb preparation is standardized to contain
zinc (e.g., citrate) not less than 1 mg dry weight equivalents per oral dosage unit based on the
total dry weight of the S. repens herb preparation. In another embodiment, the S. repens herb
preparation is standardized to contain zinc (e.g., citrate) not less than 5 mg dry weight
equivalents per oral dosage unit based on the total dry weight of the S. repens herb
preparation. In another embodiment, the S. repens herb preparation is standardized to contain
zinc (e.g., citrate) not less than 7.5 mg dry weight equivalents per oral dosage unit based on
the total dry weight of the S. repens herb preparation. In another embodiment, the S. repens
herb preparation is standardized to contain zinc (e.g., citrate) not less than 25 mg dry weight
equivalents per oral dosage unit based on the total dry weight of the S. repens herb
preparation. In another embodiment, the S. repens herb preparation is standardized to contain
zinc (e.g., citrate) not less than 100 mg dry weight equivalents per oral dosage unit based on
the total dry weight of the S. repens herb preparation.
                                                27

[0103]    In another embodiment, the S. repens herb preparation is standardized to contain
vitamin D (e.g., cholecalciferol) not less than 1 gg dry weight equivalents per oral dosage
unit based on the total dry weight of the S. repens herb preparation. In another embodiment,
the S. repens herb preparation is standardized to contain vitamin D (e.g., cholecalciferol) not
less than 5 gg dry weight equivalents per oral dosage unit based on the total dry weight of the
S. repens herb preparation. In another embodiment, the S. repens herb preparation is
standardized to contain vitamin D (e.g., cholecalciferol) not less than 7.5 gg dry weight
equivalents per oral dosage unit based on the total dry weight of the S. repens herb
preparation. In another embodiment, the S. repens herb preparation is standardized to vitamin
D (e.g., cholecalciferol) not less than 25 gg dry weight equivalents per oral dosage unit based
on the total dry weight of the S. repens herb preparation. In another embodiment, the
S. repens herb preparation is standardized to vitamin D (e.g., cholecalciferol) not less than
100 gg dry weight equivalents per oral dosage unit based on the total dry weight of the
S. repens herb preparation.
[0104]    In certain embodiments, the Crateva nurvala extract preparation can be
standardized, alone, or in addition to the other herbal preparations also being standardized, as
described herein. For example, the Crateva nurvala extract preparation can be standardized to
have at least one of the following based on total weight of the Crateva nurvala root extract
preparation: (i) saponins not less than 25%; (ii) tannins not less than 2%; and (iii) lupeol not
less than 1.5%.
[0105]    In one embodiment, the C. nurvala herb preparation is standardized to contain not
less than about 5% saponins based on the total dry weight of the C. nurvala herb preparation.
In another embodiment, the C. nurvala herb preparation is standardized to contain not less
than about 15% saponins based on the total dry weight of the C. nurvala herb preparation. In
another embodiment, the C. nurvala herb preparation is standardized to contain not less than
about 25% saponins based on the total dry weight of the C. nurvala herb preparation. In
another embodiment, the C. nurvala herb preparation is standardized to contain not less than
about 15% saponins based on the total dry weight of the C. nurvala herb preparation. In
another embodiment, the C. nurvala herb preparation is standardized to contain not less than
about 30% saponins based on the total dry weight of the C. nurvala herb preparation.
                                                28

[0106]    In one embodiment, the C. nurvala herb preparation is standardized to contain not
less than about 0.5% tannins based on the total dry weight of the C. nurvala herb preparation.
In another embodiment, the C. nurvala herb preparation is standardized to contain not less
than about 1%tannins based on the total dry weight of the C. nurvala herb preparation. In
another embodiment, the C. nurvala herb preparation is standardized to contain not less than
about 2% tannins based on the total dry weight of the C. nurvala herb preparation. In another
embodiment, the C. nurvala herb preparation is standardized to contain not less than about
4% tannins based on the total dry weight of the C. nurvala herb preparation. In another
embodiment, the C. nurvala herb preparation is standardized to contain not less than about
5% tannins based on the total dry weight of the C. nurvala herb preparation.
[0107]    In one embodiment, the C. nurvala herb preparation is standardized to contain not
less than about 0.5% lupeol based on the total dry weight of the C. nurvala herb preparation.
In another embodiment, the C. nurvala herb preparation is standardized to contain not less
than about 1.5% lupeol based on the total dry weight of the C. nurvala herb preparation. In
another embodiment, the C. nurvala herb preparation is standardized to contain not less than
about 3% lupeol based on the total dry weight of the C. nurvala herb preparation. In another
embodiment, the C. nurvala herb preparation is standardized to contain not less than about
5% lupeol based on the total dry weight of the C. nurvala herb preparation.
[0108]    In some embodiments, it is C. nurvala and/orL. aggregataand/or S. repens, and not
E. arvense, that is standardized. In some other embodiments, all of the four are standardized.
In some other embodiments, none of the four is standardized. For example, the herb
containing composition can comprise standardized C. nurvala and not standardized
E. arvense, L. aggregata,and S. repens. Alternatively, the composition can comprise
standardized E. arvense and not standardized S. repens, C. nurvala and L. aggregata.
Alternatively, the composition can comprise standardized L. aggregataand not standardized
S. repens, C. nurvala and E. arvense. Alternatively, the composition can comprise
standardized S. repens and not standardized L. aggregata,C. nurvala and E. arvense. In one
embodiment, the composition can comprise standardized C. nurvala and E. arvense and not
standardized L. aggregataand S. repens. Alternatively, the composition can comprise
standardized C. nurvala and L. aggregata,and not standardized E. arvense and S. repens.
Alternatively, the composition can comprise standardized E. arvense and L. aggregata,and
                                               29

not standardized C. nurvala and S. repens. Alternatively, the composition can comprise not
standardized C. nurvala and standardized E. arvense, L. aggregata,and S. repens.
Alternatively, the composition can comprise not standardized E. arvense and standardized
S. repens, C. nurvala and L. aggregata.Alternatively, the composition can comprise not
standardized L. aggregataand standardized S. repens, C. nurvala and E. arvense.
Alternatively, the composition can comprise not standardized S. repens and standardized
L. aggregata,C. nurvala and E. arvense. The standardization can be accomplished via any
suitable compound, such as silicon, saponins, tannins, lupeol, etc. For example, the Crateva
nurvala extract preparation can be standardized to have at least one of the following based on
total weight of the Crateva nurvala root extract preparation: (i) saponins not less than 25%;
(ii) tannins not less than 2%; and (iii) lupeol not less than 1.5%. Further, the Serenoa repens
extract preparation can be standardized to have at least one of the following based on total
weight of the Serenoa repens extract preparation: (i) about 85% to about 95% fatty acids;
(ii) lycopene not less than 750 gg; (iii) zinc (e.g., citrate) not less than 7.5 mg; (iv) selenium
(e.g., selenomethionine) not less than 12 gg; and (v) vitamin D (e.g., cholecalciferol) not less
than 5 gg.
OTHER CONSTITUENTS
[0109]     The herb-containing compositions described herein can include constituents in
addition to the herbal constituents C. nurvala, E. arvense, L. aggregata,and S. repens, For
example, in one embodiment, the composition can contain silicon, such as in the form of
silica, such as anhydrous silica. The additional silicon assists with urogenital tissue support,
strengthening and firmness. In one embodiment, the herb-containing composition contains
from about 10 mg dry weight equivalents to about 71 mg dry weight equivalents of total
silicon per oral dosage unit. In another embodiment, the herb-containing composition
contains from about 15 mg dry weight equivalents to about 45 mg dry weight equivalents of
total silicon per oral dosage unit. In another embodiment, the herb-containing composition
contains from about 28 mg dry weight equivalents to about 34 mg dry weight equivalents of
total silicon per oral dosage unit.
[0110]     In another embodiment, the herb-containing composition contains phosphorous. In
one embodiment, the herb-containing composition contains from about 5 mg dry weight
equivalents of phosphorous to about 60 mg dry weight equivalents of phosphorous per oral
                                                 30

dosage unit. In another embodiment, the herb-containing composition contains from about
10 mg dry weight equivalents of phosphorous to about 50 mg dry weight equivalents of
phosphorous per oral dosage unit. In another embodiment, the herb-containing composition
contains from about 20 mg dry weight equivalents of phosphorous to about 30 mg dry weight
equivalents of phosphorous per oral dosage unit.
[0111]    In another embodiment, the herb-containing composition contains calcium. In one
embodiment, the herb-containing composition contains from about 1 mg dry weight
equivalents of calcium to about 30 mg dry weight equivalents of calcium per oral dosage unit.
In another embodiment, the herb-containing composition contains from about 5 mg dry
weight equivalents of calcium to about 25 mg dry weight equivalents of calcium per oral
dosage unit. In another embodiment, the herb-containing composition contains from about
10 mg dry weight equivalents of calcium to about 20 mg dry weight equivalents of calcium
per oral dosage unit.
[0112]    In another embodiment, the herb-containing composition contains magnesium. In
one embodiment, the herb-containing composition contains from about 1 mg dry weight
equivalents of magnesium to about 30 mg dry weight equivalents of magnesium per oral
dosage unit. In another embodiment, the herb-containing composition contains from about
5 mg dry weight equivalents of magnesium to about 25 mg dry weight equivalents of
magnesium per oral dosage unit. In another embodiment, the herb-containing composition
contains from about 10 mg dry weight equivalents of magnesium to about 20 mg dry weight
equivalents of magnesium per oral dosage unit.
[0113]    The herb-containing composition can take any suitable form, depending on the
application. For example, the composition can be a part of a cream. In one embodiment, the
herb-containing composition contains from about 1 mg to about 100 mg dry weight
equivalents C. nurvala stem/bark extract per gram of cream. In another embodiment, the
herb-containing composition contains from about 10 mg to about 60 mg dry weight
equivalents C. nurvala stem/bark extract per gram of cream. In another embodiment, the
herb-containing composition contains from about 40 mg to about 60 mg dry weight
equivalents C. nurvala stem/bark extract per gram of cream.
                                              31

[0114]   In another embodiment, the herb-containing composition contains from about 1 mg
to about 60 mg dry weight equivalents E. arvense herb per gram of cream. In another
embodiment, the herb-containing composition contains from about 5 mg to about 40 mg dry
weight equivalents E. arvense herb per gram of cream. In another embodiment, the herb
containing composition contains from about 10 mg to about 30 mg dry weight equivalents
E. arvense herb per gram of cream.
[0115]   In another embodiment, the herb-containing composition contains from about 1 mg
to about 60 mg dry weight equivalents L. aggregataherb per gram of cream. In another
embodiment, the herb-containing composition contains from about 5 mg to about 40 mg dry
weight equivalents L. aggregataherb per gram of cream. In another embodiment, the herb
containing composition contains from about 10 mg to about 30 mg dry weight equivalents L.
aggregataherb per gram of cream.
[0116]   In another embodiment, the herb-containing composition contains from about 1 mg
to about 60 mg dry weight equivalents S. repens herb per gram of cream. In another
embodiment, the herb-containing composition contains from about 5 mg to about 40 mg dry
weight equivalents S. repens herb per gram of cream. In another embodiment, the herb
containing composition contains from about 10 mg to about 30 mg dry weight equivalents S.
repens herb per gram of cream.
[0117]   In one embodiment, the herb-containing composition contains orange oil. In one
embodiment, the herb-containing composition contains from about 1 mg to about 30 mg
orange oil per gram of cream. In another embodiment, the herb-containing composition
contains from about 5 mg to about 25 mg dry orange oil per gram of cream. In another
embodiment, the herb-containing composition contains from about 8 mg to about 12 mg
orange oil per gram of cream.
[0118]   In one embodiment, the herb-containing composition contains Juniperusvirginiana
(Cedarwood) stem essential oil. In one embodiment, the herb-containing composition
contains from about 1 gg to about 1,000 gg J. virginiana stem essential oil per gram of
cream. In another embodiment, the herb-containing composition contains from about from
about 250 gg to about 750 gg J. virginianastem essential oil per gram of cream. In another
                                             32

embodiment, the herb-containing composition contains from about 400 gg to about 600 gg
J. virginianastem essential oil per gram of cream.
[0119]    In one embodiment, the herb-containing composition contains Myrrh oil. In one
embodiment, the herb-containing composition contains from about 1 gg to about 1,000 gg
Myrrh oil per gram of cream. In another embodiment, the herb-containing composition
contains from about from about 250 gg to about 750 gg Myrrh oil per gram of cream. In
another embodiment, the herb-containing composition contains from about 400 gg to about
600 gg Myrrh oil per gram of cream.
[0120]    In one embodiment, the herb-containing composition contains Orange flower oil. In
one embodiment, the herb-containing composition contains from about 1 gg to about
1,000 gg Orange flower oil per gram of cream. In another embodiment, the herb-containing
composition contains from about from about 250 gg to about 750 gg Orange flower oil per
gram of cream. In another embodiment, the herb-containing composition contains from
about 400 gg to about 600 gg Orange flower oil per gram of cream.
[0121]    In one embodiment, the herb-containing composition contains Cupressus
sempervirens (Cypress) leaf oil. In one embodiment, the herb-containing composition
contains from about 1 gg to about 1,000 gg C. sempervirens leaf oil per gram of cream. In
another embodiment, the herb-containing composition contains from about from about 50 gg
to about 500 gg C. sempervirens leaf oil per gram of cream. In another embodiment, the
herb-containing composition contains from about 75 gg to about 125 gg C. sempervirens leaf
oil per gram of cream.
[0122]    In another embodiment, the herb-containing composition contains d-alpha
tocopheryl acetate (Natural Vitamin E). In one embodiment the herb-containing composition
contains d-alpha-tocopheryl acetate. In one embodiment, the herb-containing composition
contains from about 0.1 mg to about 25 mg d-alpha-tocopheryl acetate per gram of cream. In
another embodiment, the herb-containing composition contains from about 1 mg to about
10 mg dry d-alpha-tocopheryl acetate per gram of cream. In another embodiment, the herb
containing composition contains from about 4 mg to about 6 mg d-alpha-tocopheryl acetate
per gram of cream.
                                              33

[0123]     In another embodiment, the herb-containing composition contains diazolidinylurea.
In one embodiment, the herb-containing composition contains diazolidinylurea. In one
embodiment, the herb-containing composition contains from about 0.1 mg to about 10 mg
diazolidinylurea per gram of cream. In another embodiment, the herb-containing
composition contains from about 1 mg to about 5 mg dry diazolidinylurea per gram of cream.
In another embodiment, the herb-containing composition contains from about 3 mg to about
3.5 mg diazolidinylurea per gram of cream.
[0124]     In another embodiment, the herb-containing composition contains
hydroxybenzoates. In one embodiment, the herb-containing composition contains
hydroxybenzoates. In one embodiment, the herb-containing composition contains from about
0.1 mg to about 5 mg hydroxybenzoates per gram of cream. In another embodiment, the
herb-containing composition contains from about 0.5 mg to about 3 mg dry
hydroxybenzoates per gram of cream. In another embodiment, the herb-containing
composition contains from about 1 mg to about 2 mg hydroxybenzoates per gram of cream.
[0125]     In another embodiment, the herb-containing composition contains extracts of
C. nurvala stem/bark; E. arvense leaf/stem; L. aggregataroot; S. repens leaf/berry; Orange
oil; J. virginianastem; Myrrh oil; Orange flower oil; C. sempervirens leaf; d-alpha
tocopheryl acetate; diazolidinylurea; and hydroxybenzoates.
Medicinal Properties and Uses of Compositions
[0126]     One embodiment provides herb-containing compositions useful in a method of
prophylaxis or treatment of disorders of BPH, e.g., urinary incontinence, enuresis (e.g., bed
wetting), benign prostatic hyperplasia, urinary calculi, cystitis, and UTIs. Not to be bound by
any particular theory, but in some embodiments the primary active ingredients present in both
the Crateva and Equisetum are the saponins and plant sterols. Crateva contains flavonoids,
glucosinolates and the plant sterol, lupeol, while Equisetum contains the mineral, silica,
flavonoids (isoquercetin, luteolin, and kaempferol) and the saponin, equisetin. Nadkarni
K.M. et al., Indian Materia. Medica. Bombay Popular Prakashan; British Herbal
Pharmacopeia. Publ: British Herbal Medicine Association 1983; Bone K. Clinical
Applications ofAyurvedic and Chinese Herbs. Monographsfor the western herbal
practitioner.Phytotherapy Press, Warwick, Qld, Australia 1997; The German Commission E
Monographs, 1998; D'Agostino M. et al., Boll. Soc. Ital. Biol. Sper., 30;60(12):2241-5
                                               34

(1984); Pengelly A. The constituents of medicinalplants: an introduction to the chemistry
and therapeutics of herbalmedicine. Sunflower Herbal      2 nd Edition, Merriwa, NSW,
Australia, 1996; Lakshmi V. et al., Planta Medica, 32: 214-216 (1977).
[0127]     In one embodiment, the herb-containing compositions can be useful in the
prevention and treatment of urinary calculi. Crateva and Equisetum have been shown to alter
urinary electrolytes in such a way so as to reduce lithogenic potentiality. Varalakshmi P et
al., J. Ethnopharmacology, 28: 313-321 (1990); Anand R. et al., Indian J. Pharmacology, 27:
265-268 (1995); Grases F. et al., Int. Urol. Nephrol., 26(5):507-511 (1994). Crateva has also
been found to inhibit small intestinal Na-K-ATPase. Varalakshmi P. et al., J.
Ethnopharmacology, 31: 67-73 (1991). These effects may be due primarily to the presence of
the sterol lupeol. A number of studies have shown that lupeol has anti-oxaluric and anti
calcuric effects leading to increased spontaneous passing of stones and symptomatic relief.
Varalakshmi P et al., J. Ethnopharmacology, 28: 313-321 (1990); Anand R. et al., Indian J.
Pharmacology, 27: 265-268 (1995); Malini M.M., et al., Jpn. J. Med. Sci. Biol., 48(5-6):211
20 (1995); Lakshmi V. et al., Planta Medica, 32: 214-216 (1977).
[0128]     In one embodiment, it is hypothesized that this passage of the stone may be
produced via a tonic contractile action of the drug on the smooth muscle. Varalakshmi P et
al., J. Ethnopharmacology, 28: 313-321 (1990); Anand R. et al., Indian J. Pharmacology, 27:
265-268 (1995); Deshpande P.J. et al., Indian J. Med. Res., 76(Suppl): 46-53 (1982).
Equisetum may also assist with incontinence via a similar mechanism. Kaempferol, luteolin
and isoquercetin, found in Equisetum are documented to inhibit xanthine oxidase and
subsequent urate calculi formation. Nagao A. et al., Biosci. Biotechnol. Biochem.,
63(10):1787-90 (1999). These herbal drugs can act to improve the tone of the bladder wall.
In 1982, Deshpande et al. reported that Crateva has beneficial effects on neurogenic bladder
and post-prostatectomic atony of the bladder. Deshpande P.J. et al., Indian J. Med. Res.,
76(Suppl):46-53 (1982).
[0129]     In one embodiment, the herb-containing compositions can be useful in the
prevention and treatment of incontinence and benign prostatic hypertrophy and urinary
incontinence. Crateva administration produces a marked relief of symptoms of frequency,
incontinence, pain and retention of urine in men with hypotonic bladder as a result of benign
prostatic hypertrophy. Deshpande P.J. et al., Indian J. Med. Res., 76 (Suppl):46-53 (1982).
                                               35

Crateva can act to increase the tone of the bladder and the expulsive force of urine, thereby
helping effective evacuation. Deshpande P.J. et al., Indian J. Med. Res., 76 (Suppl):46-53
(1982) - cystometric studies analyzed in this paper also show that Crateva normalizes the
tone of the urinary bladder and significantly decreases residual urine volume. The herb
containing compositions provided herein, therefore, are useful in the prevention and
treatment of urinary incontinence.
[0130]     These results are also supported by animal studies where Crateva has been shown to
increase the tone of both smooth and skeletal muscle in vitro. Das P.K. et al., J. Res. Ind.
Med., 9:49 (1974). Animal studies show that 40 days of treatment with Crateva resulted in
hypertonic curves of the urinary bladder when compared to initial curves. Das P.K. et al., J.
Res. Ind. Med., 9:49 (1974).
[0131]     Equisetum is rich in silicic acid and silicates. In one embodiment, silica supports the
regeneration of connective tissue. Chevallier, A., The Encyclopedia ofMedicinal Plants,
(Horn V. and Weil, C., Eds.) Dorling Kindersley Ltd., London (1996). Thus, the herb
containing compositions described herein can be useful in the prophylaxis or treatment of
disorders of the urogenital system, for example, urinary incontinence, enuresis (e.g., bed
wetting), benign prostatic hyperplasia, urinary calculi, cystitis, and UTIs.
[0132]     The herb-containing compositions provided herein are useful in the prevention and
treatment of UTIs and cystitis. It has been shown in rat studies that some species of the
Equisetum family have a diuretic action, shown by excretion of sodium, potassium and
chloride, similar to that of other drugs such as hydrochlorothiazide. Perez Gutierrez R.M. et
al., J. Ethnopharmacol., 14(2-3):269-272 (1985); D'Agostino M. et al., Boll. Soc. Ital. Biol.
Sper., 60(12):2241-5 (1984). A more recent study using rats also demonstrated beneficial
affects of the drugs in urolithiasis. Grases F. et al., Int. Urol. Nephrol., 26(5):507-511 (1994).
These authors suggest that this result could be due to the antibacterial action of the
constituents, namely, the saponins. Interestingly, Crateva has anti-inflammatory and
antibacterial properties. Nadkarni K.M. et al., Indian Materia Medica. Bombay Popular
Prakashan; Bone K. ClinicalApplications of Ayurvedic and Chinese Herbs. Monographsfor
the western herbalpractitioner.Phytotherapy Press, Warwick, Qld, Australia 1997; Salvat A.
et al., Lett. Appl. Microbiology, 32(5): 293-7 (2001); Xu HX et al., Phytother. Res.,
15(1):39-43 (2001); Geetha T. et al., Gen. Pharmacol., 32(4):495-7 (1999); Geetha T. et al.,
                                                 36

J. Ethnopharmacol., 76(1):77-80 (2001). Combined with Crateva's tonic effects on smooth
muscle, it is considered to assist with bladder evacuation, thereby decreasing residual urine, a
known to contributing factor to UTIs. Deshpande P.J. et al., Indian J. Med. Res.,
76(Suppl):46-53 (1982).
[0133]    Isoquercetin, found in Equisetum, is known to have anti-inflammatory effects via
inhibition of inflammatory prostaglandins, although Crateva is thought to produce anti
inflammatory effects via a different mechanism. D'Agostino M. et al., Boll. Soc. Ital. Biol.
Sper., 30;60(12):2241-5 (1984); Geetha T. et al., Gen. Pharmacol., 32(4):495-7 (1999). The
positive effect on chronic urinary tract infections is most likely a combination of anti
bacterial and anti-inflammatory actions.
[0134]    In one embodiment, the herb-containing compositions can be useful in the
prevention and treatment of urinary incontinence, UTIs, and enuresis. There is evidence for
the use of Virginia cedarwood in treating incontinence, enuresis and assisting bladder tone as
well as bladder infections, difficult urination and cystitis. Tisserand and Balacs, Essential Oil
Safety. A Guidefor Health CareProfessionals. Churchill Livingstone, U. K., 1995; 28-29,
31, 33-34; Price, S. PracticalAromatherapy. Thorsons, Harper Collins Publishers, California,
U.S., 1983; 157-8, 170-171, 174, 185; Davis, P. Aromatherapy An A - Z. The C. W. Daniel
Company, Essex, England, 1998; 194; Valnet, J. The PracticeofAromatherapy. Saffron
Walden, The C. W. Daniel Company, Essex, England, 1980; 120-121; Price, S. The
Aromatherapy Workbook. Thorsons (Harper Collins), California, USA, 1993; 67; Caddy, R.,
AromatherapyEssential Oils in Colour. Amberwood Publishing Ltd, East Horsley, Surrey,
England, 1997; 14. The documented properties likely to produce this effect include the
antispasmodic, diuretic, antiseptic and astringent.
[0135]    Cypress is documented as an antispasmodic, astringent, antiseptic, deodorant,
diuretic and tonic that may promote venous circulation to the kidneys and bladder area,
improve bladder tone and assist with urinary incontinence and enuresis. Tisserand and
Balacs, Essential Oil Safety. A Guidefor Health Care Professionals.Churchill Livingstone,
U. K., 1995; 28-29, 31, 33-34; Valnet, J. The Practice ofAromatherapy. Saffron Walden, The
C. W. Daniel Company, Essex, England, 1980; 120-121, Holmes, P. The Energetics of
Western Herbs. Artemis Press, Boulder, Colorado, USA, 1989; 567-569, 792; Damian, P &
K. Aromatherapy Scent and Psyche. Healing Arts Press, Rochester, Vermont, Canada, 1995;
                                                 37

187-188; Price, S. The Aromatherapy Workbook. Thorsons (Harper Collins), California,
USA, 1993; 67; Chidell, L. Aromatherapy.A Definitive Guide to Essential Oils. Hodder and
Stoughton Ltd, Kent, UK, 1992; 23-24, 80-8 1; Keller, E. The Compete Home Guide to
Aromatherapy.H J Kramer, Inc, Tiburon, California, USA, 1991; 178-179.
[0136]    Recent literature describes Myrrh as an astringent and antiseptic that produces a
soothing effect on mucous membranes of the urinary system and promotes healing of tissues.
Battaglia, S. The Complete Guide to Aromatherapy. The Perfect Potion Pty Ltd, Virginia,
Brisbane, Qld, Australia, 1995; 110-113, 116, 150-151, 158-159, 182-183, 184-185, 187;
Lawless, J. The Encyclopedia ofEssentialOils. (1992) Element Books for Jacaranda Wiley,
Ltd, Australia, 1992; 76-77, 88-89, 135-136. Orange and Neroli are documented as having
anti-spasmodic, antiseptic and deodorant effects. 6,10; Sheppard-Hanger. The Aromatherapy
PractitionerManual. Aquarius Publishing, Willetton, Western Australia, 1995; 183; Sellar,
W. The Directory ofEssential Oils. Saffron Walden, The C.W. Daniel Company, Essex,
England, 1992; 50-51, 106-107; Keller, E. The Compete Home Guide to Aromatherapy. H J
Kramer, Inc, Tiburon, California, USA, 1991; 178-179.
[0137]    In one embodiment, the herb-containing compositions can be useful in the
prevention and treatment of disorders of the prostate, e.g., benign prostatic hyperplasia.
Essential oils are also recommended for male reproductive health, indicating a possible effect
on the prostate in men. Battaglia, S. The Complete Guide to Aromatherapy. The Perfect
Potion Pty Ltd, Virginia, Brisbane, Qld, Australia, 1995; 110-113, 116, 150-151, 158-159,
182-183, 184-185, 187; Price, S. PracticalAromatherapy. Thorsons, Harper Collins
Publishers, California, U.S., 1983; 157-8, 170-171, 174, 185; Lawless, J. The Encyclopaedia
ofEssential Oils. (1992) Element Books for Jacaranda Wiley, Ltd, Australia, 1992; 76-77,
88-89, 135-136; Valnet, J. The PracticeofAromatherapy. Saffron Walden, The C. W. Daniel
Company, Essex, England, 1980; 120-121.
[0138]    Certain drugs commonly prescribed for urinary incontinence, such as oxybutynin
hydrochloride, inhibit the muscarinic action of acetylcholine on smooth muscle, producing a
direct antispasmodic action; that is, they relax the detrusor muscle. Tapp A.J.S. et al., Brit. J.
Obstetrics and Gynecology, ; 97: 521-6 (1990). This antispasmodic effect is preferred to the
anticholinergic effect of drugs previously used for patients with urinary incontinence. The
                                                38

antispasmodic effect of these essential oils, whilst not provided in more specific detail, may
also be producing an action similar to currently prescribed drug medications.
[0139]    Herbal diuretics are documented as increasing blood flow through the kidneys
without resorption at the distal tubule of the nephron and associated loss of electrolytes (apart
from potassium), as is the case with more sophisticated modem drug diuretics. Mills and
Bone, Principlesand PracticeofPhytotherapy. Churchill Livingstone, 2000;35, 220-222.
Also, diuresis often does not result from herbal diuretic use. Mills and Bone, Principlesand
PracticeofPhytotherapy. Churchill Livingstone, 2000;35, 220-222. Not to be bound by any
particular theory, but it may be that these herbal essential oils largely stimulate the blood flow
to the kidneys resulting in an increase or greater efficiency in the production of urine. This
effect, when combined with complete emptying of the bladder when voiding, may minimize
the volume of urine lost through continual leakage.
Pharmaceutical Compositions and Formulations
[0140]    One embodiment provides methods of preventing and/or treating BPH-related
disorder in a subject by administering to the subject an herb-containing composition in an
amount sufficient to prevent or treat the BPH-related disorder (i.e., pharmaceutically effective
amount). The composition can be any of the compositions described herein. A subject in need
of the presently described composition (and the administration thereof) can be one suffering
any of the urogenital system disorders, including at least one of (i) urinary incontinence and
(ii) overactive bladder symptoms. For example, the urogenital system disorder can include
urinary incontinence, enuresis, benign prostatic hyperplasia, urinary calculi, cystitis, OAB, a
urinary tract infection, and the like.
[0141]    In one embodiment, the herb-containing compositions can be used alone or further
formulated with pharmaceutically acceptable compositions, vehicles, or adjuvants with a
favorable delivery profile (i.e., suitable for delivery to a subject, particularly one in need
thereof). Such compositions typically comprise the herb-containing composition and a
pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. "Pharmaceutically acceptable carrier" in some
embodiments is intended to include any and all solvents, dispersion media, coatings,
antibacterial and antifungal compositions, isotonic and absorption delaying compositions, and
the like, compatible with pharmaceutical administration. Suitable carriers are described in
the most recent edition of Remington's Pharmaceutical Sciences, a standard reference text in
                                                 39

the field, which is incorporated herein by reference. Preferred examples of such carriers or
diluents include, but are not limited to, water, saline, Ringer's solutions, dextrose solution,
and 5% human serum albumin. The use of such media and compositions for
pharmaceutically active substances is well known in the art. Except insofar as any
conventional media or composition is incompatible with the active composition, use thereof
in the compositions is contemplated. Supplementary active compositions can also be
incorporated into the compositions.
[0142]     A pharmaceutical composition is formulated to be compatible with its intended
route of administration. Examples of routes of administration include, e.g., oral; transdermal
(i.e., topical), and transmucosal administration. The pH can be adjusted with acids or bases,
such as hydrochloric acid or sodium hydroxide.
[0143]     Oral compositions generally include an inert diluent or an edible carrier. They can
be enclosed in gelatin capsules, caplets or compressed into tablets. For the purpose of oral
therapeutic administration, the herb-containing composition can be incorporated with
excipients and used in the form of tablets, troches, or capsules. Oral compositions can also
be prepared using a fluid carrier for use as a mouthwash, wherein the composition in the fluid
carrier is applied orally and swished and expectorated or swallowed. Pharmaceutically
compatible binding compositions, and/or adjuvant materials can be included as part of the
composition. The tablets, pills, capsules, troches and the like can contain any of the
following ingredients, or compositions of a similar nature: a binder such as microcrystalline
cellulose, gum tragacanth or gelatin; an excipient such as starch or lactose, a disintegrating
composition such as alginic acid, Primogel, or corn starch; a lubricant such as magnesium
stearate or Sterotes; a glidant such as colloidal silicon dioxide; a sweetening composition
such as sucrose or saccharin; or a flavoring composition such as peppermint, methyl
salicylate, or orange flavoring. The herb-containing compositions provided herein can also
be formulated as a topical cream for transdermal or transmucosal administration.
[0144]     In one embodiment, the herb-containing compositions are prepared with carriers that
will protect the composition against rapid elimination from the body, such as a controlled
release formulation, including implants and microencapsulated delivery systems.
Biodegradable, biocompatible polymers can be used, such as ethylene vinyl acetate,
polyanhydrides, polyglycolic acid, collagen, polyorthoesters, and polylactic acid. Methods
                                                 40

for preparation of such formulations will be apparent to those skilled in the art. The materials
can also be obtained commercially from Alza Corporation and Nova Pharmaceuticals, Inc.
[0145]    The pharmaceutical compositions can be included in a container, pack, or dispenser
together with instructions for administration.
[0146]    As a result of administrating the presently described herb-containing composition to
a subject in need thereof, the symptoms of BPH in the subject can be alleviated. For
example, the treatment can result in a reduction in at least one of (i) urinary incontinence and
(ii) OAB. In one embodiment, the treatment can result in an improvement of at least one of
average daily frequency of urination; average nightly frequency of urination; total urinary
incontinence episodes; stress incontinence episodes; and urinary urgency episodes.
[0147]    In contrast to some of the pre-existing herb-containing compositions, the
compositions provided herein surprisingly can provide efficacy and efficiency much higher
that the pre-existing compositions. For example, the compositions provided herein can result
in improvement that is about at least two times, such as at least three times, four times, five
times, or more, as fast as the pre-existing herb-containing compositions. For example,
compared to the composition as provided in U.S. Pat. No. 7,378,115, which achieved
improvement in about three months, the compositions provided herein can achieve a
comparable level of improvement in less than three months, such as less than two months,
such as less than one month, such as less than two weeks. In one embodiment, the presently
described composition can accomplish the improvement between about two weeks and about
two months, such as about two weeks, or such as about one month.
[0148]    The articles "a" and "an" are used herein to refer to one or to more than one (i.e., to
at least one) of the grammatical object of the article. By way of example, "a polymer resin"
means one polymer resin or more than one polymer resin. Any ranges cited herein are
inclusive. The terms "substantially" and "about" used throughout this Specification are used
to describe and account for small fluctuations. For example, they can refer to less than or
equal to  +5%,  such as less than or equal to ±2%, such as less than or equal to +1%, such as
less than or equal to ±0.5%, such as less than or equal to ±0.2%, such as less than or equal to
±0.1I%, such as less than or equal to ±0.05 %.
                                                41

[0149]      The invention is further defined by reference to the following examples, which are
not meant to limit the scope of the present invention. It will be apparent to those skilled in
the art that many modifications, both to the materials and methods, may be practiced without
departing from the purpose and interest of the invention.
                             NON-LIMITING WORKING EXAMPLES
Example 1         Clinical Trial of Herb-Containing Natural Therapeutic Combination for the
                  Treatment of Benign Prostatic Hyperplasia and Related Disorders
Summary
[0150]      This study showed that compositions (i.e., Prorox@) containing Crateva, Horsetail,
Lindera and saw palmetto (i.e., Serenoa repens) with other nutrients, reduces bladder
symptoms associated with BPH, including urinary frequency, urgency, nocturia, and
incontinence, without the unwanted side effects and within a 2 to 4 week time frame.
Patients and Methods
[0151]      Eight adult males with an average age of 54.1 years (range 41-62 years), having
medically diagnosed benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH), were recruited through naturopathic
clinics and advertisements in local health food stores in Brisbane, Australia.
[0152]      All participants entered the study having experienced at least two of the following:
         1)       frequent urination (more than 10 times daily);
         2)       urinary urgency (daily);
         3)       weak urinary stream or stop/start urination (daily);
         4)       a need to strain or push to begin urination (daily); or
         5)       nocturia (urination more than once per night).
[0153]      Further, the participants:
         1)       had not undergone prostate surgery within the last 12 months;
         2)       did not have any serious health conditions such as diabetes mellitus, heart
                  disease, pancreatic disease, hepatic disease, or chronic inflammatory
                  conditions;
         3)       were not being treated for psychotic disturbances;
         4)       had not used any medicine for BPH symptoms in the month prior to
                  commencement of the study; and
                                                  42

         5)       did not engage in the specific pelvic exercises to improve muscle tone prior to
                  the study.
[0154]      The treatment protocol had participants ingest the equivalent of two (2) Prorox@
capsules (per day for one month) containing a blend of Crateva nurvala, Equisetum arvense,
Lindera aggregata,and saw palmetto (i.e., Serenoa repens) with zinc, selenium, lycopene
and vitamin D. The efficacy of the treatment was assessed by measuring the average daily
and nightly (nocturia) frequency of urination, urinary urgency episodes, the strength of he
urine stream, and need for straining during urination. Results were compared to baseline at 2
weeks and again at one month and two months. These results were compared using a paired
t-test.
[0155]      The efficacy of treatment was also assessed and compared to baseline at 2 weeks
and at one month and two months by using the International Prostate Symptom Score (IPSS)
and a short version of the Urogenital Distress Inventory (UDI). Both the IPSS and UDI are
disease specific instruments which provide an efficient tool to detect bladder problems.
[0156]      The IPSS questionnaire contained eight questions and measured the impact of
bladder symptoms associated with BPH. Responses to the first seven symptom questions
ranged from 'not at all' with a value of 0 to 'almost always' with a value of 5. Responses to
the first seven questions were totaled and rated as follows: 0-7, mildly symptomatic; 8-19,
moderately symptomatic; 20-35, severely symptomatic. The IPSS questionnaire also
included one quality of life (QOL) question (rated on a 7-point scale from "delighted" to
"terrible") about the emotional impact of these bladder symptoms.
[0157]      The UDI questions related specifically to the physical aspects of BPH, including
OAB and incontinence and their effect on QOL. UDI questions were rated on a scale of 0
('not bothered') to 5 ('extremely bothered'). Results were analyzed using a paired t-test.
RESULTS AND DISCUSSION
Frequencyof UrinationDuring The Day
[0158]      The results demonstrated that the average frequency of urination during the day
reduced significantly (p < 0.05) during the one month of treatment (FIG. 1). The number of
times participants needed to empty their bladder reduced from an average of 12.4 times per
                                                  43

day (prior to treatment), to 8.9 times per day (after 2 weeks), to 8.1 times per day (after one
month), and 7.5 times per day (after 2 months), which is within normal limits..
Frequencyof Nocturia
 [0159]    The results demonstrated that this treatment effectively reduced the number of times
participants needed to empty their bladder at night (FIG. 2). There was a significant (p<0.05)
reduction in awakenings from 3.75 times per night initially, to 1.75 times at 2 weeks, to 1.25
times per night at month 1, and 0.88 times per night at month 2, which is within the normal
range.
 Urinary Urgency
 [0160]    Urinary urgency was significantly reduced from an average of 5 episodes per day to
2.6 times per day (not significant) at 2 weeks to 1.2 times per day (p=0.0 2 5 ) at month 1 and
less than once a day (5 times per week) at month 2 (p=0.02).
  Urinary Stream and Straining
 [0161]    There was a slight reduction in weak steam and straining to begin urination;
however, these results were not statistically significant. Less than half of the participants
experienced these symptoms.
 The InternationalProstateSymptom Score (IPSS)
 [0162]    The total average IPSS score for participants at baseline was 17.1 (ranging from 9 to
30), with all participants categorized as either moderately or severely symptomatic (FIG. 3).
At two weeks, the total average IPSS score for participants was significantly (p<0.05)
reduced to 9.4. IPSS was further reduced to 7.1 at month 1, with participants categorized as
mildly to moderately symptomatic, and 4.5 at month 2 (all scores p values<0.00 1). At month
2, two participants were categorized as moderately symptomatic, five as mildly symptomatic
and one participant scored zero (no IPSS score symptoms).
 [0163]    The IPSS score included a question related to the quality of life due to urinary
symptoms which asked, 'If you were to spend the rest of your life with your urinary condition
just the way it is now, how would you feel about that?' The possible responses were
 'delighted, pleased, mostly satisfied, mixed, mostly dissatisfied, unhappy and terrible.' At
baseline the average response from participants was between 'mostly dissatisfied' and
                                                 44

'unhappy'. At two weeks and then again and month 1, the average response from
participants was closer to 'mostly satisfied'. At month 2, the average response was between
'pleased' and 'delighted'
The UrogenitalDistress Inventory (UDI)
[0164]    At baseline, the symptoms experienced by most participants included: nocturia
(100%), dribbling (75%), incomplete emptying (75%), and leakage (65%). After one month
the number of participants bothered by these symptoms was reduced to 62.5%, 50%, 50%
and 37.5% respectively. At month 2, the responses had improved further to within the
normal range for nocturia and resolution of leakage (FIG. 4).
CONCLUSION
[0165]    The results of this study indicated that Prorox@ was effective at significantly
(p<0.05) reducing symptoms of urinary frequency, urgency, and nocturia as well as reducing
participants' total average IPSS score. Symptom relief occurred after 2 weeks of treatment,
with further improvements at one month. By month 2 urinary frequency in the day and
nocturia were within the normal physiological range. Quality of life measures show
significant reductions in the percentage of participants feeling bothered by their bladder
symptoms. There were no reported side effects. This study showed that Prorox@ provides a
greater effect than previous herbal formulations in reducing the symptoms of BPH and
improving quality of life. Furthermore, these improved results are achieved within a shorter
time frame.
Example 2
Patients and Methods
[0166]    Forty-one adult males with medically diagnosed BPH participated in a trial of either
Prorox@ or a "Blend" of herbs containing Saw palmetto. Prorox@ contains Crateva (3g daily
dry herb equivalent (DHE) dose), Horsetail (2g daily DHE dose), Lindera (2g daily DHE
dose), Saw palmetto (3.2g daily DHE dose) plus nutrients including lycopene, zinc, selenium,
and vitamin D. The Blend has a similar dry herb equivalent total dose of herbs, but uses a
standardized Horsetail and does not have Lindera or vitamin D. In order to directly compare
results, participant's percent (%) reduction in the frequency of urination, nocturia and total
                                                45

IPSS scores for each formulation was used. This method of analysis was used because
baseline (at Month 0) values varied in each of the studies.
Results And Discussion
[0167]    The percentage of people on each formula that experienced symptoms at Month 1
was assessed and compared. Comparison of the frequency of urination and nocturia indicated
that Prorox@ was more effective in reducing the frequency of urination during the day (34%
reduction at month 1 for Prorox@ compared to 18% reduction at month 1 for the Blend).
Prorox@ was also superior to the Blend in reducing nocturia with a 67% reduction at month 1
for Prorox@ compared to 27% reduction at month 1 for the Blend. See Table 3, below.
Table 3 - PercentDecrease in Frequency of Urination
                                         Day                          Night
                                The Blend      Prorox@      The Blend       Prorox@
  Month 0 vs Month 1                18            34           27              67
[0168]    The results of the total IPSS score percentage (%) reduction was also assessed and
compared. These results indicated that Prorox@ had a greater effectiveness at month 1.
Furthermore, the results for Prorox@ at Month 1 were comparable to or better than the
Month 3 results for the Blend. This showed that Prorox@ produced results within a shorter
time frame. See Table 4, below, and (FIG. 5).
                                                46

Table 4
                                                    Prorox@     The Blend      The Blend
                                                    Month 1      Month 1        Month 3
         Frequent Urination                            34            18            35
         Nocturia                                      67            27            62
         Total average IPSS score                      58            20            40
Conclusion
[0169]     The results of this study indicated that Prorox@ was safe and not associated with
major adverse reactions. It effectively reduced symptoms of daytime urinary frequency and
nocturia, and reduced total average IPSS scores.
[0170]     The reduction in symptoms was faster and more marked for Prorox@ than for the
Blend after month 1 of treatment. Prorox@ provided a greater reduction in urinary frequency
during the day (34% versus 18% reduction) and at night (67% versus 27% reduction) at
month 1 and improved the total average IPSS score (58% versus 20%). Results produced by
Prorox@ after one month of treatment were comparable to or better than results from the
Blend after 3 months of treatment.
[0171]     In summary, compositions containing Crateva, Horsetail,Lindera, saw palmetto
(i.e., Serenoa repens) and nutrients provided greater and faster effectiveness in reducing
symptoms of BPH when compared to earlier herbal combinations shown to be effective in
this area.
Example 3:       PROROX Case Studies
[0172]     Recent research is indicating that up to 40% of men who think they have BPH
(benign prostatic hyperplasia) may actually have OAB (overactive bladder; urinary,
frequency, urgency, nocturia and urge incontinence). Prorox@ targets the bladder and
prostate to encompass the variety of causes for the bladder symptoms in the ageing male.
[0173]      Bladder symptoms for most men using Prorox@ start improving within 2 - 4 weeks.
This is faster than treatments that focus specifically on the prostate and supports the view that
                                                 47

the bladder may be a primary cause for many of these men. The following cases were with
men who used Prorox for 2 months.
Case 1
[0174]     A 60 year old male presented with urinary frequency, 12 times daily, and urinary
urgency with each micturition. He was quite concerned about his bladder symptoms. Weak
stream and the need to strain or push to start urination occurred one third of the time.
Additionally, he had nocturia 5 times per night.
[0175]     His urinary symptoms had started at age 40. His physician initially suspected a
urinary tract infection and prescribed antibiotics, which had no effect. Subsequent
examination indicated benign prostate enlargement so over the years he ingested a variety of
herbal supplements, including pygeum, nettle, and saw palmetto, with varying but incomplete
effects.
[0176]     Within two weeks of using Prorox@, his IPSS (International Prostate Symptom
Score) score went from 30 (severely symptomatic) to 19 (moderately symptomatic) and all
urinary parameters improved. Patient continued Prorox@ use and at 2 months his urinary
frequency was normal (7 per day), and his nocturia (2 per night) and his IPSS (score of 13)
were dramatically reduced.
Case 2
[0177]     59 year old male presented with nocturia, 3 times nightly, and urinary urgency and
straining with each micturition. For the past year he has experienced the above symptoms and
incontinence episodes with the urinary urgency. His IPSS score was 18 (moderate) at the
start of treatment.
[0178]     After 2 weeks of treatment with Prorox@, his straining and urgency was reduced to
1 in 4 micturitions and nocturia to 2 per night. His IPSS was reduced to 14 (moderate). By 1
month, his IPSS was 9 (moderate), urgency occurred once per day, and nocturia occurred
once per night. By 2 months of treatment, his urinary symptoms were all within normal
parameters with nocturia once per night, and IPSS of 2 (mild).
Case 3
[0179]     A 65 year old farmer with urinary frequency (12 times daily). His frequency was
worse in the morning, where he would urinate approximately every hour. His symptoms
                                                48

would vary but were worse if he awoke with a headache and took acetaminophen
(paracetamol). Symptoms were also worse with coffee. He had nocturia, 3 times nightly, as
well as a weak urinary stream and urinary urgency until early afternoon. His PSA was 23
(severe).
[0180]    After two weeks of treatment with Prorox@, he had a reduction in all urinary
parameters and his IPSS reached 15. His symptoms continued to improve and by 2 months
his urinary frequency was 9 per day and nocturia once per night. He had no need for
straining to start urination, no incontinence and his urinary urgency would occur one third of
the time. His IPSS score was 10 (moderate) at 2 months.
                                          REFERENCES:
[0181]    1. Desphande P.J, Sahu M, Kumar P, 1982. Crataeva nurvala Hook and Forst
(Varuna) the Ayurvedic drug of choice in urinary disorders. Indian Journal of Medical
Research;76 (Suppl) December: 46-53.
[0182]    2. Blumenthal, M., ed., 1998. The Complete German Commission E Monographs.
American Botanical Council. Austin, TX:
[0183]    3. The British Herbal Pharmacopeia. Publ: Brisbane Herbal Medicine Association,
1983.
[0184]    4. Bensky D and Gamble A, 1993. Chinese HerbalMateriaMedica, Revised
Edition. England Press, Seattle, Washington, USA.
[0185]    5. Schauss AG, Spiller G, Chaves S, Gawlicka A, 2006. Reducing the symptoms of
overactive bladder and urinary incontinence: results of a two-month, double-blind, placebo
controlled clinical trial. Poster presentation FASEB, San Francisco, April, 2006.
[0186]    6. Steels E, Ryan J, Seipel T, Rao A, 2002. Crateva and Equisetum reduce urinary
incontinence symptoms. Australian ContinenceJournal; 8 (3).
[0187]    7. Niederprym, H.J., Schweikert. H.U., Z nker, K.S. Testosterone 5 alpha-reductase
inhibition by free fatty acids from Sabal serrulata fruits. Phytomedicine 1994; 1:127-133.
[0188]    8. Sultan, C., et. Al, 1984. Inhibition of androgen metabolism and binding of
liposterolic extract of Serenoa repens B in human foreskin fibroblasts. Journal of Steroid
Biochemistry. 1984; 20(1):515-519.
                                                 49

[0189]     9. Weissner, H., et. Al, 1996. Effects of the Sabal serrulata extract IDS 9 and its
subfractions on 5 alpha- reductase activity in human benign prostate hypertrophy. The
Prostate;28:300-06.
[0190]     10. Tasca, A., et. Al, 1985. Treatment of obstructive symptomatology caused by
prostate adenoma with an extract of Serenoa repens. Double-blind clinical study vs. placebo.
Minerva Urologica e Nefrologica; 37:87-91.
[0191]     11. Crimi, A., Russo, A, 1983. The use of Serenoa repens extract in the treatment of
functional disturbances caused by prostate hypertrophy. Medical Praxis; 4: 47-51.
[0192]     12. Braeckman, J, 1994. The extract of Serenoa repens in the treatment of benign
prostate hypertrophy: a multicenter open study. Current Therapeutic Research;55(7): 776-85.
[0193]     13. Boyle P, Robertson C, Lowe F, Roehrborn C, 2004. Updated meta-analysis of
clinical trials of Serenoa repens extract in the treatment of symptomatic benign prostate
hypertrophy. British Journal of Urology;93 (6):751-6.
[0194]     14. Gong EM, Gerber GS, 2004. Saw palmetto and benign prostate hypertrophy.
American Journal of Chinese Medicine;32(3):33 1-8.
[0195]     15. Nagaraj M, Sunitha S, Varalakshmi P, 2000. Effect of lupeol, a pentacyclic
triterpene, on the lipid peroxidation and antioxidant status in rat kidney after chronic
cadmium exposure. Journal ofApplied Toxicology; 20(5): 413-417.
[0196]     16. Ohno T, Takemura G, Murata I, Kagawa T, Akao S, Minatoguchi S, Fujiwara T
and Fujiwara H, 2005. Water extract of the root of Lindera strychnifolia slows down the
progression of diabetic nephropathy in db/db mice. Life Sciences; 77(12):1391-1403.
[0197]     17. Geetha T, Varalakshmi P, 2001. Anti-inflammatory activity of lupeol and lupeol
linoleate in rats. Journal ofEthnopharmacology;76(1): 77-80.
[0198]     18. Geetha T, Varalakshmi P, 1999. Anticomplement activity of triterpenes from
Crataeva nurvala stem bark in adjuvant arthritis in rats. GeneralPharmacology;32(4):495-7.
[0199]     19. Yubin Luo, Mei Liu, Xiujuan Yao, Yufeng Xia, Yue Dal, Guixin Chou and
Zhengtao Wang, 2009. Total alkaloids from Radix Linderae prevent the production of
inflammatory mediators in lipopolysaccharide-stimulated RAW 264.7 cells by suppressing
NF-KB and MAPKs activation. Cytokine; 46(1): 104-110.
                                                 50

[0200]    20. Qinglin L, Guixin C, Changgui D, Zhengtao W, Fang H, 1997-12. Studies on the
analgesic and anti-inflammatory action of radix Linderae extract. Journalof Chinese
MedicinalMaterials. (China Pharmaceutical University, Nanjing 210038) (Abstract)
[0201]    21. Badmaev, V., Majeed, M., Passwater, R, 1996. Selenium: A quest for better
understanding. Alternative Therapies; 2(4):59-67.
[0202]    22. Compare F, Mahmoud A, 2004. Preventing diseases of the prostate in the elderly
using hormones and nutriceuticals. Aging Male;7(2):155-69.
[0203]    23. Cristoni A, Di Pierro F, Bombardelli E, 2000. Botanical derivatives for the
prostate. Fitoterapia;71(1):S21-8.
[0204]    24. Lagiou P, Wuu J, Trichopoulou A, Hsieh CC, Adami HO, Trichopoulou D,
1999. Diet and benign prostatic hyperplasia: a study in Greece. Urology;54(2):284-90.
[0205]    25. Zachara BA, Szewczyk-Golec K, Tyloch J, Wolski Z, Szylberg T, Stepien S,
Kwiatkowski S, Blach-Boguslawaska E, Wasowicz W, 2005. Blood and tissue selenium
concentrations and glutathione peroxidase activities in patients with prostate cancer and
benign prostate hyperplasia. Neoplasma;52(3):248-54.
[0206]    26. Tuohimaa P, Lyakhovich A, Aksenov N, Pennanen P, Syvili H, Lou Y, M.
Ahonen M, Hasan T, Pasanen P, Bliuer M, Manninen T, Miettinen S, Vilja P and Ylikomi T,
2001. Vitamin D and prostate cancer. The Journal of Steroid Biochemistry and Molecular
Biology; 76 (1-5): 125-134.
[0207]    27. Swami S, Krishnan A and Feldman D, 2011. Article in Press. Review: Vitamin
D metabolism and action in the prostate: Implications for health and disease. Molecular and
Cellular Endocrinology. Available online
[0208]    28 Barry M et al., 2011. Effect of increasing doses of Saw palmetto extract on the
lower urinary tract symptoms. Journal of the American Medical Association; 306(12): 1344
1351.
[0209]     29. Anand R, Patnaik GK, Kamal Roy, Bhaduri AP, 1995. Antioxaluric and
anticalciuric activity of lupeol derivatives. Indian JournalofPharmacology;27: 265-268.
[0210]    30. Grases F, Melero G. Costa-Bauza A, Prieto R, March JG, 1994. Urolithiasis and
phytotherapy. InternationalJournalof Urology and Nephrology; 26(5): 507-511.
                                                 51

 [0211]   31. Varalakshmi P, Shamila Y, Latha E. Effect of Crataeva nurvala in experimental
urolithiasis. J Ethnopharmacology 1990; 28: 313-321.
 [0212]   32. Malini MM, Baskar R, Varalakshmi P. Effect of lupeol, a pentacyclic triterpene,
on urinary enzymes in hyperoxaluric rats. Jpn J Med Sci Biol 1995 Oct-Dec; 48(5-6): 211-20.
 [0213]   33. Das PK, Rathor RS, Lal R, Tripathi RM, Ram AK, Biswas M, 1974. Anti
inflammatory and anti-arthritic activity of Varuna. JournalofResearch ofIndian Medicine;
9:49.
 [0214]   34. Nagao A, Seki M, Kobayashi H, 1999. Inhibition of xanthine oxidase by
flavonoids. Biosci Biotechnology Biochemistry; 63(10): 1787-90.
 [0215]    35. Robinson D, Pearce KF, Preisser JS, Dugan E, Suggs PK and Cohen SJ, 1998.
Relationship between patient reports of urinary incontinence symptoms and quality of life
measures. Obstetrics and Gynaecology; 91 (2): 224-228.
 [0216]   36. Coyne K, Payne C, Bhattacharyya S, Revicki D, Thompson C, Corey R, Hunt T,
2004. The impact of urinary urgency and frequency on health-related quality of life in
overactive bladder: Results from a national community survey. Value in Health; 7(4)
 [0217]   37. Bone K. Clinical Applications of Ayurvedic and Chinese Herbs, 1997.
Monographsforthe western herbalpractitioner.Phytotherapy Press, Warwick, Queensland,
Australia.
 [0218]   38. Chan Wang, Yue Dai, Jian Yang, Guixin Chou, Changhong Wang, Zhengtao
Wang, 2007. Treatment with total alkaloids from Radix Linderae reduces inflammation and
joint destruction in type II collagen-induced model for rheumatoid arthritis. Journalof
Ethnopharmacology;111:322-328.
 [0219]   39. Runwei Yan, Yang Yang, Yingying Zeng, Guolin Zou, 2009. Cytotoxicity and
antibacterial activity of Lindera strychnifolia essential oils and extracts. Journalof
Ethnopharmacology;121:451-455.
 [0220]   40. Shimomura M, Ushikoshi H, Hattori A, Murata I, Ohno Y, Aoyama T,
 Kawasaki M, Nishigaki K, Takemura G, Fujiwara T, Fujiwara H, Minatoguchi S, 2010.
Treatment with Lindera strychnifolia reduces blood pressure by decreasing sympathetic nerve
                                                52

activity in spontaneously hypertensive rats. American Journalof Chinese Medicine; 38(3): 561
8.
[0221] 41. Noda Y, Mori A, Anzai K, Packer L, 1999. Superoxide anion radical scavenging
activity of Uyaka (Lindera strychnifolia), a natural extract used in traditional medicine.
Antioxidant Food Supplements in Human Health.
[0222] 42. Bin Li, Gil-Saeng Jeong, Dae-Gill Kang, Ho-Sub Lee and Youn-Chul Kim, 2009.
Cytoprotective effects of lindenenyl acetate isolated from Lindera strychnfolia on mouse
hippocampal HT22 cells. EuropeanJournalofPharmacology.Neuropharmacology and
Analgesia; 16(1-3): 58-65.
[0223] The invention is further defined by reference to the following examples, which are not
meant to limit the scope of the present invention. It will be apparent to those skilled in the art
that many modifications, both to the materials and methods, may be practiced without departing
from the purpose and interest of the invention.
                                         EQUIVALENTS
[0224] This invention has been described in terms of specific embodiments set forth in detail
herein, but it should be understood that these are by way of illustration and the invention is not
necessarily limited thereto. Modifications and variations will be apparent from the disclosure
and may be resorted to without departing from the spirit of the invention as those of skill in the
art will readily understand. Accordingly, such variations and modifications are considered to be
within the purview and scope of the invention and the following claims.
[0225] It will be clearly understood that, if a prior art publication is referred to herein, this
reference does not constitute an admission that the publication forms part of the common
general knowledge in the art in Australia or in any other country.
[0226] In the present specification and claims, the word 'comprising' and its derivatives
including 'comprises' and 'comprise' include each of the stated integers but does not exclude
the inclusion of one or more further integers.
[0227] Definitions of the specific embodiments of the invention as claimed herein follow.
[0228] According to a first embodiment of the invention, there is provided an herb-containing
composition, comprising:
         (i)     Crateva nurvala;
         (ii)   Equisetum arvense;
         (iii)  Lindera aggregata;and
                                                  53

        (iv)    Serenoa repens, wherein the herb-containing composition is formulated as an
        oral dosage unit.
[0229] According to a second embodiment of the invention, there is provided a pharmaceutical
composition comprising the herb-containing composition of the first embodiment and a
pharmaceutically-acceptable carrier.
[0230] According to a third embodiment of the invention, there is provided a herb-containing
composition, comprising:
        (i)     a Crateva nurvala stem/bark extract preparation;
        (ii)    an Equisetum arvense stem extract preparation;
        (iii)   a Lindera aggregataroot extract preparation; and
        (iv)    a Serenoa repens leave/berry extract preparation,
wherein the herb-containing composition is formulated as an oral dosage unit.
[0231] According to a fourth embodiment of the invention, there is provided a pharmaceutical
composition comprising the herb-containing composition of the third embodiment and a
pharmaceutically-acceptable carrier.
[0232] According to a fifth embodiment of the invention, there is provided a method for the
prevention or treatment of the symptoms of Benign Prostate Hypertrophy (BPH), comprising:
administering an herb-containing composition to a subject in need thereof, wherein the herb
containing composition comprises:
        (i)     Crateva nurvala;
        (ii)   Equisetum arvense;
        (iii)  Lindera aggregata;and
        (iv)    Serenoa repens, wherein the herb-containing composition is formulated as an
        oral dosage unit.
[0233] According to a sixth embodiment of the invention, there is provided the use of:
        (i)     Crateva nurvala;
        (ii)   Equisetum arvense;
        (iii)  Lindera aggregata;and
        (iv)    Serenoa repens; or
                                               54

         (i)    a Crateva nurvala stem/bark extract preparation;
         (ii)   an Equisetum arvense stem extract preparation;
         (iii)  a Lindera aggregataroot extract preparation; and
         (iv)   a Serenoa repens leave/berry extract preparation,
in the preparation of a medicament for the prevention or treatment of the symptoms of Benign
Prostate Hypertrophy (BPH), wherein the medicament is formulated as an oral dosage unit.
[0234] Preferred embodiments of the invention are defined in the following numbered
paragraphs.
1. An herb-containing composition, comprising:
(i) a Crateva nurvala extract preparation;
(ii) an Equisetum arvense extract preparation;
(iii) a Lindera aggregata extract preparation; and
(iv) a Serenoa repens extract preparation, wherein the herb-containing composition is
formulated as an oral dosage unit.
2. The herb-containing composition of paragraph 1, wherein the Crateva nurvala preparation is
present at a concentration from about 1 g to about 18 g dry weight equivalents per oral dosage
unit, the Equisetum arvense extract preparation is present at a concentration from about 750 mg
to about 12 g dry weight equivalents per oral dosage unit, the Lindera aggregataextract
preparation is present at a concentration from about 750 mg to about 12 g dry weight
equivalents per oral dosage unit, and the Serenoa repens preparation is present at a
concentration from about 1 g to about 18 g dry weight equivalents per oral dosage unit.
3. The herb-containing composition of paragraph 1, wherein the Crateva nurvala preparation is
present at a concentration from about 3 g to about 12 g dry weight equivalents per oral dosage
unit, the Equisetum arvense extract preparation is present at a concentration from about 1.5 g to
about 6 g dry weight equivalents per oral dosage unit, the Lindera aggregataextract
preparation is present at a concentration from about 1.5 g to about 6 g dry weight equivalents
per oral dosage unit, and the Serenoa repens preparation is present at a concentration from
about 1.5 g to about 12 g dry weight equivalents per oral dosage unit.
                                                55

4. The herb-containing composition of paragraph 1, wherein the Crateva nurvala preparation is
present at a concentration from about 4 g to about 8 g dry weight equivalents per oral dosage
unit, the Equisetum arvense extract preparation is present at a concentration from about 2 g to
about 4 g dry weight equivalents per oral dosage unit, the Lindera aggregataextract
preparation is present at a concentration from about 2 g to about 4 g dry weight equivalents per
oral dosage unit, and the Serenoa repens preparation is present at a concentration from about 3
g to about 8 g dry weight equivalents per oral dosage unit.
5. The herb-containing composition of paragraph 1, wherein the composition has at least one of
the following:
(i) the Crateva nurvala extract preparation is a stem/bark extract preparation;
(ii) the Equisetum arvense extract preparation is a stem extract preparation;
(iii) the Lindera aggregataextract preparation is a root extract preparation; and
(iv) the Serenoa repens extract preparation is a leave/berry extract preparation.
6. The herb-containing composition of paragraph 1, wherein the herb-containing composition is
formulated in a dry delivery system.
7. The herb-containing composition of paragraph 1, wherein the herb-containing composition is
formulated in a liquid delivery system.
8. The herb-containing composition of paragraph 1, wherein the herb-containing composition is
formulated in a controlled-release vehicle.
9. A pharmaceutical composition comprising the herb-containing composition of paragraph 1
and a pharmaceutically-acceptable carrier.
10. An herb-containing composition, comprising:
(i) a Crateva nurvala stem/bark extract preparation;
(ii) an Equisetum arvense stem extract preparation;
(iii) a Lindera aggregata root extract preparation; and
                                                 56

(iv) a Serenoa repens leave/berry extract preparation,
wherein the herb-containing composition is formulated as an oral dosage unit, and wherein the
Equisetum arvense stem extract preparation and the Lindera aggregataroot extract preparation
are present at the same concentration.
11. The herb-containing composition of paragraph 10, wherein the Crateva nurvala stem/bark
preparation is present at a concentration of at least about 1,500 mg dry weight equivalents per
oral dosage unit.
12. The herb-containing composition of paragraph 10, wherein the Equisetum arvense stem
extract preparation and the Lindera aggregata root extract preparation are present at a
concentration of at least about 1 ,000 mg dry weight equivalents per oral dosage unit
13. The herb-containing composition of paragraph 10, wherein the Serenoa repens leave/berry
extract preparation is present at a concentration of at least about 3,200 mg dry weight
equivalents per oral dosage unit.
14. A pharmaceutical composition comprising the herb-containing composition of paragraph 10
and a pharmaceutically-acceptable carrier.
15. The herb-containing composition of paragraph 10, wherein the oral dosage unit is selected
from the group consisting of: a tablet, dry powder, capsule, and caplet.
16. A method for the prevention or treatment of the symptoms of Benign Prostate Hypertrophy
(BPH), comprising: administering an herb-containing composition to a subject in need thereof,
wherein the herb-containing composition comprises:
(i) a Crateva nurvala extract preparation;
(ii) an Equisetum arvense extract preparation;
(iii) a Lindera aggregata extract preparation; and
(iv) a Serenoa repens extract preparation, and wherein the herb-containing composition is
formulated as an oral dosage unit.
                                                  57

17. The method of paragraph 16, wherein the treatment results in a reduction in the frequency
of urination after about two weeks.
18. The method of paragraph 16, wherein the treatment results in a reduction in the frequency
of urination after about one month.
19. The method of paragraph 16, wherein, compared to a subject not administered the herb
containing composition, the treatment results in an improvement of at least one of:
(i) average daily frequency of urination;
(ii) average nightly frequency of urination; and
(iii) urinary urgency episodes.
The method of paragraph 16, further comprising at least one of the following:
(i) extracting the Crateva nurvala preparation from Crateva nurvala stems and/or bark at an
extract ratio of from about 25 to about 35;
(ii) extracting the Equisetum arvense extract preparation from Equisetum arvense stem at an
extract ratio of about 10;
(iii) extracting the Lindera aggregata preparation from Lindera aggregataroot at an extract
ratio of about 10; and
(iv) extracting the Serenoa repens preparation from Serenoa repens leaves and/or berries at an
extract ratio of about 10.
                                                 58

CLAIMS
1.      An herb-containing composition, comprising:
        (i)     Crateva nurvala;
        (ii)    Equisetum arvense;
        (iii)   Lindera aggregata;and
        (iv)    Serenoa repens, wherein the herb-containing composition is formulated as an
        oral dosage unit.
2.      The herb-containing composition of claim 1, wherein the Crateva nurvala is present at a
concentration from about 1 g to about 18 g dry weight equivalents per oral dosage unit, the
Equisetum arvense is present at a concentration from about 750 mg to about 12 g dry weight
equivalents per oral dosage unit, the Lindera aggregatais present at a concentration from about
750 mg to about 12 g dry weight equivalents per oral dosage unit, and the Serenoa repens is
present at a concentration from about 1 g to about 18 g dry weight equivalents per oral dosage
unit.
3.      The herb-containing composition of claim 1, wherein the Crateva nurvala is present at a
concentration from about 3 g to about 12 g dry weight equivalents per oral dosage unit, the
Equisetum arvense is present at a concentration from about 1.5 g to about 6 g dry weight
equivalents per oral dosage unit, the Lindera aggregatais present at a concentration from about
1.5 g to about 6 g dry weight equivalents per oral dosage unit, and the Serenoa repens is present
at a concentration from about 1.5 g to about 12 g dry weight equivalents per oral dosage unit.
4.      The herb-containing composition of claim 1, wherein the Crateva nurvala is present at a
concentration from about 4 g to about 8 g dry weight equivalents per oral dosage unit, the
Equisetum arvense is present at a concentration from about 2 g to about 4 g dry weight
equivalents per oral dosage unit, the Lindera aggregatais present at a concentration from about
2 g to about 4 g dry weight equivalents per oral dosage unit, and the Serenoa repens is present
at a concentration from about 3 g to about 8 g dry weight equivalents per oral dosage unit.
5.      The herb-containing composition of claim 1, wherein the composition has at least one of
the following:
        (i)     the Crateva nurvala is one of a stem and bark extract preparation;
        (ii)    the Equisetum arvense is a stem extract preparation;
                                                59

         (iii)  the Lindera aggregata is a root extract preparation; and
         (iv)   the Serenoa repens is one of a leave and berry extract preparation.
6.       The herb-containing composition of any one of claims I to 5, wherein the herb
containing composition is formulated in a dry delivery system.
7.       The herb-containing composition of any one of claims I to 5, wherein the herb
containing composition is formulated in a liquid delivery system.
8.       The herb-containing composition of any one of claims 1 to 5, wherein the herb
containing composition is formulated in a controlled-release vehicle.
9.       A pharmaceutical composition comprising the herb-containing composition of any one
of claims 1 to 8 and a pharmaceutically-acceptable carrier.
10.      An herb-containing composition, comprising:
         (i)    a Crateva nurvala stem/bark extract preparation;
         (ii)   an Equisetum arvense stem extract preparation;
         (iii)  a Lindera aggregataroot extract preparation; and
         (iv)   a Serenoa repens leave/berry extract preparation,
wherein the herb-containing composition is formulated as an oral dosage unit.
11.      The herb-containing composition of claim 10, wherein the Crateva nurvala stem/bark
preparation is present at a concentration of at least about 1,500 mg dry weight equivalents per
oral dosage unit.
12.      The herb-containing composition of claim 10, wherein the Equisetum arvense stem
extract preparation and the Lindera aggregata root extract preparation are present at a
concentration of at least about 1,000 mg dry weight equivalents per oral dosage unit.
13.      The herb-containing composition of claim 10, wherein the Serenoa repens leave/berry
extract preparation is present at a concentration of at least about 3,200 mg dry weight
equivalents per oral dosage unit.
14.      A pharmaceutical composition comprising the herb-containing composition of any one
of claims 10 to 13 and a pharmaceutically-acceptable carrier.
15.      The herb-containing composition of any one of claims 10 to 13, wherein the oral dosage
unit is selected from the group consisting of: a tablet, dry powder, capsule, and caplet.
                                                  60

16.     A method for the prevention or treatment of the symptoms of Benign Prostate
Hypertrophy (BPH), comprising: administering an herb-containing composition to a subject in
need thereof, wherein the herb-containing composition comprises:
        (i)     Crateva nurvala;
        (ii)    Equisetum arvense;
        (iii)   Lindera aggregata;and
        (iv)    Serenoa repens, wherein the herb-containing composition is formulated as an
        oral dosage unit.
17.     The method of claim 16, wherein the treatment results in a reduction in the frequency of
urination after about two weeks.
18.     The method of claim 16, wherein the treatment results in a reduction in the frequency of
urination after about one month.
19.     The method of claim 16, wherein, compared to a subject not administered the herb
containing composition, the treatment results in an improvement of at least one of:
        (i)     average daily frequency of urination;
        (ii)    average nightly frequency of urination; and
        (iii)   urinary urgency episodes.
20.     The method of any one of claims 16 to 19, further comprising at least one of the
following:
        (i)     extracting the Crateva nurvala from Crateva nurvala stems and/or bark at an
        extract ratio of from about 25 to about 35;
        (ii)    extracting the Equisetum arvense from Equisetum arvense stem at an extract
        ratio of about 10;
        (iii)   extracting the Lindera aggregatafrom Lindera aggregataroot at an extract ratio
        of about 10; and
        (iv)    extracting the Serenoa repens from Serenoa repens leaves and/or berries at an
        extract ratio of about 10.
21.     Use of:
        (i)     Crateva nurvala;
                                                61

        (ii)    Equisetum arvense;
        (iii)   Lindera aggregata;and
        (iv)    Serenoa repens; or
        (i)     a Crateva nurvala stem/bark extract preparation;
        (ii)    an Equisetum arvense stem extract preparation;
        (iii)   a Lindera aggregataroot extract preparation; and
        (iv)    a Serenoa repens leave/berry extract preparation,
in the preparation of a medicament for the prevention or treatment of the symptoms of Benign
Prostate Hypertrophy (BPH), wherein the medicament is formulated as an oral dosage unit.
Date:   20 December 2017
                                               62

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
