   ABSTRACT
            The present invention provides a driver for LED lighting having a plurality of
   LEDs, the driver receiving AC input power from an AC power source and including a
   voltage multiplier for supplying a rectified output power to the LEDs to produce a
 5 luminous flux. Also provided is a method of driving LED lighting having a plurality of
   LEDs, the method including: receiving AC input power having an input voltage;
   multiplying the input voltage to supply a multiplied output voltage to the LEDs; and
   rectifying the AC input power to supply a rectified output power to the LEDs to
   produce a luminous flux.
10

                       5/5
        I              ,        L
          AC-DC Voltage           V
     V2     Multiplier
V
  C,
                                    C,
                             V3
                      Fig. 9

   TITLE OF THE INVENTION
            Driver for LED Lighting and Method of Driving LED Lighting
   FIELD OF THE INVENTION
            The present invention relates to drivers for LED lighting and methods of
 5 driving LED lighting. The present invention is described herein primarily in relation
   to, but not limited to, high power lighting applications.
   BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
            Recent work on LED drivers show that both switched mode LED drivers using
   active power electronic switches ("active LED drivers") such as the one shown in
10 Fig. 1 and passive LED drivers without active power electronic switches ("passive
   LED drivers") such as the one shown in Fig. 2 have been proposed for LED systems.
   Fig. 1 shows an "active" offline LED system from the ST Microelectronics Application
   Notes Power Supply And Power Management L6562A TSM1052 AN271 1 Datasheet.
   For offline applications in which the LED systems are connected to AC mains, active
15 and passive LED drivers essentially turn the AC voltage source at mains frequencies
   into current sources for driving the LED devices usually connected in series as LED
   strings.
            For compact LED driver designs, the active LED drivers are good solutions.
   Active LED drivers are based on switched mode power supply technologies. Since
20 the switching frequency could be up to hundreds of kilo-Hertz, the component sizes
   of the energy storage components such as inductors and capacitors can be reduced.
   However, due to their requirements for complicated electronic circuitry such as
   auxiliary power supplies, control integrated circuits, gate drive circuits for power
   switches, etc., active LED drivers are less reliable in outdoor applications, which are

                                               -2
   subject to harsh environmental conditions such as wide temperature and humidity
   changes and lightning.
           Passive LED drivers, on the other hand, have simple circuit structures without
   the need for auxiliary power supplies, control integrated circuits, gate drive circuits for
 5 power switches, etc. However, because of mains frequency operation, these passive
   drivers typically need passive energy storage components of larger size.           These
   components include electrolytic capacitors which have a limited lifetime and are
   highly sensitive to temperature. Typically, the electrolytic capacitors often used in
   LED lighting have a lifetime of 15,000 hours or 1.7 years. This lifetime doubles if the
10 operating temperature of the LED lighting is decreased by 10'C, and is halved if the
   operating temperature is increased by 100C.            Nonetheless, due to their circuit
   simplicity and robustness against harsh environments, passive LED drivers are more
   reliable in outdoor applications.
           US patent application no. 13/129,793 describes robust LED drivers for harsh
15 environments which use the passive driver approach without the need for electrolytic
   capacitors. These passive LED drivers are based on a full-bridge diode rectifier, as
   shown in Fig. 2.    The output voltage of the diode rectifier is smoothed by a non
   electrolytic capacitor C3 and an output inductor turns this capacitor voltage into a
   current source for driving the LED load. In some cases, the capacitor C3 can be
20 replaced by various forms of valley-fill circuits as shown in Fig. 3.
           For high-power LED lighting systems, such as those used in street lighting,
   LED devices are usually connected in series to form LED strings. If high power is
   required, it is sometimes necessary to use parallel-connected strings in order to
   achieve the required power and luminous performance.         Since LED devices are not
25 perfectly identical even if they are produced by the same manufacturer, the voltage
   current (VI) characteristics of LED devices of the same model type are not exactly

   identical.    Thus, the V-1 characteristics of parallel-connected LED strings are also
   different. Such differences can lead to a current imbalance problem that, in turn, can
   lead to uneven light and heat distribution, and more importantly, a reduction of the
   lifetime of LED modules due to unintended over-current situations.
 5          In order to address current imbalance problems with parallel-connected LED
   strings, various techniques have been proposed, such as those reviewed in "Novel
   Self-configurable Current Mirror Techniques for Reducing Current Imbalance in
   Parallel Light-Emitting Diode (LED) strings" authored by Li S.N, Zhong W.Z., Chen
   W., and Hui S.Y.R. in IEEE Transactions on Power Electronics, Volume: 27, Issue: 4,
10 2012, Pages: 2153 - 2162. In general, current mirror techniques and switched mode
   current control methods are commonly used for reducing current imbalance in
   parallel current strings.     One current balancing circuit used in such techniques is
   shown in Fig. 4. However, using these techniques and methods, regardless of their
   form, will increase circuit complexity and costs.
15          It is an object of the present invention to overcome or ameliorate at least one
   of the disadvantages of the prior art, or to provide a useful alternative.
   SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
           The present invention provides, in a first aspect, a driver for LED lighting
   having a plurality of LEDs, the driver receiving AC input power from an AC power
20 source and including a voltage multiplier for supplying a rectified output power to the
   LEDs to produce a luminous flux, and a smoothing capacitor between the voltage
   multiplier and the LEDs, without requiring a valley-fill circuit and without requiring
   active switches.
            In one embodiment, the plurality of LEDs are connected in series.

                                              -4
           In various embodiments, the voltage multiplier is one or any combination of: a
   voltage doubler, a voltage tripler, and a voltage quadrupler. In some embodiments,
   the voltage multiplier is one or the combination of: a Delon voltage doubler, and a
   Greinacher voltage doubler.
 5         In one embodiment, the driver allows a variation in the rectified output power
   corresponding to a variation in the luminous flux unnoticeable by a human eye.
           In one embodiment, the driver includes an input capacitor between the AC
   power source and the voltage multiplier. In one embodiment, the driver includes an
   output capacitor between the voltage multiplier and the LEDs.        In one embodiment,
10 the driver includes an input inductor between the AC power source and the voltage
   multiplier.   In one embodiment, the driver preferably includes an output inductor
   between the voltage multiplier and the LEDs.
           In one embodiment, the LEDs are in the form of series-connected strings
   connected in series. In one embodiment, the series-connected strings are arranged
15 in parallel.
           The present invention also provides, in a second aspect, a method of driving
   LED lighting having a plurality of LEDs, the method including:
           receiving AC input power having an input voltage;
           multiplying the input voltage to supply a multiplied output voltage to the LEDs;
20         rectifying the AC input power to supply a rectified output power to the LEDs to
   produce a luminous flux; and
           smoothing the AC input power with a smoothing capacitor to allow a variation
   in the rectified output power corresponding to a variation in the luminous flux
   unnoticeable by a human eye, without requiring a valley-fill circuit and without
25 requiring active switches.

                                               -5
           In one embodiment, the plurality of LEDs are connected in series.
           In various embodiments, the input voltage is doubled, tripled, or quadrupled.
   In some embodiments, the input voltage is multiplied using one or the combination of:
   a Delon voltage doubler, and a Greinacher voltage doubler.
 5         In a third aspect, the present invention also provides an LED lighting system
   having a driver as described above.
   BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE FIGURES
           Preferred embodiments in accordance with the best mode of the present
   invention will now be described, by way of example only, with reference to the
10 accompanying figures, in which:
           Fig. 1 is a schematic of a prior art offline LED system using an active driver;
           Fig. 2 is a schematic of a prior art offline LED system using a passive driver;
           Fig. 3 is a schematic of another prior art offline LED system using a passive
   driver;
15         Fig. 4 is a schematic of a further prior art offline LED system having parallel
   connected LED strings and using a passive driver and a current balancing circuit;
           Fig. 5 is a schematic of a driver for LED lighting according to an embodiment
   of the present invention;
           Fig. 6 is a schematic of a driver for LED lighting according to another
20 embodiment of the present invention; and
           Fig. 7 is a schematic of a driver for LED lighting according to a further
   embodiment of the present invention;

                                               -6
            Fig. 8 is a schematic of a driver for LED lighting according to another
   embodiment of the present invention; and
            Fig. 9 is a schematic of a driver for LED lighting according to yet another
   embodiment of the present invention.
 5 DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE BEST MODE OF THE INVENTION
            Referring to the figures, an embodiment of the present invention provides a
   driver 1 for LED lighting having a plurality of LEDs 2. The driver 1 receives AC input
   power from an AC power source 3 and includes a voltage multiplier 4 for supplying a
   rectified output power to the LEDs 2 to produce a luminous flux.
10          Depending on the requirements of specific applications, the voltage multiplier
   can be one or any combination of: a voltage doubler, a voltage tripler, and a voltage
   quadrupler. For example, in some embodiments, the voltage multiplier is one or the
   combination of: a Delon voltage doubler, and a Greinacher voltage doubler.
            The drivers of the present invention are particularly suited to use as passive
15 LED drivers for high-power applications such as street lighting and other outdoor
   lighting applications.    The drivers provided by the present invention reduce the
   number of parallel-connected LED strings required, or avoid the need for parallel
   connected LED strings altogether. In the latter case, all of the LEDs are connected in
   series, and therefore, avoid the need for additional circuits, such as current mirror
20 circuits and other current balancing circuits, to prevent the current imbalance
   problems that occur with parallel-connected LED strings.
            It is noted, however, that in the case where all of the LEDs are connected in
   series, the LEDs can be in the form of a plurality of series-connected LED strings or
   modules.      These LED strings are in turn connected in series, effectively forming a
25 single chain of LEDs all connected in series. However, the series-connected LED

                                               -7
   strings can be arranged in parallel or any other configuration.            Thus, they can
   replicate any arrangement of parallel-connected LED strings.
           In the presently described embodiment of the driver according to the
   invention, the driver 1 also allows a variation in the rectified output power
 5 corresponding to a variation in the luminous flux unnoticeable by a human eye.
   Embodiments have allowed variations in the luminous flux of up to 12%, and it has
   been shown that human eyes are not sensitive to variations in luminous flux of such
   magnitudes.
           The variations in rectified output power that correspond to such variations in
10 luminous flux do not require energy storage components of larger size, and in
   particular, do not require the use of limited lifetime electrolytic capacitors.      Thus,
   drivers of the present invention that allow such variations in rectified output power
   have been found to be unexpectedly suited to functioning as simple, robust, and
   reliable passive LED drivers for harsh environments, such as outdoor applications.
15         Furthermore, in view of the advantages described above of having a voltage
   multiplier, drivers of the present invention having voltage multipliers that also allow
   variations in the rectified output power corresponding to unnoticeable variations in
   luminous flux provide rather surprising and unexpected advantages when used as
   passive LED drivers for high-power applications in harsh environments, such as
20 outdoor lighting and street lighting applications.        In particular, these advantages
   overcome or ameliorate the problems in such applications that are associated with
   current imbalance and the limited lifetime of electrolytic capacitors, as discussed in
   detail above.
           The driver 1 allows a variation in the rectified output power corresponding to a
25 variation in the luminous flux unnoticeable by a human eye by, for example, including
   a valley-fill circuit 5 between the voltage multiplier 4 and the LEDs 2, as shown in Fig.

                                              -8
   8. It will be appreciated that in practical implementation, the valley-fill circuit 5 and
   the voltage multiplier 4 can share some circuit components. Referring to Fig. 5, the
   voltage multiplier 4 takes the form of a Delon voltage doubler.         Each of the two
   capacitors CD in the Delon voltage doubler are replaced by a valley-fill circuit 5 to
 5 result in the driver 1 shown in Fig. 8, thereby including a valley-fill circuit 5 between
   the voltage multiplier 4 and the LEDs 2.
           In embodiments of the present invention, instead of the valley-fill circuit 5, a
   smoothing capacitor 6 is placed across the output of the voltage multiplier 4 between
   the voltage multiplier 4 and the LEDs 2 in order to allow the variation in the rectified
10 power corresponding to a variation in the luminous flux unnoticeable by a human
   eye. This is shown in Fig. 9. In this embodiment, the driver 1 also includes an input
   inductor 7 (L.) between the AC power source 3 and the voltage multiplier 4.           The
   input inductor 7 is large enough to provide input current filtering, and the input current
   is primarily sinusoidal and has low current harmonic content.          Thus, having the
15 smoothing capacitor 6 replacing the valley-fill circuit 5 is sufficient in allowing the
   variation in the rectified output power required to produce an unnoticeable variation in
   the luminous flux.
           Other embodiments of the driver 1 include the input inductor 7 (L,) with or
   without the smoothing capacitor 6.
20         The driver 1 can also include an input capacitor 8 (C,) between the AC power
   source 3 and the voltage multiplier 4. The driver 1 also includes an output inductor 9
   (L) between the voltage multiplier 4 and the LEDs 2. The input capacitor 8 and the
   output inductor 9 can be included with or without the smoothing capacitor 6. Where
   the smoothing capacitor 6 is included, it is placed between the voltage multiplier 4
25 and the output inductor 9.

                                                -9
            The present invention also provides a method of driving LED lighting having a
   plurality of LEDs.     Embodiments of the method will be readily apparent from the
   description above.      For example, referring to the figures, an embodiment of the
   method includes: receiving AC input power having an input voltage; multiplying the
 5 input voltage to supply a multiplied output voltage to the LEDs 2; rectifying the AC
   input power to supply a rectified output power to the LEDs 2 to produce a luminous
   flux; and smoothing the AC input power with a smoothing capacitor 6 to allow a
   variation in the rectified output power corresponding to a variation in the luminous
   flux unnoticeable by a human eye, without requiring a valley-fill circuit and without
10 requiring active switches.
            In some embodiments, the method includes allowing a variation in the
   rectified output power corresponding to a variation in the luminous flux unnoticeable
   by a human eye.
            Considering the figures in more particular detail, Fig. 7 shows the basic
15 structure of an offline passive LED system in accordance with the present invention.
   The input capacitor 8 (C,) can be added as a power correction capacitor. An output
   capacitor 10 (C0 ) in the form of a small capacitor can be added across the output
   terminal for providing a continuous current path for the output inductor current in case
   there is an open circuit fault in the string of LEDs 2. In particular, the output capacitor
20 10 is placed between the output inductor 9 and the LEDs.              As noted above, the
   voltage multiplier can be a voltage doubler, or if more power and luminous output is
   needed for the offline passive LED system, the voltage multiplier concept can be
   extended to a voltage tripler and a voltage quadrupler.
            As explained previously, the use of parallel LED strings is to increase the
25 output power and thus luminous output of LED lighting systems.            For passive LED
   drivers, the rectified output voltage of the diode rectifier is related to the input voltage

                                              - 10
   of the AC mains. Such DC voltage sets a limit on the number of series-connected
   LED modules in each LED string that are possible. For example, if the output DC
   voltage is 150V and the voltage and current ratings of each series-connected LED
   module is 1OV and 0.35A respectively, then each LED string can consist of 15 series
 5 connected LED modules and the power of each string is 52.5W. Therefore, for LED
   systems of nominal power of 100W and 150W, two and three LED strings will be
   needed, respectively, if the same output voltage of the passive LED driver is
   employed. Fig. 4 illustrates the use of parallel-connected LED strings to expand the
   power output.
10          The simplest way to eliminate current imbalance is of course to use a single
   string. However, passive LED drivers based on the use of full wave diode rectifiers
   and an input inductor L,, as depicted in Fig. 2 and Fig. 3, have some limitations in
   terms of the output voltage. Therefore, the passive LED drivers of Figs. 2 to 4 are
   not suitable for single LED string applications unless the power of the single LED
15 string can meet the power and luminous performance required by the LED lighting
   system.
            Instead of using parallel-connected strings for the same DC voltage output
   provided by the passive LED driver, the present invention uses a voltage multiplier to
   provide a scalable DC output voltage for series-connected LED strings (to form one
20 single LED string).
            Fig.5 shows a specific example of using an AC-DC voltage doubler in the
   form of a Delon voltage doubler (enclosed in the dotted box) as the voltage multiplier
   4. The output voltage of voltage doubler in Fig. 5 is twice the output voltage of the
   full-bridge diode rectifier of Fig. 4. As a result, the power of two LED strings can be
25 met by having the two LED strings connected in series, effectively forming a single
   LED string with twice the power of the original string.         Other forms of voltage

                                              - 11
   doublers such as the Greinacher voltage doubler can also be used for doubling the
   output voltage. Fig. 6 shows a driver with a Greinacher voltage doubler.
            As described above, the present invention is directed to circuit topologies and
   methods of operation of LED drivers for powering only a single lighting-emitting diode
 5 (LED) string. While high-power LED systems normally have the LEDs arranged in
   parallel-connected strings, the use of one LED string can eliminate the current
   imbalance problems that occur among parallel-connected LED strings. The present
   invention describes how passive LED drivers, that do not need auxiliary power
   supplies, active semiconductor switches and control integrated circuits, can be
10 designed to cope with high-voltage and low-current requirements in a single LED
   string arrangement.       With the use of a single-string LED arrangement, the
   requirements for balancing parallel LED string currents can be eliminated.
            The present invention is also directed to drivers that allow a variation in
   rectified out power that corresponds to a variation in luminous flux produced by the
15 LEDs unnoticeable by a human eye. This alleviates the need to use limited lifetime
   electrolytic capacitors in the drivers, which results in robust and reliable drivers with
   much longer lifetimes. Such drivers are especially suited to harsh environments,
   such as those encountered in outdoor lighting and street lighting applications.
            This, the combination of features of the present invention provides robust and
20 reliable LED drivers having long lifetimes that do not require current balancing
   techniques and their associated circuitry.        The present invention is therefore
   particularly suitable for, but not restricted to, high-power LED lighting applications
   such as outdoor and street lighting.
            Although the invention has been described with reference to specific
25 examples, it will be appreciated by those skilled in the art that the invention can be
   embodied in many other forms. It will also be appreciated by those skilled in the art

                                     -12
that the features of the various examples described can be combined in other
combinations.

                                             -13
CLAIMS
1.      A driver for LED lighting having a plurality of LEDs, the driver receiving AC input
power from an AC power source and including a voltage multiplier for supplying a rectified
output power to the LEDs to produce a luminous flux, and a smoothing capacitor between
the voltage multiplier and the LEDs, without requiring a valley-fill circuit and without requiring
active switches.
2.      A driver according to claim 1 wherein the plurality of LEDs are connected in series.
3.      A driver according to claim 1 or 2 wherein the voltage multiplier is one or any
combination of: a voltage doubler, a voltage tripler, and a voltage quadrupler.
4.      A driver according to claim 1 or 2 wherein the voltage multiplier is one or the
combination of: a Delon voltage doubler, and a Greinacher voltage doubler.
5.      A driver according to any one of the preceding claims wherein the driver allows a
variation in the rectified output power corresponding to a variation in the luminous flux
unnoticeable by a human eye.
6.      A driver according to any one of the preceding claims including an input capacitor
between the AC power source and the voltage multiplier.
7.      A driver according to any one of the preceding claims including an output capacitor
between the voltage multiplier and the LEDs.
8.      A driver according to any one of the preceding claims including an input inductor
between the AC power source and the voltage multiplier.
9.      A driver according to any one of the preceding claims including an output inductor
between the voltage multiplier and the LEDs.

                                               - 14
10.      A driver according to any one of the preceding claims wherein the LEDs are in the
form of series-connected strings connected in series.
11.      A driver according to claim 10 wherein the series-connected strings are arranged in
parallel.
12.      A method of driving LED lighting having a plurality of LEDs, the method including:
         receiving AC input power having an input voltage;
         multiplying the input voltage to supply a multiplied output voltage to the LEDs;
         rectifying the AC input power to supply a rectified output power to the LEDs to
produce a luminous flux; and
         smoothing the AC input power with a smoothing capacitor to allow a variation in the
rectified output power corresponding to a variation in the luminous flux unnoticeable by a
human eye, without requiring a valley-fill circuit and without requiring active switches.
13.      A method according to claim 12 wherein the plurality of LEDs are connected in
series.
14.      A method according to claim 12 or 13 wherein the input voltage is doubled, tripled, or
quadrupled.
15.      A method according to claim 12 or 13 wherein the input voltage is multiplied using
one or the combination of: a Delon voltage doubler, and a Greinacher voltage doubler.
16.      An LED lighting system having a driver according to any one of claims 1 to 11.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
