                                            ABSTRACT
                  A plumbing connector and method of connection including: a fitting having
external threads on at least the first end; a tube having a first end inserted into the first end of
the fitting; and an annular gasket, a compression ring, a lock ring, and a nut coaxial with and
surrounding the outer diameter of the tube. The nut has internal threads adapted to engage
the external threads of the fitting and is adapted to contain the gasket, the compression ring,
and the lock ring upon threading of the nut onto the fitting. Upon threading and tightening of
the nut onto the fitting, the gasket is compressed, an inner edge of the lock ring bitingly
engages the outer diameter of the tube, and the gasket forms a seal with at least the first end
of the fitting, the outer diameter of the tube, and an outer edge of the lock ring.
                                                   16

               5/7
      666              46
                  55
          48                      44
                          764
52
                              626
   54                                48
             300
                 FIG. 6   24

              FITTING SECUREMENT RING FOR THREADED CONNECTOR
                     CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATION
[0001]     This application claims priority to United States Provisional Application Serial No.
61/975,400, filed on April 4, 2014, and is a divisional of Australian patent application no.
2015240658, filed on April 2, 2015, the disclosure of which are incorporated herein by
reference in their entirety.
                                         BACKGROUND
Technical Field
[0002]     The present disclosure relates to a plumbing connector utilizing a fitting securement
ring within a threaded connector. More specifically, the disclosure is directed to a plumbing
connector for attaching a vacuum breaker tube to the outlet of a flush valve.
Description of Related Art
[0003]    In a typical flush valve assembly, a vacuum breaker tube is attached to the outlet of
the flush valve. This vacuum breaker tube is attached with additional fittings leading up to a
fixture or directly to the spud of a fixture. There have been many problems with blow-outs of
the vacuum breaker tube when it is not sufficiently secured to the fixture. Because a flush
valve is used to flush water at high velocities, the joint where the tube and the fixture are
connected can become compromised causing the tube to blow out of the fitting. These blow
outs can lead to flooding of the surrounding area.
[0004]    An example of a prior art connector 10 is shown in FIG. 1. The assembly consists
of the vacuum breaker tube 12 and a fitting 14, in this case, a brass elbow. The elbow fitting
14 includes a brass body, a brass nut 16, a friction ring 18, and a rubber gasket 20. The brass
nut 16 is slipped over the tube 12 followed by the friction ring 18, and then the rubber gasket
20. Once these items are slipped over the tube 12, the tube 12 can then be inserted into the
elbow fitting 14. The internal threads of the nut 16 are then threaded onto the external threads
of the elbow fitting 14. As the nut 16 is threaded to the elbow, the assembly gets tighter and
the gasket 20 begins to compress between the top of the nut 16 and the top of the fitting 14 as
shown in FIG. 2. As the gasket 20 is compressed, its inner walls tightly engage the tubes 12
outer wall. At the same time, the bottom of the gasket 20 is being compressed into the end of
the elbow fitting 14.      In this manner, two seals are created. One seal is created by the
compression of the gasket 20 against the tubes 12 outer wall. The second seal is created by
                                                   1

the compression of the bottom of the gasket 20 against the elbow fittings 14 flat top edge.
The grip of the rubber gasket 20 on the tube 12 is the only part preventing the tube 12 from
blowing out of the elbow fitting 14. This type of securement often proves to be insufficient to
overcome the force created by the flushing of the flush valve and the vacuum tube 12 is
blown out the fitting 14.
[0004A] Any discussion of documents, acts, materials, devices, articles or the like which has
been included in the present specification is not to be taken as an admission that any or all of
these matters form part of the prior art base or were common general knowledge in the field
relevant to the present disclosure as it existed before the priority date of each of the appended
claims.
                                           SUMMARY
[0005]     According to some disclosed embodiments, there is provided a plumbing connector
including: a fitting having a first end and a second end and having external threads on at least
the first end; a tube having a first end and a second end, the first end of the tube inserted into
the first end of the fitting; and an annular gasket, a compression ring, a lock ring, and a nut
coaxial with and surrounding the outer diameter of the tube. The nut has internal threads
adapted to engage the external threads of the fitting and is adapted to contain the gasket, the
compression ring, and the lock ring upon threading of the nut onto the fitting via the internal
threads of the nut and the external threads of the fitting. Upon threading of the nut onto the
fitting via the internal threads of the nut and the external threads of the fitting and tightening
of the nut, the gasket is compressed, an inner edge of the lock ring bitingly engages the outer
diameter of the tube, and the gasket forms a seal with at least the first end of the fitting, the
outer diameter of the tube, and an outer edge of the lock ring. As the nut is advanced onto the
fitting, the gasket first contacts the compression ring before contacting the lock ring and the
inner and outer edges of the compression ring contact the lock ring. Upon tightening of the
nut, contact between the compression ring and the lock ring deforms the lock ring pushing the
inner edge of the lock ring into a biting engagement with the outer diameter of the tube and
the outer edge of the lock ring into a sealing engagement with the gasket.
[0006]      The compression ring may have an outer diameter smaller than an outer diameter of
the lock ring and may comprise a concave side and a convex side where the convex side of
the compression ring is adjacent the gasket and the concave side of the compression ring is
adjacent the lock ring.
                                                   2

[0007]     The inner edge of the lock ring may have a series of teeth and the lock ring may
comprise a concave side and a convex side where the concave side of the lock ring is adjacent
the compression ring and the convex side of the lock ring is adjacent an upper ledge of the
nut.
[0008]     The plumbing connector may also include a friction ring, which may have an outer
diameter smaller than an outer diameter of the lock ring, placed between the gasket and the
compression ring.
[0008A] According to other disclosed embodiments, there is provided a plumbing connector
comprising a fitting having a first end and a second end and having external threads on at
least the first end, a tube having a first end and a second end, the first end of the tube inserted
into the first end of the fitting, an annular gasket coaxial with and surrounding an outer
diameter of the tube and adjacent the first end of the fitting, a compression ring coaxial with
and surrounding the outer diameter of the tube and adjacent the gasket, the compression ring
having an inner edge and an outer edge, and a lock ring coaxial with and surrounding the
outer diameter of the tube and adjacent the compression ring, the lock ring having an inner
edge and an outer edge, a nut coaxial with and surrounding an outer diameter of the tube and
having internal threads adapted to engage the external threads of the fitting, the nut adapted to
contain the gasket, compression ring, and lock ring upon threading of the nut onto the fitting
via the internal threads of the nut and the external threads of the fitting, wherein, upon
threading of the nut onto the fitting via the internal threads of the nut and the external threads
of the fitting and tightening of the nut, the gasket is compressed, the inner edge of the lock
ring bitingly engages the outer diameter of the tube, the gasket forms a seal with at least the
first end of the fitting, the outer diameter of the tube, and the outer edge of the lock ring, and
contact between the compression ring and the lock ring deforms the lock ring pushing the
inner edge of the lock ring into a biting engagement with the outer diameter of the tube and
the outer edge of the lock ring into a sealing engagement with the gasket.
[0009]     Also disclosed is a method of connecting a plumbing fitting to a tube. A fitting
having a first end and a second end and having external threads on at least the first end and a
tube having a first end and a second end are provided. In the following order: a nut having
internal threads adapted to engage the external threads of the fitting, a lock ring having an
inner edge and an outer edge, a compression ring having an inner edge and an outer edge, and
an annular gasket are slid onto the first end of the tube. The nut is adapted to contain the
gasket, the compression ring, and the lock ring upon threading of the nut onto the fitting via
the internal threads of the nut and the external threads of the fitting. The first end of the tube
                                                    3

is placed into the inner diameter of the first end of the fitting and the nut is threaded onto the
fitting and tightened. After tightening of the nut is completed, the gasket is compressed, the
inner edge of the lock ring bitingly engages the outer diameter of the tube, and the gasket
forms a seal with at least the first end of the fitting, the outer diameter of the tube, and the
outer edge of the lock ring, and wherein, during tightening of the nut, contact between the
compression ring and the lock ring deforms the lock ring pushing the inner edge of the lock
ring into a biting engagement with an outer diameter of the tube and the outer edge of the
lock ring into a sealing engagement with the gasket.
[0009A] According to further aspects of the disclosure, there is provided a plumbing
connector comprising a fitting having a first end and a second end and having external
threads on at least the first end, tube having a first end and a second end, the first end of the
tube inserted into the first end of the fitting, an annular gasket coaxial with and surrounding
an outer diameter of the tube and adjacent the first end of the fitting, a compression ring
coaxial with and surrounding the outer diameter of the tube and adjacent the gasket, the
compression ring having an inner edge and an outer edge, and a lock ring coaxial with and
surrounding the outer diameter of the tube and adjacent the compression ring, the lock ring
having an inner edge and an outer edge, a nut coaxial with and surrounding an outer diameter
of the tube and having internal threads adapted to engage the external threads of the fitting,
the nut adapted to contain the gasket, compression ring, and lock ring upon threading of the
nut onto the fitting via the internal threads of the nut and the external threads of the fitting,
wherein, upon threading of the nut onto the fitting via the internal threads of the nut and the
external threads of the fitting and tightening of the nut, the gasket is compressed, the inner
edge of the lock ring bitingly engages the outer diameter of the tube, and the gasket forms a
seal with at least the first end of the fitting, the outer diameter of the tube, and the outer edge
of the lock ring, and wherein the compression ring has an outer diameter smaller than an
outer diameter of the lock ring.
[0009B] According to a further aspect, there is provided a method of connecting a plumbing
fitting to a tube, the method including: providing a fitting having a first end and a second end
and having external threads on at least the first end and a tube having a first end and a second
end; sliding on a first end of the tube in the following order: a nut having internal threads
adapted to engage the external threads of the fitting; a lock ring having an inner edge and an
outer edge; a compression ring having an inner edge and an outer edge; and an annular
gasket, wherein the nut is adapted to contain the gasket, the compression ring, and the lock
ring upon threading of the nut onto the fitting via the internal threads of the nut and the
                                                     4

external threads of the fitting; placing the first end of the tube into an inner diameter of the
first end of the fitting; threading the nut onto the fitting via the internal threads of the nut and
the external threads of the fitting; and tightening the nut, wherein, after tightening of the nut
is completed, the gasket is compressed, the inner edge of the lock ring bitingly engages an
outer diameter of the tube, and the gasket forms a seal with at least the first end of the fitting,
the outer diameter of the tube, and the outer edge of the lock ring, and wherein the
compression ring has an outer diameter smaller than an outer diameter of the lock ring.
[0009C] In another aspect, there is provided a plumbing connector comprising a fitting
having a first end and a second end and having external threads on at least the first end, a tube
having a first end and a second end, the first end of the tube inserted into the first end of the
fitting, an annular gasket coaxial with and surrounding an outer diameter of the tube and
adjacent the first end of the fitting, a compression ring coaxial with and surrounding the outer
diameter of the tube and adjacent the gasket, the compression ring having an inner edge and
an outer edge, and a lock ring coaxial with and surrounding the outer diameter of the tube and
adjacent the compression ring, the lock ring having an inner edge and an outer edge, a nut
coaxial with and surrounding an outer diameter of the tube and having internal threads
adapted to engage the external threads of the fitting, the nut adapted to contain the gasket,
compression ring, and lock ring upon threading of the nut onto the fitting via the internal
threads of the nut and the external threads of the fitting, wherein, upon threading of the nut
onto the fitting via the internal threads of the nut and the external threads of the fitting and
tightening of the nut, the gasket is compressed, the inner edge of the lock ring bitingly
engages the outer diameter of the tube, and the gasket forms a seal with at least the first end
of the fitting, the outer diameter of the tube, and the outer edge of the lock ring, wherein the
gasket, the compression ring, the lock ring, and the nut are located on the tube in the
following order starting from the first end of the tube: the gasket, the compression ring, the
lock ring, and the nut, wherein a friction ring is placed between the gasket and the
compression ring, and wherein the friction ring has an outer diameter smaller than an outer
diameter of the lock ring.
[0009D]     Throughout this specification the word "comprise", or variations such as
"comprises" or "comprising", will be understood to imply the inclusion of a stated element,
integer or step, or group of elements, integers or steps, but not the exclusion of any other
element, integer or step, or group of elements, integers or steps.
                                                   5

                         BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0010]     FIG. 1 is a perspective view of a plumbing connector according to the prior art prior
to making the connection;
[0011]     FIG. 2 is a cross-section of the prior art plumbing connector of FIG. 1 after the
connection has been made;
[0012]     FIG. 3 is a perspective view of a plumbing connector prior to making the
connection according to a first disclosed embodiment;
[0013]     FIG. 4 is a cross-section of the plumbing connector of FIG. 3 after threading the nut
onto the fitting but before tightening the nut;
[0014]     FIG. 5 is a perspective view of a compression ring and a lock ring according to the
first disclosed embodiment;
[0015]     FIG. 6 is a cross-section of the plumbing connector of FIG. 3 after tightening the
nut;
[0016]     FIG. 7 is a perspective view of a lock ring according to a second disclosed
embodiment;
[0017]     FIG. 8 is a cross-section of a plumbing connector after threading the nut onto the
fitting but before tightening the nut according to the second disclosed embodiment; and
[0018]     FIG. 9 is a cross-section of the plumbing connector of FIG. 8 after tightening the
nut.
                                   DETAILED DESCRIPTION
[0019]     For purposes of the description hereinafter, the terms "end", "upper", "lower",
"right", "left", "vertical", "horizontal", "top", "bottom", "lateral", "longitudinal",       and
derivatives thereof shall relate to the disclosed embodiments as oriented in the drawing
figures. However, it is to be understood that the disclosed embodiments may assume various
alternative variations, except where expressly specified to the contrary.       It is also to be
understood that the specific devices and processes illustrated in the attached drawings, and
described in the following specification, are simply exemplary aspects of the disclosed
principles. Hence, specific dimensions and other physical characteristics related to the aspects
disclosed herein are not to be considered as limiting. Further, it is to be understood that the
disclosed principles may assume various alternative variations except where expressly
specified to the contrary.
[0020]     As shown in FIG. 3, the plumbing connector 22 comprises a fitting 24 having a first
end 26 and a second end 28 and having external threads 30 on at least the first end 26. The
                                                  6

fitting 24 may be any suitable fitting for attaching a tube to a flush valve including, but not
limited to, an elbow (as shown in FIG. 1), a tee, or a fitting that is integral with a flush valve.
[0021]     The plumbing connector 22 also includes a tube 32 having a first end 34 and a
second end 36. At least the first end 34 of the tube 32 has an outer diameter that is smaller
than the inner diameter of the first end 26 of the fitting 24 such that the first end 34 of the
tube 32 can be inserted into the first end 26 of the fitting 24. Typically, the outer diameter of
the tube 32 is only slightly smaller than the inner diameter of the fitting 24 to provide a tight
fit between the two.
[0022]     The fitting 24 and the tube 32 may be made of any suitable material including, but
not limited to, brass, plastic, chrome, and steel.
[0023]     The plumbing connector 22 includes an annular gasket 38. The gasket 38 has an
inner diameter equal to or slightly larger than the outer diameter of the tube 32 and an outer
diameter equal to or slightly smaller than the inner diameter of the first end 26 of the fitting
24. The gasket 38 may be made from any suitable compressible material including, but not
limited to, rubber. The gasket 38 is used to help hold the tube 32 within the fitting 24 via
compressive and frictional forces between the gasket 38 and the tube 32. The gasket 38 is
also part of the sealing system of the connector 22.
[0024]     The connector 22 includes a compression ring 40 having an outer edge 42 and an
inner edge 44, and a lock ring 46 having an outer edge 48 and an inner edge 50.                 The
compression ring 40 and the lock ring 46 are made of a deformable material, such as stainless
steel. The material of the lock ring 46 may have a hardness greater than the hardness of the
tube 32.
[0025]     The connector 22 includes a nut 52 having internal threads 54 adapted to engage the
external threads 30 of the fitting 24.
[0026]     FIG. 4 shows the connector in the partially assembled condition where the internal
threads 54 of the nut 52 have been threaded onto the external threads 30 of the fitting 24, but
the threaded arrangement has not yet been tightened. As shown in FIG. 4, the nut 52 has an
upper ledge 56 and a cavity 58 adapted to contain the gasket 38, the compression ring 40, and
the lock ring 46 upon threading of the nut 52 onto the fitting 24 via the internal threads 54 of
the nut 52 and the external threads 30 of the fitting 24.
[0027]     As can be seen from FIGS. 4 and 5, which show the compression ring 40 and the
lock ring 46 in more detail, the compression ring 40 is generally cup-shaped having a curved
cross-section and comprising a concave side 60 and a convex side 62.             The curve of the
                                                   7

compression ring 40 is such that the inner edge 44 is on a different horizontal plane than the
outer edge 42 as shown in FIG. 5.
[0028]     The lock ring 46 is also generally cup-shaped having a curved cross-section and
comprising a concave side 64 and a convex side 66.
[0029]     The compression ring 40 has an outer diameter that is smaller than the outer
diameter of the lock ring 46.
[0030]     To assemble the connector 22, the nut 52 is first slid over the tube 32 followed by
the lock ring 46. The lock ring 46 is placed over the tube 32 such that the convex side 66 of
the lock ring 46 faces the upper ledge 56 of the nut 52 and the concave side 64 of the lock
ring 46 faces the first end 34 of the tube 32. Due to the curved cross-section of the lock ring
46, the inner edge 50 of the lock ring 46 is pointing away from the ledge 56 of the nut 52.
The compression ring 40 is then placed over the tube 32 such that the concave side 60 of the
compression ring 40 faces the lock ring 46 and the convex side 62 of the compression ring 40
faces the first end 34 of the tube 32. The gasket 38 is then placed over the tube 32 and the
first end 34 of the tube 32 is inserted into the fitting 24.
[0031]     The nut 52 is then advanced onto the fitting 24 via the internal threads 54 of the nut
52 and the external threads 30 of the fitting 24. As can be seen in FIG. 4, when the nut 52
has been screwed onto the fitting 24 but has not yet been tightened, the compression ring 40
extends into the concave side 64 of the lock ring 46, and the inner edge 44 and the outer edge
42 of the compression ring 40 contact the concave side 64 of the lock ring 46. The convex
side 66 of the lock ring 46 contacts the ledge 56 of the nut 52 and the outer edge 48 of the
lock ring 46 is not in contact with either the compression ring 40 or the gasket 38. One end
of the gasket 38 contacts the first end 26 of the fitting 24 and the other end of the gasket 38
contacts the convex side 62 of the compression ring 40.
[0032]     When the nut 52 is then tightened onto the fitting 24 via the internal threads 54 of
the nut 52 and the external threads 30 of the fitting 24 as shown in FIG. 6, several things
occur. The gasket 38 compresses. As the assembly gets tighter, the compression ring 40 and
the lock ring 46 begin to deform from the compressive forces placed on them by the ledge 56
of the nut 52 and the gasket 38. The edges 42, 44 of the compression ring 40 force the inner
edge 50 of the lock ring 46 upward toward the ledge 56 of the nut 52 and force the outer edge
48 of the lock ring 46 into a biting engagement with the outer wall of the tube 32. The outer
edge 48 of the lock ring 46 after deformation is angled at a precise angle to achieve optimal
holding strength.    As the inner edge 50 of the lock ring 46 deforms and locks into the outer
wall of the tube 32, the outer edge 48 of the lock ring 46 is deformed in a downward and
                                                     8

inward direction pushing on the gasket 38. This ensures the gasket 38 does not leak due to the
added deformation of its shape and adds to the stability of the water tight seal.
[0033]      The compression ring 40 also deforms such that its inner edge 44 and outer edge 42
become closer to being on the same horizontal plane. Both the inner edge 44 and outer edge
42 of the compression ring 40 contact the concave side 64 of the lock ring 46 and the convex
side 62 of the compression ring 40 contacts the gasket 38 forming a seal between the
compression ring 40 and the gasket 38.
[0034]     Upon the flushing action of the valve, the water pressure will try to pull the tube 32
out of the fitting 24 but, with the lock ring 46/compression ring 40 assembly in place as the
tube 32 tries to pull away from the fitting 24, the inner edge 50 of the lock ring 46 will only
dig further in the tube 32.
[0035]     In another aspect, the inner edge 50 of the lock ring 46 may comprise a series of
teeth 67 as shown in FIG. 7.
[0036]     As shown in FIGS. 8 and 9, the connector 22 may further comprise a friction ring
68 placed between the compression ring 40 and the gasket 38. The friction rings 68 outer
diameter is sized so that it does not interfere with the seal between the outer edge 48 of the
lock ring 46 and the gasket 38 when the connector 22 is tightened. In one embodiment as
shown in FIGS. 8 and 9, the outer diameter of the friction ring 68 is smaller than the outer
diameter of the lock ring 46.      The friction ring 68 may provide additional support for
deformation of the compression ring 40 and the lock ring 46 on tightening of the connector
22 and may be used to assure that the lock ring 46 does not cut into the soft gasket 38. The
friction ring 68 may be made from materials including, but not limited to, brass and rubber.
[0037]     A connector according to the prior art was made using a chrome vacuum tube, a
brass elbow fitting, a rubber gasket and friction ring, and a brass nut. The pullout force
necessary to remove the tube was determined using a 50 lb. force gauge after tightening the
connector using a slip nut wrench and applying various levels of torque.          At each torque
level, three tests were made. A compression ring and lock ring having teeth according to the
presently disclosed concepts were made of 3D printed photopolymer material and included in
the connector and the testing was repeated. The results are shown in Table 1 below.           The
force necessary to remove the tube from the fitting was increased by up to 20% by the
addition of the compression ring and lock ring.
                                                  9

                                            Table 1
                                                 Pullout Force (lbs.)
                         Without compression ring and         With compression ring and
                                    lock ring                         lock ring
                                       90 in.-lbs. torque
      Trial #1                          33                               44
      Trial #2                          35                               39
      Trial #3                          34                               40
      Average                           34                               41
                                       135 in.-lbs. torque
      Trial #1                          40                               45
      Trial #2                          42                               50
      Trial #3                          41                              >50
      Average                           41                               49
                                       180 in.-lbs. torque
      Trial #1                          47                              >50
      Trial #2                          48                              >50
      Trial #3                          46                              >50
      Average                           47                              >50
[0038]     Although the disclosed principles have been described in detail for the purpose of
illustration based on what is currently considered to be the most practical and preferred
embodiments, it is to be understood that such detail is solely for that purpose and that the
disclosed principles are not limited to the disclosed embodiments, but, on the contrary, are
intended to cover modifications and equivalent arrangements that are within the spirit and
scope of this specification.  For example, it is to be understood that the present disclosure
contemplates that, to the extent possible, one or more features of any aspect of the disclosed
principles can be combined with one or more features of any other aspect of the disclosed
principles.
                                                 10

CLAIMS:
         1.      A plumbing connector comprising:
                 a fitting having a first end and a second end and having external threads on at
least the first end;
                 a tube having a first end and a second end, the first end of the tube inserted
into the first end of the fitting;
                 an annular gasket coaxial with and surrounding an outer diameter of the tube
and adjacent the first end of the fitting;
                 a compression ring coaxial with and surrounding the outer diameter of the tube
and adjacent the gasket, the compression ring having an inner edge and an outer edge;
                 a lock ring coaxial with and surrounding the outer diameter of the tube and
adjacent the compression ring, the lock ring having an inner edge and an outer edge; and
                 a nut coaxial with and surrounding an outer diameter of the tube and having
internal threads adapted to engage the external threads of the fitting, the nut adapted to
contain the gasket, compression ring, and lock ring upon threading of the nut onto the fitting
via the internal threads of the nut and the external threads of the fitting,
                 wherein, upon threading of the nut onto the fitting via the internal threads of
the nut and the external threads of the fitting and tightening of the nut, the gasket is
compressed, the inner edge of the lock ring bitingly engages the outer diameter of the tube,
and the gasket forms a seal with at least the first end of the fitting, the outer diameter of the
tube, and the outer edge of the lock ring, and contact between the compression ring and the
lock ring deforms the lock ring pushing the inner edge of the lock ring into a biting
engagement with the outer diameter of the tube and the outer edge of the lock ring into a
sealing engagement with the gasket, and the compression ring is spaced apart from the tube.
         2.      The plumbing connector of claim 1, wherein, as the nut is advanced onto the
fitting via the internal threads of the nut and the external threads of the fitting, the gasket
contacts the compression ring before contacting the lock ring.
         3.      The plumbing connector of claim 1, wherein, as the nut is advanced onto the
fitting via the internal threads of the nut and the external threads of the fitting, a portion of the
compression ring contacts the gasket and the inner edge and the outer edge of the
compression ring contacts the lock ring.
                                                   11

        4.      The plumbing connector of claim 1, wherein the compression ring has an outer
diameter smaller than an outer diameter of the lock ring.
        5.      The plumbing connector of claim 1, wherein the inner edge of the lock ring
comprises a series of teeth.
        6.      The plumbing connector of claim 1, wherein the compression ring comprises a
concave side and a convex side and the convex side of the compression ring is adjacent the
gasket and the concave side of the compression ring is adjacent the lock ring.
        7.      The plumbing connector of claim 1, wherein the lock ring comprises a
concave side and a convex side and the concave side of the lock ring is adjacent the
compression ring and the convex side of the lock ring is adjacent an upper ledge of the nut.
        8.      The plumbing connector of claim 1, wherein the gasket, the compression ring,
the lock ring, and the nut are located on the tube in the following order starting from the first
end of the tube: the gasket, the compression ring, the lock ring, and the nut.
        9.      The plumbing connector of claim 8, wherein a friction ring is placed between
the gasket and the compression ring.
        10.     The plumbing connector of claim 9, wherein the friction ring has an outer
diameter smaller than an outer diameter of the lock ring.
        11.     A method of connecting a plumbing fitting to a tube:
                a) providing a fitting having a first end and a second end and having external
threads on at least the first end and a tube having a first end and a second end;
                b) sliding on a first end of the tube in the following order:
                         i) a nut having internal threads adapted to engage the external threads
                of the fitting;
                         ii) a lock ring having an inner edge and an outer edge;
                         iii) a compression ring having an inner edge and an outer edge; and
                         iv) an annular gasket,
                                                    12

                 wherein the nut is adapted to contain the gasket, the compression ring, and the
lock ring upon threading of the nut onto the fitting via the internal threads of the nut and the
external threads of the fitting,
                 c) placing the first end of the tube into an inner diameter of the first end of the
fitting;
                 d) threading the nut onto the fitting via the internal threads of the nut and the
external threads of the fitting; and
                 e) tightening the nut,
                 wherein, after tightening of the nut is completed, the gasket is compressed, the
inner edge of the lock ring bitingly engages an outer diameter of the tube, and the gasket
forms a seal with at least the first end of the fitting, the outer diameter of the tube, and the
outer edge of the lock ring, and
                 wherein, during tightening of the nut, contact between the compression ring
and the lock ring deforms the lock ring pushing the inner edge of the lock ring into a biting
engagement with an outer diameter of the tube and the outer edge of the lock ring into a
sealing engagement with the gasket, while maintaining the compression ring spaced apart
from the tube.
         12.     The method of claim 11, wherein, during threading of the nut, the gasket
contacts the compression ring before contacting the lock ring.
         13.     The method of claim 11, wherein, during threading of the nut, a portion of the
compression ring contacts the gasket and the inner edge and the outer edge of the
compression ring contact the lock ring.
         14.     The method of claim 11, wherein the compression ring has an outer diameter
smaller than an outer diameter of the lock ring.
         15.     The method of claim 11, wherein the inner edge of the lock ring comprises a
series of teeth.
         16.     The method of claim 11, wherein the compression ring comprises a concave
side and a convex side and the convex side of the compression ring is adjacent the gasket and
the concave side of the compression ring is adjacent the lock ring.
                                                    13

         17.     The method of claim 11, wherein the lock ring comprises a concave side and a
convex side and the concave side of the lock ring is adjacent the compression ring and the
convex side of the lock ring is adjacent an upper ledge of the nut.
         18.     The method of claim 11, further comprising placing a friction ring between the
gasket and the compression ring.
         19.     A plumbing connector comprising:
                 a fitting having a first end and a second end and having external threads on at
least the first end;
                 a tube having a first end and a second end, the first end of the tube inserted
into the first end of the fitting;
                 an annular gasket coaxial with and surrounding an outer diameter of the tube
and adjacent the first end of the fitting;
                 a compression ring coaxial with and surrounding the outer diameter of the tube
and adjacent the gasket, the compression ring having an inner edge and an outer edge;
                 a lock ring coaxial with and surrounding the outer diameter of the tube and
adjacent the compression ring, the lock ring having an inner edge and an outer edge; and
                 a nut coaxial with and surrounding an outer diameter of the tube and having
internal threads adapted to engage the external threads of the fitting, the nut adapted to
contain the gasket, compression ring, and lock ring upon threading of the nut onto the fitting
via the internal threads of the nut and the external threads of the fitting,
                 wherein, upon threading of the nut onto the fitting via the internal threads of
the nut and the external threads of the fitting and tightening of the nut, the gasket is
compressed, the inner edge of the lock ring bitingly engages the outer diameter of the tube,
and the gasket forms a seal with at least the first end of the fitting, the outer diameter of the
tube, and the outer edge of the lock ring,
                 wherein the compression ring has an outer diameter smaller than an outer
diameter of the lock ring, and
                 wherein the compression ring has an inner diameter smaller than an inner
diameter of the lock ring and smaller than an inner diameter of the annular gasket upon
threading of the nut onto the fitting via the internal threads of the nut and the external threads
of the fitting and tightening of the nut.
                                                   14

         20.    A method of connecting a plumbing fitting to a tube:
                a) providing a fitting having a first end and a second end and having external
threads on at least the first end and a tube having a first end and a second end;
                b) sliding on a first end of the tube in the following order:
                         i) a nut having internal threads adapted to engage the external threads
                of the fitting;
                         ii) a lock ring having an inner edge and an outer edge;
                         iii) a compression ring having an inner edge and an outer edge; and
                         iv) an annular gasket,
                wherein the nut is adapted to contain the gasket, the compression ring, and the
lock ring upon threading of the nut onto the fitting via the internal threads of the nut and the
external threads of the fitting,
                c) placing the first end of the tube into an inner diameter of the first end of the
fitting;
                d) threading the nut onto the fitting via the internal threads of the nut and the
external threads of the fitting; and
                e) tightening the nut,
                wherein, after tightening of the nut is completed, the gasket is compressed, the
inner edge of the lock ring bitingly engages an outer diameter of the tube, and the gasket
forms a seal with at least the first end of the fitting, the outer diameter of the tube, and the
outer edge of the lock ring,
                wherein the compression ring has an outer diameter smaller than an outer
diameter of the lock ring, and
                wherein the compression ring has an inner diameter smaller than an inner
diameter of the lock ring and smaller than an inner diameter of the annular gasket after
tightening of the nut is completed.
                                                    15

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
