                                        ABSTRACT
        Methods of making components for a medicinal delivery device are described, in
which a primer composition comprising a silane having two or more reactive silane groups
separated by an organic linker group is applied to a surface of a component, then a coating
composition comprising an at least partially fluorinated compound is applied to the primed
surface. The surface may be a polymer surface. Corresponding coated components and a
medicinal delivery device are disclosed. Methods of making metal components are
described in which a coating composition comprising an at least partially fluorinated
compound is applied to a surface cleaned with a solvent.

                                                1
                                     COATING PROCESS
         The present invention relates to methods of making components for medicinal
delivery devices, to components for medicinal delivery devices and to medicinal delivery
devices. In particular, the present invention relates to methods of making components for
medicinal inhalation devices, such components and such devices.
         Medicinal delivery devices, including medicinal inhalation devices such as
pressurized inhalers, e.g. metered dose pressurized inhalers (MDIs), and dry powder
inhalers (DPIs), are widely used for delivering medicaments.
         Medicinal delivery devices typically comprise a plurality of hardware components,
(which in the case of a MDI can include gasket seals; metered dose valves (including their
individual components, such as ferrules, valve bodies, valve stems, tanks, springs,
retaining cups and seals); containers; and actuators) as well as a number of internal
surfaces which may be in contact with the medicinal formulation during storage or come
in contact with the medicinal formulation during delivery. In medicinal delivery devices,
variability in dosing (i.e. from dose to dose) variability in dosing between units (i.e. device
to device) is undesirable. Attention is paid to the design of medicinal delivery devices to
reduce variability in particular by ensuring that dose volume, concentration and (if
necessary) pressure are consistent dose to dose and unit to unit.
         Often a desirable material for a particular component is found to be unsuitable in
regard to its surface properties, e.g. surface energy, and/or its interaction with the
medicinal formulation. Potentially undesirable interactions between a component and the
medicinal formulation may include enhanced medicament degradation or permeation of a
formulation constituent or extraction of chemicals from materials. For DPIs often
permeation and adsorption of ambient water pose issues. Also the use of materials having
relatively high surface energy for certain components (e.g. metered dose valves and/or
individual components thereof), may have undesirable effects for the operation of movable
components of a medicinal delivery device.

                                               2
        Various improvements have been proposed in for example, WO-A- 2005/026236,
WO-A-2005/061572, WO-A-2002/30848, US-B-3 810 874, WO-A-2009/061891, WO-A
2009/061902, WO-A-2009/061907, WO-A-2010/129783 and WO-A-2010/129758.
        Although a number of different improvements have been proposed, there is an
ongoing need for medicinal delivery devices and components having desirable surface
properties (e.g. low surface energy) as well as methods of providing such medicinal
delivery devices and components.
        The present invention accordingly provides, in a first aspect, a method of making a
component for a medicinal delivery device, the method comprising
        a) providing a component of a medicinal delivery device,
        b) providing a primer composition comprising a silane having two or more reactive
silane groups separated by an organic linker group,
        c) providing a coating composition comprising an at least partially fluorinated
compound,
        d) applying the primer composition to at least a portion of the surface of the
component,
        e) applying the coating composition to the portion of the surface of the component
after application of the primer composition.
        Previously, it was thought that aspects relating to the design or structure of
medicinal delivery devices and not surface properties of medicinal delivery devices were
the most important contributors to dose to dose and unit to unit variability, for example in
e.g. MDI, differences in dose to dose delivery volume or concentration and unit to unit
tolerances in formulation, pressure, or volume.
        However, surprisingly, the inventors have discovered that methods according to
the present invention provide components which, when assembled and in use, significantly
reduce dose to dose variability of medicinal delivery devices. Additionally, such methods
provide components which, when assembled and in use, provide reduced unit to unit
variability.
        The at least partially fluorinated compound will usually comprise one or more
reactive functional groups, with the or each one reactive functional group usually being a
reactive silane group, for example a hydrolysable silane group or a hydroxysilane group.
Such reactive silane groups allow reaction of the partially fluorinated compound with one

                                                     3
or more of the reactive silane groups of the primer. Often such reaction will be a
condensation reaction.
          The reactive silane group may be of formula - Si(RO)nX3n, wherein R is a
substantially non-hydrolysable group, X is a hydrolysable[BM1] or hydroxy group and n is
0, 1 or 2.
          Thus, in many embodiments the silane having two or more reactive silane groups
is of formula
                                  X3-m (R)mSi      - Q-    Si(R 2 )k X3-k
wherein R' and R2 are independently selected univalent groups[BM2] such as C1-C4 alkyl,
X is a hydrolysable or hydroxy group, m and k are independently 0, 1, or 2 and Q is a
divalent organic linking group.
         Usually,    Q will comprise a 1 to 12 atom chain, more usually a substituted or
unsubstituted C2 to C12 hydrocarbyl chain. Preferably,             Q comprises a substituted or
unsubstituted C2 to C12 alkyl chain.
         Useful examples of silanes having two or more reactive silane groups include one
or a mixture of two or more of 1,2- bis(trialkoxysilyl) ethane, 1,6- bis(trialkoxysilyl)
hexane, 1,8- bis(trialkoxysilyl) octane, 1,4-bis(trialkoxysilylethyl)benzene,
bis(trialkoxysilyl)itaconate, and 4,4'-bis(trialkoxysilyl)-1, 1'-diphenyl, wherein any
trialkoxy group may be independently trimethoxy or triethoxy.
          Q may comprise     a chain substituted by one or more atoms of N, 0, and/or S. Thus,
further examples of the silane having two or more reactive silane groups include one or a
mixture of two or more of bis(trialkoxysilylpropyl)amine; bis (3-trialkoxysilylpropyl)
ethylenediamine; bis (3-trialkoxysilylpropyl) n-methylamine; bis[3
(trialkoxysilyl)propyl]fumarate and N, N-bis (3-trialkoxysilylmethyl) allylamine, wherein
any trialkoxy group may be independently trimethoxy or triethoxy.
          In preferred embodiments, the silane is such that Q may be of formula - (C'H                -A
(C'H2,) -  whercieini A is NR", 0, or- S, I an-d j are- inidleendently 0, 1, 2, 3)or- 4 anid wheeincl
R" is H or CG to C4 a         Even ore pre-ferably, Q mi-ay be Of forlaL
                              Ekyl.                                              - (C'H2)i -NH
(CH2)j  -   [BM3]and i and j are each independently 1, 2, 3 or 4. Most preferably i and j are
each 3.
          The coating solvent usually comprises an alcohol or a hydrofluoroether.

                                                  4
        If the coating solvent is an alcohol, preferred alcohols are Ci to C4 alcohols, in
particular, an alcohol selected from ethanol, n-propanol, or iso-propanol or a mixture of
two or more of these alcohols.
        If the coating solvent is an hydrofluoroether, it is preferred if the coating solvent
comprises a C4 to Cio hydrofluoroether. Generally, the hydrofluoroether will be of formula
                                         CgF2g+1OChH2h+l
wherein g is 2, 3, 4, 5, or 6 and h is 1, 2, 3 or 4. Examples of suitable hydrofluoroethers
include those selected from the group consisting of methyl heptafluoropropylether, ethyl
heptafluoropropylether, methyl nonafluorobutylether, ethyl nonafluorobutylether and
mixtures thereof.
        The at least partially fluorinated compound may contain a polyfluoroether moiety,
in particular a polyfluoropolyether moiety. More particularly, the polyfluoroether moiety
may be a perfluorinated polyfluoroether moiety, even more particularly the
polyfluoroether moiety may be a perfluorinated polyfluoropolyether moiety.
        The polyfluoropolyether silane may be of formula
                     Rf QIv[Q 2w-[C(R 4 )2 -Si(X)3,(R )x]y]
wherein:
        R/ is a polyfluoropolyether moiety;
        Q1 is a trivalent linking group;
        each  Q2 is an independently selected organic divalent or trivalent linking group;
        each R 4 is independently hydrogen or a C 1 4 alkyl group;
        each X is independently a hydrolysable or hydroxyl group;
        R is a C i8 alkyl or phenyl group;
        v and w are independently 0 or 1, x is 0 or 1 or 2; y is 1 or 2; and z is 2, 3, or 4.
        The polyfluoropolyether moiety RI may comprise perfluorinated repeating units
selected from the group consisting of -(C.F 2nO)-,-(CF(Z)O)-, -(CF(Z)C.F 2nO)-,
(C.F 2nCF(Z)O)-, -(CF 2CF(Z)O)-, and combinations thereof; wherein n is an integer from 1
to 6 and Z is a perfluoroalkyl group, an oxygen-containing perfluoroalkyl group, a
perfluoroalkoxy group, or an oxygen-substituted perfluoroalkoxy group, each of which
can be linear, branched, or cyclic, and have 1 to 5 carbon atoms and up to 4 oxygen atoms
when oxygen-containing or oxygen-substituted and wherein for repeating units including

                                                 5
Z the number of carbon atoms in sequence is at most 6. In particular, n may be an integer
from 1 to 4, more particularly from 1 to 3. For repeating units including Z the number of
carbon atoms in sequence may be at most four, more particularly at most 3. Usually, n is 1
or 2 and Z is an -CF 3 group, more wherein z is 2, and R/is selected from the group
consisting of -CF 2 O(CF20)m(C 2 F4O)PCF2-1
-CF(CF 3)O(CF(CF 3)CF 20),CF(CF 3)-, -CF 2 O(C 2 F4 0)p CF 2 -, -(CF 2 )3 0(C 4 FO),(CF 2 )3
-CF(CF 3)-(OCF 2 CF(CF 3))pO-CtF 2t-O(CF(CF 3)CF 2 O),CF(CF 3)-, wherein t is 2, 3 or 4 and
wherein m is 1 to 50, and p is 3 to 40.
         The composition may further comprise a cross-linking agent. The cross-linking
agent may comprise a compound selected from group consisting of tetramethoxysilane;
tetraethoxysilane; tetrapropoxysilane; tetrabutoxysilane; methyl triethoxysilane;
dimethyldiethoxysilane; octadecyltriethoxysilane; 3-glycidoxy-propyltrimethoxysilane; 3
glycidoxy-propyltriethoxysilane; 3-aminopropyl-trimethoxysilane; 3
aminopropyl-triethoxysilane; bis ( 3-trimethoxysilylpropyl) amine; 3-aminopropyl
tri(methoxyethoxyethoxy) silane; N ( 2-aminoethyl)3-aminopropyltrimethoxysilane; bis (
3-trimethoxysilylpropyl) ethylenediamine; 3-mercaptopropyltrimethoxysilane; 3
mercaptopropyltriethoxysilane; 3-trimethoxysilyl-propylmethacrylate; 3
triethoxysilypropylmethacrylate; bis ( trimethoxysilyl ) itaconate; allyltriethoxysilane;
allyltrimethoxysilane; 3-(N-allylamino)propyltrimethoxysilane; vinyltrimethoxysilane;
vinyltriethoxysilane; and mixtures thereof.
        Usually, the method may include a pre-treatment step prior to the step of applying
the primer composition, said pre-treatment step in particular may comprise cleaning the
surface with a solvent comprising a hydrofluoroether, e.g. HFE72DE an azeotropic
mixture of about 70%w/w trans-dichloroethylene; 30% w/w of a mixture of methyl and
ethyl nonafluorobutyl and nonafluoroisobutyl ethers.
         Thus, in a second aspect, the present invention provides, a method of making a
component for a medicinal delivery device, the method comprising
         a) providing a component of a medicinal delivery device,
        b) providing a coating composition comprising an at least partially fluorinated
compound,
         d) cleaning at least a portion of the surface of the component using a solvent
comprising hydrofluoroether of formula

                                                  6
                                         CgF2g+1OChH2h+l
                         wherein g is 2, 3, 4, 5, or 6 and h is 1, 2, 3 or 4
          e) applying the coating composition to the portion of the surface of the component
after cleaning with the solvent.
          The hydrofluoroether for the cleaning step in the first or second aspect may be
selected from the group consisting of methyl heptafluoropropylether; ethyl
heptafluoropropylether; methyl nonafluorobutylether; ethyl nonafluorobutylether and
mixtures thereof.
          In the method, the primer composition and/or the coating composition may be,
independently of the application step used for the other, applied by spraying, dipping,
rolling, brushing, spreading or flow coating, in particular by spraying or dipping.
          In the method, after the step of applying either the primer composition or after the
step of applying the coating composition, the method may further comprise a step of
curing. The curing step may be carried out at an elevated temperature in the range from
about 40'C to about 300'C.
          The primer may be cured by evaporating the solvent in a moist environment, as
water is responsible for the curing, and may be aided by heat or elevated humidity.
If heat is applied to the primer coating, it is preferable to allow the prime-coated
component to cool to room temperature before applying the top coating.
          Typically, a lower curing temperature is used than for coating polymers than for
coating metals, to avoid deformation of the polymer. However, it has been found that it is
not essential to ensure that the primer is cured before applying the top coating, as a final
curing can be effectively done to both layers simultaneously, thereby simplifying the
manufacturing process. Hence, the primer coat may be allowed to set on the surface such
that it is not washed off by the subsequent top coating, by allowing (e.g. by leaving to
stand) or causing (e.g. by blowing in a current of air) most of the primer solution solvent
to be dispersed.
          Coatings applied to valve components, such as plastic stems, metal stems or
elastomeric seals, in which the at least partially fluorinated compound is a
perfluoropolyether silane according to formula la [BM4]in which Rf comprises from 20 to
40 linked repeating units confer additional lubricity compared to those with fewer

                                                  7
repeating units, and when these are assembled with other component to make up valves,
the valves have lower actuation forces.
        Formula Ta is :
                  Rf[Q1 -[C(R) 2 -Si(Y) 3 ,(Rl )]]                                     Ta
        wherein:
        Rf is a monovalent or multivalent polyfluoropolyether moiety;
        Q1 is an organic divalent or trivalent linking group;
        each R is independently hydrogen or a C1-4 alkyl group;
        each Y is independently a hydrolysable group;
        Rla is a Cl-8 alkyl or phenyl group;
        x is 0 or 1 or 2;
        y is 1 or 2; and
        z is 1, 2, 3, or 4.
        In either the first or the second aspect, the surface may be a metal surface, in
particular a surface of an aluminium alloy, an iron alloy, or a steel alloy.
        In the first aspect, the surface may be a polymer surface. The polymer may be a
thermoplastic or thermoset material.
        The types of plastics that can thus be coated includes polyalkylenes, polyesters,
polyoxymethylene, poly(acrylonitrile-butadiene-styrene) (ABS) or other copolymers
comprising monomers of acrylonitrile, butadiene and styrene, such as methylmethacrylate
acrylonitrile-butadiene-styrene (MABS), polycarbonate and nylon, e.g. nylon 6,6 or nylon
6,12. Examples of polyalkylenes are polypropylene and polyethylenes such as low
density polyethylene (LDPE), ultra-high molecular weight polyethylene (UHMPE).
Polyesters include polyethylene terephthalate (PET) and polybutylene terephthalate (PBT)
and copolyester.
        Thermosets that may be usefully coated include nitrile elastomer, neoprene
elastomer, EPDM and co-vulcanisates of elastomeric polymers with thermoplastic
polymers.
        Medicinal delivery devices may include inhalers, or other dispensers in which
accurate dosing depends on not leaving medicament behind on the device. Examples
include a pressurized metered dose inhaler (pMDI), a nebulizer and a dry powder inhaler
(DPI).    When the device is a pMDI, examples of components include an actuator, an

                                                 8
aerosol container, a ferrule, a valve body, a valve stem and a compression spring. For
DPIs, examples of components include a powder container, a component used to open
sealed powder container, a component that defines at least in part a deagglomeration
chamber, a component of a deagglomeration system, a component that defines at least in
part a flow channel, a dose-transporting component, a component that defines at least in
part a mixing chamber, a component that defines at least in part an actuation chamber, a
mouthpiece and a nosepiece.
         Components to be coated may be made from one of the above materials, or from
assemblies or co mouldings of more than one material including at least one of the above
material types. Alternatively, plastics coatings on components may provide a surface
amenable to further coating.
         It has been found that the deposition of drug on plastics or thermoset components
can be reduced when the component is coated by applying a primer coat of a silane having
two or more reactive silane groups separated by an organic linker, followed by a top
coating of an at least partially fluorinated compound.
         The primer preferably comprises a linking group with a chain of one to twelve
atoms. This may have at least one carbon atom either side of a heteroatom, such as
nitrogen, oxygen or sulphur. Particularly useful primers include at least one amine group
in the linking group.
         It has surprisingly been found that deposition of drug on medicinal delivery device
component surfaces is eliminated when the organic linker comprises one or more amine
groups and the at least partially fluorinated compound is a perfluoropolyether silane
according to formula Ia[BM5] in which y=z= 1.
         In either the first or the second aspect, the surface of the device or the surface of
the component of the device, as applicable, is preferably a surface that is or is intended to
come in contact with a medicament or a medicinal formulation during storage or delivery
from the medicinal delivery device.
         The medicament may comprise or the medicinal formulation may comprise a
medicament that may be a drug, vaccine, DNA fragment, hormone or other treatment.
Suitable drugs include those for the treatment of respiratory disorders, e.g.,
bronchodilators, anti-inflammatories (e.g., corticosteroids), anti-allergics, anti-asthmatics,
anti-histamines, and anti-cholinergic agents. Therapeutic proteins and peptides may also

                                                9
be employed for delivery by inhalation. Thus the medicament may be selected from the
an exemplary group consisting of albuterol, terbutaline, ipratropium, oxitropium,
tiotropium, TD-4208, beclomethasone, flunisolide, budesonide, mometasone, ciclesonide,
cromolyn sodium, nedocromil sodium, ketotifen, azelastine, ergotamine, cyclosporine,
aclidinium, umeclidinium, glycopyrrolate, salmeterol, fluticasone, formoterol, procaterol,
indacaterol, TA2005, milveterol, olodaterol, vilanterol, abediterol, omalizumab, zileuton,
insulin, pentamidine, calcitonin, leuprolide, alpha-i -antitrypsin, interferon, triamcinolone,
salbutamol, pharmaceutically acceptable salts and esters of any of the listed medicaments
and mixtures of any of the listed medicaments, their pharmaceutically acceptable salts and
esters. For fluticasone, the preferred esters are propionate or furoate; for mometasone, the
preferred ester is furoate.
        In either the first or the second aspect, the medicinal delivery device is preferably a
metered dose inhaler or a dry powder inhaler. Thus, preferably, the component (preferably
comprising metal) is a component of a metered dose inhaler and the component is selected
from the group consisting of an actuator, an aerosol container, a ferrule, a valve body (that
defines a metering chamber), a bottle emptier, a valve stem and a compression spring.
        An aerosol formulation used in a metered dose inhaler typically comprises a
medicament or a combination of medicaments (as discussed above) and liquefied
propellant selected from the group consisting of HFA 134a, HFA 227 and mixtures
thereof.
        Aerosol formulations may, as desired or needed, comprise other excipients, such as
surfactant, a co-solvent (e.g., ethanol), C02, or a particulate bulking agent. Medicament
may be provided in particulate form (e.g. particles generally having a median diameter in
the range of 1 to 10 microns) suspended (i.e. dispersed) in the liquefied propellant.
Alternatively medicament may be in solution (i.e. dissolved) in the formulation. In the
event a combination of two or more medicaments is used, all the medicaments may be
suspended or in solution or alternatively one or more medicaments may be suspended,
while one or more medicaments may be in solution.
        The amount of medicament may be determined by the required dose per puff and
available valve sizes, which for MDIs are typically 25, 50 or 63 microlitres, or 100
microlitres..

                                                    10
         Pressurized metered dose inhalers including e.g., aerosol containers (in particular
metal aerosol containers) whose interior surfaces are coated in accordance the invention
are particularly advantageous for containing and delivering medicinal aerosol formulations
comprising a medicament that is dispersed in said formulation.
         In addition embodiments in accordance with the present invention are particularly
useful in regard to metered dose inhalers including a medicinal aerosol formulation that
includes low amounts of surfactant (0.005 wt % with respect to the formulation); or is
substantially free (less than 0.0001 wt % with respect to drug) or free of a surfactant.
Alternatively or additionally, embodiments, are particularly useful in metered dose
inhalers including a medicinal aerosol formulation that contains low amounts of ethanol
(less than 5 wt % with respect to the formulation), or is substantially free (less than 0.1 wt
% with respect to the formulation) or free of ethanol.
         In a third aspect, the present invention provides a coated component for a
medicinal delivery device comprising a component and a fluorine-containing coating,
wherein the fluorine-containing coating comprises two layers, a first polyfluoropolyether
containing layer comprising polyfluoropolyether silane entities of the following Formula
Tb:
             R/[QI-[C(R) 2-Si(O-) 3 _(R    a)_]_] z                                   Ib
which shares at least one covalent bond with a second non-fluorinated layer comprising
entities of the following Formula Ib:
        (-0)3-m-n(X)n (Rl)mSi -    Q-   Si(R 2)k (X)1(0-)3-k-1                    IIb[BM6]
which in turn shares at least one covalent bond with the component; and wherein:
         Rf is a monovalent or multivalent polyfluoropolyether segment;
         Q1 is an organic divalent or trivalent linking group;
         each R is independently hydrogen or a C1-4 alkyl group;
         Ria is a Cl-8 alkyl or phenyl group;
         k, 1, m and n are independently 0, 1 or 2, but with the priviso that m+n and k+l are
at most 2;
         x is 0 or 1 or 2; y is 1 or 2; and z is 1, 2, 3, or 4; wherein R1 and R 2 are
independently selected univalent groups, X is a hydrolysable or hydroxy group, m and k
are independently 0, 1, or 2 and     Q is a   divalent organic linking group, comprising a
substituted C2 to C12 hydrocarbyl chain and one or more amine groups.

                                              11
Coated components with more specific surface structural features may be determined by
the skilled person in respect of more specific process steps described earlier by taking into
account the covalent bonding chemistry of this third aspect of the invention.
        The invention, in its various combinations, either in method or apparatus form,
may also be characterized by the following listing of items:
Items
 1. A method of making a component for a medicinal delivery device, the method
comprising
        a) providing a component of a medicinal delivery device,
        b) providing a primer composition comprising a silane having two or more reactive
silane groups separated by an organic linker group,
        c) providing a coating composition comprising an at least partially fluorinated
compound,
        d) applying the primer composition to at least a portion of the surface of the
component,
        e) applying the coating composition to the portion of the surface of the component
after application of the primer composition.
2. A method as referred to in item 1, wherein the at least partially fluorinated compound
comprises one or more reactive silane groups.
3. A method as referred to in either item lor item 2, wherein at least one of the reactive
silane groups is a hydrolysable silane group or a hydroxysilane group.
4. A method as referred to in item 3, wherein the or each reactive silane group is of
formula - Si(R0 ).X3_n, wherein R' is a substantially non-hydrolysable group, X is a
hydrolysable or hydroxy group and n is 0, 1 or 2.
5. A method as referred to in any one of the preceding items, wherein the silane having
two or more reactive silane groups is of formula
                               X3-m (Rl)mSi -  Q-   Si(R 2 )kX3-k

                                               12
wherein R' and R2 are independently selected univalent groups, X is a hydrolysable or
hydroxy group, m and k are independently 0, 1, or 2 and     Q is a divalent organic linking
group.
6. A method as referred to in item 5, wherein    Q comprises  a 1 to 12 atom chain.
7. A method as referred to in item 6, wherein    Q comprises  a substituted or unsubstituted
C2 to C12 hydrocarbyl chain.
8. A method as referred to in item 7, wherein the silane having two or more reactive silane
groups is selected from 1,2- bis(trialkoxysilyl) ethane, 1,6- bis(trialkoxysilyl) hexane, 1,8
bis(trialkoxysilyl) octane, 1,4-bis(trialkoxysilylethyl)benzene, bis(trialkoxysilyl)itaconate,
and 4,4'-bis(trialkoxysilyl)-1,1'-diphenyl, and combinations thereof, wherein any
trialkoxy group may be trimethoxy or triethoxy.
9. A method as referred to in item 7, wherein    Q comprises  a substituted or unsubstituted
C2 to C12 alkyl chain.
 10. A method as referred to in either item 7 or item 8, wherein the chain is substituted by
one or more atoms of N, 0, and/or S.
 11. A method as referred to in item 9, wherein the silane having two or more reactive
silane groups is selected from bis(trialkoxysilylpropyl)amine; bis (3-trialkoxysilylpropyl)
ethylenediamine; bis (3-trialkoxysilylpropyl) n-methylamine; bis[3
(trialkoxysilyl)propyl]fumarate and N, N-bis (3-trialkoxysilylmethyl) allylamine, and
combinations thereof, wherein any trialkoxy group may be trimethoxy or triethoxy.
 12. A method as referred to in item 10, wherein   Q is of formula  - (CH2); -A- (CH2)j
 [BM7]- wherein A is NR", 0, or S; i and j are independently 0, 1, 2, 3 or 4 and wherein R"
is H or Ci to C4 alkyl.

                                                 13
13. A method as referred to in item 12, wherein      Q is of formula - (CH2)iNH (CH2)j - and
i and j are each independently 1, 2, 3 or 4.
14. A method as referred to in any one of items 4 to 13, wherein each X is OR 3 , each R3
being independently hydrogen, phenyl or Ci to C4 alkyl.
15. A method as referred to in item 14, wherein each R' is independently methyl, ethyl or
propyl.
16. A method as referred to in any one of the preceding items, wherein the coating
composition further comprises a coating solvent.
17. A method as referred to in item 16, wherein the coating solvent comprises an alcohol
or a hydrofluoroether.
18. A method as referred to in item 17, wherein the alcohol is a Ci to C4 alcohol, in
particular, an alcohol selected from ethanol, n-propanol, or iso-propanol.
19. A method as referred to in either item 16 or item 17, wherein the hydrofluoroether is a
C4 to Cio hydrofluoroether.
20. A method as referred to in item 19, wherein the hydrofluoroether is of formula
                                        CgF2g+1OChH2h+1
wherein g is 2, 3, 4, 5, or 6 and h is 1, 2, 3 or 4.
21. A method as referred to in item 20, wherein the hydrofluoroether is selected from the
group consisting of methyl heptafluoropropylether, methyl nonafluorobutylether, ethyl
nonafluorobutylether and mixtures thereof.
22. A method as referred to in item 20, wherein the hydrofluoroether comprises ethyl
nonafluorobutyl ether.

                                                 14
23. A method as referred to in any one of the preceding items wherein the at least partially
fluorinated compound contains a polyfluoroether moiety, in particular a
polyfluoropolyether moiety.
24. A method as referred to in item 23, wherein the polyfluoroether moiety is a
perfluorinated polyfluoroether moiety, in particular a perfluorinated polyfluoropolyether
moiety.
25.     A method as referred to in either item 23 or item 24, wherein the
polyfluoropolyether moiety is not linked to the functional silane groups via a functionality
that includes nitrogen-silicon bond or a sulfur-silicon bond.
26.     A method as referred to in any one of items 23 to 25, wherein the
polyfluoropolyether moiety is linked to the functional silane groups via a functionality that
includes a carbon-silicon bond.
27.     A method as referred to in any one of items 23 to 26, wherein in the repeating units
of the polyfluoropolyether moiety, the number of carbon atoms in sequence is at most 6.
28.     A method as referred to in item 27, wherein in the repeating units of the
polyfluoropolyether moiety the number of carbon atoms in sequence is 4 or fewer, more
particularly 3 or fewer.
29.     A method as referred to in any one of items 23 to 28, wherein the
polyfluoropolyether silane is of formula
                      Rf Qv[Q2 w-[C(R 4 )2 -Si(X)3,(R ),] z1
wherein:
        Rf is a polyfluoropolyether moiety;
        Q' is  a trivalent linking group;
        each  Q2 is an independently   selected organic divalent or trivalent linking group;
        each R4 is independently hydrogen or a CI 4 alkyl group;
        each X is independently a hydrolysable or hydroxyl group;

                                               15
        R is a C 1-8 alkyl or phenyl group;
        v and w are independently 0 or 1, x is 0 or 1 or 2; y is 1 or 2; and z is 2, 3, or 4.
30.     A method as referred to in item 29, wherein the polyfluoropolyether moiety Rf
comprises perfluorinated repeating units selected from the group consisting of -(C.F      2 nO)-,
(CF(Z)O)-, -(CF(Z)C.F 2 n0)-, -(C.F 2nCF(Z)O)-, -(CF 2 CF(Z)O)-, and combinations thereof;
wherein n is an integer from 1 to 6 and Z is a perfluoroalkyl group, an oxygen-containing
perfluoroalkyl group, a perfluoroalkoxy group, or an oxygen-substituted perfluoroalkoxy
group, each of which can be linear, branched, or cyclic, and have 1 to 5 carbon atoms and
up to 4 oxygen atoms when oxygen-containing or oxygen-substituted and wherein for
repeating units including Z the number of carbon atoms in sequence is at most 6.
31.     A method as referred to in item 30, wherein n is an integer from 1 to 4 and wherein
for repeating units including Z the number of carbon atoms in sequence is at most four.
32.     A method as referred to in either item 30 or item 31, wherein n is an integer from 1
to 3 and wherein for repeating units including Z the number of carbon atoms in sequence
is at most three.
33.     A method as referred to in any one of items 30 to 32, wherein n is 1 or 2 and Z is
an -CF  3 group.
34.     A method as referred to in any one of items 29 to 33, wherein z is 2, and R/is
selected from the group consisting of -CF 2O(CF 2O)m(C 2F4 0)PCF 2 -,
-CF(CF 3)O(CF(CF3 )CF 2O),CF(CF 3)-, -CF 2O(C 2 F40)p CF 2 -, -(CF 2)30(C 4 FSO),(CF 2) 3-,
-CF(CF 3)-(OCF 2 CF(CF 3))pO-CtF2 -O(CF(CF 3 )CF 2 O),CF(CF 3)-, wherein t is 2, 3 or 4 and
wherein m is 1 to 50, and p is 3 to 40.
35.     A method as referred to in item 34, wherein R/is selected from the group
consisting of
-CF 2O(CF 2O)m(C 2F 40)PCF 2 -, -CF 2O(C 2F 40),CF 2-, and

                                                16
-CF(CF 3)-(OCF 2 CF(CF 3))pO-(CtF 2 t)-O(CF(CF 3 )CF 20),CF(CF 3)-, and wherein t is 2, 3, or
4, and wherein the average value of m+p or p+p or p is from about 4 to about 24.
36.       A method as referred to in any one of items 29 to 35, wherein Q' and Q2 are
independently selected from the group consisting of -C(O)N(R 3)-(CH )a-, -S(O) 2N(R 3)
(CH 2 )a-, -(CH 2)a-, -CH 20-(CH 2)a-, -C(O)S-(CH 2)a-, -CH 20C(O)N(R[BM8] 3 )-(CH 2)a-, and
wherein R 3 is hydrogen or C 1-4 alkyl, and a is 1 to about 25.
37.       A method as referred to in any one of items 23 to 36, wherein the weight average
molecular weight of the polyfluoropolyether moiety is about 1000 or higher, in particular
about 1800 or higher.
38.       A method as referred to in any one of the preceding items, wherein the
composition further comprises a cross-linking agent.
39.       A method as referred to in item 38, wherein the cross-linking agent comprises a
compound selected from the group consisting of tetramethoxysilane; tetraethoxysilane;
tetrapropoxysilane; tetrabutoxysilane; methyl triethoxysilane; dimethyldiethoxysilane;
octadecyltriethoxysilane; 3-glycidoxy-propyltrimethoxysilane;      3
glycidoxy-propyltriethoxysilane; 3-aminopropyl-trimethoxysilane; 3
aminopropyl-triethoxysilane;      bis ( 3-trimethoxysilylpropyl) amine; 3-aminopropyl
tri(methoxyethoxyethoxy) silane; N ( 2-aminoethyl)3-aminopropyltrimethoxysilane;         bis (
3-trimethoxysilylpropyl) ethylenediamine; 3-mercaptopropyltrimethoxysilane; 3
mercaptopropyltriethoxysilane; 3-trimethoxysilyl-propylmethacrylate; 3
triethoxysilypropylmethacrylate; bis ( trimethoxysilyl ) itaconate; allyltriethoxysilane;
allyltrimethoxysilane; 3-(N-allylamino)propyltrimethoxysilane; vinyltrimethoxysilane;
vinyltriethoxysilane; and mixtures thereof.
40.       A method as referred to in any one of the preceding items, wherein the method
includes a pre-treatment step prior to the step of applying the primer composition, said
pre-treatment step comprising cleaning the surface with a solvent comprising a
hydrofluoroether.

                                                 17
41. A method of making a component for a medicinal delivery device, the method
comprising
         a) providing a component of a medicinal delivery device,
        b) providing a coating composition comprising an at least partially fluorinated
compound,
         d) cleaning at least a portion of the surface of the component using a solvent
comprising a hydrofluoroether of formula
                                         CgF2g+1OChH2h+1
                         wherein g is 2, 3, 4, 5, or 6 and h is 1, 2, 3 or 4
         e) applying the coating composition to the portion of the surface of the component
after cleaning with the solvent.
42.     A method as referred to in either item 40 or item 41, wherein the hydrofluoroether
is selected from the group consisting of methyl heptafluoropropylether; ethyl
heptafluoropropylether ; methyl nonafluorobutylether; ethyl nonafluorobutylether and
mixtures thereof.
43.     A method as referred to in any one of the preceding items, wherein said surface is a
metal surface, in particular a surface of an aluminium alloy, an iron alloy, or a steel alloy.
44.     A method as referred to in any one of the preceding items, wherein independently
the primer composition and/or the coating composition are applied by spraying, dipping,
rolling, brushing, spreading or flow coating, in particular by spraying or dipping.
45.     A method as referred to in any one of the preceding items, wherein after applying
the composition, the method further comprises a step of curing.
46.     A method as referred to in item 45, wherein the curing is carried out at an elevated
temperature in the range from about 40'C to about 300'C.

                                               18
47.     A method as referred to in any one of the preceding items, where said surface of
the device or said surface of the component of the device, as applicable, is a surface that is
or will come in contact with a medicament or a medicinal formulation during storage or
delivery from the medicinal delivery device.
48.     A method as referred to in item 47, wherein the medicament comprises or the
medicinal formulation comprises a medicament selected from the group consisting of
albuterol, terbutaline, ipratropium, oxitropium, tiotropium, beclomethasone, flunisolide,
budesonide, mometasone, ciclesonide, cromolyn sodium, nedocromil sodium, ketotifen,
azelastine, ergotamine, cyclosporine, salmeterol, fluticasone, formoterol, procaterol,
indacaterol, TA2005, omalizumab, zileuton, insulin, pentamidine, calcitonin, leuprolide,
alpha-i -antitrypsin, interferon, triamcinolone, salbutamol and pharmaceutically acceptable
salts and esters thereof and mixtures thereof.
49.     A method as referred to in any one of the preceding items, where said medicinal
delivery device is a metered dose inhaler or a dry powder inhaler.
50.     A method as referred to in any one of the preceding items, wherein the component
is a component of a metered dose inhaler and the component is selected from the group
consisting of an actuator, an aerosol container, a ferrule, a valve body, a valve stem and a
compression spring.
51.     A medicinal delivery device assembled from at least one component made as
referred to in any one of the preceding items.
52.     A method as referred in any one of items 30 to 50, wherein the number of linked
perfluorinated repeating units is in the range 20 to 40.
53.     A method as referred to in any one of items I to 39, 44 to 50 and 52, wherein said
portion of surface is a polymer surface.
54.     A method as referred to in item 53 wherein the component is at least partly made
of said polymer.
55.     A method as referred to in any one of items 53 and 54, wherein the silane having
two or more reactive silane groups is of formula

                                                 19
                                  X3-m (R)mSi -   Q-   Si(R 2 )k X3-k
wherein R' and R2 are independently selected univalent groups, X is a hydrolysable or
hydroxy group, m and k are independently 0, 1, or 2 and          Q is a divalent organic linking
group, comprising a substituted C2 to C12 hydrocarbyl chain and one or more amine
groups.
56.     A method as referred to in any one of items 53 to 55, wherein the at least partially
fluorinated compound is polyfluoropolyether silane of the Formula Ta:
                  Rf[Q1 -[C(R) 2 -Si(Y) 3 -(Rl )X]] za
        wherein:
        Rf is a monovalent or multivalent polyfluoropolyether moiety;
        Q1 is an organic divalent or trivalent linking group;
        each R is independently hydrogen or a C1-4 alkyl group;
        each Y is independently a hydrolysable group;
        Rla is a Cl-8 alkyl or phenyl group;
        x is 0 or 1 or 2;
        y is 1 or 2; and
        z is 1, 2, 3, or 4.
57.     A method as referred to in item 56, wherein the polyfluoropolyether moiety Rf
comprises perfluorinated repeating units selected from the group consisting of -(C.F         2 nO)-,
(CF(Z)O)-, -(CF(Z)C.F 2nO)-, -(C.F 2nCF(Z)O)-, -(CF 2CF(Z)O)-, and combinations thereof;
wherein n is an integer from 1 to 6 and Z is a perfluoroalkyl group, an oxygen-containing
perfluoroalkyl group, a perfluoroalkoxy group, or an oxygen-substituted perfluoroalkoxy
group, each of which can be linear, branched, or cyclic, and have 1 to 5 carbon atoms and
up to 4 oxygen atoms when oxygen-containing or oxygen-substituted and wherein for
repeating units including Z the number of carbon atoms in sequence is at most 6.
58.     A method as referred to in item 57, wherein the number of linked perfluorinated
repeating units is in the range 3 to 50.
59.     A method as referred to in item 58, wherein the number of linked perfluorinated
repeating units is in the range 20 to 40.

                                             20
60.     A method as referred to in any one of items 56 to 59, wherein the
polyfluoropolyether moiety Rf is terminated with a group selected from the group
consisting of CnF2n+1-, CnF2n+10-, HCnF2nO-.
61.     A method as referred to in item 60, wherein n=1,2,3,4,5 or 6.
62.     A method as referred to in item 61, wherein the average structure of the
polyfluoropolyether moiety Rf is selected from:
C3F70(CF(CF3)CF20)pCF(CF3)-, CF30(C2F40)pCF2-,
C3F70(CF(CF3)CF20)pCF2CF2-,C3F70(CF2CF2CF20)pCF2CF2-, or C3F70(CF2
CF2CF20)pCF(CF3)-, or CF30(CF2CF(CF3)O)p(CF20)G- (wherein G is
CF2, C2F4-, C3F6- or C4Fs-), and wherein the average value of p is in the range 3 to 50.
63.     A method as referred to in item 62, wherein the polyfluoropolyether moiety Rf is
C3F70(CF(CF3)CF20)pCF(CF3)
64.     A method as referred to in any one of items 56to 63, wherein z=1.
65.     A method as referred to in any one of items 56 to 64, wherein y=1.
66.     A method as referred to in any one of items 56 to 65, wherein  Q1 contains one   or
more heteroatoms selected from the group consisting of sulfur, oxygen, and nitrogen.
67.     A method as referred to in item 66 wherein  Q1 contains one or more functional
groups selected from the group consisting of esters, amides, sulfonamides, carbonyl,
carbonates,
ureylenes, and carbamates.
68.     A method as referred to in item 67 wherein  Q1 comprises  from 2 to 25 linearly
arranged carbon atoms, optionally interrupted by one or more heteroatoms.

                                              21
69.     A method as referred to in item 68 wherein   Q' is substantially stable against
hydrolysis and other chemical transformations, such as nucleophilic attack.
70.     A method as referred to in item 69 wherein   Q' includes one or more organic
linking groups selected from:
-C(O)N(R)-(CH2)k-, -S(O)2N(R)-(CH2)k-, -(CH2)k-, -CH20-(CH2)k-, -C(O)S-(CH2)k-,
CH20C(O)N(R)-(CH2)k-,
  - CH20CH2CH(OC (O)NH(CH2)3-)CH20C(O)NH(CH2)3-,
[BM9]- C(O)NHCH2CH[OC(O)NH-]CH20C(O)NH-,
wherein R is hydrogen or CI -4 alkyl, and k is 2 to about 25, preferably k is 2 to about 15,
more preferably k is 2 to about 10.
71.     A method as referred to in any one of items 53 to 70, wherein the polymer is a
thermoplastic.
72.     A method as referred to in item 71, wherein the thermoplastic material is selected
from the group consisting of polyolefines, polyesters, polyoxymethylene, nylons, and
copolymers comprising acrylonitrile, butadiene and styrene.
73      A method as referred to in item 7. wherein the polyolefine is polyethylene or
polypropylene.
74.     A method as referred to in any one of items 53 to 70 wherein the polymer is a
thermoset material.
75.     A coated component for a medicinal delivery device comprising a component and
a fluorine-containing coating, wherein the fluorine-containing coating comprises two
layers, a first polyfluoropolyether-containing layer comprising polyfluoropolyether silane
entities of the following Formula Ib:
            RJ[QI-[C(R) 2-Si(O-) 3_(R )_]_] z                                    I
which shares at least one covalent bond with a second non-fluorinated layer comprising
entities of the following Formula Ib:

                                                  22
       (-O)3-m-nXn (R)mSi -   Q-   Si(R 2 )k (X)1(0-)3-k-1                         Ilb[BM10]
which in turn shares at least one covalent bond with the component; and wherein:
         RI is a monovalent or multivalent polyfluoropolyether segment;
         Q1 is an organic divalent or trivalent linking group;
         each R is independently hydrogen or a C1-4 alkyl group;
         Ria is a Cl-8 alkyl or phenyl group;
        k, 1,m and n are independently 0, 1 or 2, but with the priviso that m+n and k+l are
at most 2;
         x is 0 or 1 or 2;
        y is 1 or 2; and
         z is 1, 2, 3, or 4;
R1 and R2 are independently selected univalent groups, X is a hydrolysable or hydroxy
group, m and k are independently 0, 1, or 2 and        Q is a divalent organic linking group,
comprising a substituted C2 to C12 hydrocarbyl chain and one or more amine groups.
76.     A coated component for a medicinal delivery device as referred to in item 75,
wherein the polyfluoropolyether moiety Rf comprises perfluorinated repeating units
selected from the group consisting of -(C.F 2nO)-,-(CF(Z)O)-, -(CF(Z)C.F          2nO)-,
(C.F 2nCF(Z)O)-, -(CF 2CF(Z)O)-, and combinations thereof; wherein n is an integer from 1
to 6 and Z is a perfluoroalkyl group, an oxygen-containing perfluoroalkyl group, a
perfluoroalkoxy group, or an oxygen-substituted perfluoroalkoxy group, each of which
can be linear, branched, or cyclic, and have 1 to 5 carbon atoms and up to 4 oxygen atoms
when oxygen-containing or oxygen-substituted and wherein for repeating units including
Z the number of carbon atoms in sequence is at most 6.
77.     A coated component for a medicinal delivery device as referred to in item 76,
wherein the polyfluoropolyether moiety Rf is C3F70(CF(CF3)CF20)([4BM 11CF(CF3)-,
wherein the average value of p is in the range 3 to 50.
78.     A coated component for a medicinal delivery device as referred to in any one of
items 75 to 77, wherein z=1.

                                             23
79.     A coated component for a medicinal delivery device as referred to in any one of
items 75 to 78, wherein y=1.
80.     A coated component for a medicinal delivery device as referred to in item 79,
wherein the entity of Formula Ib shares a covalent bond with a polymer surface of the
component.
81.     A coated component for a medicinal delivery device as referred to in any one of
items 79 or 80, wherein  Q1 includes one or more organic linking groups selected from
C(O)N(R)-(CH2)k-, -S(O)2N(R)-(CH2)k-, -(CH2)k-, -CH20-(CH2)k-, -C(O)S-(CH2)k-,
CH20C(O)N(R)-(CH2)k-,
wherein R is hydrogen or C1 -4 alkyl, and k is 2 to about 25, preferably k is 2 to about 15,
more preferably k is 2 to about 10.
82.     A coated component for a medicinal delivery device as referred to in any one of
items 75 to 78, wherein y=2.
83.     A coated component for a medicinal delivery device as referred to in item 82,
wherein the entity of Formula Ib shares a covalent bond with a metal surface of the
component, in particular a surface of an aluminium alloy, an iron alloy, or a steel alloy.
84. A coated component for a medicinal delivery device as referred to in any one of items
82 or 83, wherein Q1 includes  as organic linking groups:
                  - CH20CH2CH(OC(O)NH(CH2)3 -)CH20C(O)NH(CH2)3
                [BM12]or
- C(O)NHCH2CH[OC(O)NH-]CH20C(O)NH-.
85.     A coated component for a medicinal delivery device as referred in any one of items
75 to 84 wherein the component is a component of a metered dose inhaler.

                                                24
86.       A coated component as referred to in item 85, wherein the component is selected
from the group consisting of an actuator, an aerosol container, a ferrule, a valve body, a
valve stem and a compression spring.
87.      A medicinal delivery device assembled from at least one coated component as
referred to in any one of items 75 to 86.
         Throughout this specification, the word "inhaler" means a device for delivery of a
medicament in fluid (or powder) and does not imply that the device requires inhalation on
the part of the patient during delivery. It is known that a medicament may be delivered
successfully to the nasal passages by an inhaler without the need for the patient to inhale.
         So that the present specification may be more completely understood, reference is
made to the accompanying drawings in which:
         Figure 1a represents a schematic cross-sectional view of a pressurized metered
dose inhaler known in the art and
         Figure lb represents an enlarged view of a portion of the inhaler.
         Figure 2a and 2b show the results of Example 3.
         Figure 3 represents a schematic cross-sectional view of a metered dose valve.
Detailed Description
         Figure la shows a metered dose inhaler 100, including an aerosol container 1 fitted
with a metered dose valve 10 (shown in its resting position). The valve is typically affixed,
i.e., crimped, onto the container via a cap or ferrule 11 (typically made of aluminium or an
aluminium alloy) which is generally provided as part of the valve assembly. Between the
container and the ferrule there may be one or more seals. In the embodiments shown in
Figures la and lb between the container 1 and the ferrule 11 there are two seals including
e.g., an O-ring seal and the gasket seal. .
         As shown in Figure 1a, the container/valve dispenser is typically provided with an
actuator 5 including an appropriate patient port 6, such as a mouthpiece. For
administration to the nasal cavities the patient port is generally provided in an appropriate
form (e.g., smaller diameter tube, often sloping upwardly) for delivery through the nose.
Actuators are generally made of a plastics material, for example polypropylene or
polyethylene. As can be seen from Figure la, the inner walls 2 of the container and the

                                               25
outer walls 101 of the portion(s) of the metered dose valve located within the container
define a formulation chamber 3 in which aerosol formulation 4 is contained.
         The valve shown in Figure l a, and Figure Ib, includes a metering chamber 12,
defined in part by an inner valve body 13, through which a valve stem 14 passes. The
valve stem 14, which is biased outwardly by a compression spring 15, is in sliding sealing
engagement with an inner tank seal 16 and an outer diaphragm seal 17. The valve also
includes a second valve body 20 in the form of a bottle emptier. The inner valve body
(also referred to as the "primary" valve body) defines in part the metering chamber. The
second valve body (also referred to as the "secondary" valve body) defines in part a pre
metering region or chamber besides serving as a bottle emptier.
         Referring to Figure 1b, aerosol formulation 4 can pass from the formulation
chamber into a pre-metering chamber 22 provided between the secondary valve body 20
and the primary valve body 13 through an annular space 21 between the flange 23 of the
secondary valve body 20 and the primary valve body 13. To actuate (fire) the valve, the
valve stem 14 is pushed inwardly relative to the container from its resting position shown
in Figures la and b, allowing formulation to pass from the metering chamber through a
side hole 19 in the valve stem and through a stem outlet 24 to an actuator nozzle 7 then out
to the patient. When the valve stem 14 is released, formulation enters into the valve, in
particular into the pre-metering chamber 22, through the annular space 21 and thence from
the pre-metering chamber through a groove 18 in the valve stem past the tank seal 16 into
the metering chamber 12.
         Figure 3 shows a metered dose aerosol valve different to the one shown in Figures
 la, lb in its rest position. The valve has a metering chamber 112 defined in part by a
metering tank 113 through which a stem 114 is biased outwardly by spring 115. The stem
 114 is made in two parts that are push fit together before being assembled into the valve.
The stem 114 has an inner seal 116 and an outer seal 117 disposed about it and forming
sealing contact with the metering tank 113. A valve body 120 crimped into a ferrule 111
retains the aforementioned components in the valve. In use, formulation enters the
metering chamber via orifices 121, 118. It's outward path from the metering chamber 112
when a dose is dispensed is via orifice 119.
         Depending on the particular metered dose valve and/or filling system, aerosol
formulation may be filled into the container either by cold-filling (in which chilled

                                                 26
 formulation (chilled to temperatures of about -50 to -55'C for propellant HFA 134a-based
 formulations) is filled into the container and subsequently the metered dose valve is
 crimped onto the container) or by pressure filling (in which the metered dose valve is
 crimped onto the container and then formulation is pressure filled through the valve into
 the container).
          The present invention is further illustrated by the following Examples. In this
 specification, ENFBE refers to solvent ethyl nonafluorobutyl ether, MNFBE refers to
 methyl nonafluorobutyl ether. The polyfluoropolyethersilane that is referred to as
 fluorosilane A is a fluorosilane of formula:
 (MeO)3Si(CH2)3NHC(O)0'H[BM 132CH[O(O)CHN(CH2)3Si(OMe)3]CH2NHCORf2
 where R is a moiety of formula CF(CF3)(OCF2CF(CF3))kO(CF2)2CF3, k is approximately
 5 to 6, but may be in the range 3 to 50, usually 3 to 20, more usually 4 to 10.
 Fluorosilane B is a fluorosilane of formula:
          (MeO)3Si(CH2)3NHC(O)R"          [BM 14]
 Fluorosilane C is a fluorosilane of formula:
          (MeO)3Si(CH2)30CH2 R"[BM 15], in which k is approximately 34.
 BTMSPA refers to bis(trimethoxysilylpropyl)amine.
 APTMS (ex Sigma) Amino-n-propyltrimethoxysilane
 APTES (ex Sigma) Amino-n-propyltriethoxysilane
 Primer A is bis(3-trimethoxysilylpropyl) ethylene diamine,
 Primer B is bis(triethoxysilyl)ethane,
 Primer C is bis(3-triethoxysilylpropyl)amine,
 Primer D is bis(3-trimethoxysilylpropyl) N-methyl amine,
 Primer E is bis(methyldiethoxysilylpropyl)amine
Examples
 Deposition test on cans
          In the Examples the salbutamol sulphate deposition screening test employed a
 salbutamol dispersion micronised non-amorphous salbutamol sulphate ultrasonically
 dispersed in decafluoropentane (Ig in 400g). The test was run by employing an Eppendorf
 pipette to place a 0.3 ml aliquot of the salbutamol dispersion into each can. The cans were
 then immediately placed on a horizontal rolling mixer (Stuart Scientific model SRT2

                                                27
operating to rotate cans at 35 rpm) for 3 minutes to allow the dispersion to dry to the
surface. The cans were then placed in an air drying oven for 5 minutes at 65 0 C to fully dry.
The cans were then rinsed with 2 aliquots of decafluoropentane (5ml) using a 5 inversion
shaking regime with one shake cycle per second.
         Controls were uncoated cans to which salbutamol sulphate dispersion had been
added and dried but which had not undergone a subsequent rinse step and hence these cans
had a deposit level that represented the maximum level possible in the test. Other cans had
undergone a subsequent rinse step and hence cans which showed a low level of salbutamol
deposition in this test were showing that the deposited salbutamol could be easily washed
away and were therefore deemed to have good release/non-stick performance.
         The residual deposited salbutamol was quantitatively transferred and assayed by
u.v. spectrophotometry. For each sample, the amount assayed was divided by the
corresponding amount for the controls and expressed as a percentage. Unless otherwise
stated, 3 samples were taken for each determination.
Example 1
Method
Washing of Cans
         Cans were immersed in HFE72DE at its boiling temperature (43'C) for 7 minutes.
They were allowed to drain for 2 minutes, and then re-immersed for 3 minutes with
ultrasonic agitation. These were allowed to drain for a further 4 minutes then dried at
ambient conditions for 7 minutes.
Preparation of primed and unprimed cans
         Washed aluminium cans were fill and drain coated with primer solution (BTMSPA
0.2g in isopropanol (109.5g)) by transfer filling brimful into a first can in a first row of 10
cans, allowing 60 s solution contact time, then transferring and topping up from primer
solution similarly to the subsequent cans in the row. Meanwhile primer solution was
transfer filled into a first can of a second row of 10 cans, and the process repeated as for
the first row of cans. Altogether 6 rows of cans were treated, giving a total of 60 cans.
The cans were placed inverted to drain on a laboratory wipe, each was shaken and blown
dry with compressed air and then placed in an oven for 30 minutes at 60 0 C.
         A similar quantity of washed cans was not primed.
Coating of cans with fluorosilane A solution for spray coating

                                                28
        A reservoir bottle of 1% w/w fluorosilane A (13.5g) in ENFBE (1355g) was
prepared.
        An automated spray coater was employed to spray a sequence of cans. The
primed and unprimed cans were presented to the sprayer alternately to eliminate any
possible systematic trend in the coating efficiency.
         In the automated spray coater, spraying liquid was pumped from a reservoir bottle
through a spray nozzle mounted to spray vertically upwards for a programmed duration at
a spraying station. Each can to be sprayed was delivered inverted to the spraying station,
then allowed to drain. By suitable adjustment of the spraying pressure and duration, the
optimum coating was achieved when the cans were delivered with a maximum load that
did not drip excess coating solution upon draining. 8 cans for each experimental condition
were coated. Results are reported to include samples from either side of the optimum.
Furthermore, runs were included with 2 passes of the sprayer, allowing 60 s draining
between passes, and a run with 3 short duration sprays adding up to the optimum duration
for a single spray.
        After completion of all coating runs, with draining complete, the cans were placed
inverted into a single stainless steel coating tray and placed into the centre of the coating
oven at 120 0 C for 30 minutes. The cans were then removed, left to cool down and then
placed into a large polythene bag for storage.
Testing
         Each can was subjected to the deposition test for cans.
Results
         Certain of the deposition cans were tested using the deposition test for cans.
Results are reported in Table 1.
Table 1
 Primed           No. of         No. of          Spray       observation      Salbutamol
                  passes         sprays          duration   of draining       Sulphate
                                                 (ms)                         deposition
                                                                              test result (%
                                                                              of control)

                                              29
 Yes            1              1               350         Single drip             3
                                                           from every
                                                           can
 Yes            1              1               250         No dripping             4
 Yes            2              1               350         Occasional              3
                                                           dripping
 Yes            2              1               250         No dripping             3
 Yes            1              1               300         Only one drip           4
                                                           seen in total
 Yes            1              3               3 times     No dripping             3
                                               100
 No             1              1               350         Single drip             5
                                                           from every
                                                           can
 No             1              1               250         No dripping             5
        With reference to Table 1, the data show that all fluorosilane The spray coated cans
both with and without the primer show very low deposition values. The primed cans show
marginally better deposition performance than the unprimed cans in this study. The
uniformly low deposition data across the study indicate that the spray coating process is
robust within the coating variable ranges tested.
Example 2 and Comparative Example 2A
        Example 2 involved coating and performance testing of stainless steel valve
components.
Components used
        Metering tanks, springs, bottle emptiers, inner and outer seals, valve stems and
ferrules were assembled for making valves as shown in Fig. la, lb with a metering volume
of 63gl.

                                                30
Washing the Components
         1000 metering tanks were placed in a stainless steel vessel with lid and ENFBE (1
litre) was added. The components were agitated and then left with the lid on for 30
minutes. After 30 minutes the components were strained using a stainless steel strainer and
placed back in the vessel to which a further 1 litre of fresh ENFBE was added. Once more
the components were agitated and then left to stand for 30 minutes. The components were
then strained and then left in the vessel for the final residues of the ENFBE to evaporate.
The components were then placed in a polythene bag for storage.
         The same procedure as above was applied to 1000 springs with 500ml ENFBE
used in place of the 1 litre quantity. The washed springs were then placed in a polythene
bag for storage.
Coating of the washed components
         100 washed springs and 100 washed tanks were placed into a glass 250ml beaker.
Priming with BTMSPA
         BTMSPA (0.3g) was weighed into a 500 ml beaker and isopropanol (164g) was
added and the solution mixed. The latter solution was then added to the beaker of
components and the components mixed with a spatula then left to stand for 30 seconds.
The fluid and components were then poured back into the 500 ml beaker via a stainless
steel sieve thereby collecting the coated components in the sieve. The components were
then poured out on to a laboratory wipe and were dried off using a hot air blower. The
components were returned to the glass beaker and were then placed in an air drying oven
at 60 0C for 15 minutes.
Fluorosilane coating
         The primed components were left to cool down and equilibrate with ambient air for
 1 hour.
         ENFBE (300g) was added to fluorosilane A (3.0g) in a 500ml beaker and the
solution was mixed. The solution was the poured into the beaker of primed components
and the components were stirred with a spatula. The components were then left to sit for
30 seconds in the solution after which time they were drained via a stainless steel sieve
back into the 500 ml beaker hence collecting the components in the sieve. The components
were then transferred to a glass beaker and placed into an oven at 120 0 C for 30 minutes to

                                              31
cure the fluorosilane. The coated components were assembled into inhaler valves as
shown in Figs. l a,1b.
         Similarly, the uncoated components (Comparative Example 2A) were also
assembled into inhaler valves as a control.
Product filling
         The coated test valves and control valves were incorporated into metered dose
inhaler and used to deliver a formulation of micronised salbutamol sulphate suspended in
HFA134a. The target dose of the product was 1OOgg per actuation and the cold filling
technique was employed for the filling process.
Product testing
         Both the coated (Example 2) and the uncoated (Comparative Example 2A) valve
product lots were actuated through life to shot number 120, after which point the test
inhalers were chilled down, the valves removed and the valve components disassembled
and assayed for salbutamol sulphate residue. The assay was done by uv
spectrophotometry of quantitative washings from each component made up to a suitable
volume with washing solvent. The assay results are shown in table 2, below.
Table 2
   Component                        Mass of salbutamol sulphate deposited on
                                          component at end of life (mg)
                               Coated Example 2           Uncoated Comparative
                                                          Example 2A
   Stem and seal                         0.25                       0.47
   Spring                                0.09                       0.38
  Tank                                   0.11                       0.25
  Bottle emptier                         0.03                       0.11
The data in Table 2 show that the valves incorporating stainless steel springs and stainless
steel tanks coated with BTMSPA followed by fluorosilane A in Example 2 show a very
large reduction in component salbutamol sulphate deposition levels compared to the
uncoated controls in Comparative Example 2A. Although only the springs and the tanks
were coated, coating appears to have had a further beneficial effect in terms of lowered
deposition also on the stem and seal and the bottle emptier components of the coated

                                                32
valves. This effect is likely due to reduced deposition at the interface points between
uncoated and coated components compared to that seen at the interface points between
components that are all uncoated.
Example 3
Preparation
Coating of the washed components
         400 washed springs were placed into a 500ml beaker and 400 washed 63 gl
metering tanks were placed into a second 500ml beaker. The washing procedure was as
for example 2.
Priming
         BTMSPA (0.4g) was weighed into a 500 ml beaker and isopropanol (219g) was
added and the solution mixed. The latter solution was then added to the beaker of springs
and mixed well with a stainless steel spatula and left to stand for 30 seconds. The fluid and
components were then poured out into the beaker containing the metering tanks and the
latter were then mixed well and left to stand for 30 seconds. The metering tanks and fluid
contents were then poured through a sieve into a third beaker. The still wet metering tanks
and springs were separated out onto two separate laboratory wipes and left in the fume
cupboard with fast air flow for 10 minutes until all the isopropanol had evaporated. The
components were then transferred into dry 500ml glass beakers and placed into the air
drying oven for 15 minutes at a temperature of 60'C.
Fluorosilane coating
         The primed metering tanks and springs were removed from the air drying oven and
poured out onto laboratory wipe in the fume cupboard to allow to cool and to equilibrate
with atmospheric moisture for 30 minutes.
         ENFBE (400g) was added to fluorosilane A (4.0g) in a 500ml beaker and the
solution was mixed. The latter solution was then poured into the beaker of primed springs
components and the components were stirred with a spatula. The components were then
left to sit for 30 seconds in the solution after which time they were drained via a stainless
steel sieve back into the 500 ml beaker containing the metering tanks. After 30 seconds the
metering tanks were sieved to isolate them and each beaker of components was air dried

                                                33
on a laboratory wipe with the aid of a hot air blower, then placed into the oven at 120'C
for 30 minutes to cure the fluorosilane.
        Valves as shown in Figs la,1b were assembled from the above metering tanks and
springs, by incorporating seals, a bottle emptier and a ferrule for each set and crimping.
Valves as shown in Figs la,1b were prepared for comparison as above, with the exception
that the priming and fluorosilane coating steps were omitted.
        A suspension formulation of fluticasone propionate was made up in propellant
(1%w/w ethanol + 99%w/w HFA134a). Aluminium cans were filled to deliver 120 shots
via 63gl valve, by cold transferring aliquots of the suspension, and valves prepared as
above were crimped on to provide aerosol units.
Testing
         Each aerosol unit to be tested was placed into a plastic actuator (the discharge
actuator). The aerosol unit was shaken with a gentle rocking action through 1800
inversion for at least 10 s and a shot was fired to waste. The valve was immediately
released, and these steps repeated, once using the discharge actuator and again twice using
a fresh plastic actuator (the test actuator).
        An USCA (Unit Spray Sample Collection) apparatus as described in US
Pharmacopoeia vol. 29 (2006) section <601> was set up. An aerosol unit which had been
through firing shots to waste as described above was immediately attached and a pair of
shots fired into an USCA Medication Delivery collection tube with a filter (USCA tube),
according to the procedure for the apparatus. Each pair of shots from the unit was fired
into a separate USCA tube. The drug was quantitatively transferred from each USCA tube
for analysis by hplc.
         The test regimen, following on from the firing to waste described above and
carried out on 5 units for each of the 2 valve types, was as follows:
         3 pairs of shots representing the start of unit life through the test actuator (referred
to by their sample number as start 1, start 2 and start 3 in Figure 2a, 2b)
         48 shots fired to waste through the discharge actuator
         2 shots fired to waste through the test actuator
         4 pairs of shots representing the middle of unit life through the test actuator
(referred to as middle 1, middle 2, middle 3 and middle 4 in Figure 2a, 2b)
         48 shots fired to waste through the discharge actuator

                                                34
         2 shots fired to waste through the test actuator
         3 pairs of shots representing the end of unit life through the test actuator (referred
to as end 1, end 2 and end 3 in Figure 2a, 2b)
Results
Table 3
                                      Units with coated springs     Units with uncoated
                                      and metering tanks            springs and metering
                                                                    tanks
  Start shots mean                               38.Ogg                       34.9gg
  Middle shots mean                              38.3gg                       34.5gg
  End shots mean                                 37.2gg                       34.7gg
  Start shots relative standard                   2.0%                          6.5%
  deviation
  Middle shots relative standard                  2.8%                          6.3%
  deviation
  End shots relative standard                     2.9%                          7.7%
  deviation
  Overall mean and relative                 37.9    g 2.8%               34.7    g 6.7%
  standard deviation
A graph of gg fluticasone released per shot is shown in Figure 2a as a function of through
life position and sample number for Example 3, showing a high level of consistency using
the valve assembled with coated components. For comparison Figure 2b shows the
corresponding results for the valve with uncoated components. The results indicate that
coating according to the invention is highly advantageous because it results in less dose to
dose variability of the medicament, and less unit to unit variability.
Example 4
Preparation
         19 ml aluminium cans were washed with HFE72DE as in Example 1.
         4A - BMSTPA (0.05g) was dissolved in isopropanol (27.4g). The solution was
transferred sequentially brimful into 6 aluminium cans, allowing a solution contact time of

                                              35
60 s per can. The cans were then drained and placed in an oven at 60'C for 2 hours, to
complete priming. fluorosilane A (0.5g) was weighed into a plastic beaker and made up to
50g with MNFBE. The solution was transferred sequentially brimful into 3 primed
aluminium cans, allowing a solution contact time of 30 s per can. These cans were
drained and placed in an oven at 120'C for 15 minutes, to effect curing.
        4B - BMSTPA (0.05g) and fluorosilane A (0.5g) were dissolved in ethanol (27.4g)
in a plastic beaker. The solution was transferred sequentially brimful into 3 cleaned
aluminium cans, allowing a solution contact time of 60 s per can. These cans were drained
and placed in an oven at 120'C for 15 minutes, to effect curing.
        4C - BMSTPA (0.05g) was dissolved in ethanol (27.4g). The solution was
transferred sequentially brimful into 3 aluminium cans, allowing a solution contact time of
5 s per can. The cans were then drained and placed in an oven at 120'C for 15 minutes, to
complete priming. fluorosilane A (0.5g) was dissolved in ethanol (27.4g). The solution
was transferred sequentially brimful into 3 primed aluminium cans, allowing a solution
contact time of 60 s per can. These cans were drained and placed in an oven at 120'C for
 15 minutes, to effect curing and complete the coating.
        4D - fluorosilane A (0.5g) was dissolved in ethanol (27.4g). The solution was
transferred sequentially brimful into 3 cleaned aluminium cans, allowing a solution
contact time of 60 s per can. These cans were drained and placed in an oven at 120'C for
 15 minutes, to effect curing and complete the coating.
Testing
        The deposition test for cans described earlier was carried out.
Results
Table 4
  Sample    Description                                                 %
                                                                        deposition
  4A        HFE72DE cleaned+BTMSPA primed + fluorosilane A                    1
            coated
  4B        HFE72DE cleaned+(fluorosilane A coated+BTMSPA                     7
            crosslinked)
  4C        HFE72DE cleaned+BTMSPA fast primed + fluorosilane                 3
            A coated

                                                36
 4D         HFE72DE cleaned+ fluorosilane A coated                              5
Example 5
Preparation
         10 ml Stainless steel cans were washed with ENFBE as follows. 65 cans were
periodically agitated in ENFBE (2 liters) with a contact time of 1 hour, then drained and
allowed to dry at ambient conditions.
         Priming, where used, was carried out by taking 20 washed cans and contacting
with a solution of BTMSPA (0.1 g) in isopropanol (54.8 g) for 30 s, allowing to drain,
then placing in an oven at 60'C for 1 hour.
         Fluorosilane coating, where used, was carried out by taking 6 cans a filling with
fluorosilane A (0.5 g) in MNFBE (50 g) for 30 s, allowing to drain, then placing in an
oven at 120'C for 15 minutes.
Testing
         6 cans of each test condition were subjected to the Deposition test for cans as
follows:
         5A - washed only
         5B - washed and primed
         5C - washed, primed and coated
         5D - washed and coated
Results
Table 5
                     Sample                                   % deposition
                       5A                                         84
                       5B                                         88
                       5C                                          2
                       5D                                          5
         The results indicate that the effect of coating was improved by a previous priming,
while priming alone was ineffective.

                                                 37
         It is to be understood that the specification is not limited to the embodiments
described above and that various modifications can be made without departing from the
principles or concepts of the specification.
         Actuators and inhalers as claimed in the specification may include any feature
described herein separately or in combination with any other feature(s), if necessary with
appropriate modification of other features, as would be readily apparent to the skilled
person.
Example 6
Coatings were applied to the internal surfaces of PET vials and their effectiveness assessed
by the deposition test referred to earlier.
Method
         BTMSPA, APTMS and APTES were each prepared individually as solutions of
0. lg in ethanol (50 g). Each primer solution was then used to prime 3 PET vials using the
fill and drain technique with 30 seconds contact time and then draining the vials upside
down for 2 minutes then placing upright for 30 minutes to equilibrate then curing at 55'C
for 30 minutes in an oven with a wet lab wipe to boost the moisture level. Each of the 3
samples above was then left to equilibrate with room temperature and humidity for 4 hours
prior to ECC7000 coating.
         Each vial was then fill and drain coated with a solution of Fluorocarbon B (10%
solution) (1.0g) in MNFBE (99g). The vials were left to equilibrate with ambient air for 30
minutes and then cured at 55'C for 30 minutes in an oven with a wet lab wipe to boost the
moisture level.
Results
         The details of any primer and the top coat are given in Table 6 along with the
results of the deposition test.
Table 6
   Sample               Primer             Top coat             % deposition
   designation
   6A                   BTMSPA             Fluorosilane B       0, 0, 0
   6B                   APTMS              Fluorosilane B       21, 28, 25
   6C                   APTES              Fluorosilane B       28, 26, 30
   6D                   none               Fluorosilane B       55, 64, 55

                                               38
   Uncoated PET       none                none                80, 82, 81
   vials
Example 7
         Further examples of coatings applied to the internal surfaces of PET vials were
assessed by the deposition test.
Method
         A top coating solution of Fluorosilane B (10 %w/w) was prepared from
Fluorosilane B (2g) in MNFBE (18g).
         A top coating solution of Fluorosilane C (8%w/w) was prepared from a
Fluorosilane C 20%w/w solution (13.5g) in MNFBE (20.2g).
Priming the PET vials
         PET vials (27) were fill and drain coated in a solution of BTMSPA (0.2g) in
dehydrated ethanol (99.8g). The vials were then placed open end down onto lab wipe for
5 minutes, to drain excess coating solution, before being placed upright to equilibrate with
ambient air (22'C 34% RH) for 30 minutes. The vials were then cured in an oven at 60'C
for 30 minutes.
Top coating of PET vials
         The 27 BTMSPA primed PET vials were separated into 9 sets of 3 vials and were
coated as shown in the table below employing the fill and drain approach with a 30
seconds contact time. All vials were placed open end down for 5 minutes to drain the
coating solution, before being stored open end up for 30 minutes to equilibrate at ambient
temperature and humidity (22'C 34% RH). The vials were then oven cured at 55 0 C for 30
minutes.
         A comparative experiment was performed at the same time in which a primer
solution and top coat solution were mixed together and applied as a single coating.
Another comparative experiment compared top coating without primer coating.
Table 7a
  Sample         Description of top coating solution      % deposition
  designation
  7A             Fluorosilane A 10% solution (0.5g)       19, 19, 22
                 in MNFBE (99.5g)

                                               39
 7B             Fluorosilane A 10% solution (1.0g)       21, 18, 23
                in MNFBE (99.0g)
 7C             Fluorosilane A 10% solution (2.0g)       12, 15, 19
                in MNFBE (98.0g)
 7D             Fluorosilane B 10% solution (0.5g)       0, 0, 0
                in MNFBE (99.5g)
 7E             Fluorosilane B 10% solution (1.0g)       0, 0, 0
                in MNFBE (99.0g)
 7F             Fluorosilane B 10% solution (2.0g)       0, 0, 1
                in MNFBE (98.0g)
 7G             Fluorosilane C 8% solution (0.62g)       1, 2, 2
                in MNFBE (99.4g)
 7H             Fluorosilane C 8% solution (1.25g)       0, 0, 1
                in MNFBE (98.75g)
 71             Fluorosilane C 8% solution (2.5g) in     0, 0, 1
                MNFBE (97.5g)
 Uncoated       none                                     80, 82, 81
 PET vials
Table 7b
 Sample               Description of coating                     % deposition
 designation
 7J                   As for 7F, but as single coat of mixed     53, 57, 58
                      primer and top coat solutions
 7K                   As for 7E, but with no priming coat        59, 62, 58
Results
        The details of top coat for examples are given in Table 7a along with results of the
deposition test, and a comparison where no coating was applied. Table 7b gives some
further comparative tests with alternative coatings and deposition test results.

                                               40
The vials with BTMSPA prime and Fluorosilane A top coat showed acceptably low
deposition. Those with BTMSPA prime and Fluorosilane B or C top coat showed
virtually no deposition at all.
Example 8
         Further examples of coatings applied to the internal surfaces of PET vials were
assessed by the deposition test.
Method
         Each primer (A to E and also BTMSPA) (0. lg) was separately dissolved in
isopropanol (50g).
         PET vials (n=3, for each sample designation) were then fill and drain coated with
each primer solution using a 30 seconds contact time. The vials were then oven cured at
60'C for 30 minutes. The primed vials were then left overnight.
         Fluorosilane B (1.0g) was dissolved in MNFBE (9g) to make a 10%w/w solution.
 10%w/w solution (1.0g) was then dissolved in MNFBE (99g). All vials were fill and drain
coated for 30 seconds and then oven cured for 30 minutes at 60'C.
         Details of the coatings applied and results of the salbutamol sulphate deposition
test are tabulated in Table 8.
Table 8
   Sample                Primer                 Top coat              % deposition
   designation
   8A                    Primer A               Fluorosilane B        1.4, 0.4, 0.7
   8B                    Primer B               Fluorosilane B        56.6, 54.8, 61.8
   8C                    Primer C               Fluorosilane B        0.3, 0.3, 0.4
   8D                    Primer D               Fluorosilane B        0.7, 0.3, 0.3
   8E                    Primer E               Fluorosilane B        2.2, 4.2, 2.4
   8F                    BTMSPA                 Fluorosilane B        0.1, 0.3, 0.3
   8G                    none                   Fluorosilane B        58.4, 50.7, 57.9
Results
        Very low depositions similar to those seen in the previous example were repeated
here when other primers were used, except where the primer had an unsubstituted alkyl
linking group (Primer B).

                                              41
Example 9
        A modified coating process for applying coatings to the internal surfaces of PET
vials was assessed by the deposition test.
Methods
        Priming solution was prepared from BTMSPA (0.2g) dissolved in ethanol and
made up to 99.8g.
        Fluorosilane B 10%w/w solution (1.0g) was added to MNFBE (99g) to prepare a
top coating solution.
The following samples were prepared:
        9A -    PET vials (3) were fill and drain coated in priming solution. The vials were
then placed open end down onto lab wipe for 5 minutes, to drain excess coating solution,
before being placed upright to equilibrate with ambient air (22'C 34% RH) for 30
minutes. The vials were then cured in an oven at 60'C for 30 minutes. Top coating
solution was applied by filling and draining with a 30 seconds contact time. All vials were
placed open end down for 5 minutes to drain the coating solution, before being stored
open end up for 30 minutes to equilibrate at ambient temperature and humidity (22'C 34%
RH). The vials were then oven cured at 60'C for 30 minutes.
        9B -    PET vials (3) were fill and drain coated in priming solution. The vials were
then quickly air-dried. Top coating solution was applied by filling and draining with a 30
seconds contact time. All vials were placed open end down for 5 minutes to drain the
coating solution, before being stored open end up for 30 minutes to equilibrate at ambient
temperature and humidity (22'C 34% RH). The vials were then oven cured at 60'C for 30
minutes.
        9C -    No primer was used. Top coating solution was applied by filling and
draining with a 30 seconds contact time. All vials were placed open end down for 5
minutes to drain the coating solution, before being stored open end up for 30 minutes to
equilibrate at ambient temperature and humidity (22'C 34% RH). The vials were then
oven cured at 60'C for 30 minutes.
Results
Table 9
  Sample        Primer       Top coat                                      % deposition
  designation

                                               42
  9A            BTMSPA       Fluorosilane B      Prime coat heat-cured   0, 1, 0,
  9B            BTMSPA       Fluorosilane B      Prime coat air-dried    2, 1, 1,
  9C            none         Fluorosilane B      No prime coat           51, 46, 53
Details of the primer and top coat used and any method variations are provided in table 9,
along with the results of the deposition test. The prime and top coating may be cured in a
single curing step.
Example 10
        Metering valves as shown in Figs. la and lb were assembled with various
coatings, and inhalers were prepared in which the metering valves were crimped onto cans
containing a suspension formulation in an HFA propellant system. After dispensing the
contents, the deposition levels of a medicament on components of the valves were
assayed.
Methods
Priming of metal springs and tanks
        A priming solution of BTMSPA (0.2g) dissolved in HFE72DE (168g) was
prepared. 120 springs and 120 tanks, which had previously been washed as in Example 2,
were dip coated in the coating solution and then oven cured at 120'C for 30 minutes.
Priming of plastic stems
        80 PBT plastic stems were washed in ENFBE as in Example 2.
        A priming solution of BTMSPA (0.lg) dissolved in dehydrated ethanol (5Og) was
prepared. 80 washed PBT plastic stems were dip coated in the coating solution and then
oven cured at 55 0 C for 30 minutes.
Top coating of primed springs and tanks with Fluorosilane A
        A top coating solution of Fluorosilane A (2.0g) dissolved in HFE72DE (168g) was
prepared. 80 primed tanks and 80 primed springs were dip coated for 30 seconds in the
solution. The components were then oven cured at 120'C for 30 minutes.
Top coating of primed springs and tanks with Fluorosilane B
        A top coating solution of Fluorosilane B (10%) (1.0g) dissolved in MNFBE (84g)
was prepared. 40 primed tanks and 40 primed springs were dip coated for 30 seconds in
the solution. The components were then oven cured at 120'C for 30 minutes.
Top coating of primed plastic stems

                                                43
         A top coating solution of Fluorosilane A (1.0g) dissolved in MNFBE (99g) was
prepared.
         A top coating solution of Fluorosilane B (10%) (1.0g) dissolved in MNFBE (99g)
was prepared.
         40 of the BTMSPA-primed plastic stems were dip coated in each solution above as
specified in Table 1O[BM 16]a. The coated stems were then dried on lab wipe and then
oven cured at 55'C for 30 minutes.
Preparation of test samples
         Valves were constructed as in Table IOB[BMI7]a below. For each valve lot 10A
 1OF, five valves were constructed and tested in inhaler canisters (n=5). The springs and
tanks of the test samples and the controls were coated, while the bottle emptiers were left
uncoated. Use of talc or Magnesium Stearate on the seals (inner tank seal and diaphragm
seal) and/or silicone oil lubrication of the stem and seals sub-assembly during valve
assembly was done to ensure that the valves functioned reliably when sealed onto inhaler
canisters. Nevertheless, controls with and without the seal lubrication and silicone oil
lubrication were performed. The assembled valves were then placed on inhaler canisters
containing medicament suspended in an HFA propellant formulation.
         The inhalers were actuated repeatedly to exhaust the contents through the valves,
then the valves were removed and carefully dismantled. The medicament deposits on the
separate components were assayed by washing them off in a suitable solvent and sampling
to an hplc.
Table 10a
  Valve    Description              Springs          Tanks            Plastic stems
  lot                               Top coating      Top coating      Top coating
  10A      Uncoated stem,           Fluorosilane A   Fluorosilane A   Uncoated
           control with talc and
           silicone oil
  1GB      Uncoated stem,           Fluorosilane A   Fluorosilane A   Uncoated
           control valve without
           talc and silicone oil

                                              44
  10C     Coated stem, test A      Fluorosilane A Fluorosilane A    Fluorosilane A
          stem with talc and
          silicone
  10D     Coated stem, test A      Fluorosilane A Fluorosilane A    Fluorosilane A
          stem with
          Magnesium Stearate
          dusting of seals
  10E     Coated stem, test B      Fluorosilane B   Fluorosilane B  Fluorosilane B
          stem with talc
  10F     Coated stem, test B      Fluorosilane B   Fluorosilane B  Fluorosilane B
          stem with
          Magnesium Stearate
          dusting of seals
Magnesium Stearate dusting was carried out as disclosed in W02012/173971 (Experiment
2 dry coating): about 21 2mg Magnesium stearate per gram of seals was used for the inner
tank seals; about 1 mg Magnesium stearate per gram of seals was used for the diaphragm
seals.
Results
        The levels of deposited medicament on each of the components following
exhaustion of the contents of the inhalers is shown in Table 10b.[BM 18] The average
cumulative deposition for 3 components (spring, tank and plastic stem) is presented
alongside the individual values for the components.
Table 10b
  Valve       Medicament      Medicament          Medicament        Medicament
  lot         deposition      deposition (mg)     deposition (mg)   deposition
              (mg) per        per tank            per plastic stem  (mg) 3
              spring                                                component
                                                                    average
  IGA         157, 122, 121, 93, 123, 102,        139, 185, 145,    410.8
              186, 148        122, 100            155, 156
  1GB         149, 180, 123,  81, 85, 88, 73,     152, 144, 135,    370.8
              145,111         97                  144,147

                                              45
  10C        49,46,41,41,     64,106,104,85,      80,83,58,67,         199.2
             42               79                  51
  1OD        50, 45, 63, 43,  59, 92, 86, 82,     65, 95, 60, 61,      199.0
             55                89                 50
  1OE        24,22,56,18,     37,64,76,41,        77,61,73,75,         151.2
             25               48                  59
  1OF        24, 54, 35, 48,  61, 55, 54, 50,     63, 64, 43, 90,      166.0
             46               58                  85
The 3 component average medicament deposition was improved by coating the plastic
stem relative to both controls (I0A and lOB), as was the medicament deposition on the
plastic stem itself
        Even though the stems and springs were coated using primer and fluorosilane in
both test and control runs, medicament deposition on the spring and tank was still
generally improved by coating the plastic stem.
Example 11
        Valves as shown in Figure 3 were assembled using components that had been
coated. The coated components were made from polybutylene terephthalate (PBT). The
valves were crimped onto cans containing a suspension formulation, and tested for drug
deposition after dispensing the doses.
Components used
        Metering tanks, springs, valve bodies, inner and outer seals, valve stems and
ferrules were gathered for making valves as shown in Fig. 3 with a metering volume of
50gl.
Priming of metering tanks, stems, springs and valve bodies with BTMSPA
        20 metering tanks, stems, springs, valve bodies were immersed with agitation for
30 seconds in a primer solution comprising BTMSPA (0.2g) in dehydrated ethanol (100g).
The components were strained out then air dried and then placed in an air drying oven for
30 minutes at 60'C to cure the priming coating.
Fluorosilane coating
        The primed components were left to cool down and equilibrate with ambient air
overnight.

                                               46
         10 sets of metering tanks, stems, springs, valve bodies were each coated with one
of each of 2 fluorosilanes as follows:
        A top coating solution of Fluorosilane B (10%) (1.0g) dissolved in MNFBE (99g)
was preparedN[BM 19] for use in Example 11B.
        A top coating solution of Fluorosilane C (0.2%) in MNFBE was prepared for use
in Example 1 1C.[BM20]
         The above components sets were placed into individual 250ml glass reagent bottles
and contacted for 3 minutes with occasional agitation with the appropriate fluorosilane
solution. The components were then strained out air dried and then cured at 60'C for 16
hours.
         The coated components were assembled into inhaler valves as shown in Fig. 3.
         Similarly, the uncoated components were also assembled into inhaler valves as
controls.
Product filling
         The coated test valves and control valves were incorporated into metered dose
inhaler and used to deliver a formulation of micronised salbutamol sulphate suspended in
HFA134a. The target dose of the product was 100pg per actuation and the cold filling
technique was employed for the filling process.
Product testing
         Both the coated (Examples 11 B and 1 IC) and the uncoated (Comparative Example
 11 A) valve product lots were actuated through life to shot number 120, after which point
the test inhalers were chilled down, the valves removed and the valve components
disassembled and assayed for salbutamol sulphate residue (n=5 for each valve lot).[BM2 ]
         The assay was done by uv spectrophotometry of quantitative washings from each
component made up to a suitable volume with washing solvent. The assay results are
shown in table 11.
Table 11
  Valve    Treatment of components                  Residual drug deposition (mg)
  lot                                           Tank             Stem            body
  11A      Uncoated and unwashed           0.218 0.161      0.182 0.199     0.129 0.146
           [BM22][DJG23]components                 0.197            0.192          0.144

                                 47
                                    0.211        0.146        0.122
                                    0.262        0.153        0.213
    Average  Std deviation  0.210+0.037  0.174+0.024  0.151+0.036
11B Coated with BTMSPA +     0.163  0.137 0.149 0.166  0.139 0.060
    Fluorosilane B                  0.142        0.136        0.077
                                    0.233        0.173        0.082
                                    0.144        0.146        0.125
    Average  Std deviation  0.164+0.040  0.154+0.015  0.097+0.034
1IC Coated with BTMSPA +     0.070 0.099  0.111  0.151 0.069 0.067
    Fluorosilane C                  0.110        0.163        0.067
                                    0.137        0.110        0.075
                                    0.136        0.137        0.098
    Average  + Std deviation 0.110+0.028  0.134+0.024  0.075+0.013

                                               48
CLAIMS
1.      A method of making a component for a medicinal delivery device, the method
comprising
        a) providing a component of a medicinal delivery device,
        b) providing a primer composition comprising a silane having two or more reactive
silane groups separated by an organic linker group,
        c) providing a coating composition comprising an at least partially fluorinated
compound,
        d) applying the primer composition to at least a portion of the surface of the
component,
        e) applying the coating composition to the portion of the surface of the component
after application of the primer composition.
2.      A method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the silane having two or more reactive
silane groups is of formula
                                X3-m (Rl)mSi -  Q-  Si(R 2 )k X3-k
wherein R1 and R2 are independently selected univalent groups, X is a hydrolysable or
hydroxy group, m and k are independently 0, 1, or 2 and Q is a divalent organic linking
group.
3.      A method as claimed in claim 2, wherein    Q is of formula -   (CH2)i -A
[BM24](CH2)j - wherein A is NR", 0, or S; i and j are independently 0, 1, 2, 3 or 4 and
wherein R" is H or Ci to C4 alkyl.
4.      A method as claimed in any preceding claim, wherein the polyfluoropolyether
silane is of formula
                     RfQIV[Q2w-[IC(R4)2-Si(X)3_,(R )x]y]z
wherein:
        Rf is a polyfluoropolyether moiety;
        Q1 is a trivalent linking group;
        each  Q2 is an independently  selected organic divalent or trivalent linking group;

                                                 49
         each R4 is independently hydrogen or a C 1 _4 alkyl group;
         each X is independently a hydrolysable or hydroxyl group;
         R is a C 1-8 alkyl or phenyl group;
        v and w are independently 0 or 1, x is 0 or 1 or 2; y is 1 or 2; and z is 2, 3, or 4.
5.      A method as claimed in claim 4, wherein the polyfluoropolyether moiety Rf
comprises perfluorinated repeating units selected from the group consisting of -(C.F      2 nO)-,
(CF(Z)O)-, -(CF(Z)C.F 2 n0)-, -(C.F 2nCF(Z)O)-, -(CF 2 CF(Z)O)-, and combinations thereof;
wherein n is an integer from 1 to 6 and Z is a perfluoroalkyl group, an oxygen-containing
perfluoroalkyl group, a perfluoroalkoxy group, or an oxygen-substituted perfluoroalkoxy
group, each of which can be linear, branched, or cyclic, and have 1 to 5 carbon atoms and
up to 4 oxygen atoms when oxygen-containing or oxygen-substituted and wherein for
repeating units including Z the number of carbon atoms in sequence is at most 6.
6.      A method of making a component for a medicinal delivery device, the method
comprising
         a) providing a component of a medicinal delivery device,
        b) providing a coating composition comprising an at least partially fluorinated
compound,
         d) cleaning at least a portion of the surface of the component using a solvent
comprising a hydrofluoroether of formula
                                         CgF2g+1OChH2h+1
                         wherein g is 2, 3, 4, 5, or 6 and h is 1, 2, 3 or 4
         e) applying the coating composition to the portion of the surface of the component
after cleaning with the solvent.
7.      A method as claimed claim 6, wherein the hydrofluoroether is selected from the
group consisting of methyl heptafluoropropylether; ethyl heptafluoropropylether ; methyl
nonafluorobutylether; ethyl nonafluorobutylether and mixtures thereof.

                                               50
8.      A method as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, wherein said surface is a
metal surface, in particular a surface of an aluminium alloy, an iron alloy, or a steel alloy.
9.      A method as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, where said medicinal
delivery device is a metered dose inhaler or a dry powder inhaler.
 10.    A method as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, wherein the component
is a component of a metered dose inhaler and the component is selected from the group
consisting of an actuator, an aerosol container, a ferrule, a valve body, a valve stem and a
compression spring.
 11.    A medicinal delivery device assembled from at least one component made as
claimed in any one of the preceding claims.
 12.    A method as referred in any one of claims 5 to 10, wherein the number of linked
perfluorinated repeating units is in the range 20 to 40.
 13.    A method as claimed in any one of claims I to 5, 9 and 10, wherein said portion of
surface is a polymer surface.
 14.    A method as claimed in claim 13 wherein the component is at least partly made of
said polymer.
 15.    A method as claimed in any one of claims 13 and 14, wherein the silane having
two or more reactive silane groups is of formula
                                X3-m (R)mSi -   Q-  Si(R 2 )k X3-k
wherein R' and R2 are independently selected univalent groups, X is a hydrolysable or
hydroxy group, m and k are independently 0, 1, or 2 and Q is a divalent organic linking
group, comprising a substituted C2 to C12 hydrocarbyl chain and one or more amine
groups.

                                                  51
 16.    A method as claimed in any one of claims 13 to 15, wherein the at least partially
fluorinated compound is polyfluoropolyether silane of the Formula Ta:
                  Rf[Q1 -[C(R) 2 -Si(Y) 3 ,(Ra )x]y]                               Ta
wherein:
        Rf is a monovalent or multivalent polyfluoropolyether moiety;
        Q1 is an organic divalent or trivalent linking group;
        each R is independently hydrogen or a C1-4 alkyl group;
        each Y is independently a hydrolysable group;
        Ria is a Cl-8 alkyl or phenyl group;
        x is 0 or 1 or 2;
        y is 1 or 2; and
        z is 1, 2, 3, or 4.
 17.    A method as claimed in claim 16, wherein the polyfluoropolyether moiety R is
C3F70(CF(CF3)CF20),[BM25]CF(CF3)-, wherein the average value of p is in the range 3
to 50.
 18.    A method as claimed in either claim 16 or claim 17, wherein z=1.
 19.    A method as claimed in any one of claims 16 to 18, wherein y=1.
20.     A method as claimed in any one of claims 16 to 19, wherein   Q1 contains one  or
more functional groups selected from the group consisting of esters, amides, sulfonamides,
carbonyl, carbonates, ureylenes, and carbamates.
21.     A method as claimed in claim 20 wherein Q1 comprises from 2 to 25 linearly
arranged carbon atoms, optionally interrupted by one or more heteroatoms.
22.     A method as claimed in any one of claims 13 to 21, wherein the polymer is a
thermoplastic.

                                                    52
23.      A method as claimed in claim 22, wherein the thermoplastic material is selected
from the group consisting of polyolefines, a polyesters, polyoxymethylene, nylons, and
copolymers comprising acrylonitrile, butadiene and styrene.
24.      A coated component for a medicinal delivery device comprising a component and
a fluorine-containing coating, wherein the fluorine-containing coating comprises two
layers, a first polyfluoropolyether-containing layer comprising polyfluoropolyether silane
entities of the following Formula Ib:
              RJ[Ql-[C(R) 2-Si(O-) 3 _x(R a)x]] z                                 I
which shares at least one covalent bond with a second non-fluorinated layer comprising
entities of the following Formula Ib:
        (-0)3-m-n(X)n (Rl)mSi -   Q-   Si(R 2 )k (X)1(0-)3-k-1                 Ib[BM 261
which in turn shares at least one covalent bond with the component; and wherein:
          Rf is a monovalent or multivalent polyfluoropolyether segment;
          Q1 is an organic divalent or trivalent linking group;
          each R is independently hydrogen or a C1-4 alkyl group;
          R1a is a Cl-8 alkyl or phenyl group;
         k, 1, m and n are independently 0, 1 or 2, but with the priviso that m+n and k+l are
at most 2;
          x is 0 or 1 or 2;
         y is 1 or 2; and
          z is 1, 2, 3, or 4;
          R1 and R2 are independently selected univalent groups, X is a hydrolysable or
hydroxy group, m and k are independently 0, 1, or 2 and Q is a divalent organic linking
group, comprising a substituted C2 to C12 hydrocarbyl chain and one or more amine
groups.
25.      A coated component for a medicinal delivery device as claimed in claim 24,
wherein z= 1.
26.      A coated component for a medicinal delivery device as claimed in either claim 24
or claim 25, wherein y=1.

                                             53
27.     A coated component for a medicinal delivery device as claimed in claim 26,
wherein the entity of Formula Ib shares a covalent bond with a polymer surface of the
component.
28.     A coated component for a medicinal delivery device as claimed in either claim 26
or claim 27, wherein  Q1 includes one or more organic linking groups selected from
C(O)N(R)-(CH2)k-, -S(O)2N(R)-(CH2)k-, -(CH2)k-, -CH20-(CH2)k-, -C(O)S-(CH2)k-,
CH20C(O)N(R)-(CH2)k-,
wherein R is hydrogen or C1-4 alkyl, and k is 2 to about 25, preferably k is 2 to about 15,
more preferably k is 2 to about 10.
29.     A coated component for a medicinal delivery device as claimed in either claim 24
or claim 25, wherein y=2.
30.     A coated component for a medicinal delivery device as claimed in claim 29,
wherein the entity of Formula Ib shares a covalent bond with a metal surface of the
component, in particular a surface of an aluminium alloy, an iron alloy, or a steel alloy.
31. A coated component for a medicinal delivery device as claimed in either claim 29 or
claim 30, wherein  Q1 includes as organic linking group[BM27]:-[BM28]
    - CH20CH2CH(OC(O)NH(CH2)3 -)CH20C(O)NH(CH2)3
               or
- C(O)NHCH2CH[OC(O)NH-]CH20C(O)NH-.
32.     A coated component for a medicinal delivery device as claimed in any one of
claims 24 to 31 wherein the component is a component of a metered dose inhaler.
33.     A coated component as claimed in claim 32, wherein the component is selected
from the group consisting of an actuator, an aerosol container, a ferrule, a valve body, a
valve stem and a compression spring.

                                          54
34.    A medicinal delivery device assembled from at least one coated component as
claimed in any one of claims 24 to 33.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
