Abstract
A method for producing a packaging having the following steps: a) Provision of a blank made of
a foldable material that has a base and side walls articulated thereon, a rear wall and a front
wall, b) Attachment of a relaxed elastic element to the front wall or connecting flaps articulated
on the front wall, wherein the relaxed elastic element comprises an elastic band having free
ends facing away from each other, Erection of the side walls, the rear wall and the front wall
from a flat-lying transport state into a folded-up in-use state and joining of the side walls to the
rear wall and the front wall, d) placing the relaxed elastic band onto the two connecting flaps of
the front panel and the front panel as a strip in a flat transport condition of the blank.

                          2/3
   Figure 5                     Figure 6
28  9        25              28               9
                                                 25
24                              23
          22 21       27e
29                 24           24            24
   Figure 7                             29
             25    26
                           27
                                920
                           26
    9     11
   Figure 8
             28
                24                         22

                                                    1
                        Method and Installation for Producing a Packaging
This application is a divisional application of Australian Application No. 2014350254, the
disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference.           Most of the disclosure of that
application is included herein. However, reference may be made to the specification of that
application as filed to gain further understanding of the invention claimed herein.
The invention relates to a method and an installation for producing a packaging from a blank
made of a foldable material, such as corrugated cardboard, paperboard or cardboard. The blank
can have, for example, a base and two side walls articulated thereon, a rear wall and a front
wall and, where appropriate, two connecting flaps articulated on the rear wall for joining the side
walls to the front wall or the rear wall.
 In DE 10 2004 015 576 Al, a blank of a shelf tray produced from it having an elastic retraction
means is proposed. The blank has a rectangular base on each of the four edges of which side
walls, a rear wall and a front wall are articulated. On the rear wall, two connecting flaps are
provided for joining the rear wall to the side walls. Furthermore, connecting flaps are provided
on the side walls for joining the side walls to the front wall. Two ends of an elastic element are
attached to the front wall in such a way that the ends point toward each other and a loop of the
elastic element lies in the interior of the erected tray. Additional flaps are provided on the front
wall which can be folded up against the front wall so that the ends of the elastic elements lie
between the flaps and the front wall. The elastic element is attached to the front wall after
erection of the tray from the blank, and the flaps are then folded up against the front wall. The
elastic element is then tensioned, and products are filled into the tray so that the elastic element
surrounds them from the rear wall and along the side walls and pulls them in the direction of the
front wall. The purpose of this is to automatically push the products forward within the trays.
 It is also known to provide a slider inside a tray or similar packaging which is drawn in the
direction of the front wall of the tray by means of a closed elastic ring. US 2,937,742 describes
such a slider, which can be drawn in the direction of the front wall by means of an elastic ring
inside the tray that is fastened to the front wall.
The unpublished international patent application PCT/GB2013/051755 describes the creation of a
packaging from a blank. This proposes attaching a strip made of elastic material to the blank or
the packaging in such a way that it serves as a product feed for the products contained in the
packaging. The elastic strip is attached, for example, by adhering the relaxed strip to the side
walls of the partially erected packaging, whereupon the front wall of the packaging is erected and
the connecting flaps are glued to the side walls via the attachment area of the strip. Alternatively, it
is proposed that the elastic strip be connected in a pretensioned state to the two side walls and

                                                       2
the back wall of the flat-lying blank before the packaging is erected. The connection with the rear
wall can, for example, be released when the packaging is opened. In the first alternative, the
tensioning of the elastic strip occurs before the erection of the front wall and the attachment of the
connecting flaps of the front wall with the side walls by sliding a cassette through the opening area
that will later be closed off by the front wall into the packaging and pushing out the elastic strips as
a result. In this state, the front wall can be closed and the packaging filled. The cassette is then
removed so that the elastic strip pushes the products inside the packaging toward the front wall.
In at least an embodiment, the present invention provides a method and an installation with which a
packaging can be produced particularly efficiently and reliably from a blank.
The present invention provides a method for producing a packaging having the following steps:
a)       providing a blank made of a foldable material that has a base and side walls articulated
thereon, a rear wall and a front wall,
b)       attaching a relaxed elastic element to the front wall or connecting flaps articulated on the
front wall, wherein the relaxed elastic element comprises an elastic band having free ends
facing away from each other,
c)       erecting the side walls, the rear wall and the front wall from a flat-lying transport state
into a folded-up in-use state and joining of the side walls to the rear wall and the front wall,
d)       placing the relaxed elastic band onto the two connecting flaps of the front panel and the
front panel as a strip in a flat transport condition of the blank.
Disclosed herein is also a method for producing a packaging having the following steps: a)
provision of a blank made of a foldable material that has a base and side walls articulated thereon, a
rear wall and a front wall, b) attachment of a relaxed elastic element to the front wall or connecting
flaps articulated on the front wall, c) erection of the side walls, the rear wall and the front wall from
a flat-lying transport state into a folded-up in-use state and joining of the side walls to the rear
wall and the front wall, d) tensioning of the elastic element, and e) providing a retention flap that
is attached so as to hinge to the back wall on the edge facing away from the base, the width of
which retention flap is defined by free edges or crease lines or bend lines and is less than the
width of the base between the side walls opposite one another.
According to embodiments of the invention, such a method for producing a packaging
comprises the following steps: Provision of a blank made of a foldable material that has a base
and two side walls articulated thereon, a rear wall and a front wall; subsequent attachment of a
relaxed elastic element to the front wall or to connecting flaps articulated on the front wall;
subsequent erection of the side walls, the rear wall and the front wall from a flat-lying transport
state into a folded-up in-use state; and joining of the side walls to the back wall and the front
wall and subsequent tensioning of the elastic element.

                                                     3
The production of a packaging in this sequence has the advantage that the blank can be
compactly transported and stored in a flat-lying transport state. The elastic element can either
be applied immediately after the production of the blank or just before erection of the
packaging from the blank. In other words, the blank can be transported and stored with or
without the elastic element. It is also possible to furnish an elastic element and with it a feeder
system for the packaging that is variable and individualized. If the tensioning of the elastic
element does not occur until after the erection and connection of the walls, the packaging
already has sufficient stability to help avoid damage during tensioning of the elastic element.
The elastic element is preferably tensioned in the last step of the method so that it stretches at
least approximately parallel to the side walls and the back wall on the inside of the packaging.
This facilitates filling the erected packaging.
The elastic element is preferably locked after tensioning in its tensioned state. It is thereby possible
to temporarily store the ready-to-fill, prepared packaging and/or transport it to a filling station.
The elastic elements can, for example, be locked by a retaining flap being articulated on the rear
wall at the edge facing the base, the elastic element being locked in its tensioned state by being set
between the rear wall and the retaining flap which is folded up against the rear wall after tensioning
of the elastic element. In this arrangement, it is preferred that a locking flap be formed in the base by
notches or cutouts and articulated on one side on the base. Here, the retaining flap is locked in its
position folded up against the back wall by swiveling the locking flap from the plane of the base. The
danger of damaging the elastic element can be minimized by articulating foldover flaps on opposing
edges on the retaining flap, which are folded up against and joined to the retaining flap before
tensioning of the elastic element, particularly before erection of the packaging.
Disclosed herein is also an installation for producing a packaging from a flat-lying blank which has
a base and two side walls articulated thereon, a rear wall and a front wall, as well as two
connecting flaps each on the front wall and the rear wall for connecting the side walls with the
front wall and the rear wall. According to the invention, this installation has at least one station to
erect and attach the side walls, the rear wall and the front wall as well as a second station
downstream of the first for tensioning an elastic element attached with two ends to the blank. In
other words, the elastic element attached to the packaging (or even beforehand to the blank) is
not pretensioned from a relaxed state until all the walls of the packaging are erected. The
arrangement of the stations one after the other causes the elastic element to be tensioned only if
the packaging is already fully erected and the walls of the packaging are connected to one
another. This minimizes the risk of damage to the packaging by the tensile force of the elastic
element and during the tensioning of the elastic element.

                                                      4
The first station for erection of the walls can have, for example, a stamp which has a shape adapted
to the base. The stamp can also have suction elements, for example, so that a blank can be
attached to the stamp. The stamp can then be guided with the blank through an appropriately
configured die so that the walls are swiveled to approximately 900 relative to the base. Alternately, it
is also possible to swivel the walls relative to the base individually using appropriate manipulators.
The first station - where the walls are erected and connected to each other - can be placed
downstream of an additional station for attaching the two ends of a relaxed, strip-shaped
elastic element onto the flat-lying blank. This additional station upstream of the first station
does not necessarily have to be placed in close proximity to the first station. In fact, this
additional, upstream station can be provided at the place where the blank is produced, so that
the blank is already brought to the first station with the elastic element attached to it.
The second station, in which the elastic element is tensioned, preferably has at least two
manipulators that are movable relative to the packaging erected at the first station. These are
preferably each configured to grasp the elastic element away from its end that is fastened to the
blank and to move it along a track that has a directional component parallel to the side walls and
a directional component parallel to the rear wall. For example, each manipulator can have a
panel that is movable so as to be driven in a guided manner within a slotted piece, such as an s
shaped slotted piece. The term "panel" is understood here to mean a flat, wide element that can
be made from metal or some other stiff or flexible material. The grasping of the elastic element
by the manipulators not only includes, for example, grasping the elastic element from two sides
in a pliers-like manner, but also the case where a manipulator comes to lie against the elastic
element only from one side and moves it. The movement of the elastic element in the two
directional components can be a straight-line movement - from an area in the middle of the
front wall, for example, into the two corners between the rear wall and the side walls. As an
alternative to this, the movement can run along a bent or curved path. In this case, it is
especially preferred that the manipulators be arranged so that the elastic element is grasped at
two areas arranged off-center on the front wall and pushed into the corners between the rear
wall and the side walls. The manipulators' gripping point on the elastic element is preferably
dimensioned in such a way that the elastic elements is stretched evenly, without requiring a
relative   movement      between the       elastic element and the         manipulators. This   can    be
accomplished in that the distance between the manipulators at the beginning of the tensioning
process is equal to the distance between the manipulators in the evenly tensioned state.
 It is especially preferred that the second station have a first device for folding a retaining flap
of the blank up against the back wall and the tensioned elastic element as well as a second
device for swiveling a locking flap of the blank relative to the base and the back wall.

                                                      5
Alternatively, the first device and/or the second device can also be provided in one of the
additional stations downstream of the second station.
The second station can be provided with a subsequent filling station for filling the erected packaging
with products. In this case, it is preferred that a further device be provided on the filling station for
swiveling a locking flap of the blank relative to the base, which releases the locking of the retaining
flap with the locking flap. In other words, the elastic element is released immediately after filling of
the packaging so that it first pushes the products toward the front wall via the retaining flap and, after
the removal of some products, slips off of the retaining flap then swiveling toward the front wall and
acts directly on the products. It is especially preferred that the swiveling of the locking flap to release
the retaining flap be done by the products themselves. The other device for swiveling the locking
flap can also be the device that places the products into the packaging.
Both the method and the installation according to embodiments of the invention are based on the
same idea, that a relaxed elastic element should be attached to the blank first. The elastic
element that is, for example, band-shaped can be applied already during the production of the
blank, for example, or can be applied to the blank afterwards, in one of the further processing
steps before filling. In this way, the blank can be set up in an especially variable manner by
attaching the elastic element to a feeder system. If the elastic element is applied in a relaxed state
to the flat-lying blank, the blank and the elastic element can be transported and stored as would a
conventional blank without the elastic element. Since the elastic element is applied to the blank in
its relaxed state, no forces exerted by the elastic element act on the blank during transport and
storage, i.e. before erection of the blank as a packaging, which could cause undesired
deformation or even damage to the blank. In addition, any creeping of the elastic element or a
loosening of the connection between the elastic element and the blank is prevented as much as
possible.
According to a preferred embodiment of the invention, the elastic element is a band of a reversible,
stretchable material which at least partially covers the front wall. Suitable materials include, among
others, rubber or latex. Preferably, the band has two free ends, each of which is attached to one of
the two connecting flaps. The free ends of the band preferably face away from each other so that
the elastic element can be applied to the connecting flaps and the front wall as a straight strip.
To facilitate the removal of products from the packaging produced from the blank, a removal
opening can be created in the front wall and/or the base that the elastic element preferably
covers at least partially. The removal opening can be partially or completely closed off by a
flap which can be torn open and off.

                                                       6
Handling the packaging produced from the blank can be made easier by the elastic element being
lockable in a tensioned state. According to a preferred embodiment of the invention, a retaining
flap is articulated for this purpose on the back wall on the edge facing away from the base. In this
case, it is preferred that the width of the retaining flap, which is limited by free edges or creases or
bending lines, be smaller than the width of the base in the area between the opposing side walls.
In this way, it is possible to fold the retaining flaps up against the rear wall even if a tool holds the
elastic element tensioned against the back wall and, where applicable, the side walls. If the width
of the retaining flap is only slightly less than the width of the base between the side walls, the
elastic element runs almost parallel to the side walls, which is preferred for filling with products.
In order for the elastic element in its tensioned state not to be damaged by the cut edges of
the retaining flap, foldover flaps are articulated on opposite edges of the retaining flap. These
can be folded up against the retaining flap and, where appropriate, attached to it before the
elastic element is tensioned, so that the edges of the retaining flap which face the side walls
are smooth and rounded-off.
The retaining flap can particularly easily be held in its position for tensioning the elastic element if a
locking flap is created in the base of the blank by notches or cutouts and articulated on the base
along one side. This locking flap is preferably offset at its free edge which faces the back wall from
the edge of the base on which the back wall is articulated. Preferably, this free edge of the locking
flap is offset by at least one, in particular by at least two material thicknesses. If,after tensioning the
elastic element and attaching the elastic element by means of the retaining flap, the locking flap is
displaced slightly from the plane of the base, the retaining flap is pushed by the elastic element
against the free edge of the locking flap and fixed in its folded position against the back wall.
To prevent the retaining flap and/or the locking flap from being unintentionally swiveled by the
strength of the elastic element into a position in which the elastic element can relax, a catch can
be provided on the retaining flap and/or on the locking flap. This can be done e.g. through
latching projections on the locking flap and corresponding cutouts on the retaining flap.
The invention also relates to a packaging that is mechanically folded from a blank of the
aforementioned type from a flat-lying transport state to an erected in-use state by a method
according to the invention and/or an installation according to the invention. In this packaging, the
elastic element is attached between the connecting flaps articulated on the front wall and the side
walls. In other words, in the erected packaging, the elastic element extends in some sections
parallel to the side walls because the connecting flaps to which the ends of the elastic element are
preferably fastened are folded up against the side walls. It is especially preferred when the two
free ends of the elastic element are clamped between the connecting flaps and the side walls and
glued together with the connecting flaps and the side walls. The middle section of the elastic

                                                     7
element which is not permanently joined to the connecting flaps or side walls extends, when the
elastic element is in a relaxed state, parallel to the front wall of the packaging. After tensioning of
the elastic element, this middle section of the element that is not permanently joined to the
packaging preferably extends parallel to the side walls on the inside of the packaging up to the
back wall and is fixed parallel to it on the inside by the retaining flap and/or the locking flap.
The packaging can also have a cover with which the area opposite the base is closed off after
the packaging is filled. To do this, the cover can have a top surface opposite the base and
perimeter walls articulated thereon that cover the side walls, the back wall and/or the front
wall, at least in some areas. A tearaway flap delineated by a weakened line can additionally
be provided in the top surface.
The invention is described below in detail using exemplary embodiments and in reference to
the drawing. Shown in the drawing are:
Fig. 1       a blank according to a first embodiment of the invention,
Fig. 2       a packaging erected from the blank according to Fig. 1 with relaxed elastic element,
Fig. 3       the packaging according to Fig. 2 with tensioned elastic element,
Fig. 4       the packaging according to Fig. 2 with tensioned and locked elastic element,
Fig. 5       a station for tensioning the elastic element in a side view,
Fig. 6       the station according to Fig. 5 in a front view,
Fig. 7       the station according to Fig. 5 in a top view,
Fig. 8       the station according to Fig. 5 in a perspective view
Fig. 9       a blank according to a second embodiment of the invention,
Fig. 10      a packaging erected from the blank according to Fig. 9 and
Fig. 11      a blank according to a third embodiment of the invention.
In Fig. 1, a blank 1 is shown in its flat-lying transport state. The blank 1 is supplied with multiple
creases or bending lines 2a, 2b, 2c, 2d, 2e, 2f, 2g, by which a base 3, side walls 4, a front wall
5, a back wall 6, connecting flaps 7 and 8, a retaining flap 9 and foldover flaps 10 are defined.
As is shown in Fig. 1, the base 3 in the illustrated embodiment has a rectangular shape since
the limiting creases or bending lines 2a, 2b, 2c bordering the base 3 run perpendicular to each
other. Articulated in a swiveling manner on the right and left sides of the base 3 in Fig. 1 are
the side walls 4, which are essentially rectangular in shape. The side walls 4 are thus joined
as a single piece with the base 3. In Fig. 1, articulated on the bottom side of the base 3 is the
front wall 5, whose side edges are also defined by creases or bending lines 2d at which the
connecting flaps 7 are articulated on the front wall 5. The front wall 5 with the connecting flaps
7 is thus also connected in one piece with the base 3. On the upper side of the base 3 in Fig.

                                                    8
1, the back wall is articulated at a crease or bending line. The lateral edges of the back wall 6
are in turn defined by creases or bending lines 2e, at which the connecting flaps 8 are
articulated on the back wall 6. The retaining flap 9 is articulated on the upper side of the back
wall 6 in Fig. 1 at a double crease or bending line 2f, which is in turn connected via lateral
creases or bending lines 2g to foldover flaps 10. The back wall 6, the connecting flaps 8, the
retaining flaps 9 and the foldover flaps 10 are thus joined in one piece to the base 3.
The creases or bending lines 2d and 2e, which connect the connecting flaps 7 and 8 with the
front wall 5 and the back wall 6 respectively, are arranged in the illustrated embodiment with
an offset of about one material thickness offset toward the outside in Fig. 1 with respect to the
creases or bending lines 2a, which connect the base 3 with the side walls 4. This has the
effect that, when blank 1 is erected into a packaging, the connecting flaps 7 can be attached
on the outside of the side walls 4 without causing a warping of the packaging.
In the base 3 of the illustrated embodiment, a locking flap 11 is formed in which a recess 12 is
provided in the area of the crease or bending line 2c which connects the base 3 with the back
wall 6 and for this purpose notches 13 running essentially perpendicular are formed in the
base 3. At an additional crease or bending line 2h, the locking flap 11 is connected in a
swiveling manner to the base 3.
In the front wall 5 of the illustrated embodiment, a removal opening 14 is provided which extends
past the crease or bending line 2b that connects the base 3 to the front wall slightly into the area
of the base 3. In the illustrated embodiment, the removal opening 14 is provided in the center of
the front wall 5 so that webs of the front wall 5 extend on both sides of the removal opening 14.
The blank 1 according to the invention is provided with an elastic element 15, which in the
illustrated embodiment is a latex strip or band. The elastic band 15 is essentially the width of the
front wall 5, including the connecting flaps 7, so that the elastic band 15 can be laid on the
connecting flaps 7 and the front wall 5, thus allowing the free ends of the elastic band 5 to rest
close to the free lateral edges of the connecting flaps 7. In the illustrated embodiment, the
elastic band 15 is glued together with the two connection flaps 7, so that a center area of the
elastic band 15, which covers areas of the front wall and the removal opening 14, is attached
only at the two ends and lies loosely on the blank 1.
The erection of a packaging according to the invention from the blank according to Fig. 1 is
explained in detail below. To this end, the side walls 4 as well as the front wall 5 and the rear
wall 6 are first swiveled relative to the base 3 by approximately 900. Then the connecting flaps
7 and 8 are likewise swiveled approximately 900 and attached from the outside to the erected
side walls 4. This can be done effectively by gluing. Alternatively, this can be done by means

                                                    9
of clips, for example. In this way, the lateral ends of the elastic band 15 are clamped between
the connecting flap 7 and the outer side of the side walls 4 and joined with the respective
connecting flap 7 and the respective side wall 4. The elastic band 15 thus extends in some
areas along thee erected side walls 4 and on the inside parallel to the front wall 5 without
being permanently connected to it. This state is illustrated in Fig. 2.
The elastic band 15 can then be tensioned. In this arrangement, it proves to be an advantage
that the packaging is already completely erected and the side walls are connected to the front
wall 5 and the rear wall 6, so that the packaging has adequate stability. As explained in detail
below, the elastic band is tensioned in such a way that it extends on the inside approximately
parallel to the side walls and parallel to the rear wall 6, as shown in Fig. 3. In this state, the
retaining flap 9 can be swiveled inward 1800, so that it clamps the elastic band 15 between
itself and the rear wall 6. The foldover flaps 10 are folded up against the retaining flap 9
beforehand so that the foldover flaps 10 rest against the elastic band 15.
The retaining flap 9 can be locked in this position against the tension of the elastic band 15 by
slightly moving the locking flap 11 upward out of the plane of the base 3. As a result, the free
edge of the locking flap 11 that faces the rear wall 6 pushes at approximately a right angle
against the side of the retaining flap 9 that is at the bottom in Fig. 4 and thereby prevents the
retaining flap 9 from swiveling back toward the front or upward in Fig. 4 due to the restoring
force of the elastic band 15.
 In the state of the packaging shown in Fig. 4, it can be filled. By the filling of the packaging, the
products exert pressure on the locking flap 11 so that it is pushed back into its starting position in
which it extends in a plane with the base 3. The locking of the retaining flap 9 by the locking flap 11
is thus released via the filling operation. The elastic band 15 thus pushes the products contained in
the packaging toward the front wall and the removal opening 14 via the retaining flap 9.
 If individual products are then removed via the removal opening or upward out of the packaging,
the elastic band 15 first presses the products still remaining in the packaging further toward the
front wall 5 via the retaining flap 9. After several products are removed from the packaging, the
retaining flap 9 is swiveled by the restoring force of the elastic band 15 until it extends, for
example, approximately parallel to the base 3. Shortly before this state is reached, the elastic
band 15 slips off of the retaining flap 9 and directly exerts a tensile force in the direction of the
front wall 5 on the products still remaining in the packaging. The elastic band 15 thus surrounds
the products remaining in the packaging on the side and from the back. This prevents products,
for example, slab-like products from falling over in the packaging and becoming harder for the
consumer to recognize or remove through the removal opening 14.

                                                     10
The packaging which is erected from the blank 1 and which is in the form of a tray that is open at the
top is shown in Figs. 2 to 4. After the filling operation, the tray can be closed off by a cover, which
has a top surface opposite the base 3 and perimeter walls articulated thereon. The perimeter walls
can, for example, rest against the side walls 4 and the rear wall 6. Another perimeter wall can be
inserted into the packaging, so that it rests against the front wall on the inside and thereby closes off
the removal opening 14. Alternatively, it is also possible to arrange this additional perimeter wall
resting against the front wall from the outside. Preferably, at least one area of the top surface and/or
the perimeter wall of the cover associated with the front wall is designed to be tear-open or tear-off,
so that the packaging provided with the cover can easily be opened.
The process of tensioning the elastic band 15 and the locking of the elastic band 15 via the
retaining flap 9 and the locking flap 11 is explained in detail below with reference to Figs. 5 to
8. In these figures, a station is illustrated in which packaging erected as illustrated in Fig. 2 is
incorporated and is transformed into the state according to Fig. 4.
To this end, the station 20 has a holder for the packaging that is formed by a base 21, side walls 22
and a rear wall 23. The holder is thus open on the right side in Fig. 5, so that the packaging can be
inserted into the holder. In the illustrated embodiment, four openings are provided in the base 21
through which suction elements 24 can retain the base 3 of the packaging inside the holder.
A plate 25 in which two sliding block guides 26 are provided is arranged above the holder. In the
illustrated embodiment, the sliding block guides 26 are formed as roughly s-shaped openings or
grooves in each of which a panel 27 is movable in a guided manner. The panels 27 can be moved
by a drive (not shown in detail) out of the right-hand position depicted in Fig. 5 with dashed lines
into the left-hand position depicted with solid lines. The two bearings of the panels 27 are also
each represented in Fig. 7 by two dashed and two solid circles in various positions of the panels.
The sliding block guides 26 in the plate 25 are configured in such a way that the panels 27 can
travel through the removal opening 14 in the front wall 5 into the packaging. In this arrangement, the
elastic band 15 comes to lie against the left edge of the respective panel 27 in Fig. 5. The panels 27
thus serve as manipulators that press the elastic band into the corners of the side walls 4 with the
rear wall 6 by moving the panels 27 along the sliding block guide 26 in Fig. 5 toward the left. In this
way, the elastic band 15 is tensioned. The panels 27 are preferably designed to be relatively thin so
that the panels 27 in their left-hand position in Fig. 5 rest as closely as possible against the inside of
the side walls 4 without thereby preventing the retaining flap 9 from folding over.
For this purpose, in the station 20 is provided a bracket 28, the width of which, as shown in Fig.
8, roughly corresponds to that of the retaining tab 9. The bracket 28 can be swiveled out of its
position shown in Fig. 5 by a drive unit (not shown in detail) so that the vertical leg of the bracket

                                                    11
28, which is longer in Fig. 5, touches the retaining flap 9 and folds up against the rear wall 6. In
other words, the bracket 28 in operation brings the retaining flap 9 out of the position shown in
 Fig. 3 and into the position shown in Fig. 4.
 Furthermore, a cylinder unit 29 whose plunger can act on the locking flap 11 of the packaging
through a further opening of the base 21 is provided in the station 20. After the retaining flap 9 is
folded over, the cylinder unit 29 is actuated and swivels the locking flap 11 slightly out of its position
in the plane of the base 3 into the interior of the packaging, so that the free edge of the locking flap
 11 comes into contact with the bottom side of the retaining flap 9. This prevents the retaining flap 9
from being swiveled back by the force of the elastic band 15 if the bracket 28 returns to its starting
position shown in Fig. 5 and the panels 27 are moved back into the right-hand position shown in Fig.
5. The packaging is thus located in a state according to Fig. 4 in which the packaging can be filled.
Deviating from the design of blank 1 and station 20 described above, it is also possible as an
alternative to eliminate the retaining flap 9, the foldover flaps 10 and/or the locking flap 11. In
this case, the elastic band 15 is tensioned as described above by the panels 27 and the
packaging must then be filled as long as the panels 27 hold the elastic band 15 in a tensioned
state. Thus, the elastic band 15 acts directly on the products after the filling operation as soon
as the panels 27 are disengaged from the band 15.
Another station (not shown in the Figures), in which the packaging is erected from the blank 1 and
glued, can be provided upstream of the station 20. This upstream station can be designed as
described,     for   example,    in    the   still  unpublished    international   patent     application
PCT/GB2013/051755.
The elastic band 15 can be applied to the blank 1 in a device provided upstream of the station
20. This can be done, for example, by unwinding elastic band material from a reel, the width of
which roughly corresponds to the distance of the free side edges of the connecting flaps 7, and
applying it to a substrate. This substrate is preferably connected to a suction device so that the
unwound material is held on the substrate. On this substrate, the unwound material can then be
cut into strips with a height that is suitable for feeding the products into the packaging. This cut
strip can then be fed to the blank 1 and glued together with it to the connecting flaps 7.
 Illustrated in Figures 9 and 10 is a second embodiment that is similar to the first embodiment
in terms of basic structure. However, cutouts 30a are however provided on the top side of the
retaining flap 9 as shown in Fig. 9. Corresponding cutouts 30b are also provided on the free
edge of the locking flap 6 [sic] that faces the rear wall 6. As shown in Fig. 10, wherein the
elastic band 15 was omitted for the sake of visual clarity, these cutouts 30a, 30b constitute a
tooth arrangement that in the erected state of the locking flap 11 prevents it from being

                                                 12
pushed out of the position for locking the retaining flap 9 by the force of the elastic band 15. In
other words, the locking flap 11 and the retaining flap 9 engage in each other in order to
secure the elastic element 15 via the retaining tab 9.
A variation of this embodiment is shown in Fig. 11. In this arrangement, the crease or bending
line 2h, at which the locking flap 11 is connected to the base 3, is first given a bent shape. This
increases the restoring force. Moreover, the notches 13 are designed to run diagonally.
Independent of this, the rear wall 6 is designed shorter in comparison to the other embodiments.
Accordingly, the height of the foldover flaps 10 is also smaller. In order to prevent a sharp edge
with the connecting flap 8, the double crease or bending line 2f therefore does not extend over
the entire width of the rear wall 6 and notches run diagonally from the ends of the double crease
or bending line 2f to the respective corners of the connecting flaps 8.

                                                13
List of reference symbols
1        Blank
2a-h     Crease or bending line
3        Base
4        Side wall
5        Front wall
6        Rear wall
7        Connecting flap
8        Connecting flap
9        Retaining flap
10       Foldoverflap
11       Locking flap
12       Recess
13       Notch
14       Removal opening
15       Elastic element (band)
20       Station
21       Base
22       Side wall
23       Rear wall
24       Suction element
25       Plate
26       Sliding block guide
27       Panel (manipulator)
28       Bracket
29       Cylinder unit
30a,b Cutout
In the claims that follow and in the preceding description of the invention, except where the
context requires otherwise due to express language or necessary implication, the word
 'comprise" or variations such as "comprises" or "comprising" is used in an inclusive sense, i.e.
to specify the presence of the stated features but not to preclude the presence or addition of
further features in various embodiments of the invention.
It is to be understood that, if any prior art is referred to herein, such reference does not
constitute an admission that such prior art forms a part of the common general knowledge in the
art, in Australia or any other country.

                                                    14
Claims
1.       A method for producing a packaging having the following steps:
a)       providing a blank made of a foldable material that has a base and side walls articulated
thereon, a rear wall and a front wall,
b)       attaching a relaxed elastic element to the front wall or connecting flaps articulated on the
front wall, wherein the relaxed elastic element comprises an elastic band having free ends
facing away from each other,
c)       erecting the side walls, the rear wall and the front wall from a flat-lying transport state
into a folded-up in-use state and joining of the side walls to the rear wall and the front wall, and
d)       placing the relaxed elastic band onto the two connecting flaps of the front panel and the
front panel as a strip in a flat transport condition of the blank.
2.       The method according to claim 1, further including providing a retention tab that is
attached so as to hinge to the back wall on the edge facing away from the base, the width of
which retention tab is defined by free edges or crease lines or bend lines and is less than the
width of the base between the side walls opposite one another.
3.       The method according to claim 1, further including tensioning the elastic band in such a
way that it extends on the inside of the packaging at least approximately parallel to the side
walls and the rear wall.
4.       The method according to claim 3, further including locking the elastic band in its
tensioned state.
5.       The method according to claim 4, wherein the elastic band is locked in its tensioned
state by being fixed between the rear wall and a retaining flap that is folded up against the rear
wall after the tensioning of the elastic element.
6.       The method according to claim 5, wherein a locking flap is formed in the base by
notches or cutouts and is articulated on one side on the base, the retaining flap being locked in
its position folded up against the rear wall by the locking flap being swiveled out of the plane of
the base.
7.       The method according to claim 5 or 6, wherein foldover flaps are articulated on the
retaining flap at opposite edges, the foldover flaps being folded up against the retaining flap
prior to step d) and joined to it.

                                                 15
8.       The method according to claim 5 or 6, wherein foldover flaps are articulated on the
retaining flap at opposite edges, the foldover flaps being folded up against the retaining flap
prior to step step c) and joined to it.

                                                 1/3
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
              7851601_1 (GHMatters) P102991.AU

                                                 2/3
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
              7851601_1 (GHMatters) P102991.AU

                                                 3/3
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
              7851601_1 (GHMatters) P102991.AU

