Abstract
The invention provides an electronic gaming machine (1) comprising a display (7) for
displaying a game (8) comprising game symbols (10) arranged into an array (11)             of
predetermined game positions (13). An electronic game controller (4) designates at least
one of the predetermined game positions (13) as a special game position (30) in the array
(11) such that a special symbol (32) appearing in the special game position in a play of the
game (8) causes the electronic game controller (4) to award a game enhancing element to
the player. The special game position (30) is visually indicated on the array (11) to the
player during the play by a graphical element (31) associated with the special game
position. A gaming method is also provided.
                                         Figure 3

                               3/10
                        D
                         D
                                                        23
                                                     12c
                          0                     -- 1 2d
12b~~-L                                           2,0
12a-                                             .--- 12e
 13-                                              -10b
 31    -)8
                  -                                  30
10Oa                                                 31
                                                  --- 3
 14                                               -..- --------- 10c
  1Oe -                                       -.-- 31
      LINES         /\A/                   LINE       -11
              Fl -01GAMOVER     - PLAY NOW
                                                        1l0-0 6
            221
                         Fig. 3

                                              -1
                "An electronic gaming machine and gaming method"
Field of the Invention
[0001]     The present invention relates to an electronic gaming machine and in a particular
an electronic gaming machine having a base game and a feature game.              The invention
has been developed primarily for use as an electronic gaming machine and will be
described hereinafter by reference to this application.
Background of the Invention
[0002]     The following discussion of the prior art is intended to present the invention in an
appropriate technical context and allow its advantages to be properly appreciated. Unless
clearly indicated to the contrary, however, reference to any prior art in this specification
should not be construed as an express or implied admission that such art is widely known
or forms part of common general knowledge in the field.
[0003]     Conventional gaming machines typically involve awarding prizes to a player
according to predetermined combinations of game symbols that appear on an array of
game squares displayed on a screen, typically organised into three rows and five columns
(a 5x3 array). Other arrays, such as a 3x3 or 4x3, may be used. Each gaming machine
randomly selects the game symbols that appear on the array, each column of the array
being a "reel".
[0004]     In an electronic gaming machine, the mechanical reels are replaced with video
images of the reels, which are displayed on a video display screen. The electronic gaming
machine has an internal electronic game controller, typically a computer, computational
processor or other central processing unit, that controls the display of images on the video
display screen so that the reels are visibly spun on the screen to simulate a physical reel of
a traditional gaming machine.      Electronic gaming machines are also more versatile in
presenting game information, varying the probabilities for a player to win a prize and
varying the type of game that is played.
[0005]     One type of electronic gaming machine offers multiple sets of reels to permit a
player to play several reels at the same time, depending on the amount that is wagered or
bet by the player. For example, a gaming machine could offer four reel sets each having

                                                 -2
50 pay lines available for selection by the player. By wagering a suitable amount, such as
200 credits, the player can play all 50 pay lines and thus all four reel sets.
[0006]      Bonus or "feature" games may also be provided by an electronic gaming
machine in addition to a base or main game. Typically feature games use the same set of
reels as the main game and are limited to a set of free games operated under a single set
of rules. This means that the feature game is restricted by the same set of rules, and so
there is no variation in the play of the feature game. Consequently, it is difficult to retain
player interest because there is no apparent incentive for the player to continue playing the
same electronic gaming machine once the player becomes familiar with the feature game
and the main game.          Also, it is difficult to retain player interest since there is little
differentiation between gaming machines in terms of the main and feature games that are
played.
[0007]      It is an object of the present invention to overcome or substantially ameliorate
one or more of the disadvantages of prior art, or at least to provide a useful alternative.
[0008]      It is an object of the invention in at least one preferred form to provide an
electronic gaming machine and a gaming method for an electronic gaming machine that
encourages player interest.
Summary of the Invention
[0009]      According to a first aspect of the invention, there is provided an electronic
gaming machine comprising:
            a display for displaying a game, wherein said game comprises game symbols
arranged into an array of predetermined game positions and where predetermined winning
combinations of randomly selected game symbols in said game award prizes to a player,
and
            an electronic game controller for controlling the display of said game symbols on
said display,
            wherein said electronic game controller designates at least one of said
predetermined game positions as a special game position in said array such that a special
symbol appearing in said special game position in a play of said game causes said
electronic game controller to award a game enhancing element to said player, and

                                               -3
            wherein said special game position is visually indicated on said array to said
player during said play by a graphical element associated with said special game position.
[0010]      Unless the context clearly requires otherwise, throughout the description and the
claims, the words "comprise", "comprising", and the like are to be construed in an inclusive
sense as opposed to an exclusive or exhaustive sense; that is to say, in the sense of
"including, but not limited to".
[0011]      Furthermore, as used herein and unless otherwise specified, the use of the
ordinal adjectives "first", "second", "third", etc., to describe a common object, merely
indicate that different instances of like objects are being referred to, and are not intended
to imply that the objects so described must be in a given sequence, either temporally,
spatially, in ranking, or in any other manner.
[0012]      According to a second aspect of the invention, there is provided an electronic
gaming machine comprising:
            a display for displaying a game, wherein said game comprises game symbols
arranged into an array of predetermined game positions and where predetermined winning
combinations of randomly selected game symbols in said game award prizes to a player,
and
            an electronic game controller for controlling the display of said game symbols on
said display,
            wherein said electronic game controller designates at least one of said
predetermined game positions as a special game position in said array, said game
symbols being displayable in said special game position,
            wherein said special game position is visually indicated on said array to said
player during each play of said game by a graphical element associated with said special
game position, and
            wherein a special symbol appearing in said special game position in a play of
said game causes said electronic game controller to award a game enhancing element to
said player.
[0013]      According to another aspect of the invention, there is provided an electronic
gaming machine comprising:
            a display for displaying a game, wherein said game comprises game symbols
arranged into an array of predetermined           game positions in columns and where

                                              -4
predetermined winning combinations of randomly selected game symbols in said game
award prizes to a player, and
            an electronic game controller for controlling the display of said game symbols on
said display,
           wherein said electronic game controller designates at least one of said
predetermined game positions as a fixed special game position in said array, said game
symbols being displayable in said special game position,
           wherein said special game position is visually indicated on said array to said
player during each play of said game by a graphical element associated with said special
game position, and
           wherein a special symbol appearing in said special game position in a play of
said game causes said electronic game controller to designate a column including said
special game position as resultant game positions such that game symbols appearing in
said resultant game positions change into at least one other game symbol.
[0014]     Preferably, said graphical element comprises a graphically enhanced element.
[0015]     Preferably, said graphical element comprises a highlighted boundary of said
special game position.
[0016]     Preferably, said graphical element comprises an animation associated with said
special game position. More preferably, said animation comprises an animation of said
special game position or said boundary.
[0017]     Preferably, said graphical element comprises an animation of said special
symbol appearing in said special game position.
[0018]     Preferably, said graphical element is displayed on said display at all times on
said electronic gaming machine. Alternatively, said graphical element is displayed from
the start of a play of said game until the end of said play. That is, the graphical element is
only displayed once the special game position is designated at the start of said play prior
to the reels being spun, or at least before the reels have displayed any game symbols for
the result of the play of the game and remains in position until the end of said play when all
reels have completed spinning and the associated results of the play of the game are
known to the player.

                                               -5
[0019]     Preferably, said graphical element comprises an         area within    said array
associated with said special game position. More preferably said associated area changes
in response to said special symbol appearing in said special game position.
[0020]     Preferably, said game enhancing element comprises at least one or more of a
predetermined number of free games, a win multiplier, wild multipliers, bonus wilds,
symbols that cause the award of additional free games, trigger symbols to retrigger said at
least two second arrays, held columns, random wild symbols, stacked symbols, bonus
symbols, new game symbols, reveal symbols, progressives, bonus credits, jackpot
symbols, and one or more symbol replacements.
[0021]     Preferably, said game enhancing element comprises the designation of a group
of predetermined game positions on said array as resultant game positions such that game
symbols appearing in said resultant game positions change into at least one other game
symbol. More preferably, said game symbols in said resultant game positions change into
a substitute symbol. In one preferred form, said array comprises rows and columns of
predetermined    game positions and said resultant game positions comprise the
predetermined game positions in the same column as said special game position.
Alternatively or additionally, said resultant game positions comprise the predetermined
game positions in at least one column adjacent to the column containing said special game
position.  In a particularly preferred example of this alternative or additional form, said
resultant game positions comprise the predetermined game positions in each column
adjacent to and on either side of the column containing said special game position.
[0022]     Preferably, said electronic game controller designates a different predetermined
game position as said special game position between two plays of said game.            More
preferably, said two plays are successive plays of said game. In an alternative form, said
two plays are the first and last plays of a predetermined number of plays of said game.
[0023]     Preferably, there is a plurality of special game positions on said array.   More
preferably, said array comprises rows and columns of predetermined game positions and
at least one of said columns comprises only said special game positions. In one preferred
form, said special game positions are respectively associated with different game
enhancing elements.

                                            -6
[0024]     Where said game enhancing element comprises the designation of a group of
predetermined game positions on said array as resultant game positions such that game
symbols appearing in said resultant game positions change into at least one other game
symbol, it is preferred that different groups of predetermined game positions can be
designated as resultant game positions. In one preferred form, there is a plurality of said
special game positions and each of said special game positions are respectively
associated with said different groups. In another preferred form, said at least one of said
special game positions is associated with one of said groups in a base game and is
associated with another of said groups in a feature game.
[0025]     Preferably, the game comprises a base game and a feature game.               More
preferably, at least one special game position is available for play in only said base game,
only said feature game or both said base game and said feature game.
[0026]     Preferably, said base game and said feature game each comprises an array of
rows and columns of said predetermined game positions, and said base game array is
different in size and/or dimensions to said feature game array.        More preferably, said
feature game array is greater in size than said base game array. In one preferred form,
said base game array comprises three rows and five columns and said feature game array
comprises either more than three rows or more than five columns. In a further preferred
form, said feature game array is an extended base game array.
[0027]     More preferably, said    electronic game controller designates a different
predetermined game position as said special game position between a play of said base
game and a play of said feature game.
[0028]     In some embodiments, said electronic game controller further designates as said
resultant game positions the predetermined game positions in at least one column
adjacent to the column containing said special game position.
[0029]     In some embodiments, said electronic game controller designates at least one
additional predetermined game position as a second fixed special game position in said
array, said game symbols being displayable in said second fixed special game position,

                                             -7
           wherein said second special game position is visually indicated on said array to
said player different from the special game position during each play of said game by a
graphical element associated with said second special game position, and
           wherein a special symbol appearing in said second special game position in a
play of said game cause said electronic game controller to designate a column including
the second special game position and adjacent columns to the left and the right of the
column as resultant game positions such that game symbols appearing in said resultant
game positions change into at least one other game symbol.
[0030]     In some embodiments, at least one of said columns comprises only said special
game position and second special game positions.
[0031]     Preferably, a feature game trigger event occurs in said base game to trigger said
feature game. In one preferred form, said feature game trigger event comprises a random
event determined by said electronic game controller at the start of play of said feature
game.     In another preferred form, the feature game trigger event comprises the
appearance of at least one trigger symbol in said base game array. In another alternative,
the feature game trigger event comprises an in-game event during play of the base game.
[0032]     Preferably, said one or more game enhancing elements modify the result of a
play of said game.
[0033]     Preferably, said array (including the base game array and/or the feature game
array) take any one of a circular, triangular, oval, semi-circular, hexagonal, pentagonal,
octagonal, non-rectangular or polygonal shape. In one preferred form, said wheels and
said enhanced wheels arrays take the form of partially shown circular wheels.
[0034]     Preferably, the player selectively starts and/or stops play of said base game
array and/or said feature game array.
[0035]     Preferably, the electronic gaming machine comprises a mobile electronic gaming
device.   More preferably, said mobile electronic gaming device comprises a handheld
electronic device.   In one preferred form, said handheld electronic device comprises a
handheld electronic gaming device or a smart phone. Alternatively, said electronic gaming
machine comprises a computer.          More preferably, said computer is connected to a
communication network.

                                             -8
[0036]     According to a third aspect of the invention, there is provided a gaming method
for an electronic gaming machine comprising a display and an electronic game controller,
comprising:
        controllably displaying game symbols on said display to play a game wherein
predetermined winning combinations of randomly selected game symbols in said game
award prizes to a player;
        arranging said game symbols into an array of predetermined game positions;
        designating said electronic game controller designates at least one of said
predetermined game positions as a special game position in said array;
        associating a graphical element with each said special game position to visually
indicate each said special game position to said player, and
        awarding a game enhancing element in response to the appearance of a special
symbol in said special game position in a play of said game.
[0037]     According to a fourth aspect of the invention, there is provided a gaming method
for an electronic gaming machine comprising a display and an electronic game controller,
comprising:
        controllably displaying game symbols on said display to play a game wherein
predetermined winning combinations of randomly selected game symbols in said game
award prizes to a player;
        arranging said game symbols into an array of predetermined game positions;
        designating said electronic game controller designates at least one of said
predetermined game positions as a special game position in said array, wherein said game
symbols are displayable in said special game position;
        associating a graphical element with each said special game position to visually
indicate each said special game position to said player during each play of said game, and
        awarding a game enhancing element in response to the appearance of a special
symbol in said special game position in a play of said game.
[0038]     Preferably, said associating step further comprises graphically enhancing the
visual appearance of said special game position.
[0039]     Preferably, said associating step further comprises highlighting a boundary of
said special game position.

                                              -9
[0040]     Preferably, said associating step further comprises associating an animation with
said special game position.      More preferably, said associating step further comprises
animating said special game position or said boundary.
[0041]     Preferably, said method further comprises displaying said graphical element on
said display at all times on said electronic gaming machine. Alternatively, said method
further comprises displaying said graphical element from the start of a play of said game
until the end of said play.
[0042]     Preferably, said associating step further comprises changing an area within said
array associated with said special game position in response to said special symbol
appearing in said special game position.
[0043]     Preferably, said awarding step further comprises designating a group of
predetermined game positions on said array as resultant game positions and changing
game symbols appearing in said resultant game positions into at least one other game
symbol. More preferably, said game symbols change into a substitute symbol.
[0044]     Preferably, wherein said designating step comprises designating said special
game position in only a base game, only a feature game or both said base game and said
feature game. More preferably, said base game and said feature game each comprises
an array of rows and columns of said predetermined game positions, and said method
further comprises displaying said base game array in a different size and/or dimensions to
said feature game array. In one preferred form, said feature game array is greater in size
than said base game array. In another preferred form, said base array comprises three
rows and five columns and said feature game array comprises either more than three rows
or more than five columns.
[0045]     Preferably,   said   designating    step   comprises   designating   a  different
predetermined game position as said special game position between two plays of said
game.
[0046]     Preferably, said method further comprises providing a plurality of said special
positions. More preferably, where said awarding step comprises designating a group of
predetermined game positions as resultant game positions, said awarding step further
comprises designating different groups of predetermined game positions as resultant

                                              -10
game positions and respectively associating said special game positions with said different
groups.
[0047]      Preferably, said designating step comprises designating said special game
position in only a base game, only a feature game or both said base game and said
feature game. More preferably, said base game and said feature game each comprises
an array of rows and columns of said predetermined game positions, further comprising
displaying said base game array in a different size and/or dimensions to said feature game
array. In one preferred form, said feature game array is greater in size than said base
game array. In another preferred form, said base array comprises three rows and five
columns and said feature game array comprises either more than three rows or more than
five columns.
[0048]      Preferably,   said    designating   step   comprises   designating    a    different
predetermined game position as said special game position between a play of said base
game and a play of said feature game.
[0049]      Preferably, where said awarding comprises the designation of a group of
predetermined game positions on said array as resultant game positions such that game
symbols appearing in said resultant game positions change into at least one other game
symbol,     said awarding      step further comprises designating       different   groups of
predetermined game positions as resultant game positions and associating at least one of
said special game positions is associated with one of said different groups in said base
game and is associated with another of said different groups in said feature game.
[0050]     The methods of the third and fourth aspects also preferably have the preferred
features of the first and second aspects of the invention stated above, where applicable.
[0051]     According to a fifth aspect of the invention, there is provided a gaming system
comprising a central processing unit configured for communication with an electronic
gaming machine, wherein said gaming system is configured to perform the method of the
third or fourth aspects of the invention on said electronic gaming machine.
[0052]     According to a sixth aspect of the invention, there is provided a computer
programme configured to perform the method of the third or fourth aspects of the
invention.

                                              - 11
[0053]     According to a seventh aspect of the invention, there is provided a non-transitory
carrier medium carrying computer executable code that, when executed on a central
processing unit configured for communication with an electronic gaming machine, causes
the central processing unit to perform the method of the third or fourth aspects of the
invention on said electronic gaming machine.
Brief Description of the Drawings
[0054]     Preferred embodiments of the invention will now be described, by way of
example only, with reference to the accompanying drawings in which:
[0055]     Figure 1 is a perspective view of an electronic gaming machine according to a
first embodiment of the invention;
[0056]     Figure 2 is a schematic drawing of an electronic game controller for the
electronic gaming machine of Figure 1;
[0057]     Figures 3 to 7 are front views of the display of the electronic gaming machine of
Figure 1 illustrating a base game, and
[0058]     Figures 8 to 10 are front views of the display of the electronic gaming machine of
Figure 1 illustrating a feature game.
Preferred Embodiments of the Invention
[0059]     The present invention will now be described with reference to the following
examples which should be considered in all respects as illustrative and non-restrictive.
Referring to Figure 1, an electronic gaming machine 1 according to a first embodiment of
the invention includes a cabinet 2, a console 3 and an internal electronic game controller 4.
The console 3 has various input devices including vending slots 5 for receiving monetary
bets and a plurality of buttons 6 for actuation by a player. The electronic game controller 4
is generally in the form of a central processing unit, such as a computer, and is in
electronic communication with a display 7 in the form of a video display screen, as well as
various input devices on the console 3. It is also appreciated that a person skilled in the
art would readily understand the location and use of the electronic game controller 4 in the
electronic gaming machine 1.

                                             -12
[0060]     The electronic game controller 4 is programmed to provide a game in the form of
a base game 8 (as best shown in Figures 3 to 7) and a feature game 9 (as best shown in
Figures 8 to 10) on the electronic gaming machine 1 for play by a player. The base game
8 has game symbols 10 arranged into an array 11 in the form of five columns or "reels" 12,
as best shown in Figure 3. The reels 12 give the visual appearance of rotating, typically by
having the game symbols 10 move in a downward linear path along the length of each reel
12. While the array 11 is arranged with five reels 12 and three rows, it will be appreciated
by one skilled in the art that other types of arrays could be used, such as 3x3, 4x3, 5x5,
4x4, etc, including arrays having an irregular number of rows and/or columns.
[0061]     The array 11 of the base game 8 defines predetermined game or symbol
positions game position13, in which the game symbols 10 appear. The symbol positions
13 are not visually marked by boundary lines and simply provide an area for the game
symbols 10 to appear.      However, it will be appreciated that in other embodiments, the
symbol positions 13 are defined by visible boundary lines or other markings to define each
respective area of the symbol positions, such as a square or game position.
[0062]     The array 11 is arranged so that a player can select one or more predetermined
"pay lines" 14 defined around the array, which correspond to combinations of the game
positions game position13.      The pay lines 14 correspond to the lines selected by the
player and generally comprise at least one game position 13 from each reel 12. The
number of pay lines 14 that can be selected by the player depends on the amount of the
monetary bet for playing a game on the array 11.         In the base game 8, predetermined
winning combinations of randomly selected game symbols 10 result in the award of prizes
to the player.
[0063]     The game symbols 10 can include a mixture of picture symbols (such as animal
symbols or playing card symbols), word symbols, scatter symbols, substitute or wild card
symbols and trigger symbols to trigger the feature game 9.        Those skilled in the art will
readily understand that a substitute symbol is able to act as any other game symbol, and
hence is also known as a "wild card" symbol. Likewise, those skilled in the art will readily
understand that a scatter symbol is a symbol that triggers a game event or confers an
award without having to appear on a player-selected pay line 14.         Similarly, a trigger
symbol is a symbol that triggers a game event or confers an award, where the trigger
symbol may or may not have to appear in combination and may or may not have to appear
on the same player-selected pay line 14.         In this embodiment, the game symbols 10

                                             -13
include playing card symbols 1Oa, animal-themed symbols 1Ob, item-themed symbols 1Oc,
scatter symbols in the form of "BIG BANG BUCKS" symbols 10d and a substitute or wild
card symbol in the form of "WILD" symbols 10e.           The electronic game controller 4
randomly determines the appearance of the game symbols 10 on the array 11.
[0064]     The video screen 7 also displays other standard game information including the
number of pay lines available 15, the number of player-selected pay lines 16, the amount
of player credits 17, the amount of the current bet wagered by the player 18, the amount of
wins by the player 19, a message area 20, a current denomination button 21 indicating the
currently selected base bet denomination and the name 22 of the brand or type of game
that the base game 8 belongs to, being "Sweet Zone" TM. The video screen 7 displays the
name 23 of the base game 8, "Big Bang Bucks" TM , as best shown in Figures 3 to 7.        In
other embodiments, the video screen 7 displays jackpot information relating to the based
game 8 and feature game 9 that are awarded by the electronic gaming machine 1. This
jackpot information can comprise, in descending order of monetary value, a grand jackpot,
major jackpot, minor jackpot and midi jackpot.
[0065]     The array 11 also has designated special game positions 30 that are each
visually indicated to the player during play of the base game 8 by a graphical element 31.
 In this embodiment, there are six special game positions 30 in the base game 8 that
occupy reels 12b and 12d (typically called reels 2 and 4). The graphical element 31 is
graphically enhanced to ensure that the player can distinguish the special game positions
30 from the other game positions 13 in the array 11 during game play. In this embodiment,
the graphical element 31 takes the form of a highlighted boundary that surrounds each
special game position 30.
[0066]     Each boundary 31 has a distinct colour that distinguishes the special game
positions 30 from the other game positions 13 in the array 11.      Generally, the top and
bottom special game positions 30 of each reel 12b, 12d have a blue boundary 31 and the
middle special game position 30 of each reel 12b, 12d has a red boundary 31.           It is
preferred that adjoining special game positions 30 alternate in colour to assist in
distinguishing the special game positions from each other. Also, each boundary 31 is
animated by having a flashing chaser light move along the boundary during game play to
further highlight the special game positions 30 visually to the player. Thus, the player is
able to discern the special game positions 30 conveniently and without difficulty during

                                             - 14
game play and thus is able to be look out for special symbols appearing in the special
game positions 30.
[0067]     The electronic game controller 4 randomly displays game symbols 10 in the
game positions 13 and the special game positions 30 as indicated by the boundary 31.
Where a special symbol in the form of dynamite symbol 32 appears in one of the special
game positions 30, this causes the electronic game controller 4 to award a game
enhancing element to the player.      In this embodiment, there are two game enhancing
elements that are awarded, depending on whether the dynamite symbol 32 has appeared
in a blue special game position 30 or a red special game position 30.       If the dynamite
symbol 32 appears in one of the blue game positions 30 (i.e. the top or bottom special
game position 30 in either reel 12b or 12d), then the game enhancing element is a change
or transformation of each of the game symbols 10 in all the special game positions 30 to
another game symbol for the reel 12b in which the dynamite symbol 32 has appeared, as
best shown in Figures 4 and 5. If the dynamite symbol 32 appears in one of the red game
positions 30 (i.e. the middle special game position 30 in either reel 12b or 12d), then the
game enhancing element is a selection of a group of "resultant" game positions 40 in
which the game symbols 10 in those resultant game positions change or transform into
another game symbol, as best shown in Figures 6 and 7. As best shown in Figure 7, in
this embodiment the resultant game positions 40 comprise all the special game positions
30 for the reel 12b in which the dynamite symbol 32 appeared and all the game positions
13 in the reels 12a, 12c on either side of the reel 12b. In either game enhancing element,
the game symbol 10 in each special game position 30 or resultant game position 40
changes or transforms into the substitute WILD symbol 10e.
[0068]     The player initially makes a bet using vending slots 5 initiate play of the
electronic gaming machine 1 to build up credit to play the base game 8 on the electronic
gaming machine. For example, the player can bet or wager monetary amounts equivalent
to a particular amount of credits, depending on the bet denomination selected for the base
game. Also, the player can make any additional side bets or ante-bets during play of the
base game once the game has commenced to access additional features in the game,
such as increasing the number of winning combinations in the game.
[0069]     Typically, electronic gaming machines offer a number of preset bet options that
the player can make, and these bet options can vary depending on the game or games
offered on the electronic gaming machine. For example, a game on an electronic gaming

                                             -15
machine may provide bet options of 1 credit, 2 credits, 5 credits and 10 credits per player
selected pay line 14. In another example, the player may bet 1 credit, 2 credits, 5 credits
and 10 credits for a preset group or combination of pay lines 14, such as a group of 5 pay
lines, 10 pay lines, 20 pay lines, etc.
[0070]     Typically, the electronic gaming machine 1 has a default bet denomination,
which is usually the bet denomination that was previously used in the preceding play of the
base game 8. For example, if a person had played the base game 8 with a bet
denomination of 50, then this would be the default bet denomination for the player when he
or she commences play of the game. Where the electronic gaming machine has not yet
been played or has been started up, the default bet denomination is initially selected by the
electronic game controller 4. The default bet denomination can be randomly selected or
chosen according to a predetermined order. Typically, the electronic game controller 4 will
select the bet denomination with the lowest value that is available for the base game 8,
which would be the 10 bet denomination for this embodiment. The player may change the
bet denomination at any time in the base game 8 by touching the denomination button
before or after the reels 12 have spun.
[0071]     The electronic game controller 4 then commences a play of the base game 8 by
causing the reels 12 to appear to visibly rotate or "spin" in a linear path, typically in a
downward vertical direction, and randomly display the game symbols 10 in each game
position 13 (including the special game positions 30) for each play of the array 11 for the
base game 8. After the reels 12 stop spinning (and thus ends the spin or play of the base
game 8), the electronic game controller 4 determines whether there are any predetermined
winning combinations of the game symbols 10 appearing in any player-selected pay lines
14, such as a two of a kind, three of a kind, four of a kind or five of a kind for all the game
symbols 10 and other combinations of a "full house", "straight" or "flush" for the playing
card game symbols 1Oa. It will be appreciated that other winning combinations of game
symbols 10 can also be provided. If so, the gaming machine 1 enters a winning game
state and awards a prize according to the displayed predetermined winning combination.
[0072]     The electronic game controller 4 will also determine whether the special
dynamite symbol 32 has appeared in any of the special game positions 30. It is also noted
that the special game positions 30 are visually indicated or marked by the boundaries 31
for the entire play from when the reels 12 start spinning to when the reels 12 stop spinning
and display game symbols 10.        If the dynamite symbol 32 appears in one of the other

                                            -16
game positions 13, then this does not cause the award of either game enhancing element.
As best shown in Figure 4, the dynamite symbol 32 has appeared in the top blue special
game position 30 of reel 12b, causing the electronic game controller 4 to award the game
enhancing element.      In this case, the game enhancing element comprises changing or
transforming the game symbols 10 (including the dynamite symbol 32) in the resultant
game positions 40 (being the special game positions 30 of reel 12b) into substitute WILD
symbols 10d, as best shown in Figure 5. This transformation of game symbols 10 into
WILD symbols 1Od increases the chances of the player obtaining a winning combination of
game symbols for the player-selected pay lines 14.
[0073]     Likewise, as best shown in Figure 6, the dynamite symbol 32 has appeared in
the middle red special game position 30 of reel 12b, causing the electronic game controller
4 to award the game enhancing element.          In this case, the game enhancing element
comprises changing or transforming the game symbols 10 (including the dynamite symbol
32) in the resultant game positions 40 (being the special game positions 30 of reel 12b and
the game positions 13 of the adjoining reels 12a, 12c on either side of reel 12b) into
substitute WILD symbols 10d, as best shown in Figure 7.         This transformation of game
symbols 10 into WILD symbols 10d significantly increases the chances of the player
obtaining a winning combination of game symbols for the player-selected pay lines 14.
[0074]     The award of the game enhancing elements also occurs where the dynamite
symbol 32 appears in either the blue or red special game positions 30 of the reel 12d with
similar effect. However, the resultant game positions 40 are different for the special game
positions 30 in the reel 12d. The dynamite symbol 32 in the top or bottom blue special
game positions 30 of reel 12d will result in the game symbols 10 in the resultant game
positions 40 (being the special game positions 30 of reel 12d) to change or transform into
WILD symbols 1Oe. The dynamite symbol 32 in the middle red special game position 30 of
reel 12d will result in the game symbols 10 in the resultant game positions 40 (being the
special game positions 30 of reel 12d and game positions 13 of adjoining reels 12c, 12e on
either side) to change or transform into WILD symbols 1Oe.
[0075]     The electronic game controller 4 also determines whether the feature game 9
should be activated, based on a trigger event in the base game 8. In this embodiment, the
trigger event is the appearance of three scatter symbols, being the BIG BANG BUCKS
symbols 1Od. The BIG BANG BUCKS symbols 1Od need not appear on the same pay line
14, but can appear on any of the player-selected pay lines.

                                            -17
[0076]    In response to the trigger event, the electronic game controller 4 causes the
feature game 9 to appear on the video screen 7, as best shown in Figures 8 to 10 where
corresponding features have been given the same reference numerals.                    In this
embodiment, the feature game 9 comprises an array 50 of nine rows and five columns
representing a 9 x 5 array that fills the entire video screen 7, as best shown in Figure 8.
The array 50 appears as an extension of the 5 x 3 base game array 11.         In other words,
when the feature game 9 is triggered, the additional rows rise up from the base game array
11 to create the feature game array 50. Alternatively, the feature game array 50 replaces
the base game array 11.
[0077]    The feature game 9 uses the same game symbols 10 as the base game 8, as
well as the same array 11, reels 12, game positions 13 and player-selectable pay lines 14
on the video screen 7. In the feature game 9, ten free plays or spins of the feature game
are awarded to the player without having to make an additional bet or wager. It will be
understood by those skilled in the art that a free spin involves a play of the game without
requiring any bet to be made by the player, and that any number of free spins can be
chosen for the feature game 9. In addition, it will be appreciated that in the art free spins
are commonly referred to as "free games". The number of free games remaining in the
feature game 9 is indicated by a counter 51.
[0078]    The feature game 9 operates in a similar manner to the base game 8, where the
reels 12 visibly rotate and display randomly selected game symbols 10 in each game
position 13, including the special game positions 30, as best shown in Figure 8.          The
special game positions 30 are visually indicated or marked by their respective boundaries
31 from the start to the end of each play of the feature game 9, the same as in the base
game 8. Predetermined winning combinations of randomly selected game symbols 10 in
the array 50 of the feature game 9 also result in the award of prizes to the player, usually
of an enhanced value compared to the prizes awarded in the base game 8.
[0079]    The special game positions 30 in reels 12b, 12d do not change in the feature
game array 50 in that they do not extend upward with the additional rows but remain the
same as in the base game array 11.        The special game positions 30, special dynamite
symbols 32 and awarding of the game enhancing elements work in the substantially same
manner in the feature game 9 as described in relation to the base game 8. In this case,
the game enhancing elements are applied to all the game positions 13 in the extended
reels 12a to 12e. For example, where a dynamite symbol 32 appears in the middle red

                                             -18
game position 30 of the reel 12b (as best shown in Figure 9), the electronic game
controller 4 selects the group of resultant game positions 40 based on the same criteria of
all the game positions in the reel 12b and all the game positions in the adjoining reels 12a,
12c on either side. This has the effect in the feature game 9 of selecting all the game
positions 13 in each extended reel 12a, 12b, 12c, including the special game positions 30,
as the resultant game positions 40 in which the game symbols 10 change into the
substitute WILD symbol 10e, as best shown in Figure 10.
[0080]     In other preferred forms, the graphical element comprises an area on the array
11, 50 associated with each special game position 30 that changes to indicate the
appearance of the dynamite special symbol 32 in the special game position. For example,
message boxes (not shown) can appear adjacent the array 11, 50 and linked to the special
game positions 30 that are initially blank and then advise the player when the dynamite
special symbol 32 appears in the associated special game position 30. Also, there can be
a common message box for all the special game positions 30 and the message advising
the player which special game position has the dynamite special symbol 32.
[0081]     In another preferred form, special game position 30 may be animated in other
ways other than animating the boundary 31.       For example, the special game position 30
could rotate about the dynamite special symbol 32. Alternatively, the boundary 31 can be
animated differently to having a chaser light move along its perimeter. For example, the
boundary 31 could be animated to show it is electrified to visually highlight and indicate its
presence on the array 11, 50.
[0082]     In yet another preferred form, the dynamite special symbol 32 is animated when
it appears in the special game position 30 to visually indicate its appearance to the player.
For example, the dynamite special symbol 32 may be static in game positions 13 but in the
special game position 30, the fuse of the dynamite special symbol 32 may visually burn
down to the dynamite and then explode to introduce the award of the game enhancing
element.
[0083]     While the embodiments of the invention have been described as using a change
or transformation of game symbols into substitute symbols as the game enhancing
elements, it will be appreciated that other game enhancing elements can be awarded
instead or in conjunction with the transformation game enhancing element. For example,
game enhancing symbols such as "Held Reels", "x10 Multiplier" (applicable to the prize

                                              -19
awarded by the base game for the five of a kind trigger combination and/or to the total
amount of the bet or credits bet per pay line), "10 Free Spins/Games", progressive
symbols, fixed monetary prizes and changing the function of a standard game symbol 1Oa,
10b, 10c into a substitute symbol in addition to any displayed WILD substitute symbols
10e.     Held columns or reels typically involve the column or reel to only display
wild/substitute symbols, thus enhancing the probability of achieving a predetermined
combination. Progressive symbols award a prize is awarded upon a certain number of
progressive symbols are accumulated by the player over a number of games played on the
gaming machine.         Other examples include:
        i)     15 Free Games;
        ii) 10 Free Games;
        iii) 8 Free Games;
        iv) Bonus Prize of 5 x bet (the total amount of the bet or credits bet per pay line);
        v) Bonus Prize of 10 x bet (the total amount of the bet or credits bet per pay line);
        vi) Bonus Prize of 25 x bet (the total amount of the bet or credits bet per pay line);
        vii) Jackpot symbols for awarding monetary jackpots, including progressive
              jackpots, associated with the base game, feature game and/or the electronic
              gaming machine 1 independently of the game being played;
        viii) All royal card symbols change to substitute symbols on reels 2, 3 and 4;
        ix) All picture symbols 1Ob change to wilds on reels 2, 3 and 4, and
        x) All symbols change to wild symbols on reels 1 and 5.
[0084]      These game enhancing symbols do not modify the function or value of the game
symbols 10 that appear on the arrays 11, 50, but instead confer bonus prizes, free games
or change existing game symbols for other game symbols (such as replacing picture, royal
card or symbols belonging to a reel with wild/substitute symbols). Where the function of
game symbols 10 have been changed or the game symbols 10 are replaced, then this
modification can takes effect with the next play of the game instead of applying to the
result of the spun array 11, 50.     In another preferred form, the game enhancing symbols
may indicate the duration in which its game enhancing element is applied, such as a
predetermined number of spins or a predetermined time period.

                                             - 20
[0085]      In other preferred forms, the game enhancing element can be an enhanced
version of the array 11, 50. The enhanced array may provide additional game enhancing
symbols that include the award of points or an additional 5 free spins of the array 11, 50
(i.e. retriggering 5 more free spins). The collection of points awarded by the enhanced
array during free spins or game leads to the trigger of additional prizes or game enhancing
symbols, depending on the number of points that are collected. These additional prizes
can include stand alone progressive jackpots, bonus prizes and super games, which are
enhanced versions of free spins or games where there are greater pay outs or frequency
of wins. In addition, the enhanced array has a different visual representation to the array
11, 50. In addition, the enhanced array may provide game enhancing symbols of greater
value and/or frequency compared to the array 11, 50.
[0086]      Where the game enhancing element comprises the award of a jackpot prize, it
can take the form of a grand progressive jackpot confined to the electronic gaming
machine 1.       However, in another preferred form, the grand progressive jackpot is
configured to be part of a wide area or in-house link progressive jackpot. In other words,
the grand progressive jackpot can be awarded on a group of networked gaming machines
in a specified area or a group of specified electronic gaming machines that are linked
together for jackpot purposes.
[0087]      Although the preferred embodiments of the invention have been described as
awarding two types of game enhancing elements in both the base game 8 and the feature
game 9, it will be appreciated that the special game positions 30 can be configured to
award any number or types of game enhancing elements. For example, the special game
positions 30 may only award only one game enhancing element.             In another example,
each special game position 30 awards its own unique game enhancing element to create
an additional variety in game play. In a further example, the special game positions 30
may award one type of game enhancing element in the base game 8 and then award a
different game enhancing element in the feature game 9.
[0088]      In one preferred form, the resultant game positions 40 are limited to one of the
reels adjacent or adjoining the reel containing the dynamite special symbol 32 in the
special game position 30. The resultant game positions 40 can also exclude the reel
containing the dynamite special symbol 32 in the special game position 30.

                                           - 21
[0089]     Also, while in the embodiment, the same special game position 30 awards the
same group of resultant game positions 40 in the base game 8 and the feature game 9, in
another variation, the resultant game positions 40 vary between the base game 8 and the
feature game 9 for the same special game position 30.
[0090]      Furthermore, the embodiments of the invention have been described as
providing a standard 5 x 3 array for the base game 8 and an enlarged 9 x 5 array for the
feature game 9. However, it will be appreciated that in other embodiments, the size and
shape of the base game array 11 and feature game 50 may vary as desired. For example,
the arrays 11, 50 could take any number of different shapes, such as triangular, circular,
square, hexagonal, hemi-spherical or other polygonal shapes.       For example, the base
game array 11 could comprise a circular array having three rings (equivalent to rows) like a
bullseye target segmented into five columns.     The feature game array 50 would then
expand into additional rings surrounding the initial rings of the base game array 11.
Alternatively, the arrays 11, 50 could have an uneven number of rows or columns.          For
example, the reels 12a, 12b could have three rows, but the reels 12c to 12e could have
four rows.
[0091]     While the preferred embodiment of the invention has been described in relation
to both a base game 8 and a feature game 9, those skilled in the art will appreciate that the
use of special game positions 30, special symbols 32 and awarding game enhancing
elements can readily be applied to the base game alone or a feature game alone.
[0092]     In a further embodiment, the location of the special game positions 30 change
between the base game 8 and the feature game 9. For example, the special game
positions 30 can be located in reels 12a and 12c in the base game 8, and then move to
reels 12b and 12d in the feature game 9. Also, the special game positions 30 may change
between plays of the game (either the base game 8 or the feature game 9). This can be
either successively or after a predetermined number of plays in one location, the special
game position 30 moves to another location on the array 11, 50.
[0093]     Another preferred form involves scattering the location of the special game
positions 30 in the array 11, 50 instead of being grouped together in a particular reel 12.
For example, instead of having special game positions 30 in reels 12b, 12d, the six special
game positions 30 can be placed so that there is at least one special game position in
each reel 12a to 12e of the array 11, 50. In yet another preferred form, additional special

                                              - 22
game positions 30 are provided in the feature game array 50. For example, another set of
special game positions 30 can be located in reel 12c in addition to reels 12b, 12d in the
feature game array 50.
[0094]     In yet another preferred form, the boundaries 31 may only appear on their
respective special game positions 30 once a play of the base game 8 commences and
remain on display until the end of that play.          Alternatively, the boundaries 31 are
permanently displayed on their respective special game positions 30 at all times on the
video screen 7.
[0095]     Also, in a further preferred form, the player can selectively stop spinning of the
reels 12, either individually or collectively, to increase player interaction and provide the
player with an opportunity to guess when a dynamite special symbol 32 may appear in one
of the special game positions 30. Furthermore, the player can start spinning of the reels
12 to further enhance player interaction.
[0096]     In other preferred forms, the base game 8 and feature game 9 (and their
corresponding arrays 11, 50) need not be displayed on a single video screen 7. Instead,
they may be displayed on separate video screens, with the base game 8 and its array 11
appearing in a lower video screen and the feature game 9 and its array 50 appearing on
both the lower video screen and an upper video screen.
[0097]     In another preferred form, the video screen 7 is a touch screen for use in
addition to the player-actuatable buttons 5 so as to enable the player to select various
features, such as making monetary bets for the base game, initiating play of the base and
feature games played on the arrays 11, 50 and responding to any messages or requests
issued on the electronic gaming machine 1 by the electronic game controller 4. In this
case, the player may control when the reels 12 start spinning and stop spinning by simply
touching the reels 12.
[0098]     In other preferred forms, the jackpot prize can be shared with any other games
offered on the electronic gaming machine (as in multi-game gaming machines) or games
offered on separate electronic gaming machines. In one preferred form, the jackpot prize
comprises a mystery jackpot. That is, none of the symbols in the game trigger the jackpot;
hence the triggering event is a "mystery". By way of comparison, a standard jackpot is

                                                - 23
typically symbol driven in that a particular combination of symbols must occur in the game
to trigger the standard jackpot.
[0099]      It will be appreciated that while the preferred embodiments have been described
in relation to an industry standard electronic gaming machine, the invention can be readily
applied to other types of electronic gaming machines, including a personal computer
(standing alone or connected to a communications network, LAN or WAN), mobile
electronic devices (such as handheld or portable electronic devices like smart phones) and
other electronic devices capable of displaying a game. In the case of a mobile electronic
device, in one arrangement it may permit the player to make bets using "virtual" credits
that represent a monetary value, but do not require the player to make a monetary
transaction. Instead, the invention may provide a tiered access to the various features of
the game so that the player can make relatively small payments to access particular
features of the game or obtain additional benefits during game play.           An alternative
arrangement would require the player to purchase virtual credits or tokens via an interface
on the mobile electronic device or an online interface accessible by the mobile electronic
device. Similarly, either of the above described arrangements can be applied where the
invention is implemented on a personal computer (PC) connected to the internet
(wirelessly or not). In one example of the implementation, the PC would access an online
casino over the internet to play the game of the invention or the game of the invention
would be part of a social networking website. It is also contemplated that the player could
also make regular payments to subscribe to continue playing the game on the mobile
electronic device, PC or other electronic device.
[0100]      In an alternative embodiment, the electronic gaming machine also provides an
option for the player to play with either credits based on a monetary amount or virtual
credits as discussed above. This can be implemented by way of a selection menu prior to
playing the selected game or by providing a suitable menu button on screen during play of
the selected game.
[0101]      In another aspect, the invention includes a computer programme configured to
perform the invention. In this way the invention can be implemented in various ways on an
electronic gaming machine. In a further aspect, the invention includes a gaming system
configured comprising a central processing unit (such as a computer or computational
processor) configured for communication with an electronic gaming machine to perform
the invention. In a yet another aspect, the invention includes a non-transitory carrier

                                                - 24
medium carrying computer executable code that, when executed on a central processing
unit configured for communication with an electronic gaming machine, causes said central
processing unit to perform the invention. In this case, the non-transitory carrier medium
includes an external hard drive, a memory device, including a memory card, smart card, a
radio frequency identification (RFID) device, USB key, magnetic card or other electronic
storage device.
[0102]      It will further be appreciated that any of the features in the preferred
embodiments of the invention can be combined together and are not necessarily applied in
isolation from each other. For example, the feature of the player being able to selectively
starting or stopping spinning of the reels 12 and the feature of scattering the location of the
special game positions 30 can be combined into a single electronic gaming machine.
Similar combinations of two or more features from the above described embodiments or
preferred forms of the invention can be readily made by one skilled in the art.
[0103]      By providing a special game position that can award game enhancing elements
and which are visually indicated to the player during game play, the player's interest in the
electronic gaming machine is increased as there is more chance of obtaining a winning
combination, winning additional prizes or increasing the value of existing prizes. Thus, the
invention retains the player interest and so the player is likely to continue playing the same
electronic gaming machine. The player's anticipation and excitement is also heightened
as he or she knows that a game enhancing element will be awarded upon the appearance
of a special symbol in the special game position, and hence will pay more attention to the
visually indicated special game position in the (base and/or feature) game. The invention
also adds greater value to a player in terms of the probability of winning a prize and
providing greater variety in game play, especially compared to a conventional electronic
gaming machine that only has one set of reels and a single feature game. This value to
the player is increased in the preferred embodiments of the invention by extending play of
the special game position to the feature game in addition to the base game. All these
advantages of the invention result in the player being more likely to retain interest in
continuing to play the same electronic gaming machine due to the variation in game play
on the electronic gaming machine. Furthermore, since the electronic game controller
controls operation of the electronic gaming machine, the invention can be readily
implemented to existing gaming machines and other gaming systems. In all these
respects, the invention represents a practical and commercially significant improvement
over the prior art.

                                               - 25
[0104]      Although the invention has been described with reference to specific examples, it
will be appreciated by those skilled in the art that the invention may be embodied in many
other forms.
[0105]      This application is a divisional application of Australian Patent Application
Number 2014204417, whose specification as filed is hereby incorporated by reference in
its entirety.

                                            - 26
Claims
1.         An electronic gaming machine comprising:
           a display for displaying a game, wherein said game comprises game symbols
arranged into an array of predetermined          game positions in columns and where
predetermined winning combinations of randomly selected game symbols in said game
award prizes to a player, and
           an electronic game controller for controlling the display of said game symbols on
said display,
           wherein additional game positions are added to said array in response to a
trigger event, said additional game positions being added to increase the number of game
position in said columns,
           wherein said electronic game controller designates at least one of said
predetermined game positions as a fixed special game position in said array, said game
symbols being displayable in said special game position,
           wherein said special game position is visually indicated on said array to said
player during each play of said game by a graphical element associated with said special
game position, and
           wherein a special symbol appearing in said special game position in a play of
said game causes said electronic game controller to designate a column including said
special game position as resultant game positions such that game symbols appearing in
said resultant game positions change into at least one other game symbol.
2.         The electronic gaming machine of claim 1, wherein said graphical element
comprises a graphically enhanced element.
3.         The electronic gaming machine of claim 1 or 2, wherein said graphical element
comprises a highlighted boundary of said special game position.
4.         The electronic gaming machine of any one of the preceding claims, wherein said
graphical element comprises an animation associated with said special game position.
5.         The electronic gaming machine of claim 4, wherein said animation comprises an
animation of said special game position or said boundary.

                                           - 27
6.        The electronic gaming machine of any one of the preceding claims, wherein said
graphical element comprises an animation of said special symbol appearing in said special
game position.
7.        The electronic gaming machine of any one of the preceding claims, wherein said
graphical element is displayed on said display at all times on said electronic gaming
machine.
8.        The electronic gaming machine of any one of claims 1 to 6, wherein said
graphical element is displayed from the start of a play of said game until the end of said
play.
9.        The electronic gaming machine of any one of the preceding claims, wherein said
graphical element comprises an area within said array associated with said special game
position.
10.       The electronic gaming machine of claim 9, wherein said associated area
changes in response to said special symbol appearing in said special game position.
11.       The electronic gaming machine of any one of the preceding claims, wherein said
electronic game controller further designates as said resultant game positions the
predetermined game positions in at least one column adjacent to the column containing
said special game position.
12.       The electronic gaming machine of any one of claims 1 to 10, wherein said
electronic game controller designates at least one additional predetermined game position
as a second fixed special game position in said array, said game symbols being
displayable in said second fixed special game position,
           wherein said second special game position is visually indicated on said array to
said player different from the special game position during each play of said game by a
graphical element associated with said second special game position, and
           wherein a special symbol appearing in said second special game position in a
play of said game cause said electronic game controller to designate a column including
the second special game position and adjacent columns to the left and the right of the
column as resultant game positions such that game symbols appearing in said resultant
game positions change into at least one other game symbol.

                                              - 28
13.        The electronic gaming machine of claim 12, wherein at least one of said columns
comprises only said special game position and second special game positions.
14.        The electronic gaming machine of any one of the preceding claims, wherein said
game symbols in said resultant game positions change into a substitute symbol.
15.        The electronic gaming machine of any one of the preceding claims, wherein
there is a plurality of said special game positions on said array.
16.        The electronic gaming machine of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the
game comprises a base game and a feature game, said trigger event occurring in said
base game to activate said feature game.
17.        The electronic gaming machine of claim 16, wherein said special game position
is available for play in only said base game.
18.        The electronic gaming machine of claim 16, wherein said special game position
is available for play in only said feature game.
19.        The electronic gaming machine of any one of claims 16 to 18, wherein said base
game and said feature game each comprises an array of rows and columns of said
predetermined game positions, and wherein said feature game array is greater in size than
said base game array.
20.        The electronic gaming machine of claim 19, wherein said base game array
comprises three rows and five columns and said feature game array comprises either
more than three rows or more than five columns.

                                     <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                                    1
                     3
                         5       7
Fig. 1       6
         6
                                                          1/10
         6
                 5
                             2

                         <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
         6   5
                     3
                          7
Fig. 2                                        2/10
                 4

<removed-date>
                                                3/10
<removed-apn>
                                                                              23
                                                                             7
                                                                             12c
                                                                             12d
              12b                                                            30
              12a                                                             12e
                                                                        10b
              13                                                      13
                    100                                           100 31 8
                    LINES                                         LINES
              31
                                                                             30
              10a
                                                                             31
              10e
              30
                                                                              30
              14                                                              10c
              10e                                                            31
                    LINES                                         LINES       11
              30    SELECTED                                      SELECTED
                                                                              16
                    100                GAME OVER - PLAY NOW       100
                                                                             20
              22
                                    CREDIT      BET      WIN
                                     13,306     100        0                 21
                                    $133.06    $1.00     $0.00   1c
                                               18
                               17                         19
                                          Fig. 3

<removed-date>
                                               4/10
<removed-apn>
                                                                                  23
                                                                                 7
                                                                                 12c
                                                                                 12d
              12b
              31
                                                                                  12e
              12a
                                                                                  11
              15    100                                               100
                    LINES                                             LINES            8
              13
              10a                                                                  31
              32                                                                  10b
              30                                                                  10c
               14                                                                 10a
              31
              10d                                                                13
                    LINES                                             LINES
                                                                                  31
               16   SELECTED                                          SELECTED
                     100                 1 Credit Per Line             100        30
                                                                                  20
               22               CREDIT         BET           WIN
                                 9,850         100            0                   21
                                $98.50        $1.00          $0.00   1c
                               17                   18         19
                                         Fig. 4

<removed-date>
                                                5/10
<removed-apn>
                                                                                    23
                                                                                   12c
                                                                                   12d
              12b
                                                                                     7
                                                                                   12e
              12a
                                                                                   30
                    100                                                 100               8
                    LINES                                               LINES
              30
              11                                                                     31
              10e                                                                  10c
              31                                                                   10b
              10e                                                                  31
                                                                                    10a
              31
                                                                                    13
              10d   LINES
                    SELECTED
                                                                        LINES
                                                                        SELECTED
                                                                                     31
              10e    100       Press Rules Button to view Game Rules     100         30
                                                                                   20
               22                CREDIT         BET         WIN
                                  9,850         100          50                    21
                                 $98.50        $1.00        $0.50      1c
                               17                   18        19
                                          Fig. 5

<removed-date>
                                               6/10
<removed-apn>
                                                                                  23
                                                                                      7
                                                                                  12c
                                                                                  12d
                                                                                  12e
              12b
              12a                                                                 15
                    100                                               100
                    LINES                                             LINES
                                                                                  31
              31                                                                  31
              30
                                                                                  31
              32
              10d                                                                 11
                    LINES                                             LINES
                    SELECTED                                          SELECTED    16
                     100                 1 Credit Per Line             100
                                                                                 20
              22                CREDIT         BET           WIN
                                 9,700         100            0                  21
                                $97.00        $1.00          $0.00   1c
                               17                   18         19
                                         Fig. 6

<removed-date>
                                                   7/10
<removed-apn>
                                                                                     23
                                                                                          7
                                                                                      12c
               12b                                                                        12d
               12a                                                                        12e
                                                                                     11
                        100                                               100
               10e      LINES                                             LINES           8
              40
                                                                                          40
              40
                                                                                      40
               10d
               31       LINES                                             LINES       16
                        SELECTED                                          SELECTED
                         100                 1 Credit Per Line             100
               30
                                                                                     20
                   22               CREDIT         BET           WIN
                                     9,700         100            333                21
                                    $97.00        $1.00          $3.33   1c
                                   17                   18         19
                                             Fig. 7

<removed-date>
                                                        8/10
                       12a            12b                      12c            12d   12e
                                                                                                15
                    100                                                              100
                    LINES                                                            LINES
<removed-apn>
                                                                                                 7
                                                                                                     9
              13
              10a
              10c
               13                                                                               50
                                                                                                31
                                                                                                30
              31                                                                                31
              30                                                                                30
                                                                                                31
              10d
                    LINES
                    SELECTED
                                                                                     LINES
                                                                                     SELECTED
                                                                                                10a
                    100                          1 Credit Per Line                   100         30
               30                                                                                16
                             GA        CREDIT          BET           WIN                         20
                         E Emaini M     13,206         100           3,003
                    FR    e     ES
              51    R           ng
                                       $132.06        $1.00          $30.03         1c          21
                                 17                            18        19
                                                 Fig. 8

<removed-date>
                                                         9/10
                       12a              12b                  12c              12d   12e
                                                                                                15
                    100                                                              100
                    LINES                                                            LINES
<removed-apn>
                                                                                                 7
                                                                                                     9
              13
              10a
              10c
               13                                                                               50
                                                                                                31
                                                                                                30
               31
              32                                                                                31
              30                                                                                30
                                                                                                31
              10d
                    LINES
                    SELECTED
                                                                                     LINES
                                                                                     SELECTED
                                                                                                10a
                    100                           1 Credit Per Line                  100         30
                                                                                                 16
                             GA          CREDIT         BET           WIN                        20
                         E Emaini M       9,933         100            810
                    FR    e        ES
              51    R
                               4   ng
                                         $99.33        $1.00          $8.10         1c          21
                                   17                          18         19
                                                  Fig. 9

<removed-date>
                                                       10/10
                        12a              12b                    12c           12d   12e
                                                                                                15
                     100                                                             100
                     LINES                                                           LINES
               40
<removed-apn>
               40                                                                               40
               40                                                                               40
                                                                                                40
                                                                                                 7
              10e
                                                                                                50
              31
                                                                                                31
                31
                                                                                                31
                31                                                                              31
               10d
                     LINES                                                           LINES
                     SELECTED                                                        SELECTED
                     100                 Press Rules Button to view Game Rules       100
                                                                                                16
                              GA          CREDIT         BET          WIN                       20
                          E Emaini M       9,933         100           810
                     FR    e        ES
               51    R
                                3   ng
                                          $99.33        $1.00         $8.10         1c          21
                                    17                          18        19
                                                   Fig. 10

