                                       ABSTRACT
The present invention provides methods for the prevention, control, disruption and treatment
of bacterial biofilms with lysin, particularly lysin having capability to kill Staphlococcal
bacteria, including drug resistant Staphylococcus aureus, particularly the lysin PlySs2. The
invention also provides compositions and methods for use in treatment or modulation of
bacterial biofilm(s) and biofilm formation.

         BIOFILM PREVENTION, DISRUPTION AND TREATMENT WITH
                                  BACTERIOPHAGE LYSIN
                               FIELD OF THE INVENTION
[0001] The present invention relates generally to prevention, control, disruption and
treatment of bacterial biofilms with lysin, particularly lysin having capability to kill
Staphylococcal bacteria, including drug resistant Staphylococcus aureus, particularly the
lysin PlySs2. The invention also relates to compositions and methods for modulation of
bacterial biofilm(s) and biofilm formation.
                         BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
[0002] The development of drug resistant bacteria is a major problem in medicine as more
antibiotics are used for a wide variety of illnesses and other conditions.   The use of more
antibiotics and the number of bacteria showing resistance has prompted longer treatment
times. Furthermore, broad, non-specific antibiotics, some of which have detrimental
effects on the patient, are now being used more frequently. A related problem with this
increased use is that many antibiotics do not penetrate mucus linings easily.
[0003] Gram-positive bacteria are surrounded by a cell wall containing polypeptides and
polysaccharide.      Gram-positive bacteria include but are not limited to the genera
Actinomyces,      Bacillus,     Listeria,   Lactococcus,   Staphylococcus,     Streptococcus,
Enterococcus, Mycobacterium, Corynebacterium, and Clostridium. Medically relevant
species include Streptococcus pyogenes, Streptococcus pneumoniae, Staphylococcus
aureus, and Enterococcus faecalis. Bacillus species, which are spore-forming, cause
anthrax and gastroenteritis. Spore-forming Clostridium species are responsible             for
botulism, tetanus, gas gangrene and pseudomembranous colitis. Corynebacteriumspecies
cause diphtheria, and Listeria species cause meningitis.
[0004] Novel      antimicrobial    therapy   approaches  include  enzyme-based     antibiotics
("enzybiotics") such as bacteriophage lysins. Phages use these lysins to digest the cell wall
of their bacterial hosts, releasing viral progeny through hypotonic lysis. A similar outcome
results when purified, recombinant lysins are added externally to Gram-positive bacteria.
                                                 1

The high lethal activity of lysins against gram-positive pathogens makes them attractive
candidates for development as therapeutics (Fischetti, V.A. (2008) Curr Opinion Microbiol
11:393-400; Nelson, D.L. et al (2001) Proc Natl Acad Sci USA 98:4107-4112).
Bacteriophage lysins were initially proposed for eradicating the nasopharyngeal carriage of
pathogenic streptococci (Loeffler, J. M. et al (2001) Science 294: 2170-2172; Nelson, D. et
al (2001) Proc Natl Acad Sci USA 98:4107-4112). Lysins are part of the lytic mechanism
used by double stranded DNA (dsDNA) phage to coordinate host lysis with completion of
viral assembly (Wang, I. N. et al (2000) Annu Rev Microbiol 54:799-825). Lysins are
peptidoglycan hydrolases that break bonds in the bacterial wall, rapidly hydrolyzing
covalent bonds      essential for peptidoglycan    integrity, causing bacterial    lysis and
concomitant progeny phage release.
[0005] Lysin family members exhibit a modular design in which a catalytic domain is
fused to a specificity or binding domain (Lopez, R. et al (1997) Microb Drug Resist 3:199
211). Lysins can be cloned from viral prophage sequences within bacterial genomes and
used for treatment (Beres, S.B. et al (2007) PLoS ONE 2(8):1-14). When added externally,
lysins are able to access the bonds of a Gram-positive cell wall (Fischetti, V.A. (2008)
Curr Opinion Microbiol 11:393-400). Bacteriophage lytic enzymes have been established
as useful in the assessment and specific treatment of various types of infection in subjects
through various routes of administration. For example, U.S. Patent 5,604,109 (Fischetti et
al.) relates to the rapid detection of Group A streptococci in clinical specimens, through
the enzymatic digestion by a semi-purified Group C streptococcal phage associated lysin
enzyme. This enzyme work became the basis of additional research, leading to methods of
treating diseases. Fischetti and Loomis patents (U.S. Patents 5,985,271, 6,017,528 and
6,056,955) disclose the use of a lysin enzyme produced by group C streptococcal bacteria
infected with a Cl bacteriophage. U.S. Patent 6,248,324 (Fischetti and Loomis) discloses
a composition for dermatological infections by the use of a lytic enzyme in a carrier
suitable for topical application to dermal tissues. U.S. Patent 6,254,866 (Fischetti and
Loomis) discloses a method for treatment of bacterial infections of the digestive tract
which comprises administering a lytic enzyme specific for the infecting bacteria. The
carrier for delivering at least one lytic enzyme to the digestive tract is selected from the
group consisting of suppository enemas, syrups, or enteric coated pills. U.S. Patent
6,264,945 (Fischetti and Loomis) discloses a method and composition for the treatment of
                                               2

bacterial infections by the parenteral introduction (intramuscularly, subcutaneously, or
intravenously) of at least one lytic enzyme produced by a bacteria infected with a
bacteriophage specific for that bacteria and an appropriate carrier for delivering the lytic
enzyme into a patient.
[0006] Phage associated lytic enzymes have been identified and cloned from various
bacteriophages, each shown to be effective in killing specific bacterial strains. U.S. Patent
7,402,309, 7,638,600 and published PCT Application W02008/018854 provides distinct
phage-associated lytic enzymes useful as antibacterial agents for treatment or reduction of
Bacillus anthracis infections.      U.S. Patent 7,569,223 describes lytic enzymes for
Streptococcus pneumoniae. Lysin useful for Enterococcus (E.faecalis and E. faecium,
including vancomycin resistant strains) are described in U.S. Patent 7,582291.            US
2008/0221035 describes mutant Ply GBS lysins highly effective in killing Group B
streptococci. A chimeric lysin denoted ClyS, with activity against Staphylococci bacteria,
including Staphylococcus aureus, is detailed in WO 2010/002959.          ClyS is specific for
Staphylococcal bacteria and is inactive against Streptococcus and other gram positive
bacteria.
[0007] Based on their rapid, potent, and specific cell wall-degradation and bactericidal
properties, lysins have been suggested as antimicrobial therapeutics to combat Gram
positive pathogens by attacking the exposed peptidoglycan cell walls from outside the cell
(Fenton, M et al (2010) Bioengineered Bugs 1:9-16; Nelson, D et al (2001) Proc Natl Acad
Sci USA 98:4107-4112). Efficacies of various lysins as a single agents have been
demonstrated in rodent models of pharyngitis (Nelson, D et al (2001) Proc Natl Acad Sci
USA 98:4107-4112), pneumonia (Witzenrath, M et al (2009) Crit Care Med 37:642-649),
otitis media (McCullers, J.A. et al (2007) PLOS pathogens 3:0001-0003), abscesses
(Pastagia, M     et al Antimicrobial agents and chemotherapy 55:738-744) bacteremia
(Loeffler, J.M. et al (2003) Infection and Immunity 71:6199-6204), endocarditis (Entenza,
J.M. et al (2005) Antimicrobial agents and chemotherapy 49:4789-4792), and meningitis
(Grandgirard, D et al (2008) J Infect Dis 197:1519-1522). In addition, lysins are generally
specific for their bacterial host species and do not lyse non-target organisms, including
human commensal bacteria which may be beneficial to gastrointestinal homeostasis
(Blaser, M. (2011) Nature 476:393-394; Willing, B.P. et al (2011) Nature reviews.
Microbiology 9:233-243)
                                             3

[0008] Microorganisms tend to form surface-attached biofilm communities as an
important survival strategy in different environments. Biofilms consist of microbial cells
and a wide range of self-generated         extracellular polymeric substances, including
polysaccharides, nucleic acids, and proteins (Flemming HC et al (2007) J Bacteriol
189:7945-7947).      Biofilms are found in natural and industrial aquatic environments,
tissues, and medical materials and devices (Costerton JW et al (1994) J Bacteriol
176:2137-2142).      Biofilms can be formed by a single bacterial strain, although most
natural biofilms are formed by multiple bacterial species (Yang L et al (2011) Int J Oral
Sci 3:74-81). Applications of antibiotics are often ineffective for biofilm populations due
to their unique physiology and physical matrix barrier.
[0009] Staphylococci often form biofilms, sessile communities encased in an extracellular
matrix that adhere to biomedical implants or damaged and healthy tissue. Infections
associated with biofilms are difficult to treat, and it is estimated that sessile bacteria in
biofilms are 1,000 to 1,500 times more resistant to antibiotics than their planktonic
counterparts.   This antibiotic resistance of biofilms often leads to the failure of
conventional    antibiotic therapy and necessitates     the removal of infected devices.
Lysostaphin has been shown to kill S. aureus in biofilms and also disrupted the
extracellular matrix of S. aureus biofilms in vitro on plastic and glass surfaces (Wu, JA et
al (2003) Antimicrob Agents and Chemoth 47(11):3407-3414).             This disruption of S.
aureus biofilms was specific for lysostaphin-sensitive S. aureus, and biofilms of
lysostaphin-resistant S. aureus were not affected. High concentrations of oxacillin (400
pg/ml), vancomycin (800 pg/ml), and clindamycin (800 pg/ml) had no effect on the
established S. aureus biofilms, even after 24 h. Lysostaphin also disrupted S. epidermidis
biofilms, however, higher concentrations were required. Application of phage lysins for
the removal of staphylococcal       biofilms have been reported, with mixed results.
Bacteriophage lysin SAL-2 was reported to remove S. aureus biofilms (Son JS et al (2010)
Appl Microbiol Biotechnol 86(5):1439-1449), while in the case of two similar phage
lysins, phill and phil2, while phill hydrolyzed staphylococcal biofilms, phil2 was
inactive (Sass P and Bierbaum G (2007) Appl Environ Microbiol 73(1):347-352). Various
combinations of enzymes have been studied for the removal and disinfection of bacterial
biofilms in various systems (Johansen C et al (1997) Appl Environ Microbiol 63:3724
3728). This process, however, requires a minimum of two enzymes or agents, one enzyme
                                              4

or agent for removal of the adherent bacteria of the biofilms and a second enzyme or agent
with bactericidal activity.
[00010]         It is evident from the deficiencies and problems associated with current
traditional antibacterial agents that there still exists a need in the art for additional specific
bacterial agents and therapeutic modalities and also for broader spectrum agents,
particularly without risks of acquired resistance, for the effective and efficient treatment,
control and prevention of bacterial biofilms. It is notable that to date, no lysin
demonstrating lytic activity against multiple distinct species of pathogenic and clinically
relevant gram positive bacteria, which is readily manufacturable and stable, and has no or
limited risk of resistance, has been shown to be effective on biofilms.        Accordingly, there
is a commercial need for new antibacterial approaches, especially those that operate via
new modalities or provide new means to kill pathogenic bacteria in biofilms.
[00011]      The citation of references herein shall not be construed as an admission that
such is prior art to the present invention.
                            SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
[00012]      In accordance with the present invention, compositions and methods are
provided for the prevention, disruption and treatment of bacterial biofilms. In its broadest
aspect, the present invention provides use and application of a lysin having broad killing
activity   against    multiple bacteria, particularly      Gram-positive     bacteria,  including
particularlyStaphylococcus, Streptococcus, particularlyStreptococcus pyogenes (Group A
strep) and Streptococcus agalactiae (Group B strep) bacterial strains, in the prevention,
disruption and treatment of biofilms. The lysin and compositions of the invention are
useful and applicable in killing Enterococcus and Listeria bacterial strains, and in
applicable biofilms thereof. The invention provides a method for decolonizing, dispersing
and removal of bacterial biofilm utilizing bacteriophage lysin capable of killing bacteria
effectively and efficiently in a biofilm.        The invention thus contemplates treatment,
decolonization, and/or decontamination of bacterial biofilms and the prevention of
infections after dispersion of biofilm(s) wherein one or more gram positive bacteria,
particularly one or more of Staphylococcus, Streptococcus, Enterococcus and Listeria
bacteria, is suspected or present.
                                                 5

[00013]     In accordance with the present invention, bacteriophage lysin derived from
Streptococcus suis bacteria are utilized in the methods and applications of the invention.
The lysin polypeptide(s) of use in the present invention, particularly PlySs2 lysin as
provided herein and in FIGURE 5 (SEQ ID NO: 1), are unique in demonstrating broad
killing activity against multiple bacteria, particularly gram-positive bacteria, including
Staphylococcus, Streptococcus, Enterococcus and Listeria bacterial strains.      In one such
aspect, the PlySs2 lysin is capable of killing Staphylococcus aureus strains and bacteria in
biofilms, as demonstrated herein. PlySs2 is effective against antibiotic-resistant bacteria,
including Staphylococcus aureus such as methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus
(MRSA), vancomycin resistant Staphylococcus aureus (VRSA), daptomycin-resistant
Staphylococcus aureus (DRSA) and linezolid-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (LRSA).
PlySs2 is effective against bacteria with altered antibiotic sensitivity such as vancomycin
intermediate-sensitivity Staphylococcus aureus (VISA).
[00014]     In an aspect of the invention, a method is provided of disrupting or treating a
gram-positive    bacterial  biofilm comprising     one or more       of Staphylococcus or
Streptococcus bacteria comprising contacting the biofilm with a chimeric protein
comprising a catalytic domain or binding domain of a lysin polypeptide comprising an
amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 1 or variants thereof having at least 80% identity to
the catalytic domain or binding domain of SEQ ID NO: 1 and effective to kill or bind
Staphylococcus and Streptococcus bacteria, said catalytic domain or binding domain
operably linked to a heterologous polypeptide, wherein the chimeric protein is effective to
kill the Staphylococcus and Streptococcus bacteria in the biofilm and the biofilm is
effectively dispersed or treated.
[00015]     In certain embodiments, the chimeric protein is a chimeric lytic enzyme
comprising the catalytic domain of SEQ ID NO: 1 or variants thereof having at least 80%
identity to the catalytic domain of SEQ ID NO: 1 and effective to kill Staphylococcus and
Streptococcus bacteria, wherein said catalytic domain is operably linked to a binding
domain of another lysin. In certain embodiments, the catalytic domain comprises SEQ ID
NO: 3 or variants thereof having at least 80% identity to SEQ ID NO: 3 and biologically
active to kill Staphylococcus and Streptococcus bacteria. In embodiments, the chimeric
protein is a chimeric lytic enzyme comprising the binding domain of SEQ ID NO: 1 or
variants thereof having at least 80% identity to the binding domain of SEQ ID NO: 1 and
                                               6

effective to bind Staphylococcus and Streptococcus bacteria, wherein said binding domain
is operably linked to a catalytic domain of another lysin. The binding domain may be
operably linked to a catalytic domain of a Staphylococcus-specific lysin or the binding
domain may be operably linked to a catalytic domain of a Streptococcus-specific lysin. In
embodiments, the binding domain comprises SEQ ID NO: 4 or variants thereof having at
least 80% identity to SEQ ID NO: 4 and biologically active to bind Staphylococcus and
Streptococcus bacteria.
[00016]     In embodiments, the method further comprises contacting the biofilm with one
or more antibiotic. The antibiotic may be selected from daptomycin, vancomycin, and
linezolid.
[00017]     In an aspect of the invention, a method is provided of killing gram-positive
bacteria in a biofilm comprising the step of contacting the biofilm with a composition
comprising an amount of an isolated lysin polypeptide effective to kill gram-positive
bacteria in a biofilm, including S. aureus, the isolated lysin polypeptide comprising the
PlySs2 lysin polypeptide or variants thereof effective to kill gram-positive bacteria. Thus,
a method is provided of killing gram-positive bacteria in a biofilm comprising the step of
contacting the biofilm with a composition comprising an amount of an isolated lysin
polypeptide effective to kill the gram-positive bacteria in the biofilm, the isolated lysin
polypeptide comprising the amino acid sequence provided in FIGURE 5 or SEQ ID NO: 1
or variants thereof having at least 80% identity, 85% identity, 90% identity, 95% identity
or 99% identity to the polypeptide of FIGURE 5 or SEQ ID NO: 1 and effective to kill the
gram-positive bacteria in the biofilm.
[00018]     In an aspect of the invention, a method is provided of dispersing gram-positive
bacteria in a biofilm so as to decontaminate and to release bacteria then susceptible to
antibiotics, comprising the step of contacting the biofilm with a composition comprising
an amount of an isolated lysin polypeptide effective to disperse gram-positive bacteria in a
biofilm, including S. aureus, the isolated lysin polypeptide comprising the PlySs2 lysin
polypeptide, including as set out in FIGURE 5 or SEQ ID NO: 1 or variants thereof
effective to kill gram-positive bacteria.
[00019]     In an aspect of the above methods, the methods are performed in vitro or ex
vivo so as to sterilize or decontaminate a solution, material or device, particularly intended
for use by or in a human.
                                               7

[00020]      In an aspect, a method is provided of reducing a population of Staphylococcus
or Streptococcus bacteria in a bioflm formed on a medical device, catheter or implant
comprising contacting the medical device, catheter or implant with biofilm with a chimeric
protein comprising a catalytic domain or binding domain of a lysin polypeptide comprising
an amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 1 or variants thereof having at least 80% identity
to the catalytic domain or binding domain of SEQ ID NO: 1 and effective to kill or bind
Staphylococcus and Streptococcus bacteria, said catalytic domain or binding domain
operably linked to a heterologous polypeptide, wherein the chimeric protein is effective to
kill or release the Staphylococcus and Streptococcus bacteria in the biofilm.
[00021]      In certain embodiments, the chimeric protein is a chimeric lytic enzyme
comprising the catalytic domain of SEQ ID NO: 1 or variants thereof having at least 80%
identity to the catalytic domain of SEQ ID NO: 1 and effective to kill Staphylococcus and
Streptococcus bacteria, wherein said catalytic domain is operably linked to a binding
domain of another lysin. In certain embodiments, the catalytic domain comprises SEQ ID
NO: 3 or variants thereof having at least 80% identity to SEQ ID NO: 3 and biologically
active to kill Staphylococcus and Streptococcus bacteria. In certain embodiments, the
chimeric protein is a chimeric lytic enzyme comprising the binding domain of SEQ ID
NO: 1 or variants thereof having at least 80% identity to the binding domain of SEQ ID
NO: 1 and effective to bind Staphylococcus and Streptococcus bacteria, wherein said
binding domain is operably linked to a catalytic domain of another lysin. The binding
domain may be operably linked to a catalytic domain of a Staphylococcus-specific lysin or
binding domain may be operably linked to a catalytic domain of a Streptococcus-specific
lysin. In certain embodiments, the binding domain comprises SEQ ID NO: 4 or variants
thereof having at least 80% identity to SEQ ID NO: 4 and biologically active to bind
Staphylococcus and Streptococcus bacteria.
[00022]      In certain embodiments, the method further comprises contacting the biofilm
with one or more antibiotic. The antibiotic may be selected from daptomycin, vancomycin,
and linezolid.
[00023]      In certain embodiments, the Staphylococcus or Streptococcus bacteria are
antibiotic-resistant bacteria. The antibiotic-resistant bacteria may be selected from
methicillin-resistant     Staphylococcus    aureus     (MRSA),      vancomycin     resistant
Staphylococcus aureus (VRSA), daptomycin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (DRSA), or
                                              8

linezolid-resistant   Staphylococcus aureus (LRSA).           In certain    embodiments,     the
Staphylococcus or Streptococcus bacteria have altered antibiotic sensitivity. The bacteria
may be vancomycin intermediate-sensitivity Staphylococcus aureus (VISA).
[00024]     The invention provides a method for reducing a population of gram-positive
bacteria in a biofilm comprising the step of contacting the biofilm with a composition
comprising an amount of an isolated polypeptide effective to kill or release at least a
portion of the gram-positive bacteria in the biofilm, the isolated polypeptide comprising
the amino acid sequence of FIGURE 5 (SEQ ID NO: 1) or variants thereof having at least
80% identity to the polypeptide of FIGURE 5 (SEQID NO: 1) and effective to kill the
gram-positive bacteria.
[00025]     The present invention further provides a method for dispersing or treating an
antibiotic-resistant Staphylococcus aureus infection which involves or includes a biofilm
in a human comprising the step of administering to a human with an antibiotic-resistant
Staphylococcus aureus biofilm infection, an effective amount of a composition comprising
an isolated polypeptide comprising the amino acid sequence of FIGURE 5 (SEQ ID NO:
1) or variants thereof having at least 80% identity, 85% identity, 90% identity or 95%
identity to the polypeptide of FIGURE 5 (SEQ ID NO: 1) and effective to disperse the
biofilm and kill Staphylococcus aureus therein and//or released therefrom, whereby the
number of Staphylococcus aureus in the human is reduced and the biofilm and attendant
infection is controlled.
[00026]     A method of the invention also includes a method for preventing, dispersing or
treating a gram-positive bacterial biofilm comprising one or more of Staphylococcus or
Streptococcusbacteriain a human comprising the step of administering to a subject having
or suspected of having or at risk of a bacterial biofilm, an effective amount of a
composition comprising an isolated polypeptide comprising the amino acid sequence of
FIGURE 5 (SEQ ID NO: 1) or variants thereof having at least 80% identity, 85% identity,
90% identity or 95% identity to the polypeptide of FIGURE 5 (SEQ ID NO: 1) and
effective to kill the gram-positive bacteria, whereby the number of gram-positive bacteria
in the human is reduced and the biofilm contamination or infection is controlled. In an
aspect of the method, biofilm comprising or including one or more of an Enterococcus or
Listeria bacteria is effectively prevented, dispersed or treated. In a particular aspect of this
method, wherein the subject is exposed to or at risk of one of or one or more of
                                               9

Staphylococcus (such as Staphylococcus aureus), Streptococcus (particularly Group A
strep or Group B strep such as Streptococcus pyogenes or Streptococcus agalactiae,
respectively)bacteria. An alternative bacteria such as Listeria (such as L. monocytogenes)
or Enterococcus (such as E. faecalis) bacteria may also be involved and addressed,
prevented, dispersed or treated in accordance with the methods and compositions of the
invention. The subject may be a human. The subject may be a human adult, child, infant
or fetus.
[00027]     In any such above method or methods, the susceptible, killed, dispersed or
treated   biofilm bacteria may      be   selected from Staphylococcus aureus, Listeria
monocytogenes,      Staphylococcus     simulans,     Streptococcus    suis,    Staphylococcus
epidermidis, Streptococcus equi, Streptococcus equi zoo, Streptococcus agalactiae(GBS),
Streptococcus pyogenes (GAS),          Streptococcus sanguinis, Streptococcus gordonii,
Streptococcus dysgalactiae, Group          G    Streptococcus,    Group     E   Streptococcus,
Enterococcusfaecalisand Streptococcuspneumonia.
[00028]     In accordance with any of the methods of the invention, the susceptible bacteria
or biofilm bacteria may be an antibiotic resistant bacteria. The bacteria may be antibiotic
resistant, including methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA), vancomycin
resistant Staphylococcus aureus (VRSA), daptomycin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus
(DRSA), or linezolid-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (LRSA).          The bacteria may have
altered antibiotic sensitivity, such as for example, vancomycin intermediate-sensitivity
Staphylococcus aureus (VISA), The susceptible bacteria may be a clinically relevant or
pathogenic bacteria, particularly for humans.      In an aspect of the method(s), the lysin
polypeptide(s) is effective to kill Staphylococcus, Streptococcus, Enterococcus and
Listeriabacterial strains.
[00029]     It has been shown that coating medical implants with antimicrobials may
effectively prevent the initial adherence of staphylococcal biofilms to the implants.
Coating biomedical materials with lysin may also prove successful in preventing early
adherence of bacteria, including staphylococci, to the implants, thus averting biofilm
formation. The present invention thus also provides methods for reducing or preventing
biofilm growth on the surface of devices, implants, separation membranes (for example,
pervaporation, dialysis, reverse osmosis, ultrafiltration, and microfiltration membranes) by
administering or coating with the lysin of the invention, including PlySs2 lysin.
                                               10

[00030]     Alternative active and suitable lysin(s) may be utilized in accordance with the
methods and compositions of the present invention, including as the lysin(s) of use and/or
as one or more additional effective and useful lysins.         In an additional aspect or
embodiment of the methods and uses provided herein, the staphylococcal specific lysin
ClyS is used herein alone or in combination with the PlySs2 lysin as provided and
described herein.
[00031]     In an aspect, there is provided a use of a composition comprising an effective
amount of chimeric lytic enzyme comprising a catalytic domain or binding domain of a
lysin polypeptide comprising an amino acid sequence as set out in SEQ ID NO: 1 or
variants thereof having at least 80% identity to SEQ ID NO: 1 and effective to kill or bind
Staphylococcus and Streptococcus bacteria, wherein said catalytic domain is operably
linked to a binding domain of another lysin or wherein said binding domain is operably
linked to a catalytic domain of another lysin, and wherein the chimeric lytic enzyme is
effective to kill Staphylococcus and Streptococcus bacteria in the biofilm, in the
manufacture of a medicament for disruption or treatment of a bacterial biofilm comprising
one or more of Staphylococcus or Streptococcus bacteria.
[00032]     In certain embodiments, the medicament comprises one or more antibiotic.
[00033]     In certain embodiments, the catalytic domain comprises SEQ ID NO: 3 or
variants thereof having at least 80% identity to SEQ ID NO: 3 and biologically active to
kill Staphylococcus and Streptococcus bacteria. In certain embodiments, the binding
domain comprises SEQ ID NO: 4 or variants thereof having at least 80% identity to SEQ
ID NO: 4 and biologically active to bind Staphylococcus and Streptococcus bacteria.
[00034]     In certain embodiments, the biofilm comprises one or more Staphylococcus or
Streptococcus bacteria selected from Staphylococcus aureus, Staphylococcus simulans,
Streptococcus suis, Staphylococcus epidermidis, Streptococcus equi, Streptococcus equi
zoo, Streptococcus agalactiae (GBS), Streptococcus pyogenes (GAS), Streptococcus
sanguinis, Streptococcus gordonii, Streptococcus dysgalactiae, Group G Streptococcus,
Group E Streptococcus and Streptococcus pneumonia.
[00035]     In certain embodiments, the bacteria in the biofilm are antibiotic-resistant
bacteria or have altered antibiotic sensitivity. In certain embodiments, the antibiotic
resistant bacteria are selected from methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA),
vancomycin       resistant   Staphylococcus      aureus    (VRSA),     daptomycin-resistant
                                              11

Staphylococcus aureus (DRSA), linezolid-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (LRSA), or
vancomycin intermediate-sensitivity Staphylococcus aureus (VISA).
[00036]      Other objects and advantages will become apparent to those skilled in the art
from a review of the following description which proceeds with reference to the following
illustrative drawings.
                     BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[00037]      FIGURE 1 depicts biofilms of BAA-42 MRSA treated with daptomycin,
vancomycin, PlySs2 lysin or linezolid at the amounts and for the times indicated up to 4
hours. Antibiotics daptomycin, vancomycin, and linezolid were added at 1000XMIC for
each antibiotic.   PlySs2 was added at 1XMIC. After treatment, biofilms are visualized
with crystal violet.
[00038]      FIGURE 2 depicts biofilms of BAA-42 MRSA treated with daptomycin,
vancomycin, PlySs2 lysin or linezolid at the amounts and for the times indicated up to 6
hours. After treatment, biofilms are visualized with crystal violet.
[00039]      FIGURE 3 depicts biofilms of BAA-42 MRSA treated with daptomycin,
vancomycin, PlySs2 lysin or linezolid at the amounts and for the times indicated up to 24
hours. After treatment, biofilms are visualized with crystal violet.
[00040]      FIGURE 4 depicts biofilms of BAA-42 MRSA in 24 well dishes treated with
PlySs2 lysin or daptomycin for 0.5 hr, 1 hr, 4 hrs and 24 hrs at the indicated dosing
amounts. After treatment, biofilms are visualized with crystal violet.
[00041]      FIGURE 5 provides the amino acid sequence (SEQ ID NO: 1) and encoding
nucleic acid sequence (SEQ ID NO: 2) of the lysin PlySs2. The N-terminal CHAP domain
and the C-terminal SH-3 domain of the PlySs2 lysin are shaded, with the CHAP domain
starting with LNN... and ending with ... YIT (SEQ ID NO: 3) and the SH-3 domain
starting with RSY ... and ending with ... VAT (SEQ ID NO: 4). The CHAP domain active
site residues (Cys2 6 , His1o2 , Glui 18 , and Asn120) identified by homology to PDB 2K3A
(Rossi P et al (2009) Proteins 74:515-519) are underlined.
[00042]      FIGURE 6 provides a twenty-four hour time course analysis of PlySs2 and
antibiotic activity on MRSA biofilms as assessed by crystal violet staining. Antibiotics
                                                 12

daptomycin (DAP), vancomycin (VAN) and linezolid (LZD) were added at 1OOOX MIC
for each antibiotic. PlySs2 was added at 1X MIC.
[00043]     FIGURE 7 depicts quantitation of dye retained as an indicator of biofilm
retained in a twenty-four hour time course analysis of PlySs2 and antibiotic activity on
MRSA biofilms. Antibiotics daptomycin (DAP), vancomycin (VAN) and linezolid (LZD)
were added at 1000X MIC for each antibiotic. PlySs2 lysin was added at 1X MIC.
[00044]     FIGURE 8 shows a 24 hour time course of sub-MIC concentrations of PlySs2
versus media alone on MRSA biofilms as assessed by crystal violet staining. PlySs2 was
added to MRSA strain BAA-42 biofilm at 0.1X MIC and O.O1X MIC levels.
[00045]     FIGURE 9A and 9B depicts biofilm eradication studies against MRSA grown
on DEPC catheters.      A: Catheter biofilms were treated with media alone, IX MIC
daptomycin, 1000X MIC daptomycin and IX MIC PlySs2 for 24 hours before flushing,
staining with methylene blue and photographing. B: After 24 hours of treatment, duplicate
catheter samples were treated with lysis buffer to remove residual biofilms and bacterial
CFUs estimated based on relative light units using a luciferase reagent calibrated against
known concentrations of bacteria.
[00046]     FIGURE 10 depicts titration analysis of DEPC catheter MRSA biofilm staining
with methylene blue after 4 hour treatment with buffer or titrated MICs of PlySs2 of 1X
MIC, O.1X MIC, O.O1X MIC, O.OO1X MIC, O.OOO1X MIC and 0.00001X MIC PlySs2.
[00047]     FIGURE 11 depicts titration analysis of        DEPC catheter MRSA biofilm
staining with methylene blue after 4 hour treatment with buffer or titrated daptomycin
(DAP) at 5000X MIC, 1000X MIC, 1OOX MIC, lOX MIC and IX MIC.
[00048]     FIGURE 12A and B shows a time course analysis of PlySs2 activity against
MRSA biofilms in DEPC catheters. A: catheters were treated with IX MIC PlySs2 (32
ug/ml) for 5 min, 15 min, 30 min, 60 min, 90 min, 2 hrs, 3 hrs, 4 hrs and 5 hrs before
flushing, staining with methylene blue and photographing. B: After each timed treatment,
duplicate catheter samples were treated with lysis buffer to remove residual biofilms and
bacterial CFUs estimated based on relative light units using a luciferase reagent calibrated
against known concentrations of bacteria.
[00049]     FIGURE 13 depicts a titration analysis of DEPC catheter MRSA biofilm CFU
counts after 4 hour treatments of cathether biofilms with the indicated drug concentrations
in accordance with the studies shown in Figures 11 and 12. Bacterial CFUs remaining after
                                             13

drug treatments were estimated based on relative light units using a luciferase reagent
calibrated against known concentrations of bacteria. Biofilms formed by Staphylococcus
aureus strain ATCC BAA-42 on the lumens of di(2-ethylhexyl)phthalate (DEHP) catheters
were treated for 4 hours with the indicated concentrations of PlySs2 or daptomycin (DAP).
Lactated Ringer's solution alone was included as a control. After treatment, the catheters
were drained and washed, and colony-forming units (CFU) were measured using an
adenosine triphosphate (ATP) release-based method (BacTiter-Glo           TM  Microbial Cell
Viability Assay kit). The red line indicates the concentrations of DAP at 5000X the
minimum inhibitory concentration (MIC) and PlySs2 at 0.0iX MIC that resulted In
roughly equivalent decreases in biofilms in the treated catheter tubes. Key: *   = Below the
threshold of detection.
[00050]     FIGURE 14 depicts lysin ClyS activity against S. aureus biofilm. Biofilms of
BAA-42 MRSA were treated with the indicated concentrations of ClyS lysin (IX MIC 32
ptg/ml, 0.1X MIC 3.2 ptg/ml, 0.01X MIC 0.32 pg/ml and 0.001X MIC 0.032 pg/ml) or
media alone for 24 hours. Each well was washed and stained with 2% crystal violet.
[00051]     FIGURE 15 provides the results of biofilm studies in vivo in mice with
subcutaneous     catheter implants treated with PlySs2 lysin by various modes of
administration. Biofilms are grown on catheters, the catheter is implanted in mice, and the
mice are treated.     Catheters are removed, stained with methylene blue and staining
quantified by absorbance at 600nm. The OD at 600 nm/g of catheter is graphed for each of
negative control (no bacteria), PlySs2 control (no bacteria mock treated), vehicle treated,
PlySs2 administered intraperitoneally (IP), PlySs2 administered intravenously (IV), and
PlySs2 administered subcutaneously (SC).
[00052]     FIGURE 16 depicts time course studies evaluating the luminal contents of
MRSA catheter biofilms treated with PlySS2 lysin or daptomycin and assessing for
bacterial viability and luminal sterilization over time with treatment of PlySs2 or antibiotic
daptomycin.
[00053]     FIGURE 17 depicts titration analysis of a catheter study with Staphylococcal
epidermidis strain CFS 313 (NRS34, a VISE strain) bacterial biofilm. Biofilm staining
with methylene blue is shown after 4 hour treatment with buffer or titrated MICs of PlySs2
of 1OX MIC, IX MIC (8 ptg/ml), 0.1X MIC, 0.01X MIC, 0.001X MIC and 0.0001X MIC
PlySs2.
                                               14

[00054]     FIGURE 18 depicts a biofilm prevention assay of BAA-42 MRSA bacteria
inoculated in 24 well plates and combined immediately with buffer or PlySs2 at IX MIC
(32 ptg/ml), or dilutions noted to 0.000iX MIC. The plates were incubated for 6 hours,
washed with PBS, stained with crystal violet to evaluate biofilm generation and
photographed.
[00055]     FIGURE 19 depicts titration analysis of catheter MRSA strain CFS 553 (ATCC
43300) biofilm staining with methylene blue after 4 hour treatment with buffer or titrated
MICs of PlySs2 of loX MIC, IX MIC (16 ptg/ml), 0.1X MIC, 0.01X MIC and 0.001X
MIC PlySs2.
[00056]     FIGURE 20 depicts titration analysis of catheter MRSA strain CFS 992 (JMI
5381) biofilm staining with methylene blue after 4 hour treatment with buffer or titrated
MICs of PlySs2 of loX MIC, IX MIC (32 ptg/ml), 0.1X MIC, 0.01X MIC and 0.001X
MIC PlySs2.
[00057]     FIGURE 21 depicts scanning electron microscopy (SEM) of 3 day old catheter
S. aureus biofilms treated with PlySs2, washed, fixed and scanned. 0 minutes, 30 seconds
and 15 minutes of PlySs2 treatment are shown. 5000X magnification.
                             DETAILED DESCRIPTION
[00058]     In accordance with the present invention there may be employed conventional
molecular biology, microbiology, and recombinant DNA techniques within the skill of the
art.  Such techniques are explained fully in the literature.     See, e.g., Sambrook et al,
"Molecular Cloning:     A Laboratory Manual" (1989); "Current Protocols in Molecular
Biology" Volumes I-III [Ausubel, R. M., ed. (1994)]; "Cell Biology: A Laboratory
Handbook" Volumes I-III [J. E. Celis, ed. (1994))]; "Current Protocols in Immunology"
Volumes I-III [Coligan, J. E., ed. (1994)]; "Oligonucleotide Synthesis" (M.J. Gait ed.
1984);   "Nucleic Acid Hybridization"       [B.D. Hames & S.J. Higgins eds. (1985)];
"Transcription And Translation" [B.D. Hames & S.J. Higgins, eds. (1984)]; "Animal Cell
Culture" [R.I. Freshney, ed. (1986)]; "Immobilized Cells And Enzymes" [IRL Press,
(1986)]; B. Perbal, "A Practical Guide To Molecular Cloning" (1984).
[00059]     Therefore, if appearing herein, the following terms shall have the definitions set
out below.
                                              15

[00060]     The terms "PlySs lysin(s)", "PlySs2 lysin", "PlySs2" and any variants not
specifically listed, may be used herein interchangeably, and as used throughout the present
application and claims refer to proteinaceous material including single or multiple
proteins, and extends to those proteins having the amino acid sequence data described
herein and presented in FIGURE 5 and SEQ ID NO: 1, and the profile of activities set
forth herein and in the Claims. Accordingly, proteins displaying substantially equivalent
or altered activity are likewise contemplated. These modifications may be deliberate, for
example, such as modifications obtained through site-directed mutagenesis, or may be
accidental, such as those obtained through mutations in hosts that are producers of the
complex or its named subunits. Also, the terms "PlySs lysin(s)", "PlySs2 lysin", "PlySs2"
are intended to include within their scope proteins specifically recited herein as well as all
substantially homologous analogs, fragments or truncations, and allelic variations. PlySs2
lysin   is described in US       Patent Application   61/477,836     and PCT Application
PCT/US2012/34456. A more recent paper Gilmer et al describes PlySs2 lysin (Gilmer DB
et al (2013) Antimicrob Agents Chemother Epub 2013 April 9 [PMID 23571534]).
[00061]     The term "ClyS", "ClyS lysin" refers to a chimeric lysin ClyS, with activity
against Staphylococci bacteria, including Staphylococcus aureus, is detailed in WO
2010/002959 and also described in Daniel et al (Daniel, A et al (2010) Antimicrobial
Agents and Chemother 54(4):1603-1612). Such exemplary amino acid sequence of ClyS is
provided in SEQ ID NO: 5.
[00062]     A "lytic enzyme" includes any bacterial cell wall lytic enzyme that kills one or
more bacteria under suitable conditions and during a relevant time period. Examples of
lytic enzymes include, without limitation, various amidase cell wall lytic enzymes.
[00063]     A "bacteriophage lytic enzyme" refers to a lytic enzyme extracted or isolated
from a bacteriophage or a synthesized lytic enzyme with a similar protein structure that
maintains a lytic enzyme functionality.
[00064]     A lytic enzyme is capable of specifically cleaving bonds that are present in the
peptidoglycan of bacterial cells to disrupt the bacterial cell wall. It is also currently
postulated that the bacterial cell wall peptidoglycan is highly conserved among most
bacteria, and cleavage of only a few bonds to may disrupt the bacterial cell wall. The
bacteriophage lytic enzyme may be an amidase, although other types of enzymes are
possible. Examples      of lytic enzymes that cleave these bonds are muramidases,
                                              16

glucosaminidases, endopeptidases, or N-acetyl-muramoyl-L-alanine amidases. Fischetti et
al (1974) reported that the C1 streptococcal phage lysin enzyme was an amidase. Garcia et
al (1987, 1990) reported that the Cpl lysin from a S. pneumoniae from a Cp-1 phage was a
lysozyme. Caldentey and Bamford (1992) reported that a lytic enzyme from the phi 6
Pseudomonas phage was an endopeptidase, splitting the peptide bridge formed by melo
diaminopemilic acid and D-alanine. The E. coli TI and T6 phage lytic enzymes are
amidases as is the lytic enzyme from Listeria phage (ply) (Loessner et al, 1996). There are
also other lytic enzymes known in the art that are capable of cleaving a bacterial cell wall.
[00065]     A "lytic enzyme genetically coded for by a bacteriophage"              includes a
polypeptide capable of killing a host bacteria, for instance by having at least some cell wall
lytic activity against the host bacteria. The polypeptide may have a sequence that
encompasses native sequence lytic enzyme and variants thereof. The polypeptide may be
isolated from a variety of sources, such as from a bacteriophage ("phage"), or prepared by
recombinant or synthetic methods.       The polypeptide may comprise a choline-binding
portion at the carboxyl terminal side and may be characterized by an enzyme activity
capable of cleaving cell wall peptidoglycan (such as amidase activity to act on amide
bonds in the peptidoglycan) at the amino terminal side. Lytic enzymes have been described
which include multiple enzyme activities, for example two enzymatic domains, such as
PlyGBS lysin.
[00066]     "A native sequence phage associated lytic enzyme" includes a polypeptide
having the same amino acid sequence as an enzyme derived from a bacteria. Such native
sequence enzyme can be isolated or can be produced by recombinant or synthetic means.
[00067]     The term "native sequence enzyme" encompasses naturally occurring forms
(e.g., alternatively spliced or altered forms) and naturally-occurring variants of the
enzyme. In one embodiment of the invention, the native sequence enzyme is a mature or
full-length polypeptide that is genetically coded for by a gene from a bacteriophage
specific for Streptococcus suis. Of course, a number of variants are possible and known, as
acknowledged in publications such as Lopez et al., Microbial Drug Resistance 3: 199-211
(1997); Garcia et al., Gene 86: 81-88 (1990); Garcia et al., Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 85:
914-918 (1988); Garcia et al., Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 85: 914-918 (1988); Garcia et
al., Streptococcal Genetics (J. J. Ferretti and Curtis eds., 1987); Lopez et al., FEMS
Microbiol. Lett. 100: 439-448 (1992); Romero et al., J. Bacteriol. 172: 5064-5070 (1990);
                                              17

Ronda et al., Eur. J. Biochem. 164: 621-624 (1987) and Sanchez et al., Gene 61: 13-19
(1987). The contents of each of these references, particularly the sequence listings and
associated text that compares the sequences, including statements about sequence
homologies, are specifically incorporated by reference in their entireties.
[00068]     "A variant sequence lytic enzyme" includes a lytic enzyme characterized by a
polypeptide sequence that is different from that of a lytic enzyme, but retains functional
activity. The lytic enzyme can, in some embodiments, be genetically coded for by a
bacteriophage specific for Streptococcus suis as in the case of PlySs2 having a particular
amino acid sequence identity with the lytic enzyme sequence(s) hereof, as provided in
FIGURE 5 and SEQ ID NO: 1. For example, in some embodiments, a functionally active
lytic enzyme can kill Streptococcus suis bacteria, and other susceptible bacteria as
provided herein, including as shown in TABLE 1, 2 and 3, by disrupting the cellular wall
of the bacteria. An active lytic enzyme may have a 60, 65, 70, 75, 80, 85, 90, 95, 97, 98,
99 or 99.5% amino acid sequence identity with the lytic enzyme sequence(s) hereof, as
provided in FIGURE 5 and in SEQ ID NO: 1. Such phage associated lytic enzyme variants
include, for instance, lytic enzyme polypeptides wherein one or more amino acid residues
are added, or deleted at the N or C terminus of the sequence of the lytic enzyme
sequence(s) hereof, as provided in FIGURE 5 and in SEQ ID NO: 1.
[00069]     In a particular aspect, a phage associated lytic enzyme will have at least about
80% or 85% amino acid sequence identity with native phage associated lytic enzyme
sequences, particularly at least about 90% (e.g. 90%) amino acid sequence identity. Most
particularly a phage associated lytic enzyme variant will have at least about 95% (e.g.
95%) amino acid sequence identity with the native phage associated the lytic enzyme
sequence(s) hereof, as provided in FIGURE 5 and in SEQ ID NO: 1 for PlySs2 lysin, or as
preciously described for ClyS including in WO 2010/002959 and also described in Daniel
et al (Daniel, A et al (2010) Antimicrobial Agents and Chemother 54(4):1603-1612).
[00070]     "Percent amino acid sequence identity" with respect to the phage associated
lytic enzyme sequences identified is defined herein as the percentage of amino acid
residues in a candidate sequence that are identical with the amino acid residues in the
phage associated lytic enzyme sequence, after aligning the sequences in the same reading
frame and introducing gaps, if necessary, to achieve the maximum percent sequence
                                              18

identity, and not considering any conservative substitutions as part of the sequence
identity.
 [00071]     "Percent nucleic acid sequence identity" with respect to the phage associated
lytic enzyme sequences identified herein is defined as the percentage of nucleotides in a
candidate sequence that are identical with the nucleotides in the phage associated lytic
enzyme sequence, after aligning the sequences and introducing gaps, if necessary, to
achieve the maximum percent sequence identity.
 [00072]    To determine the percent identity of two nucleotide or amino acid sequences,
the sequences are aligned for optimal comparison purposes (e.g., gaps may be introduced
in the sequence of a first nucleotide sequence). The nucleotides or amino acids at
corresponding nucleotide or amino acid positions are then compared. When a position in
the first sequence is occupied by the same nucleotide or amino acid as the corresponding
position in the second sequence, then the molecules are identical at that position. The
percent identity between the two sequences is a function of the number of identical
positions shared by the sequences (i.e., % identity   = (# of identical positions/total # of
positions) x 100).
 [00073]    The determination of percent identity between two sequences may be
accomplished using a mathematical algorithm. A non-limiting example of a mathematical
algorithm utilized for the comparison of two sequences is the algorithm of Karlin et al.,
Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA, 90:5873-5877 (1993), which is incorporated into the
NBLAST program which may be used to identify sequences having the desired identity to
nucleotide sequences of the invention. To obtain gapped alignments for comparison
purposes, Gapped BLAST may be utilized as described in Altschul et al., Nucleic Acids
Res, 25:3389-3402 (1997). When utilizing BLAST and Gapped BLAST programs, the
default parameters of the respective programs (e.g., NBLAST) may be used. See the
programs provided by National Center for Biotechnology Information, National Library of
Medicine, National Institutes of Health.
 [00074]     "Polypeptide" includes a polymer molecule comprised of multiple amino acids
joined in a linear manner. A polypeptide can, in some embodiments, correspond to
molecules encoded by a polynucleotide sequence which is naturally occurring. The
polypeptide may include conservative substitutions where the naturally occurring amino
                                             19

acid is replaced by one having similar properties, where such conservative substitutions do
not alter the function of the polypeptide.
[00075]     The term "altered lytic enzymes" includes shuffled and/or chimeric lytic
enzymes.
[00076]     Phage lytic enzymes specific for bacteria infected with a specific phage have
been found to effectively and efficiently break down the cell wall of the bacterium in
question. The lytic enzyme is believed to lack proteolytic enzymatic activity and is
therefore non-destructive to mammalian proteins and tissues when present during the
digestion of the bacterial cell wall. Furthermore, because it has been found that the action
of phage lytic enzymes, unlike antibiotics, was rather specific for the target pathogen(s), it
is likely that the normal flora will remain essentially intact (M. J. Loessner, G.
Wendlinger, S. Scherer, Mol Microbiol 16, 1231-41. (1995) incorporated herein by
reference). In fact, the PlySs2 lysin, while demonstrating uniquely broad bacterial species
and strain killing, is comparatively and particularly inactive against bacteria comprising
the normal flora, including E. coli, as described herein.
[00077]     A lytic enzyme or polypeptide of use in the invention may be produced by the
bacterial organism after being infected with a particular bacteriophage or may be produced
or prepared recombinantly or synthetically as either a prophylactic             treatment for
preventing those who have been exposed to others who have the symptoms of an infection
from getting sick, or as a therapeutic treatment for those who have already become ill from
the infection. In as much the lysin polypeptide sequences and nucleic acids encoding the
lysin    polypeptides      are   described    and    referenced    to   herein,     the  lytic
enzyme(s)/polypeptide(s) may be preferably produced via the isolated gene for the lytic
enzyme from the phage genome, putting the gene into a transfer vector, and cloning said
transfer vector into an expression system, using standard methods of the art, including as
exemplified herein. The lytic enzyme(s) or polypeptide(s) may be truncated, chimeric,
shuffled or "natural," and may be in combination. Relevant U.S. Pat. No. 5,604,109 is
incorporated herein in its entirety by reference. An "altered" lytic enzyme can be produced
in a number of ways. In a preferred embodiment, a gene for the altered lytic enzyme from
the phage genome is put into a transfer or movable vector, preferably a plasmid, and the
plasmid is cloned into an expression vector or expression system. The expression vector
for producing a lysin polypeptide or enzyme of the invention may be suitable for E. coli,
                                               20

Bacillus, or a number of other suitable bacteria. The vector system may also be a cell free
expression system. All of these methods of expressing a gene or set of genes are known in
the art. The lytic enzyme may also be created by infecting Streptococcus suis with a
bacteriophage specific for Streptococcus suis, wherein said at least one lytic enzyme
exclusively lyses the cell wall of said Streptococcus suis having at most minimal effects on
other, for example natural or commensal, bacterial flora present (see TABLE 5, which
provides the results of lytic activity studies against various commensal human gut
bacteria).
[00078]     A "chimeric protein" or "fusion protein" comprises all or (preferably a
biologically active) part of a polypeptide of use in the invention operably linked to a
heterologous polypeptide. Chimeric proteins or peptides are produced, for example, by
combining two or more proteins having two or more active sites. Chimeric protein and
peptides can act independently on the same or different molecules, and hence have a
potential to treat two or more different bacterial infections at the same time. Chimeric
proteins and peptides also may be used to treat a bacterial infection by cleaving the cell
wall in more than one location, thus potentially providing more rapid or effective (or
synergistic) killing from a single lysin molecule or chimeric peptide.
[00079]     A "heterologous" region of a DNA construct or peptide construct is an
identifiable segment of DNA within a larger DNA molecule or peptide within a larger
peptide molecule that is not found in association with the larger molecule in nature. Thus,
when the heterologous region encodes a mammalian gene, the gene will usually be flanked
by DNA that does not flank the mammalian genomic DNA in the genome of the source
organism. Another example of a heterologous coding sequence is a construct where the
coding sequence itself is not found in nature (e.g., a cDNA where the genomic coding
sequence contains introns, or synthetic sequences having codons different than the native
gene).   Allelic variations or naturally-occurring mutational events do not give rise to a
heterologous region of DNA or peptide as defined herein.
[00080]     The term "operably linked" means that the polypeptide of the disclosure and the
heterologous polypeptide are fused in-frame. The heterologous polypeptide can be fused to
the N-terminus or C-terminus of the polypeptide of the disclosure. Chimeric proteins are
produced enzymatically by chemical synthesis, or by recombinant DNA technology. A
number of chimeric lytic enzymes have been produced and studied. One example of a
                                              21

useful fusion protein is a GST fusion protein in which the polypeptide of the disclosure is
fused to the C-terminus of a GST sequence. Such a chimeric protein can facilitate the
purification of a recombinant polypeptide of the disclosure.
[00081]     In another embodiment, the chimeric protein or peptide contains a heterologous
signal sequence at its N-terminus. For example, the native signal sequence of a
polypeptide of the disclosure can be removed and replaced with a signal sequence from
another known protein.
[00082]     The fusion protein may combine a lysin polypeptide with a protein or
polypeptide of having a different capability, or providing an additional capability or added
character to the lysin polypeptide. The fusion protein may be an immunoglobulin fusion
protein in which all or part of a polypeptide of the disclosure is fused to sequences derived
from a member of the immunoglobulin protein family. The immunoglobulin may be an
antibody, for example an antibody directed to a surface protein or epitope of a susceptible
or target bacteria.   The immunoglobulin fusion protein can alter bioavailability of a
cognate ligand of a polypeptide of the disclosure. Inhibition of ligand/receptor interaction
may be useful therapeutically, both for treating bacterial-associated diseases and disorders
for modulating (i.e. promoting or inhibiting) cell survival. The fusion protein may include
a means to direct or target the lysin, including to particular tissues or organs or to surfaces
such as devices, plastic, membranes.      Chimeric and fusion proteins and peptides of the
disclosure can be produced by standard recombinant DNA techniques.
[00083]     A modified or altered form of the protein or peptides and peptide fragments, as
disclosed herein, includes protein or peptides and peptide fragments that are chemically
synthesized or prepared by recombinant DNA techniques, or both. These techniques
include, for example, chimerization and shuffling. As used herein, shuffled proteins or
peptides, gene products, or peptides for more than one related phage protein or protein
peptide fragments have been randomly cleaved and reassembled into a more active or
specific protein. Shuffled oligonucleotides, peptides or peptide fragment molecules are
selected or screened to identify a molecule having a desired functional property. Shuffling
can be used to create a protein that is more active, for instance up to 10 to 100 fold more
active than the template protein. The template protein is selected among different varieties
of lysin proteins. The shuffled protein or peptides constitute, for example, one or more
binding domains and one or more catalytic domains. When the protein or peptide is
                                               22

produced by chemical synthesis, it is preferably substantially free of chemical precursors
or other chemicals, i.e., it is separated from chemical precursors or other chemicals which
are involved in the synthesis of the protein. Accordingly such preparations of the protein
have less than about 30%, 20%, 10%, 5% (by dry weight) of chemical precursors or
compounds other than the polypeptide of interest.
[00084]      The present invention also pertains to other variants of the polypeptides useful
in the invention. Such variants may have an altered amino acid sequence which can
function as either agonists (mimetics) or as antagonists. Variants can be generated by
mutagenesis, i.e., discrete point mutation or truncation. An agonist can retain substantially
the same, or a subset, of the biological activities of the naturally occurring form of the
protein. An antagonist of a protein can inhibit one or more of the activities of the naturally
occurring form of the protein by, for example, competitively binding to a downstream or
upstream member of a cellular signaling cascade which includes the protein of interest.
Thus, specific biological effects can be elicited by treatment with a variant of limited
function. Treatment of a subject with a variant having a subset of the biological activities
of the naturally occurring form of the protein can have fewer side effects in a subject
relative to treatment with the naturally occurring form of the protein. Variants of a protein
of use in the disclosure which function as either agonists (mimetics) or as antagonists can
be identified by screening combinatorial libraries of mutants, such as truncation mutants,
of the protein of the disclosure. In one embodiment, a variegated library of variants is
generated by combinatorial mutagenesis at the nucleic acid level and is encoded by a
variegated gene library. There are a variety of methods which can be used to produce
libraries of potential variants of the polypeptides of the disclosure from a degenerate
oligonucleotide sequence. Libraries of fragments of the coding sequence of a polypeptide
of the disclosure can be used to generate a variegated population of polypeptides for
screening and subsequent selection of variants, active fragments or truncations. Several
techniques are known in the art for screening gene products of combinatorial libraries
made by point mutations or truncation, and for screening cDNA libraries for gene products
having a selected property. The most widely used techniques, which are amenable to high
through-put analysis, for screening large gene libraries typically include cloning the gene
library into replicable expression vectors, transforming appropriate cells with the resulting
library of vectors, and expressing the combinatorial genes under conditions in which
                                               23

detection of a desired activity facilitates isolation of the vector encoding the gene whose
product was detected. In this context, the smallest portion of a protein (or nucleic acid that
encodes the protein) according to embodiments is an epitope that is recognizable as
specific for the phage that makes the lysin protein. Accordingly, the smallest polypeptide
(and associated nucleic acid that encodes the polypeptide) that can be expected to bind a
target or receptor, such as an antibody, and is useful for some embodiments may be 8, 9,
10, 11, 12, 13, 15, 20, 25, 30, 35, 40, 45, 50, 55, 60, 65, 75, 85, or 100 amino acids long.
Although small sequences as short as 8, 9, 10, 11, 12 or 15 amino acids long reliably
comprise enough structure to act as targets or epitopes, shorter sequences of 5, 6, or 7
amino acids long can exhibit target or epitopic structure in some conditions and have value
in an embodiment. Thus, the smallest portion of the protein(s) or lysin polypeptides
provided herein, including as set out in FIGURE 5 and SEQ ID NO:1              and the domain
sequences of SEQ ID NO: 3 and 4 includes polypeptides as small as 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 12,
14 or 16 amino acids long.
[00085]     Biologically active portions of a protein or peptide fragment of the
embodiments, as described herein, include polypeptides comprising amino acid sequences
sufficiently identical to or derived from the amino acid sequence of the lysin protein of the
disclosure, which include fewer amino acids than the full length protein of the lysin
protein and exhibit at least one activity of the corresponding full-length protein. Typically,
biologically active portions comprise a domain or motif with at least one activity of the
corresponding protein. A biologically active portion of a protein or protein fragment of the
disclosure can be a polypeptide which is, for example, 10, 25, 50, 100 less or more amino
acids in length. Moreover, other biologically active portions, in which other regions of the
protein are deleted, or added can be prepared by recombinant techniques and evaluated for
one or more of the functional activities of the native form of a polypeptide of the
embodiments.
[00086]     Homologous proteins and nucleic acids can be prepared that share functionality
with such small proteins and/or nucleic acids (or protein and/or nucleic acid regions of
larger molecules) as will be appreciated by a skilled artisan. Such small molecules and
short regions of larger molecules that may be homologous specifically are intended as
embodiments. Preferably the homology of such valuable regions is at least 50%, 65%,
75%, 80%, 85%, and preferably at least 90%, 95%,        9 7 %, 98%, or at least 99% compared
                                               24

to the lysin polypeptides provided herein, including as set out in FIGURE 5 and SEQ ID
NO: 1 and the domain sequences of SEQ ID NO: 3 and 4. These percent homology values
do not include alterations due to conservative amino acid substitutions.
[00087]      Two amino acid sequences are "substantially homologous" when at least about
70% of the amino acid residues (preferably at least about 80%, at least about 85%, and
preferably at least about 90 or 95%) are identical, or represent conservative substitutions.
The sequences of comparable lysins, such as comparable PlySs2 lysins, or comparable
ClyS lysins, are substantially homologous when one or more, or several, or up to 10%, or
up to 15%, or up to 20% of the amino acids of the lysin polypeptide are substituted with a
similar or conservative amino acid substitution, and wherein the comparable lysins have
the profile of activities, anti-bacterial effects, and/or bacterial specificities of a lysin, such
as the PlySs2 lysin and/or ClyS lysin, disclosed herein.
[00088]     The amino acid residues described herein are preferred to be in the "L"
isomeric form. However, residues in the "D" isomeric form can be substituted for any L
amino acid residue, as long as the desired fuctional property of immunoglobulin-binding is
retained by the polypeptide.      NH 2 refers to the free amino group present at the amino
terminus of a polypeptide. COOH refers to the free carboxy group present at the carboxy
terminus of a polypeptide. In keeping with standard polypeptide nomenclature, J Biol.
Chem., 243:3552-59 (1969), abbreviations for amino acid residues are shown in the
following Table of Correspondence:
                            TABLE OF CORRESPONDENCE
SYMBOL                                      AMINO ACID
1-Letter          3-Letter
   Y                Tyr                  tyrosine
   G            Gly                      glycine
   F            Phe                      phenylalanine
   M            Met                      methionine
   A            Ala                      alanine
   S            Ser                      serine
   I            Ile                      isoleucine
   L            Leu                      leucine
   T            Thr                      threonine
   V            Val                      valine
   P            Pro                      proline
   K            Lys                      lysine
   H            His                      histidine
                                                 25

   Q             Gln                    glutamine
   E             Glu                    glutamic acid
   W             Trp                    tryptophan
   R             Arg                    arginine
   D             Asp                    aspartic acid
   N             Asn                    asparagine
   C             Cys                    cysteine
[00089]      Mutations can be made in the amino acid sequences, or in the nucleic acid
sequences encoding the polypeptides and lysins herein, including in the lysin sequences set
out in FIGURE 5 and in SEQ ID NO: 1 or in the domain sequences of SEQ ID NO: 3 or
4, or in active fragments or truncations thereof, such that a particular codon is changed to a
codon which codes for a different amino acid, an amino acid is substituted for another
amino acid, or one or more amino acids are deleted. Such a mutation is generally made by
making the fewest amino acid or nucleotide changes possible. A substitution mutation of
this sort can be made to change an amino acid in the resulting protein in a non
conservative manner (for example, by changing the codon from an amino acid belonging
to a grouping of amino acids having a particular size or characteristic to an amino acid
belonging to another grouping) or in a conservative manner (for example, by changing the
codon from an amino acid belonging to a grouping of amino acids having a particular size
or characteristic to an amino acid belonging to the same grouping). Such a conservative
change generally leads to less change in the structure and function of the resulting protein.
A non-conservative change is more likely to alter the structure, activity or function of the
resulting protein.    The present invention should be considered to include sequences
containing conservative changes which do not significantly alter the activity or binding
characteristics of the resulting protein.
[00090]      The following is one example of various groupings of amino acids:
Amino acids with nonpolar R groups
Alanine, Valine, Leucine, Isoleucine, Proline, Phenylalanine, Tryptophan, Methionine
Amino acids with uncharged polar R groups
Glycine, Serine, Threonine, Cysteine, Tyrosine, Asparagine, Glutamine
Amino acids with charged polar R groups (negatively charged at Ph 6.0)
Aspartic acid, Glutamic acid
Basic amino acids (positively charged at pH 6.0)
                                                26

Lysine, Arginine, Histidine (at pH 6.0)
[00091]     Another grouping may be those amino acids with phenyl groups:
Phenylalanine, Tryptophan, Tyrosine
[00092]     Another grouping may be according to molecular weight (i.e., size of R
groups):
Glycine                  75                      Alanine               89
Serine           105                     Proline                115
Valine           117                     Threonine              119
Cysteine                 121                     Leucine               131
Isoleucine               131                     Asparagine            132
Aspartic acid    133                     Glutamine              146
Lysine           146                     Glutamic acid          147
Methionine       149                     Histidine (at pH 6.0)  155
Phenylalanine    165                     Arginine               174
Tyrosine                 181                     Tryptophan            204
[00093]     Particularly preferred substitutions are:
- Lys for Arg and vice versa such that a positive charge may be maintained;
- Glu for Asp and vice versa such that a negative charge may be maintained;
- Ser for Thr such that a free -OH can be maintained; and
- Gln for Asn such that a free NH 2 can be maintained.
[00094]     Exemplary and preferred conservative amino acid substitutions include any of:
glutamine (Q) for glutamic acid (E) and vice versa; leucine (L) for valine (V) and vice
versa; serine (S) for threonine (T) and vice versa; isoleucine (I) for valine (V) and vice
versa; lysine (K) for glutamine (Q) and vice versa; isoleucine (I) for methionine (M) and
vice versa; serine (S) for asparagine (N) and vice versa; leucine (L) for methionine (M)
and vice versa; lysine (L) for glutamic acid (E) and vice versa; alanine (A) for serine (S)
and vice versa; tyrosine (Y) for phenylalanine (F) and vice versa; glutamic acid (E) for
aspartic acid (D) and vice versa; leucine (L) for isoleucine (I) and vice versa; lysine (K) for
arginine (R) and vice versa.
[00095]     Amino acid substitutions may also be introduced to substitute an amino acid
with a particularly preferable property. For example, a Cys may be introduced a potential
site for disulfide bridges with another Cys. A His may be introduced as a particularly
"catalytic" site (i.e., His can act as an acid or base and is the most common amino acid in
biochemical catalysis). Pro may be introduced because of its particularly planar structure,
which induces p-tums in the protein's structure.
                                                 27

[00096]      Thus, one of skill in the art, based on a review of the sequence of the PlySs2
lysin polypeptide provided herein and on their knowledge and the public information
available for other lysin polypeptides, can make amino acid changes or substitutions in the
lysin polypeptide sequence. Amino acid changes can be made to replace or substitute one
or more, one or a few, one or several, one to five, one to ten, or such other number of
amino acids in the sequence of the lysin(s) provided herein to generate mutants or variants
thereof. Such mutants or variants thereof may be predicted for function or tested for
function or capability for killing bacteria, including Staphylococcal, Streptococcal,
Listeria, or Enterococcalbacteria, and/or for having comparable activity to the lysin(s) as
described and particularly provided herein. Thus, changes can be made to the sequence of
lysin, and mutants or variants having a change in sequence can be tested using the assays
and methods described and exemplified herein, including in the examples. One of skill in
the art, on the basis of the domain structure of the lysin(s) hereof can predict one or more,
one or several amino acids suitable for substitution or replacement and/or one or more
amino acids which are not suitable for substitution or replacement, including reasonable
conservative or non-conservative substitutions.
[00097]      In this regard, and with exemplary reference to PlySs2 lysin it is pointed out
that, although the PlySs2 polypeptide lysin represents a divergent class of prophage lytic
enzyme,     the   lysin   comprises   an    N-terminal  CHAP     domain    (cysteine-histidine
amidohydrolase/peptidase) (SEQ ID NO: 3) and a C-terminal SH3-type 5 domain (SEQ ID
NO: 4) as depicted in FIGURE 5. The domains are depicted in the amino acid sequence in
distinct shaded color regions, with the CHAP domain corresponding to the first shaded
amino    acid sequence region starting with LNN...           and the    SH3-type 5 domain
corresponding to the second shaded region starting with RSY...           CHAP domains are
included in several previously characterized streptococcal and staphylococcal phage lysins.
Thus, one of skill in the art can reasonably make and test substitutions or replacements to
the CHAP domain and/or the SH-3 domain of PlySs2.              Sequence comparisons to the
Genbank database can be made with either or both of the CHAP and/or SH-3 domain
sequences or with the PlySs2 lysin full amino acid sequence, for instance, to identify
amino acids for substitution.
[00098]      The PlySs2 lysin displays activity and capability to kill numerous distinct
strains and species of gram positive bacteria, including Staphylococcal, Streptococcal,
                                                28

Listeria, or Enterococcalbacteria. In particular and with significance, PlySs2 is active in
killing Staphylococcus      strains, including Staphylococcus aureus, particularly both
antibiotic-sensitive and distinct antibiotic-resistant strains. PlySs2 is also active in killing
Streptococcus strains, and shows particularly effective killing against Group A and Group
B streptococcus strains.     PlySs2 lysin capability against bacteria is depicted below in
TABLE 1, based on log kill assessments using isolated strains in vitro. Activity of PlySs2
against various Gram-positive and Gram-negative organisms and against antibiotic
resistant Staphylococcus aureus strains is tabulated below in TABLES 2 and 3.              MIC
ranges for PlySs2 against the bacteria is noted to provide relative killing activity.
                                           TABLE 1
              PlySs2 Reduction in Growth of Different Bacteria (partial listing)
              Bacteria                                  Relative Kill with PlySs2
        Staphylococcus aureus                                   +++
         (VRSA, VISA, MRSA, MSSA)
        Streptococcus suis                                      +++
        Staphylococcus epidermidis                              ++
        Staphylococcus simulans                                 ++ +
        Lysteria monocytogenes                                  ++
        Enterococcusfaecalis                                    ++
        Streptococcus dysgalactiae- GBS                         ++
        Streptococcus agalactiae-GBS                            ++ +
        Streptococcuspyogenes -GAS                              ++ +
        Streptococcus equi                                      ++
        Streptococcus sanguinis                                 ++
        Streptococcus gordonii                                  ++
        Streptococcus sobrinus                                  +
        Streptococcus rattus                                    +
        Streptococcus oralis                                    +
        Streptococcuspneumonine                                 +
        Bacillus thuringiensis
        Bacillus cereus
        Bacillus subtilis
        Bacillus anthracis
        Escherichiacoli
        Enterococcusfaecium
        Pseudomanasaeruginosa
                                           TABLE 2
                       Susceptible and Non-susceptible Bacterial Strains
     Organism and susceptibility subset           MIC (ig/mL)
                                               29

(no. tested)                                50%              90%             Range
Staphylcoccus aureus
      Methicillin susceptible (103)         4                8               1-16
      Methicillin resistant (120)           4                8               1-16
Streptococcuspyogenes, Group A (54)         2                8               0.5-8
Streptococcus agalactiae,Group B (51)       8                16              1-64
Other Gram-positive organisms
       Staphylococcus lugdiensis (10)       8                8               8
       Staphylococcus epidermidis (11)      128              512             4-512
       Streptococcuspneumoniae (26)         16               64              1-64
       Streptococcus mutans (12)            64               256             2-256
       Listeria monocytogenes (12)          128              512             1-512
       Enterococcusfaecalis(17)             >512             >512            32->512
       Enterococcusfaecium (5)              >512             >512            32->512
       Bacillus cereus (10)                 >512             >512            >512
Gram-negative organisms
       Acinetobacter baumannii (8)          >512             >512            >512
       Escherichia coli (6)                 >512             >512            >512
       Pseudomonas aeruginosa (5)           >512             >512            >512
                                        TABLE 3
         Activity of PlySs2 Against Antibiotic-Resistant Staphvlococcus aureus
   Susceptibility subset (no. tested) MIC (mg/mL)
                                      50%             90%              Range
       Vancomycin-resistant (14)      2               4                 1-4
     Vancomycin-intermediate (31)     8               32                1-64
         Linezolid-resistant (5)      2               2                 2-4
        Daptomycin-resistant (8)      2               4                 2-4
                                         30

[00099]     The phrase "monoclonal antibody" in its various grammatical forms refers to an
antibody having only one species of antibody combining site capable of immunoreacting
with a particular antigen. A monoclonal antibody thus typically displays a single binding
affinity for any antigen with which it immunoreacts.         A monoclonal antibody may
therefore contain an antibody molecule having a plurality of antibody combining sites,
each immunospecific for a different antigen; e.g., a bispecific (chimeric) monoclonal
antibody.
[000100]    The term "specific" may be used to refer to the situation in which one member
of a specific binding pair will not show significant binding to molecules other than its
specific binding partner(s).    The term is also applicable where e.g. an antigen binding
domain is specific for a particular epitope which is carried by a number of antigens, in
which case the specific binding member carrying the antigen binding domain will be able
to bind to the various antigens carrying the epitope.
[000101]    The term "comprise" generally used in the sense of include, that is to say
permitting the presence of one or more features or components.
[000102]    The term "consisting essentially of' refers to a product, particularly a peptide
sequence, of a defined number of residues which is not covalently attached to a larger
product. In the case of the peptide of the invention hereof, those of skill in the art will
appreciate that minor modifications to the N- or C- terminal of the peptide may however
be contemplated, such as the chemical modification of the terminal to add a protecting
group or the like, e.g. the amidation of the C-terminus.
[000103]    The term "isolated" refers to the state in which the lysin polypeptide(s) of the
invention, or nucleic acid encoding such polypeptides will be, in accordance with the
present invention.    Polypeptides and nucleic acid will be free or substantially free of
material with which they are naturally associated such as other polypeptides or nucleic
acids with which they are found in their natural environment, or the environment in which
they are prepared (e.g. cell culture) when such preparation is by recombinant DNA
technology practised in vitro or in vivo. Polypeptides and nucleic acid may be formulated
with diluents or adjuvants and still for practical purposes be isolated - for example the
polypeptides will normally be mixed with polymers or mucoadhesives or other carriers, or
will be mixed with pharmaceutically acceptable carriers or diluents, when used in
diagnosis or therapy.
                                              31

[000104]    Nucleic acids capable of encoding the S. suis PlySs2 lysin polypeptide(s) useful
and applicable in the invention are provided herein. Representative nucleic acid sequences
in this context are polynucleotide sequences coding for the polypeptide of FIGURE 5 or
SEQ ID NO: 1, particularly polynucleotide sequences of SEQ ID NO: 2 capable of
encoding the polypeptide of SEQ ID NO: 1, and sequences that hybridize, under stringent
conditions, with complementary sequences of the DNA of SEQ ID NO: 2 and/or the
FIGURE 5 sequence(s). Further variants of these sequences and sequences of nucleic acids
that hybridize with those shown in the figures also are contemplated for use in production
of lysing enzymes according to the disclosure, including natural variants that may be
obtained. A large variety of isolated nucleic acid sequences or cDNA sequences that
encode phage associated lysing enzymes and partial sequences that hybridize with such
gene sequences are useful for recombinant production of the lysin enzyme(s) or
polypeptide(s) of the invention.
[000105]    A "replicon" is any genetic element (e.g., plasmid, chromosome, virus) that
functions as an autonomous unit of DNA replication in vivo; i.e., capable of replication
under its own control.
[000106]    A "vector" is a replicon, such as plasmid, phage or cosmid, to which another
DNA segment may be attached so as to bring about the replication of the attached
segment.
[000107]    A "DNA molecule" refers to the polymeric form of deoxyribonucleotides
(adenine, guanine, thymine, or cytosine) in its either single stranded form, or a double
stranded helix.   This term refers only to the primary and secondary structure of the
molecule, and does not limit it to any particular tertiary forms. Thus, this term includes
double-stranded DNA found, inter alia, in linear DNA molecules (e.g., restriction
fragments), viruses, plasmids, and chromosomes. In discussing the structure of particular
double-stranded DNA molecules, sequences may be described herein according to the
normal convention of giving only the sequence in the 5' to 3' direction along the
nontranscribed strand of DNA (i.e., the strand having a sequence homologous to the
mRNA).
[000108]    An "origin of replication" refers to those DNA sequences that participate in
DNA synthesis.
                                             32

[000109]     A DNA "coding sequence" is a double-stranded DNA sequence which is
transcribed and translated into a polypeptide in vivo when placed under the control of
appropriate regulatory sequences. The boundaries of the coding sequence are determined
by a start codon at the 5' (amino) terminus and a translation stop codon at the 3' (carboxyl)
terminus. A coding sequence can include, but is not limited to, prokaryotic sequences,
cDNA from eukaryotic mRNA, genomic DNA                    sequences from eukaryotic       (e.g.,
mammalian) DNA, and even synthetic DNA sequences.               A polyadenylation signal and
transcription termination sequence will usually be located 3' to the coding sequence.
[000110]     Transcriptional  and translational    control sequences are DNA         regulatory
sequences, such as promoters, enhancers, polyadenylation signals, terminators, and the
like, that provide for the expression of a coding sequence in a host cell.
[000111]     A "promoter sequence" is a DNA regulatory region capable of binding RNA
polymerase in a cell and initiating transcription of a downstream (3' direction) coding
sequence.     For purposes of defining the present invention, the promoter sequence is
bounded at its 3' terminus by the transcription initiation site and extends upstream (5'
direction) to include the minimum number of bases or elements necessary to initiate
transcription at levels detectable above background. Within the promoter sequence will be
found a transcription initiation site (conveniently defined by mapping with nuclease Si),
as well as protein binding domains (consensus sequences) responsible for the binding of
RNA polymerase.        Eukaryotic promoters will often, but not always, contain "TATA"
boxes and "CAT" boxes.        Prokaryotic promoters contain Shine-Dalgarno sequences in
addition to the -10 and -35 consensus sequences.
[000112]     An "expression control sequence" is a DNA sequence that controls and
regulates the transcription and translation of another DNA sequence. A coding sequence is
"under the control" of transcriptional and translational control sequences in a cell when
RNA polymerase transcribes the coding sequence into mRNA, which is then translated
into the protein encoded by the coding sequence.
[000113]     A "signal sequence" can be included before the coding sequence.               This
sequence encodes a signal peptide, N-terminal to the polypeptide, that communicates to
the host cell to direct the polypeptide to the cell surface or secrete the polypeptide into the
media, and this signal peptide is clipped off by the host cell before the protein leaves the
                                               33

cell.   Signal sequences can be found associated with a variety of proteins native to
prokaryotes and eukaryotes.
[0001141    The term "oligonucleotide," as used herein in referring to the probe of the
present invention, is defined as a molecule comprised of two or more ribonucleotides,
preferably more than three. Its exact size will depend upon many factors which, in turn,
depend upon the ultimate function and use of the oligonucleotide.
[000115]    As used herein, the terms "restriction endonucleases" and "restriction enzymes"
refer to bacterial enzymes, each of which cut double-stranded DNA at or near a specific
nucleotide sequence.
[000116]    A cell has been "transformed" by exogenous or heterologous DNA when such
DNA has been introduced inside the cell.        The transforming DNA may or may not be
integrated (covalently linked) into chromosomal DNA making up the genome of the cell.
In prokaryotes, yeast, and mammalian cells for example, the transforming DNA may be
maintained on an episomal element such as a plasmid. With respect to eukaryotic cells, a
stably transformed cell is one in which the transforming DNA has become integrated into a
chromosome so that it is inherited by daughter cells through chromosome replication. This
stability is demonstrated by the ability of the eukaryotic cell to establish cell lines or
clones comprised of a population of daughter cells containing the transforming DNA. A
"clone" is a population of cells derived from a single cell or common ancestor by mitosis.
A "cell line" is a clone of a primary cell that is capable of stable growth in vitro for many
generations.
[000117]    Two DNA sequences are "substantially homologous" when at least about 75%
(preferably at least about 80%, and most preferably at least about 90 or 95%) of the
nucleotides match over the defined length of the DNA sequences.           Sequences that are
substantially homologous can be identified by comparing the sequences using standard
software available in sequence data banks, or in a Southern hybridization experiment
under, for example, stringent conditions as defined for that particular system. Defining
appropriate hybridization conditions is within the skill of the art. See, e.g., Maniatis et al.,
supra; DNA Cloning, Vols. I & II, supra; Nucleic Acid Hybridization, supra.
[000118]    DNA molecules and nucleotide sequences which are derivatives of those
specifically disclosed herein and which differ from those disclosed by the deletion,
addition or substitution of nucleotides while still encoding a protein which possesses the
                                              34

functional characteristic of the lysin polypeptide(s) are contemplated by the disclosure.
Also included are small DNA molecules which are derived from the disclosed DNA
molecules. Such small DNA molecules include oligonucleotides suitable for use as
hybridization probes or polymerase chain reaction (PCR) primers. As such, these small
DNA molecules will comprise at least a segment of a lytic enzyme genetically coded for
by a bacteriophage of Staphylococcus suis and, for the purposes of PCR, will comprise at
least a 10-15 nucleotide sequence and, more preferably, a 15-30 nucleotide sequence of the
gene. DNA molecules and nucleotide sequences which are derived from the disclosed
DNA molecules as described above may also be defined as DNA sequences which
hybridize under stringent conditions to the DNA sequences disclosed, or fragments
thereof.
[000119]    In preferred embodiments of the present disclosure, stringent conditions may be
defined as those under which DNA molecules with more than 25% sequence variation
(also termed "mismatch") will not hybridize. In a more preferred embodiment, stringent
conditions are those under which DNA molecules with more than 15% mismatch will not
hybridize, and more preferably still, stringent conditions are those under which DNA
sequences with more than 10% mismatch will not hybridize. Preferably, stringent
conditions are those under which DNA sequences with more than 6% mismatch will not
hybridize.
[000120]    The degeneracy of the genetic code further widens the scope of the
embodiments as it enables major variations in the nucleotide sequence of a DNA molecule
while maintaining the amino acid sequence of the encoded protein. Thus, the nucleotide
sequence of the gene could be changed at this position to any of these three codons without
affecting the amino acid composition of the encoded protein or the characteristics of the
protein. The genetic code and variations in nucleotide codons for particular amino acids
are well known to the skilled artisan. Based upon the degeneracy of the genetic code,
variant DNA molecules may be derived from the cDNA molecules disclosed herein using
standard DNA mutagenesis techniques as described above, or by synthesis of DNA
sequences. DNA sequences which do not hybridize under stringent conditions to the
cDNA sequences disclosed by virtue of sequence variation based on the degeneracy of the
genetic code are herein comprehended by this disclosure.
                                            35

[000121]      Thus, it should be appreciated that also within the scope of the present
invention are DNA sequences encoding a lysin of the present invention, including PlySs2
and PlySsI, which sequences code for a polypeptide having the same amino acid sequence
as provided in FIGURE 5 or SEQ ID NO: 1, but which are degenerate thereto or are
degenerate to the exemplary nucleic acids sequences provided in FIGURE 5 and in SEQ
ID NO: 2.       By "degenerate to" is meant that a different three-letter codon is used to
specify a particular amino acid. It is well known in the art the codons which can be used
interchangeably to code for each specific amino acid.
[000122]      One skilled in the art will recognize that the DNA mutagenesis techniques
described here and known in the art can produce a wide variety of DNA molecules that
code for a bacteriophage lysin of Streptococcus suis yet that maintain the essential
characteristics of the lytic polypeptides described and provided herein. Newly derived
proteins may also be selected in order to obtain variations on the characteristic of the lytic
polypeptide(s), as will be more fully described below. Such derivatives include those with
variations in amino acid sequence including minor deletions, additions and substitutions.
[000123]      While the site for introducing an amino acid sequence variation may be
predetermined, the mutation per se does not need to be predetermined. Amino acid
substitutions are typically of single residues, or can be of one or more, one or a few, one,
two, three, four, five, six or seven residues; insertions usually will be on the order of about
from 1 to 10 amino acid residues; and deletions will range about from 1 to 30 residues.
Deletions or insertions may be in single form, but preferably are made in adjacent pairs,
i.e., a deletion of 2 residues or insertion of 2 residues. Substitutions, deletions, insertions or
any combination thereof may be combined to arrive at a final construct.               Substitution
variants are those in which at least one residue in the amino acid sequence has been
removed and a different residue inserted in its place. Such substitutions may be made so as
to generate no significant effect on the protein characteristics or when it is desired to finely
modulate the characteristics of the protein. Amino acids which may be substituted for an
original amino acid in a protein and which are regarded as conservative substitutions are
described above and will be recognized by one of skill in the art.
[000124]      As is well known in the art, DNA sequences may be expressed by operatively
linking them to an expression control sequence in an appropriate expression vector and
employing that expression vector to transform an appropriate unicellular host.               Such
                                                 36

operative linking of a DNA sequence of this invention to an expression control sequence,
of course, includes, if not already part of the DNA sequence, the provision of an initiation
codon, ATG, in the correct reading frame upstream of the DNA sequence. A wide variety
of host/expression vector combinations may be employed in expressing the DNA
sequences of this invention.      Useful expression vectors, for example, may consist of
segments of chromosomal, non-chromosomal and synthetic DNA sequences.               Any of a
wide variety of expression control sequences -- sequences that control the expression of a
DNA sequence operatively linked to it -- may be used in these vectors to express the DNA
sequences of this invention. A wide variety of unicellular host cells are also useful in
expressing the DNA sequences of this invention. These hosts may include well known
eukaryotic and prokaryotic hosts, such as strains of E. coli, Pseudomonas, Bacillus,
Streptomyces, fungi such as yeasts, and animal cells, human cells and plant cells in tissue
culture. One skilled in the art will be able to select the proper vectors, expression control
sequences, and hosts without undue experimentation to accomplish the desired expression
without departing from the scope of this invention.
[000125]    As used herein and referred to in the art, a biofilm is an aggregate of microbes
with a distinct architecture. Biofilm formation involves attachment of free floating
microorganisms to a surface. A biofilm is essentially a collective in which microbial cells,
each only a micrometer or two long, form convoluted structures, including towers that can
be hundreds of micrometers high. The channels within biofilms act as fluid-filled conduits
that circulate nutrients, oxygen, waste products, etc., as required to maintain a viable
biofilm community. The biofilm or microbial (bacterial, fungal, or algal) community is
typically enveloped by extracellular biopolymers produced by the microbial cells and
adheres to the interface between a liquid and surface. The encapsulated property of
biofilms is one of several features that renders the microbial organisms therein highly
resistant to standard anti-microbial therapeutics. Bacteria growing in a biofilm, for
example, are highly resistant to antibiotics, and in some cases are up to 1,000 times more
resistant than the same bacteria growing without a biofilm superstructure.
[000126]     Standard antibiotic therapy can be useless wherein a biofilm contaminated
implant is detected and the only recourse under such circumstances may be to remove the
contaminated implant. Biofilms are, furthermore, involved in numerous chronic diseases.
Cystic fibrosis patients, for example, suffer from Pseudomonas infections that often result
                                               37

in   antibiotic  resistant biofilms.      Bioflm    formation  occurs   when free     floating
microorganisms attach themselves to a surface. Because bioflms protect the bacteria, they
are often more resistant to traditional antimicrobial treatments, making them a serious
health risk, which is evidenced by more than one million cases of catheter-associated
urinary tract infections (CAUTI) reported each year, many of which can be attributed to
biofilm-associated bacteria (Donlan, RM (2001) Emerg Infect Dis7(2):277-281; Maki D
and Tambyah P (2001) Emerg Infect Dis 7(2):342-347)
[000127]     Various approaches have been attempted to prevent biofilm formation and
include inhibiting protein adsorption or biofilm adhesion using chemical and mechanical
means. Chemical approaches include antimicrobial coatings on indwelling devices and
polymer modifications. Antibiotics, biocides, and ion coatings are examples of chemical
methods of biofilm prevention and may interfere with the attachment and expansion of
immature biofilms. However, these coatings are effective only for a short time period
(about 1 week), after which leaching of the antimicrobial agent reduces the effectiveness
of the coating (Dror N et al (2009) Sensors 9(4):2538-2554). Several in vitro studies have
confirmed the effectiveness of silver at preventing infection, both in coating form and as
nanoparticles dispersed in a polymer matrix. However, concerns remain over the use of
silver in vivo with potential toxic effects on human tissue and there has been limited use of
silver coatings. Despite this, silver coatings are used on devices such as catheters (Vasilev
K et al (2009) Expert Rev Med Devices 6(5):553-567).             Via polymer modification,
antimicrobial agents can be immobilized on device surfaces using long, flexible polymeric
chains. These chains are anchored to the device surface by covalent bonds, producing non
leaching, contact-killing surfaces. An in vitro study found that when N-alkylpyridinium
bromide, an antimicrobial agent, was attached to a poly(4-vinyl-N-hexylpyridine), the
polymer was capable of inactivating more than 99% of S. epidermidis, E. coli, and P.
aeruginosa bacteria (Jansen B and Kohnen W (1995) J Ind Microbiol 15(4):391-396).
[000128]     Mechanical approaches to preventing biofilms include altering the surface of
devices such as catheters, including modifying the hydrophobicity of the device surface,
altering its physical nature using smooth-surfaced materials, and altering surface charge.
The hydrophobicity and the charge of polymeric chains can be controlled by using several
backbone compounds and antimicrobial agents, including positively charged polycations.
In another approach, low-energy surface acoustic waves are produced from a battery
                                               38

powered device that delivers periodic rectangular pulses and waves spread to the surface,
in this case a catheter, creating horizontal waves that prevent the adhesion of bacteria to
surfaces. This technique has been tested on white rabbits and guinea pigs and lowered
biofilm growth (Hazan, Z et al (2006) Antimicrob Agents and Chemother 50(12):4144
152).
[000129]    In accordance with the present invention, methods and compositions are
provided for prevention, dispersion and treatment of bacterial biofilms. Methods and
compositions are particularly provided for prevention, dispersion and treatment of biofilms
comprising Staphylococcal bacteria.          In particular, methods and compositions for
prevention, dispersion and treatment of biofilms comprising Staphylococcus aureus,
including or comprising antibiotic-resistant and/or antibiotic-sensitive S. aureus are an
aspect of the invention. In an aspect of the invention, the methods and compositions of the
invention comprise a lysin, particularly PlySs2 lysin, which is capable of killing
Staphylococcal and Streptococcal bacteria, including antibiotic-resistant bacteria.
[000130]    The methods and compositions of the invention, particularly comprising PlySs2
lysin, may be combined or incorporated with chemical or mechanical means, compositions
or approaches for prevention or dispersion of biofilms. Thus, the compositions herein may
be combined or incorporated with antibiotics, biocides, and ion coatings in minimizing the
growth or establishment of biofilms, particularly in or on in-dwelling devices or catheters.
By way of example and not limitation, a composition comprising PlySs2 may be
administered or otherwise provided in presterilizing or maintaining an indwelling device
or catheter biofilm free or with reduced bacterial adhesion or reduced risk of biofilm
formation. Thus, a composition comprising PlySs2 may be utilized in solution to flush or
regularly clean and maintain an indwelling device, catheter, etc biofilm free or with
reduced bacterial adhesion or reduced risk of biofilm formation.         In an instance where a
biofilm is suspected, evident, or demonstrated, a composition comprising PlySs2 may be
administered or otherwise contacted with the biofilm or the device, region, location, site so
as to facilitate, initiate, or result in dispersion, alleviation, removal, or treatment of the
biofilm.    Thus, for example, in instances wherein a patient presents with elevated
temperature, or with discomfort, redness, swelling associated with around a device or
catheter, a composition comprising PlySs2 may be administered to the patient or contacted
with the device or catheter to alleviate, dispel or treat the relevant temperature, discomfort,
                                                39

redness, swelling by dispersing, preventing or treating any biofilm being formed or having
formed.
[000131]    In accordance with the invention, a composition comprising lysin, particularly
PlySs2 lysin or active variants thereof, may be administered or otherwise contacted with
an established or suspected biofilm or the device, region, location, site with biofilm, in a
single or in multiple doses or administrations. The lysin may be administered along with,
before, or after one or more antibiotic. The lysin may be administered in an initial dose,
for example, followied by or along with antibiotic, and the initial dose of lysin may be
followed by a subsequent dose of lysin. In one such situation, the initial dose of lysin,
particularly PlySs2, may serve to disperse the biofilm, followed by a subsequent dose of
lysin (of lower, same or higher amount, which may depend in part on the initial response
and dispersion of the biofilm) which may serve to further disperse or additionally kill or
decolonize the bacteria in or of or from the biofilm.         A dose of antibiotic may be
administered also subsequently or in addition to further serve to disperse or additionally
kill or decolonize the bacteria in or of or from the biofilm.
[000132]    Therapeutic    or    pharmaceutical      compositions  comprising     the   lytic
enzyme(s)/polypeptide(s) of use in the methods and applications provided in the invention
are provided herein, as well as related methods of use. Therapeutic or pharmaceutical
compositions may comprise one or more lytic polypeptide(s), and optionally include
natural, truncated, chimeric or shuffled lytic enzymes, optionally combined with other
components such as a carrier, vehicle, polypeptide, polynucleotide, holin protein(s), one or
more antibiotics or suitable excipients, carriers or vehicles.     The invention provides
therapeutic compositions or pharmaceutical compositions of the lysins of the invention,
including PlySs2 for use in the killing, alleviation, decolonization, prophylaxis or
treatment of gram-positive bacteria in biofilms and particularly for dispersing, preventing
or treating biofilms.
[000133]    The enzyme(s) or polypeptide(s) included in the therapeutic compositions of
use in the method of the invention may be one or more or any combination of unaltered
phage associated lytic enzyme(s), truncated lytic polypeptides, variant lytic polypeptide(s),
and chimeric and/or shuffled lytic enzymes. Additionally, different lytic polypeptide(s)
genetically coded for by different phage for treatment of the same bacteria may be used.
These lytic enzymes may also be any combination of "unaltered" lytic enzymes or
                                               40

polypeptides, truncated lytic polypeptide(s), variant lytic polypeptide(s), and chimeric and
shuffled   lytic   enzymes.    The   lytic  enzyme(s)/polypeptide(s)     in a   therapeutic or
pharmaceutical      composition    for   gram-positive   bacteria,   including   Streptococcus,
Staphylococcus, Enterococcus and Listeria, may be used alone or in combination with
antibiotics or, if there are other invasive bacterial organisms to be treated, in combination
with other phage associated lytic enzymes specific for other bacteria being targeted. The
lytic enzyme, truncated enzyme, variant enzyme, chimeric enzyme, and/or shuffled lytic
enzyme may be used in conjunction with a holin protein. The amount of the holin protein
may also be varied. Various antibiotics may be optionally included in the therapeutic
composition with the enzyme(s) or polypeptide(s) and with or without the presence of
lysostaphin. More than one lytic enzyme or polypeptide may be included in the therapeutic
composition.
[000134]    The pharmaceutical composition of use in the method of the invention can also
include one or more altered lytic enzymes, including isozymes, analogs, or variants
thereof, produced by chemical synthesis or DNA recombinant techniques. In particular,
altered lytic protein can be produced by amino acid substitution, deletion, truncation,
chimerization, shuffling, or combinations thereof. The pharmaceutical composition may
contain a combination of one or more natural lytic protein and one or more truncated,
variant, chimeric or shuffled lytic protein. The pharmaceutical composition may also
contain a peptide or a peptide fragment of at least one lytic protein derived from the same
or different bacteria species, with an optional addition of one or more complementary
agent, and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or diluent.
[000135]    The pharmaceutical composition of use in the present methods can contain a
complementary agent, including one or more antimicrobial agent and/or one or more
conventional antibiotics, particularly as provided herein. In order to accelerate treatment of
the infection or dispersion of the bacterial biofilm, the therapeutic agent may further
include at least one complementary agent which can also potentiate the bactericidal
activity of the lytic enzyme. Antimicrobials act largely by interfering with the structure or
function of a bacterial cell by inhibition of cell wall synthesis, inhibition of cell-membrane
function and/or inhibition of metabolic functions, including protein and DNA synthesis.
Antibiotics can be subgrouped broadly into those affecting cell wall peptidoglycan
biosynthesis and those affecting DNA or protein synthesis in gram positive bacteria. Cell
                                               41

wall synthesis inhibitors, including penicillin and antibiotics like it, disrupt the rigid outer
cell wall so that the relatively unsupported cell swells and eventually ruptures. The
complementary agent may be an antibiotic, such as erythromycin, clarithromycin,
azithromycin, roxithromycin, other members of the macrolide family, penicillins,
cephalosporins, and any combinations thereof in amounts which are effective to
synergistically enhance the therapeutic effect of the lytic enzyme. Virtually any other
antibiotic may be used with the altered and/or unaltered lytic enzyme. Antibiotics affecting
cell wall peptidoglycan biosynthesis include: Glycopeptides, which inhibit peptidoglycan
synthesis by preventing the incorporation of N-acetylmuramic acid (NAM) and N
acetylglucosamine (NAG) peptide subunits into the peptidoglycan matrix.               Available
glycopeptides include vancomycin and teicoplanin; Penicillins, which act by inhibiting the
formation of peptidoglycan cross-links. The functional group of penicillins, the p-lactam
moiety, binds and inhibits DD-transpeptidase that links the peptidoglycan molecules in
bacteria. Hydrolytic enzymes continue to break down the cell wall, causing cytolysis or
death due to osmotic pressure. Common penicillins include oxacillin, ampicillin and
cloxacillin; and Polypeptides, which interfere with the dephosphorylation of the C5 5
isoprenyl pyrophosphate, a molecule that carries peptidoglycan building-blocks outside of
the plasma membrane. A cell wall-impacting polypeptide is bacitracin. Other useful and
relevant antibiotics include vancomycin, linezolid, and daptomycin.
[000136]    Similarly, other lytic enzymes may be included in the carrier to treat or disperse
other bacteria or bacterial infections. The pharmaceutical composition can also contain a
peptide or a peptide fragment of at least one lytic protein, one holin protein, or at least one
holin and one lytic protein, which lytic and holin proteins are each derived from the same
or different bacteria species, with an optional addition of one or more complementary
agent(s), and a suitable carrier or diluent.
[000137]    Also of use in the methods are compositions containing nucleic acid molecules
that, either alone or in combination with other nucleic acid molecules, are capable of
expressing an effective amount of a lytic polypeptide(s) or a peptide fragment of a lytic
polypeptide(s)    in vivo. Cell cultures      containing   these nucleic      acid molecules,
polynucleotides, and vectors carrying and expressing these molecules in vitro or in vivo,
are also provided.
                                              42

[000138]    The present methods may utilize therapeutic or pharmaceutical compositions
that comprise lytic polypeptide(s) combined with a variety of carriers to disperse or
decolonize the bacteria or treat the illnesses caused by the susceptible gram-positive
bacteria. The carrier suitably contains minor amounts of additives such as substances that
enhance isotonicity and chemical stability. Such materials are non-toxic to recipients at the
dosages and concentrations employed, and include buffers such as phosphate, citrate,
succinate, acetic acid, and other organic acids or their salts; antioxidants such as ascorbic
acid; low molecular weight (less than about ten residues) polypeptides, e.g., polyarginine
or tripeptides; proteins, such as serum albumin, gelatin, or immunoglobulins; hydrophilic
polymers such as polyvinylpyrrolidone; glycine; amino acids such as glutamic acid,
aspartic   acid,  histidine,  or  arginine;   monosaccharides,     disaccharides,   and   other
carbohydrates including cellulose or its derivatives, glucose, mannose, trehalose, or
dextrins; chelating agents such as EDTA; sugar alcohols such as mannitol or sorbitol;
counter-ions such as sodium; non-ionic surfactants such as polysorbates, poloxamers, or
polyethylene glycol (PEG); and/or neutral salts. Glycerin or glycerol (1,2,3-propanetriol)
is commercially available for pharmaceutical use. DMSO is an aprotic solvent with a
remarkable ability to enhance penetration of many locally applied drugs. The carrier
vehicle may also include Ringer's solution, a buffered solution, and dextrose solution,
particularly when an intravenous solution is prepared.
[000139]    A lytic polypeptide(s) may be added to these substances in a liquid form or in a
lyophilized state, whereupon it will be solubilized when it meets body fluids such as
saliva. The polypeptide(s)/enzyme may also be in a micelle or liposome.
[000140]    The effective dosage rates or amounts of an altered or unaltered lytic enzyme/
polypeptide(s) of and for use in the present invention will depend in part on whether the
lytic enzyme/ polypeptide(s) will be used therapeutically or prophylactically, the duration
of exposure of the recipient to the infectious bacteria, the size and weight of the individual,
etc. The duration for use of the composition containing the enzyme/ polypeptide(s) also
depends on whether the use is for prophylactic purposes, wherein the use may be hourly,
daily or weekly, for a short time period, or whether the use will be for therapeutic purposes
wherein a more intensive regimen of the use of the composition may be needed, such that
usage may last for hours, days or weeks, and/or on a daily basis, or at timed intervals
during the day. Any dosage form employed should provide for a minimum number of units
                                               43

for a minimum amount of time. Carriers that are classified as "long" or "slow" release
carriers (such as, for example, certain nasal sprays or lozenges) could possess or provide a
lower concentration of active (enzyme) units per ml, but over a longer period of time,
whereas a "short" or "fast" release carrier (such as, for example, a gargle) could possess or
provide a high concentration of active (enzyme) units per ml, but over a shorter period of
time. The amount of active units per ml and the duration of time of exposure depend on the
nature of infection, whether treatment is to be prophylactic or therapeutic, and other
variables. There are situations where it may be necessary to have a much higher unit/ml
dosage or a lower unit/ml dosage.
[000141]     The lytic enzyme/polypeptide(s) for use should be in an environment having a
pH which allows for activity of the lytic enzyme/polypeptide(s). A stabilizing buffer may
allow for the optimum activity of the lysin enzyme/ polypeptide(s). The buffer may
contain a reducing reagent, such as dithiothreitol or beta mercaptoethanol (BME). The
stabilizing   buffer may also be or include          a metal chelating      reagent, such as
ethylenediaminetetracetic acid disodium salt, or it may also contain a phosphate or citrate
phosphate buffer, or any other buffer.
[000142]     A mild surfactant can be included in a therapeutic             or pharmaceutical
composition for use in the methods in an amount effective to potentiate the therapeutic
effect of the lytic enzyme/ polypeptide(s) may be used in a composition. Suitable mild
surfactants include, inter alia, esters of polyoxyethylene sorbitan and fatty acids (Tween
series),    octylphenoxy    polyethoxy     ethanol   (Triton-X    series),    n-Octyl-.beta.-D
glucopyranoside,            n-Octyl-.beta.-D-thioglucopyranoside,            n-Decyl-.beta.-D
glucopyranoside,      n-Dodecyl-.beta.-D-glucopyranoside,     and    biologically    occurring
surfactants, e.g., fatty acids, glycerides, monoglycerides, deoxycholate and esters of
deoxycholate.
[000143]     Preservatives may also be used in this invention and preferably comprise about
0.05% to 0.5% by weight of the total composition. The use of preservatives assures that if
the product is microbially contaminated, the formulation will prevent or diminish
microorganism       growth.   Some     preservatives   useful  in   this   invention    include
methylparaben, propylparaben, butylparaben, chloroxylenol, sodium benzoate, DMDM
Hydantoin, 3-Iodo-2-Propylbutyl carbamate, potassium sorbate, chlorhexidine digluconate,
or a combination thereof.
                                               44

[000144]    The therapeutic composition of use in the present methods and applications
may further comprise other enzymes, such as the enzyme lysostaphin for the treatment of
any Staphylococcus aureus bacteria present along with the susceptible gram-positive
bacteria. Lysostaphin, a gene product of Staphylococcus simulans, exerts a bacteriostatic
and bactericidal effect upon S. aureus by enzymatically degrading the polyglycine
crosslinks of the cell wall (Browder et al., Res. Comm., 19: 393-400 (1965)). The gene for
lysostaphin has subsequently been cloned and sequenced (Recsei et al., Proc. Natl. Acad.
Sci. USA,     84:  1127-1131    (1987).    A therapeutic composition may also include
mutanolysin, and lysozyme.
[000145]    Means of application of the therapeutic composition comprising a lytic
enzyme/polypeptide(s) in accordance with the present methods include, but are not limited
to direct, indirect, carrier and special means or any combination of means. Direct
application of the lytic enzyme/ polypeptide(s) may be by any suitable means to directly
bring the polypeptide in contact with the site of biofilm, infection or bacterial colonization,
such as to the nasal area (for example nasal sprays), dermal or skin applications (for
example topical ointments or formulations), suppositories, tampon applications, etc. Nasal
applications include for instance nasal sprays, nasal drops, nasal ointments, nasal washes,
nasal injections, nasal packings, bronchial sprays and inhalers, or indirectly through use of
throat lozenges, mouthwashes or gargles, or through the use of ointments applied to the
nasal nares, or the face or any combination of these and similar methods of application.
The forms in which the lytic enzyme may be administered include but are not limited to
lozenges, troches, candies, injectants, chewing gums, tablets, powders, sprays, liquids,
ointments, and aerosols.
[000146]    The mode of application for the lytic enzyme includes a number of different
types and combinations of carriers which include, but are not limited to an aqueous liquid,
an alcohol base liquid, a water soluble gel, a lotion, an ointment, a nonaqueous liquid base,
a mineral oil base, a blend of mineral oil and petrolatum, lanolin, liposomes, protein
carriers such as serum albumin or gelatin, powdered cellulose carmel, and combinations
thereof. A mode of delivery of the carrier containing the therapeutic agent includes, but is
not limited to a smear, spray, a time-release patch, a liquid absorbed wipe, and
combinations thereof. The lytic enzyme may be applied to a bandage either directly or in
one of the other carriers. The bandages may be sold damp or dry, wherein the enzyme is in
                                              45

a lyophilized form on the bandage. This method of application is most effective for the
treatment of infected skin. The carriers of topical compositions may comprise semi-solid
and gel-like vehicles that include a polymer thickener, water, preservatives, active
surfactants or emulsifiers, antioxidants, sun screens, and a solvent or mixed solvent system
Polymer thickeners that may be used include those known to one skilled in the art, such as
hydrophilic and hydroalcoholic gelling agents frequently used in the cosmetic and
pharmaceutical       industries.    Other      preferred     gelling    polymers      include
hydroxyethylcellulose,    cellulose gum, MVE/MA decadiene crosspolymer, PVM/MA
copolymer, or a combination thereof.
[000147]    It may be advantageous to have materials which exhibit adhesion to mucosal
tissues, to be administered with one or more phage enzymes and other complementary
agents over a period of time. Materials having controlled release capability are particularly
desirable, and the use of sustained release mucoadhesives has received a significant degree
of attention.   Other approaches involving mucoadhesives which are the combination of
hydrophilic and hydrophobic materials, are known. Micelles and multilamillar micelles
may also be used to control the release of enzyme. Materials having capacity to target or
adhere to surfaces, such as plastic, membranes, devices utilized in clinical practice,
including particularly any material or component which is placed in the body and
susceptible to bacterial adhesion or biofilm development, such as catheters, valves,
prosthetic devices, drug or compound pumps, stents, orthopedic materials, etc, may be
combined, mixed, or fused to the lysin(s) of use in the present invention.
[000148]    Therapeutic or pharmaceutical compositions of use in the method can also
contain polymeric mucoadhesives including a graft copolymer comprising a hydrophilic
main chain and hydrophobic graft chains for controlled release of biologically active
agents. The compositions of this application may optionally contain other polymeric
materials, such as poly(acrylic acid), poly,-(vinyl pyrrolidone), and sodium carboxymethyl
cellulose plasticizers, and other pharmaceutically acceptable excipients in amounts that do
not cause deleterious effect upon mucoadhesivity of the composition.
[000149]    A lytic enzyme/polypeptide(s) of the invention may be administered for use in
accordance with the invention by any pharmaceutically applicable or acceptable means
including topically, orally or parenterally. For example, the lytic enzyme/polypeptide(s)
can be administered intramuscularly, intrathecally, subdermally, subcutaneously, or
                                              46

intravenously to treat infections by gram-positive bacteria. In cases where parenteral
injection is the chosen mode of administration, an isotonic formulation is preferably used.
Generally, additives for isotonicity can include sodium chloride, dextrose, mannitol,
sorbitol and lactose. In some cases, isotonic solutions such as phosphate buffered saline
are preferred. Stabilizers include gelatin and albumin. A vasoconstriction agent can be
added to the formulation. The pharmaceutical preparations according to this application
are provided sterile and pyrogen free.
[000150]    For any compound, the therapeutically effective dose can be estimated initially
either in cell culture assays or in animal models, usually mice, rabbits, dogs, or pigs. The
animal model is also used to achieve a desirable concentration range and route of
administration.    Such information can then be used to determine useful doses and routes
for administration in humans. The exact dosage is chosen by the individual physician in
view of the patient to be treated.       Dosage and administration are adjusted to provide
sufficient levels of the active moiety or to maintain the desired effect. Additional factors
which may be taken into account include the severity of the disease state, age, weight and
gender of the patient; diet, desired duration of treatment, method of administration, time
and frequency      of administration,     drug combination(s),   reaction  sensitivities, and
tolerance/response to therapy.        Long acting pharmaceutical compositions might be
administered every 3 to 4 days, every week, or once every two weeks depending on half
life and clearance rate of the particular formulation.
[000151]    The effective dosage rates or amounts of the lytic enzyme/polypeptide(s) to be
administered, and the duration of treatment will depend in part on the seriousness of the
infection, the weight of the patient, particularly human, the duration of exposure of the
recipient to the infectious bacteria, the number of square centimeters of skin or tissue or
surface which are infected, the depth of the infection, the seriousness of the infection, and
a variety of a number of other variables. The composition may be applied anywhere from
once to several times a day, week, month, and may be applied for a short, such as days or
up to several weeks, or long term period, such as many weeks or up to months. The usage
may last for days or weeks or longer. Any dosage form employed should provide for a
minimum number of units for a minimum amount of time. The concentration of the active
units of enzymes believed to provide for an effective amount or dosage of enzymes may be
selected as appropriate.
                                               47

[000152]    The lysin may be administered in a single dose or multiple doses, singly or in
combination with another agent, such as one or more antibiotic. The lysin, optionally with
another agent, such as antibiotic, may be administered by the same mode of administration
or by different modes of administration. The lysin may be administered once, twice or
multiple times, one or more in combination or individually.             Thus, lysin may be
administered in an initial dose followed by a subsequent dose or doses, particularly
depending on the response and bacterial killing or decolonization or the dispersion of the
biofilm or killing of bacteria in the biofilm, and may be combined or alternated with
antibiotic dose(s). In a particular aspect of the invention a lysin, particularly PlySs2, or
combinations of antibiotic and lysin may be administered for longer periods and dosing
can be extended without risk of resistance.
[000153]    The term 'agent' means any molecule, including polypeptides, antibodies,
polynucleotides, chemical compounds and small molecules.        In particular the term agent
includes compounds such as test compounds, added additional compound(s), or lysin
enzyme compounds.
[000154]    The term 'agonist' refers to a ligand that stimulates the receptor the ligand
binds to in the broadest sense.
[000155]    The term 'assay' means any process used to measure a specific property of a
compound. A 'screening assay' means a process used to characterize or select compounds
based upon their activity from a collection of compounds.
[000156]    The term 'preventing' or 'prevention' refers to a reduction in risk of acquiring
or developing a disease or disorder (i.e., causing at least one of the clinical symptoms of
the disease not to develop) in a subject that may be exposed to a disease-causing agent, or
predisposed to the disease in advance of disease onset.
[000157]    The term 'prophylaxis' is related to and encompassed in the term 'prevention',
and refers to a measure or procedure the purpose of which is to prevent, rather than to treat
or cure a disease.     Non-limiting examples of prophylactic measures may include the
administration of vaccines; the administration of low molecular weight heparin to hospital
patients at risk for thrombosis due, for example, to immobilization; and the administration
of an anti-malarial agent such as chloroquine, in advance of a visit to a geographical region
where malaria is endemic or the risk of contracting malaria is high.
                                              48

[000158]    'Therapeutically effective amount' means that amount of a drug, compound,
antimicrobial, antibody, polypeptide, or pharmaceutical agent that will elicit the biological
or medical response of a subject that is being sought by a medical doctor or other clinician.
In particular, with regard to gram-positive bacterial infections and growth of gram-positive
bacteria, the term "effective amount" is intended to include an effective amount of a
compound or agent that will bring about a biologically meaningful decrease in the amount
of or extent of infection of gram-positive bacteria, including having a bacteriocidal and/or
bacteriostatic effect. The phrase "therapeutically effective amount" is used herein to mean
an amount sufficient to prevent, and preferably reduce by at least about 30 percent, more
preferably by at least 50 percent, most preferably by at least 90 percent, a clinically
significant change in the growth or amount of infectious bacteria, or other feature of
pathology such as for example, elevated fever or white cell count as may attend its
presence and activity.
[000159]    The term 'treating' or 'treatment' of any disease or infection refers, in one
embodiment, to ameliorating the disease or infection (i.e., arresting the disease or growth
of the infectious agent or bacteria or reducing the manifestation, extent or severity of at
least one of the clinical symptoms thereof).           In another embodiment 'treating'     or
'treatment' refers to ameliorating at least one physical parameter, which may not be
discernible by the subject. In yet another embodiment, 'treating' or 'treatment' refers to
modulating the disease or infection, either physically, (e.g., stabilization of a discernible
symptom), physiologically, (e.g., stabilization of a physical parameter), or both.        In a
further embodiment, 'treating'       or 'treatment' relates to slowing the progression of a
disease or reducing an infection.
[000160]    The phrase "pharmaceutically acceptable" refers to molecular entities and
compositions that are physiologically tolerable and do not typically produce an allergic or
similar untoward reaction, such as gastric upset, dizziness and the like, when administered
to a human.
[000161]    It is noted that in the context of treatment methods which are carried out in vivo
or medical and clinical treatment methods in accordance with the present application and
claims, the term subject, patient or individual is intended to refer to a human.
[000162]    The terms "gram-positive bacteria", "Gram-positive bacteria", "gram-positive"
and any variants not specifically listed, may be used herein interchangeably, and as used
                                                49

throughout the present application and claims refer to Gram-positive bacteria which are
known and/or can be identified by the presence of certain cell wall and/or cell membrane
characteristics and/or by staining with Gram stain. Gram positive bacteria are known and
can readily be identified and may be selected from but are not limited to the genera
Listeria, Staphylococcus, Streptococcus, Enterococcus, Mycobacterium, Corynebacterium,
and Clostridium, and include any and all recognized or unrecognized species or strains
thereof. In an aspect of the invention, the PlyS lysin sensitive gram-positive bacteria
include bacteria selected from one or more of Listeria,Staphylococcus, Streptococcus, and
Enterococcus.
[000163]    The term "bacteriocidal" refers to capable of killing bacterial cells.
[000164]    The term "bacteriostatic" refers to capable of inhibiting bacterial growth,
including inhibiting growing bacterial cells.
[000165]    The phrase "pharmaceutically acceptable" refers to molecular entities and
compositions that are physiologically tolerable and do not typically produce an allergic or
similar untoward reaction, such as gastric upset, dizziness and the like, when administered
to a human.
[000166]    The phrase "therapeutically effective amount" is used herein to mean an
amount sufficient to prevent, and preferably reduce by at least about 30 percent, more
preferably by at least 50 percent, most preferably by at least 90 percent, a clinically
significant change in the S phase activity of a target cellular mass, or other feature of
pathology such as for example, elevated blood pressure, fever or white cell count as may
attend its presence and activity.
[000167]    The invention provides methods for the prevention, dispersion, treatment
and/or decolonization of bacterial biofilms and the prevention of infections after dispersion
of biofilm(s) wherein one or more gram positive bacteria, particularly one or more of
Staphylococcus, Streptococcus, Enterococcus and Listeria bacteria, is suspected or
present, comprising administering lysin, particularly PlySs2 lysin, having capability to kill
S. aureus bacteria     including MRSA.     The invention provides methods for reducing or
preventing biofilm growth on the surface of devices, implants, separation membranes (for
example, pervaporation, dialysis, reverse osmosis, ultrafiltration, and microfiltration
membranes) comprising administering or utilizing lysin, particularly PlySs2 lysin, having
capability to kill S. aureus bacteria including MRSA.
                                              50

[000168]    The invention provides a method for treating a catheter-associated urinary tract
infection (CAUTI), wherein the infection is attributed to biofilm-associated bacteria, by
administering    a composition     comprising PlySs2     lysin.    The   invention provides
compositions comprising PlySs2 lysin for use in treating a catheter-associated urinary tract
infection (CAUTI), wherein the infection is attributed to biofilm-associated bacteria. The
methods or compositions comprise PlySs2 lysin, including the polypeptide as provided in
FIGURE 5 or SEQ ID NO: 1 or variants thereof capable of killing Staphylococcal and
Streptococcal bacteria, including S. aureus.         The methods or compositions may
additionally comprise one or more antibiotic.
[000169]    Endocarditis, including Staphylococcal endocarditis in the heart, such as in an
aortic valve or other valve or stent or device implanted in the heart or vessels thereof, is a
significant clinical concern, risk and reality for many heart patients.        The invention
provides a method for reducing, preventing, dispersing or treating endocarditis, including
Staphylococcal endocarditis, and for prevention or treatment of biofilm(s) on heart valves
or vascular stents. In these methods lysin, particularly PlySs2 lysin or active variants
thereof as provided herein, is administered to prevent or treat Staphylococcal endocarditis
or biofilm(s) on heart valves or vascular stents.
[000170]    The invention may be better understood by reference to the following non
limiting Examples, which are provided as exemplary of the invention. The following
examples are presented in order to more fully illustrate the preferred embodiments of the
invention and should in no way be construed, however, as limiting the broad scope of the
invention.
                                      EXAMPLE 1
[000171]    PlySs2 lysin demonstrates the ability to kill various strains of clinically
significant gram positive bacteria, including methicillin and vancomycin resistant and
sensitive strains of Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA, MSSA, VRSA and VISA). PlySs2 is a
unique lysin in having broad species killing activity and can kill multiple species of
bacteria, particularly gram-positive bacteria, significantly various antibiotic-sensitive and
antibiotic-resistant Staphylococcus, and also Streptococcus, including Group A and Group
B streptococcus.     Other PlySs2 sensitive bacteria include Enterococcus and Listeria
                                              51

    bacterial strains. A tabulation of sensitivity of various bacteria, including staphylococci
    and streptococci, to PlySs2 lysin is provided above including in TABLES 2 and 3.
    [000172]      A tabulation of additional MIC studies is shown below in TABLE 4.
                                                  TABLE 4
    PlySs2 and antibiotic activity against S. aureus strains*
Organisms             PlySs2         Daptomycin         Vancomycin         Oxacillin      Linezolid
(#of             MIC 90      [uM]   MIC 90     [uM]     MIC 90   [uM]   MIC50 /90  [uM] MIC 50/90 [uM]
strains)
MRSA               4         0.15      1        0.6       1       0.7    >4*       >10.   2         5.7
(n=45)                                                                               0
MSSA               4         0.15      1        0.6       1       0.7     n/a       n/a   2         5.7
(n-28)
VISA               32         1.2     8         4.9       4       2.7     n/a       n/a   2         5.7
(n=1 0)
VRSA               2         0.08      1        0.6      >16     >10.     n/a       n/a   2         5.7
(n=14)                                                             6
LRSA                2        0.08      1        0.6       1       0.7     n/a       n/a  >64      >183
(n=5)
DRSA               4         0.15     16        9.9       1       0.7     n/a       n/a   2         5.7
(n=8)
    * MICs were determined using the broth microdilution method and evaluating 80% growth
    inhibition according to CLSI methods (M07-A9).
    *Red/Bold=drug failure (MIC value is above EUCAST breakpoint for the indicated drug on
    S. aureus)
    [000173]      Notably and uniquely, despite activity against numerous clinically significant
    bacteria, including numerous Staphylococcus and Streptococcus strains and others tested
    as indicated in the above Tables, PlySs2 displays at most only minimal effects on other
    bacteria, particularly natural or commensal bacterial flora. TABLE 5 below demonstrates
    little lytic activity of PlySs2 against various commensal human gut bacteria.
                                                  TABLE 5
                                   Sensitivity of Gut Bacteria to PlySs2
                                                     52

     Organism                        N (# tested)       CF-301 MIC (ug/ml)
     Salmonella enteriditis       1                     >512
     Pseudomonas aeruginosa       11                    >512
     Escherichia coli             10                    >512
     Klebsiella spp.              8                     >512
     Proteus mirabilis            2                     >512
     Lactobacillus spp.           6                     >512
     Lactococcus spp.             3                     >512
[000174]    Biofilm formation is a key feature in the pathogenesis of many bacterial
infections (31). Within infected tissues (i.e. heart valves in endocarditis or bone in
osteomyelitis) or on implants (i.e. replacement joints and catheters), bacterial pathogens
such as S. aureus exist in biofilms providing a favorable environment for growth and
persistence, protected from the action of antibiotics and the immune system (32).        The
studies provided herein now demonstrate the potent anti-biofilm activity of PlySs2 lysin at
only a IX MIC concentration, in comparison to the complete inactivity of antibiotics used
at 1000X MIC concentrations.        This potent lysin anti-biofilm activity provides a means
and compositions which are effective against biofilms and will uniquely complement the
action of antibiotics by enabling access to lysin disrupted biofilms.
[000175]    In view of PlySs2's rapid bacterial killing and effects on numerous clinically
significant   bacterial   strains  and   species,   the   efficacy of PlySs2    lysin against
Staphylococcus aureus biofilms was tested in vitro using biofilm assays.
[000176]    Minimally inhibitory concentration of PlySs2 lysin against methicillin resistant
S. aureus MRSA strain ATCC BAA-42 was determined as 16 pLg/ml. This value is the
MIC determined in the presence of reducing agent (such as DTT or BMS) in the MIC
assay. Reducing agent is added for the purpose of improving reproducibility between and
among assays in determining MIC values. Biofilm studies are conducted without added
reducing agent. The MIC value for BAA-42 in the absence of reducing agent is 32 pLg/ml.
The MIC value is consistent with other MRSA strains on average as noted in the tables
provided above (see Tables 2 and 4). MICs were determined using the broth microdilution
method in accordance with standards and as described in the Clinical and Laboratory
Standards Institute (CLSI) document M07-A9 (Methods for dilutional antimicrobial
                                                 53

sensitivity tests for bacteria that grow aerobically. Volume 32 (Wayne [PA]: Clinical and
Laboratory Standards Institute [US], 2012).
[000177]    Biofilms were generated using a variation of the method described by Wu et al
(Wu JA et al (2003) Antimicrob Agents and Chemother 47(11):3407-3414).              Briefly,
1x106 stationary phase cells of methicillin-resistant S. aureus (MRSA) strain ATCC BAA
42 were inoculated into 2 ml of tryptic-soy broth supplemented with 1% glucose and
grown for 18 hours in 24-well tissue culture dishes at 37'C without aeration. Planktonic
cells (non-adherent bacteria) were removed by washing with IX PBS and remaining
bacteria (sessile, or biofilm bacteria) were then treated with the with PlySs2 lysin or with
antibiotic (daptomycin, linezolid or vancomycin obtained from Sigma-Aldrich) at various
concentrations for up to 24 hours. At the various time points (0 hours, 2 hours, 4 hours, up
to 24 hours), the wells were washed withIX PBS, fixed by air-drying at 37'C for 15
minutes, and stained with 1 ml of 1% crystal violet solution (Sigma-Aldrich) To visualize
remaining biofilm. The optical density of biofilms stained with crystal violet was also
determined to provide a more quantitative comparison.        An exemplary density study is
provided in FIGURE 7.
[000178]    In initial studies, biofilms of BAA-42 MRSA were treated with 1000X MIC
concentrations (1000 pg/ml) for each of daptomycin, linezolid, and vancomycin and IX
MIC (32 pg/ml) for PlySs2 lysin (without added reducing agent). All MIC values were
determined using the broth microdilution method described in the Clinical and Laboratory
Standards Institute (CLSI) document M07-A9 (Methods for dilutional antimicrobial
sensitivity tests for bacteria that grow aerobically. Volume 32. Wayne [PA]: Clinical and
Laboratory Standards Institute [US], 2012).     MRSA biofilms treated for up to 4 hours are
shown in FIGURE 1, up to 6 hours are shown in FIGURE 2, and up to 24 hours shown in
FIGURE 3. The biofilm is cleared within 2 hours on treatment with PlySs2 lysin alone at
1X MIC 32 pg/ml (FIGURE 1, 2 and 3). No change in biofilm is evident visually in 4
hours or 6 hours on treatment with 1000 ug/ml (1000 XMIC) of daptomycin, vancomycin,
or linezolid (FIGURE 1 and 2). This is consistent with previous reports which have shown
minimal sensitivity of biofilms to vancomycin at very high doses (10000 pg/ml) (Weigel
LM et al (2007) Antimicrob Agents and Chemother 51(1):231-238).
[000179]    Lower concentrations of PlySs2 lysin and daptomycin treatment were evaluated
against biofilms of MRSA strain BAA-42. Biofilms were treated with lower sub-MIC
                                              54

doses of PlySs2 for 0.5 hours, 1 hour, 4 hours and 24 hours. As described above, BAA-42
biofilms were generated in 24 well dishes and the wells were treated with either PlySs2
lysin or daptomycin antibiotic (with proper media controls). For PlySs2, sub-MIC doses
of either 3.2 ug/mL (a 1/lOX MIC value) or 0.32 ug/mL (a 1/1OOX MIC value) were used.
For daptomycin, either 1 ug/mL (a IX MIC value) or 10 ug/mL (a lOX MIC value) were
used. The wells were incubated for up to 24 hours, washed, fixed and stained. The results
are shown in FIGURE 4. Even at       1/ 1 0 0 th the MIC of PlySs2 lysin, biofilm dissolution is
observed.    Significant dissolution is demonstrated with PlySs2 lysin 3.2 pg/ml (1/lOX
MIC) at 4 hours, and even some dissolution is observed with 0.32 pg/ml (1/1OOX MIC) at
4 hours. With daptomycin concentrations up to lOX MIC, no dissolution is seen.
[000180]    Comparable MIC studies were completed using an alternative staphylococcal
lysin, particularly ClyS lysin, against ATCC BAA-42 MRSA biofilms. The MIC of the
ClyS lysin for this S. aureus strain is 32 ptg/ml. Polystyrene tissue culture plates were
inoculated with 5x10 5 CFUs of S. aureus strain ATCC BAA-42 per well (in Tryptic soy
broth with 0.2% glucose) and incubated for 24 hours at 35'C to allow biofilm formation.
Resulting biofilms were washed 3 times to remove planktonic cells and treated with
concentrations of ClyS lysin of 32 ptg/ml, 3.2 ptg/ml, 0.32 pg/ml and 0.032 pg/ml (or
media alone) for 24 hours at 35'C. Each well was washed and stained with 2% crystal
violet. Crystal violet stains the adherent biofilm material. The results using the various
concentrations of ClyS are depicted in FIGURE 14. ClyS effectively disperses the biofilm
at 32 pg/ml (IX MIC) and 3.2 pg/ml (0.1X MIC). Reduction in stained biofilm is also
observed at 0.32 pg/ml and somewhat at 0.032 ptg/ml. The Staphylococcal lysin ClyS is
capable of dispersing and reducing S. aureus biofilm.
                                          EXAMPLE 2
[000181]    Combinations of daptomycin plus lysin at sub MIC doses are evaluated on
biofilms. It has been found that PlySs2 lysin and daptomycin exert a synergistic lethal
effect on planktonic S. aureus cells (U.S. Provisional Application Serial No. 61/644,944
and 61/737,239).     A series of experiments are undertaken to investigate whether this
synergistic effect can also target bacteria in a biofilm.            The broth microdilution
checkerboard method (Sopirala MM et al. (2010) Antimicob Agents and Chemother
54(11):4678-4683) is applied to mature S. aureus biofilms grown in 96-well microtiter
                                                  55

 dishes.   The activity of sub-MIC combinations of lysin and daptomycin is examined
 against 18 hour biofilms of MRSA strain ATCC BAA-42 grown in the manner described
 above with the exception that cells are grown in 0.2 ml suspensions.           After biofilm
 formation, the wells are washed with IX PBS and treated with PlySs2 and daptomycin
 alone or in a series of combinations for 24 hours without aeration. The biofilms are then
 washed, fixed and stained as above to evaluate biofilm formation. The effect of sub-MIC
 drug combinations is thus evaluated by comparison to the effects of either drug alone at
 those same sub-MIC concentrations.
                                          EXAMPLE 3
                                Mixed Biofilm Studies In Vitro
 [000182]    PlySs2 lysin is also used in combination with daptomycin to target multi
 species biofilms. Biofilms often contain more than one bacterial species (Yang L et al
 (2011) FEMS Immunol and Med 62(3):339-347).               PlySs2 lysin and daptomycin are
 utilized to target biofilms comprised of the PlySs2- and daptomycin-sensitive S. aureus
 strain ATCC BAA-42 and the PlySs2-resistant, daptomycin-sensitive Enterococcus
faecalis strain. While E. faecalis strains are sensitive to daptomycin in planktonic form,
 they are nonetheless resistant to daptomycin as a sessile member of a biofilm. Only when
 the enterococci are released from a biofilm may they become resistant to daptomycin. To
 test the ability of PlySs2 to mediate this release (and thus sensitize E. faecalis to
 daptomycin), the following experiment is conducted.
 [000183]    Biofilms are generated as described above in 24 well dishes using an initial
 inoculums of 1x10 6 staphylococci and 1x10 6 enterococci (each alone and together).
 Biofilms are washed with PBS and treated with PlySs2 and daptomycin alone and in
 combination (using a series of sub-MIC combinations) for 24 hours. After treatment, the
 biofilm wells are separated into two fractions, including the non-adherent (including both
 living and dead bacteria) and the adherent (biofilm forms). The non-adherent fraction is
 plated for viability to determine relative CFU counts for staphylococci and enterococci.
 The CFU counts generated are compared to CFU counts for those biofilms treated with
 buffer controls. At the same time, the remaining biofilms are disrupted by sonication and
 plated for viability. In this manner, it can be determine if PlySs2 mediates the release of E.
faecalis from biofilms where it may be killed by the daptomycin.
                                                56

[0001841     Biofilms with lysinsantibiotics, lysinsantibioticR, lysinRantibioticS combinations
are also evaluated as noted below.
I. Staphylococcus/Enterococcus mixed biofilm - treatment with lysin plus antibiotic as
described above.
II. S. aureusiS.epidermidis mixed biofilm, or just S. epidermidisbiofilms are generated
and evaluated. Experiments are also performed as above using biofilms formed from S.
aureus and S. epidermidis bacteria.
III. Combination Staph + Strep bacteria biofilms, treatment with PlySs2 and dapto or other
antibiotics.
Experiments are performed as above using biofilms formed from both S. aureus and S.
pyogenes (or S. dysgalactiae). Since both S. pyogenes (Group A streptococcus) and S.
dysgalactiae(Group B streptococcus) are sensitive to PlySs2, these experiments will not
utilize daptomycin. Rather, PlySs2 lysin is evaluated alone to disrupt and kill organisms in
a mixed biofilm consisting of staphylococci and streptococci.
                                         EXAMPLE 4
                           In Vivo Catheter-Based Biofilm Models
[000185]     Staphylococcus aureus infections associated with indwelling devices can be
very difficult to treat due to the recalcitrant nature of bacterial biofilms to conventional
antibiotics, and generally require removal of infected devices such as catheters. Courses of
antibiotics can be administered and may even appear to eliminate most of the device
associated bacteria, only to have a recurrence of infection within a few days. This is
believed to result from residual persister staphylococci in the biofilm outgrowing,
repopulating the biofilm and reseeding the infection at the device site or elsewhere
(Darouiche RO (2004) N Engl J Med 350:1422-1429). Therefore, a treatment that would
rapidly kill staphylococci in biofilms and also be effective on planktonic bacteria would
be of great benefit. PlySs2 lysin is demonstrated in the prior examples to rapidly and
effectively clear S. aureus biofilms in vitro. This study assesses the ability of PlySs2 lysin
to eradicate established S. aureus biofilms on implanted catheters in vivo in mice.
[000186]     A catheter-based model was evaluated using catheters situated subcutaneous in
flank, intraperitoneal or intramuscular into the thigh (modified from Zhu Y et al (2007)
Infect Immunol 75(9):4219-4226). This catheter-based murine model is used to assess the
                                                57

impact of PlySs2 on biofilm viability in vivo. Prior to implantation, biofilms are grown in
vitro on segments of catheter tubing (PVC [polyvinyl chloride] containing DEHP [Di(2
ethylhexyl)phthalate] as a plasticizer; CareFusion SmartSite infusion set, #72023). The
lumen of each 2 inch catheter is inoculated with 200 ptl of Tryptic Soy Broth (TSB)
supplemented with 0.25% glucose containing 2x10 7 CFU of S. aureus, and biofilms are
grown for 72 hours at 37'C. Alternatively, catheters are cut into 2 mm segments and
placed in 1.0 ml of inoculated TSB supplemented with 0.25% glucose, and catheter
segments are passaged daily into fresh medium for three days prior to implantation.
Anesthesia is induced in 6-8 week old Balb/c mice by intraperitoneal injection of 0.15 ml
of 100 mg/kg ketamine and 10 mg/kg xylazine (Butler-Schein). Catheter segments are
implanted    subcutaneously   in each flank of the mice, or alternatively into the
intraperitoneal space or thigh muscle. Groups of 5-10 mice were implanted with biofilm.
Mice are treated with an appropriate amount of PlySs2, antibiotic or vehicle, or
combination of PlySs2 + antibiotic 1-24 hours post implantation. All mice from each
group were humanely sacrificed at 1-4 days post-infection. To quantify biofilm formation,
infected catheters were removed immediately after sacrifice, gently washed three times in
sterile PBS to remove non-adherent bacteria, and subsequently placed in 5 ml of sterile
PBS. Adherent bacteria are removed from the catheters by sonication. The number of
recovered bacteria is then quantified by serial dilution and plate counting on the
appropriate selective media. Alternatively, washed catheters were stained by 15 minute
incubation in Methylene Blue, washed two times in 5 ml of sterile PBS and visualized.
Methylene Blue stain can then be quantified by destaining in 0.2 ml of 30% acetic acid at
room temperature and the absorbance read at 600 nm. The extent of residual biofilm mass
is expressed as the absorbance reading at 600 nm divided by the weight of the catheter
segment (OD 6 00/gm).
[000187]    FIGURE 15 provides the results of such a catheter study wherein catheters with
S. aureus (MRSA strain ATCC BAA-42) biofilm grown for 3 days were implanted into
subcutaneous space in mice and then treated at 24 hours post implant. Mice were each
implanted with 2 catheters and 2 mice evaluated for each of the following conditions:
negative control (no biofilm, no agent), PlySs2 control (no biofilm mock treated with
PlySs2    agent),  vehicle  only, PlySs2    administered   intraperitoneally  (TP),  PlySs2
administered intravenously (IV), and PlySs2 administered subcutaneously (SC). PlySs2
                                             58

was administered as a single bolus of 100 pg (corresponding to 5mg/kg in the mouse and
-50 gg/ml dose). Catheters were removed 6 hrs post treatment and stained with methylene
blue.      The relative amount of staining (visualized at 600nm) under each condition is
presented in FIGURE 15. Each of the IP, IV and SC doses reduced staining, with the
subcutaneous bolus resulting in elimination of staining in the catheter to near control
levels.
                                        EXAMPLE 5
 [000188]   In another set of experiments, implanted jugular vein catheters in mice are pre
instilled with PlySs2 lysin to assess protection of mice from biofilm infection with this
pre-treatment. Using the jugular catheter animal model described above, the catheters of
jugular vein catheterized mice are pre-treated with instillation of PlySs2 lysin in PBS 24 h
prior to the S. aureus challenge. Control animals receive catheters pre-treated with PBS
alone. On the day of the challenge, 2 h prior to the challenge, all catheters are flushed with
PBS to remove excess unbound lysin, and then the mice are challenged with S. aureus via
the tail vein as described above. The challenged animals were sacrificed at various days
after the bacterial challenge and the catheters and organs recovered and bacteria quantified
as described above.
                                        EXAMPLE 6
 [000189]   Staphylococcal    endocarditis   is a biofilm based      infection that    can be
experimentally induced in the aortic valve of rats (Entenza JM et al (2005) IAI 73:990
998). Briefly, sterile aortic vegetations are produced in rats and infusion pumps to deliver
lysin are installed as described (Entenza et al). Endocarditis is induced 24 h later by i.v.
challenge with 105-107 staphylococci. At either 24 or 48 hours after infection, lysin and/or
antibiotics such as daptomycin, vancomycin, or linezolid are administered intravenously.
Control rats receive buffer alone. At various time points after infection up to 72 hours,
animals are sacrificed and quantitative blood and vegetation cultures were performed.
Bacterial densities are expressed as logio CFU per mL or gram of tissue, respectively.
                                        EXAMPLE 7
                                               59

[000190]    In order to compare relative biofilm eradication activities of PlySs2 and
standard-of-care antibiotics, a twenty-four hour time course analysis of PlySs2 and
antibiotic activity was performed on MRSA biofilms. Biofilms were generated in 24-well
polystyrene plates by inoculating 105 bacteria (MRSA strain ATCC BAA-42) into 0.5 ml
Tryptic-soy broth with 0.2% glucose (TSB+) per well and incubated for 24 hours at 37'C.
One plate was generated for each treatment time point to be assessed (0, 0.5, 1, 2, 4, 6 and
24 hours). After 24 hours, media was aspirated, wells were washed twice with IX PBS,
and the drug treatment was added and treatment time initiated.              Indicated drug
concentrations (1000XMIC for daptomycin, vancomycin or linezolid; 1XMIC for PlySs2
lysin) in 1 ml MHB2 (or MHB2 supplemented to 50 ug CaCl 2 per ml) were added to each
well and incubated for the indicated time periods before aspiration, 2 washes with 1X PBS,
and air drying for 15 minutes. Wells were stained with a 3% crystal violet solution in 1 ml
for 5 min, then aspirated, washed 3 times with 1X PBS, air dried for 15 minutes, and
photographed. All experiments were performed in duplicate. The results are shown in
FIGURES 6 and 7. Crystal violet staining of the wells is shown in FIGURE 6 and
quantitation of the dye retained in the wells of the plate is shown in FIGURE 7. PlySs2 at
1X MIC completely cleared the biofilm by 2 hours while daptomycin, vancomycin, and
linezolid at 1OOX MIC concentrations showed no biofilm clearance at 24 hours.
[000191]    In order to determine the ability of sub-MIC concentrations of PlySs2 to treat
biofilms, a twenty-four hour time course analysis was performed. Biofilms were generated
in 24-well polystyrene plates by inoculating 105 bacteria (MRSA strain ATCC BAA-42)
into 0.5 ml Tryptic-soy broth with 0.2% glucose (TSB+) per well and incubated for 24
hours at 37'C. One plate was generated for each treatment time point to be assessed (30
min, 1 hr, 4 hrs, 24 hrs). After 24 hours, media was aspirated, wells were washed twice
with IX PBS, and PlySs2 was added and treatment time initiated.           Indicated PlySs2
concentrations (0. 1X MIC and 0.0 1X MIC) in 1 ml MHB2, or media alone were added to
each well and incubated for the indicated time periods before aspiration, 2 washes with IX
PBS, and air drying for 15 minutes. Wells were stained with a 3% crystal violet solution
in 1 ml for 5 min and then aspirated, washed 3 times with IX PBS, air dried for 15
minutes, and photographed. All experiments were performed in duplicate.      The results are
shown in FIGURE 8. PlySs2 at 0.1X MIC cleared the biofilm by 4 hours. PlySs2 at 0.01X
                                              60

MIC yielded partial clearance at 4 hours while full clearance was observed by the 24 hour
time point.
                                        EXAMPLE 8
[000192]    The biofilm eradication      activities were assessed for both PlySs2 and
daptomycin against MRSA biofilms grown on catheters.         Biofilms were generated in 2
inch segments of catheter tubing (PVC [polyvinyl chloride] containing DEHP [Di(2
ethylhexyl)phthalate] as a plasticizer; (CareFusion SmartSite infusion set, #72023) by
inoculating 105 bacteria (MRSA strain ATCC BAA-42) into 0.2 ml Tryptic-soy broth with
0.2% glucose (TSB+) per segment and incubated for 72 hours at 37C. All samples were
set up in duplicate for either staining with methylene blue or quantitation of CFUs. After
72 hours, media was flushed out, segments were washed with 1 ml of IX PBS, and
treatment was added.      Indicated drug concentrations (lX MIC and lOOX MIC for
daptomycin, IX MIC for PlySs2) in 0.2 ml Lactated Ringer's solution were added to each
segment and incubated for 24 hours before flushing, and washing with lml IX PBS.
Duplicate samples were then examined as follows:           To assess biofilm eradication,
segments were stained with a 0.02% methylene blue solution (in water) in 0.22 ml for 15
min. Segments were then flushed, washed 3 times with dH2 0, air dried for 15 minutes, and
photographed. To quantitate the amount of live cells retained within the residual biofilms,
duplicate segments were treated with 0.22 ml lysis buffer (100 ug/ml lysostaphin in
Lactated Ringer's Solution) for 8 minutes. Next, 0.1 ml samples were removed, added to
96-well solid white polystyrene plate, and mixed with 0.1 ml of Promega BacTiter-Glo
Luciferin/Luciferase reagent and relative light units (RLUs) were immediately measured
(as specified by the kit manufacturer's instructions) and compared to a previously
generated standard curve correlating RLU values to known concentrations of bacteria. In
this manner, an estimation of bacterial CFUs in each biofilm was determined.
[000193]    The results are shown in FIGURE 9. Relative biofilm staining is shown in
FIGURE 9A. PlySs2 completely cleared the biofilm from the catheter at IX MIC, while
daptomycin did not remove significant biofilm even at 1OOX MIC. As seen in FIGURE
9B, PlySs2 at IX MIC took the CFUs down to the 100 CFU/ml, which is the limit of
detection, while no CFU reduction was seen with daptomycin at IX MIC and a two log
reduction from 100 million to 1 million CFU/ml was observed at 1OOX MIC daptomycin.
                                               61

[000194]    To determine lowest amount of PlySs2 needed to eradicate bioflm from
catheters, a titration experiment was performed (FIGURE 10). Biofilms were generated in
2 cm segments of DEHP catheter tubing by inoculating 105 bacteria (MRSA strain ATCC
BAA-42) into 0.2 ml Tryptic-soy broth with 0.2% glucose (TSB+) per segment and
incubated for 72 hours at 37C. After 72 hours, media was flushed out, segments were
washed with 1 ml of IX PBS, and drug treatment was added. Indicated drug concentration
(1X, 0.1X, 0.01X, 0.001X, 0.0001X and 0.00001X MIC amounts of PlySs2) in 0.2 ml
Lactated Ringer's solution were added to each segment and incubated for 24 hours before
flushing, and washing with 1ml IX PBS. Segments were stained with a 0.02% methylene
blue solution (in water) in 0.22 ml for 15 min, before being flushed, washed 3 times with
dH20, air dried for 15 minutes, and photographed. The amount of PlySs2 need to fully
eradicate the biofilm as determined by staining was 0.0iX MIC (0.32 ug/ml) (FIGURE
10). A similar titration analysis performed with daptomycin (lX, lOX, 1OX, 1000X,
5000X MIC daptomycin) showed that concentrations of daptomycin as high as 5000X
MIC (5 mg/ml) did not remove the biofilm (FIGURE 11).
[000195]    For quantitation of CFUs remaining after biofiolm treatment with lysin or
antibiotic, duplicate segments as assessed in FIGURE 10 and 11 were treated with 0.22 ml
lysis buffer (100 ug/ml lysostaphin in Lactated Ringer's Solution) for 8 minutes. Next, 0.1
ml samples were removed, added to 96-well solid white polystyrene plate, and mixed with
0.1 ml of Promega BacTiter-Glo Luciferin/Luciferase reagent and relative light units
(RLUs) were immediately measured (as specified by the kit manufacturer's instructions)
and compared to a previously generated standard curve correlating RLU value to known
concentrations of bacteria. In this manner, an estimation of bacterial CFUs in each biofilm
was determined. The titration analysis confirmed the results of methylene blue staining
and is provided in FIGURE 13. PlySs2 is active at removing biofilm bacteria down to a
0.O1X MIC concentration while daptomycin is completely ineffective up to concentrations
of 5000x MIC.
[000196]    A time course analysis of PlySs2 activity against MRSA catheter biofilms was
then performed (FIGURE 12). Biofilms were generated in 2 inch segments of DEHP
catheter tubing by inoculating 105 bacteria (MRSA strain ATCC BAA-42) into 0.2 ml
Tryptic-soy broth with 0.2% glucose (TSB+) per segment and incubated for 72 hours at
37C. Two samples were set up for each indicated time point (0 min, 5 min, 15 min, 30
                                             62

min, 60 min, 90 min, 2 hrs, 3 hrs, 4 hrs, 5 hrs) to accommodate methylene blue staining
and CFU quantitation. After 72 hours, media was flushed out, segments were washed with
1 ml of 1X PBS, and treatment was added. PlySs2 (IX MIC concentration, or 32 ug/mL)
in 0.2 ml Lactated Ringer's solution were added to each segment and incubated for
indicated time points before flushing, and washing with Iml IX PBS. Duplicate samples
were then examined at each time point as follows: segments were stained with a 0.02%
methylene blue solution (in water) in 0.22 ml for 15 min. Segments were then flushed,
washed 3 times with dH20, air dried for 15 minutes, and photographed. Duplicate
segments were treated with 0.22 ml lysis buffer (100 ug/ml lysostaphin in Lactated
Ringer's Solution) for 8 minutes. Next, 0.1 ml samples were removed, added to 96-well
solid white polystyrene plate, and mixed with 0.1           ml of Promega BacTiter-Glo
Luciferin/Luciferase reagent and relative light units (RLUs) were immediately measured
(as specified by the kit manufacturer's instructions) and compared to a previously
generated standard curve correlating RLU value to known concentrations of bacteria. In
this manner, an estimation of bacterial CFUs in each biofilm was determined. The time
course analysis revealed a progressive removal of stainable biofilm from the catheters at
1X MIC PlySs2 over time, with full removal by 60 minutes (FIGURE 12A). The CFU
analysis revealed a similar progressive time course, with CFU values at the limit of
detection (100 CFU/ml) by 60 minutes (FIGURE 12B).
                                        EXAMPLE 9
[000197]    To determine the stability of PlySs2 in a simulated catheter setting, PlySs2 was
incubated at various concentrations in Lactated Ringer's solution at 37C. After 7 days, the
lytic activity of PlySs2 was assessed by adding 1x10 5 staphylococci, incubating for 4
hours, then treating with proteinase K to remove residual PlySs2, and serial dilution and
plating for viability. The resulting CFU value for each condition was divided by 1x1 05 to
determine the % Loss of Activity.
[000198]    The results are tabulated below in TABLE 6. After a 7 day incubation in
Lactated Ringer's solution at 37C, undetectable activity losses were observed for the 1OX
and 1OOX MIC concentrations of PlySs2, while a 58.3% loss was determined for the 1X
MIC sample.
                                              63

                                            TABLE 6
                    PlySs2 Stability at 37 0 C in Lactated Ringer's Solution
                   TREATMENT                           % LOSS OF ACTIVITY (7 days)
                        1X MIC                                         58.3
                       loX MIC                                       <0.002
                      1OX MIC                                        <0.002
[000199]     The above indicates that PlySs2 is active and stable at least up to 7 days in a
simulated catheter setting and can effectively kill Staphylococci and thereby prevent
bacterial colonization even after an extended period of time incubating in Lactated
Ringer's, an exemplary standard care IV and flush solution.
                                         EXAMPLE 10
[000200]     A time course study was conducted to evaluate luminal sterilization in a
catheter to assess the viability of bacteria that are dislodged from the biofilm and are
suspended in the liquid phase of the lumen after or upon lysin treatment. In FIGURE 12
described above, it was demonstrated that the biofilm (adherent to the walls) is lost and
fully dispersed by 1 hour. In the present study, sterilization (complete kill) of bacteria in
the lumen, as evaluated by CFU analysis which detects live cells, occurs approximately
between 6 and 24 hours.     Biofilms were formed with strain ATCC BAA-42 for 3 days at
37 0 C. Biofilms were washed with IX PBS (to remove planktonic cells) and treated with
either lactated ringer's solution (buffer control) or lactated ringer's solution containing
PlySs2 lysin (at a 1X MIC concentration) or daptomycin (at a IX MIC concentration) and
also with PlySs2 lysin (at a lox MIC concentration). Biofilms were treated for up to 24
hours and CFUs evaluated at 2 minutes, 15 minutes, 30 minutes, 1 hour, 2 hrs , 6 hrs and
24 hours. At each time point, the lumenal contents of the catheters were removed and
plated for viability.   FIGURE 16 provides the results for IX MIC (32 tg/ml), IX MIC
daptomycin, and lOX MIC (320 pg/ml) level treatments versus buffer alone.
                                         EXAMPLE 11
                                                64

[000201]   Lysin was evaluated for effectiveness against Staphylococcus epidermidis
biofilms. Biofilms of various S. epidermidis strains were generated in polystyrene 24-well
microtiter plates and treated with PlySS2 lysin to determine the minimal inhibitory
concentration (MIC) and biofilm eradicating concentration (BEC) of PlySs2 against each
strain.  The results are tabulated below in TABLE 7 against over twenty distinct S.
epidermidis strains. The MIC (in micrograms/ml) was determined and calculated using
standard CLSI method for broth microdilution as described and referenced in the
Examples    above.     The biofilm     eradicating concentration   (BEC)   of PlySs2 (in
micrograms/ml) is the lowest concentration of a dilution range that completely destroys a
24 hour biofilm of the indicated strains.
[000202]   To determine BEC, 24 h biofilms were grown in 24 well plates, washed 2x with
PBS, and treated with or without PlySs2 (dilution range) prepared in Lactated Ringers
Solution. The treated plates were incubated at 37'C (ambient air) for 24 hours, washed
with PBS and stained with Crystal Violet (CV) for 15 minutes. The CV stain was next
solubilzed with 1 mL of 33% acetic acid in each well, and absorbance (OD 6oom) was read
using 200 uL of the solubilized CV. Percent biofilm was determined by dividing the
absorbance of the well with the absorbance of the no lysin well (biofilm control). The BEC
was determined as the value that showed >75% clearing of the biofilm.
                                              65

                                             TABLE 7
   CFS                 Type                        Designation                MIC  BEC
     166     Staphylococcus epidermidis  Environmental lab contaiminant;       na   5.12
                                         NY, NY, 16S rRNA sequencing
    224      Staphylococcus epidermidis  HER 1292                              512  5.12
    225      Staphylococcus epidermidis  HPH-6                                 128 0.512
    226      Staphylococcus epidermidis  HPH-5                                 512  5.12
    227      Staphylococcus epidermidis  HCN-4                               >512   5.12
    272      Staphylococcus epidermidis  NRS53 (VISE)                          128 0.215
    280      Staphylococcus epidermidis  NRS101 (MRSE)                         128 0.512
    300      Staphylococcus epidermidis  NRS8, (VISE)                          32  0.512
    313      Staphylococcus epidermidis  NRS34 (VISE)                           8  0.512
     533     Staphylococcus epidermidis  NRS6; (VISE); bloodstream USA        >512 0.512
     552     Staphylococcus epidermidis  ATCC #12228 (MSSE)                    na   51.2
     769     Staphylococcus epidermidis  NRS101                                64  0.512
     1152    Staphylococcus epidermidis  ATCC-14990                            na   5.12
     1154    Staphylococcus epidermidis  ATCC-49461                            na   5.12
     1161    Staphylococcus epidermidis  NRS850-VCU028                         na   5.12
     1164    Staphylococcus epidermidis  NRS853-VCU041                         na   5.12
     1165    Staphylococcus epidermidis  NRS854-VCU045                         na   5.12
     1168    Staphylococcus epidermidis  NRS857-VCU065                         na  0.512
     1174    Staphylococcus epidermidis  NRS864-VCU1 12                        na   51.2
     1184    Staphylococcus epidermidis  NRS874-VCU126                         na   5.12
     1185    Staphylococcus epidermidis  NRS875-VCU127                         na   5.12
     1186    Staphylococcus epidermidis  NRS876-VCU128                         na  0.512
MIC = minimum inhibitory concentration of PlySs2 (in jtg/ml) calculated using standard CLSI
method for broth microdilution. na, indicates the data is not available
BEC = Biofilm eradicating concentration of PlySs2 (in jIg/ml) is the lowest concentration of a
dilution range that completely destroys a 24 hour biofilm of the indicated strains
[000203]     These results demonstrate the potent activity of PlySs2 lysin against S.
epidermidis biofilms; notably, the potent activity extends to strains with high PlySs2 MIC
                                                 66

epidermidis biofilms; notably, the potent activity extends to strains with high PlySs2 MIC
levels. These data indicate PlySs2 will be active against a wide range of S. epidermidis
biofilms.
[000204]    S. epidermidis biofilms in catheters were treated with PlySs2 and evaluated
using methods similarly as described above for the S. aureus studies. S. epidermidis does
not produce biofilms on catheters as robustly as the S. aureus strains previously described,
however biofilm growth did occur and could be evaluated.
[000205]    The results of S. epidermidis (strain CFS 313 NRS34, which is a vancomycin
intermediate sensitive S. epidermidis (VISE) strain) biofilm studies on catheters treated
with PlySs2 at 1OX MIC and below are shown in FIGURE 17.            S. epidermidis biofilm is
destroyed at PlySs2 concentrations down to 0.1X MIC. The MIC here is 8 ug/ml.              A
similar result and comparable level of activity was observed with S. aureus strain CFS 218
(MRSA strain ATCC BAA-42).
                                       EXAMPLE 12
[000206]    The results of a biofilm prevention assay are presented in FIGURE 18.          S.
aureus MRSA strain BAA-42 (5x 105 bacteria/ml) was inoculated in 2 ml of TSB + 0.2%
glucose into each well of a row of a 24 well plate. Lysin PlySs2 was added immediately
(at concentrations IX MIC (32 ug/ml), 0.1X MIC, 0.01X MIC, 0.001X MIC and 0.0001X
MIC and then incubated for 6 hours at 37'C in ambient air. Wells were washed with PBS,
stained with Crystal Violet, and photographed to evaluate biofilm development under each
of the conditions. Buffer control was also evaluated simultaneously. In this study, the
bacteria and lysin PlySs2 (different concentrations) are added at the same time and biofilm
formation is allowed to proceed for 6 hours.           As demonstrated in FIGURE 18,
preincubation with 1X and 0.1X MIC PlySs2 can effectively and completely prevent the
subsequent formation of biofilm. Thus not only can PlySs2 eradicate mature biofilms, it
can prevent de novo biofilm formation as well.
                                       EXAMPLE 13
[000207]    In addition to biofilms generated by BAA-42 MRSA as described above,
additional S. aureus strain biofilms were evaluated for susceptibility to PlySs2 lysin. Each
of MRSA strains CFS 553 (ATCC 43300) (FIGURE 19) and CFS 992 (JMI 5381) were
                                              67

evaluated in catheter studies using methods as described above. In each instance, 3 day
old biofilms were washed and treated with indicated PlySS2 concentrations for 4 hours.
The IX MIC for strain ATCC 4330 is 16 tg/ml and the IX MIC for strain JMI 5381 is 32
 tg/ml. As shown in FIGURE 19 and 20, these alternative MRSA strain biofilms were
susceptible to PlySs2 and Plyss2 eradicated and fully dispersed the catheter biofilm at
levels of loX MIC, 1XMIC, and 0.1X MIC. The biofilms were significantly reduced in
each strain using 0.0iX MIC PlySs2.
                                        EXAMPLE 14
Biofilms were generated on catheter tubing (PVC with DEHP as plasticizer) as above and
evaluated for PlySs2 sensitivity by scanning electron microscopy (SEM). The three-day
old biofilms of MRSA strain CFS 218 (MRSA strain ATCC BAA-42) on the catheter
surface were treated with a 1X MIC concentration (ie, 32 ug/ml) of PlySs2 in Lactated
Ringer's Solution for either 30 seconds or 15 minutes before the treatment was washed
away and the remaining biofilm was fixed with gluteraldehyde. After fixation on the
catheter surface, samples were further processed and analyzed by scanning electron
microscopy at 5000x magnification (FIGURE 21). Treatment with buffer alone (ie,
Lactated Ringer's Solution alone) is included as a control. As shown in FIGURE 21, the
PlySs2 treatment rapidly diminishes the MRSA biofilm (within 30 seconds) and by 15
minutes almost completely removes the biofilm.
[000208]    REFERENCES
1.      Klevens, R.M., et al. Invasive Methicillin-Resistant Staphylococcus aureus
Infections in the United States. JAMA 298, 1763-1771 (2007).
2.      Brink, A.J. Does resistance in severe infections caused by methicillin-resistant
Staphylococcus aureus give you the 'creeps'? Currentopinion in criticalcare 18, 451-459
(2012).
3.      Ben-David, D., Novikov, I. & Mermel, L.A. Are there differences in hospital cost
between patients with nosocomial methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus bloodstream
infection and those with methicillin-susceptible S. aureus bloodstream infection? Infection
control and hospital epidemiology : the officialjournal of the Society of Hospital
Epidemiologists ofAmerica 30, 453-460 (2009).
4.      Fischetti, V.A. Bacteriophage lysins as effective antibacterials. Currentopinion in
microbiology 11, 393-400 (2008).
5.      Fenton, M., Ross, P., McAuliffe, 0., O'Mahony, J. & Coffey, A. Recombinant
bacteriophage lysins as antibacterials. BioengineeredBugs 1, 9-16 (2010).
                                              68

6.      Nelson, D., Loomis, L. & Fischetti, V.A. Prevention and elimination of upper
respiratory colonization of mice by group A streptococci by using a bacteriophage lytic
enzyme. Proceedings of the NationalAcademy of Sciences of the United States ofAmerica
98, 4107-4112 (2001).
7.      Witzenrath, M., et al. Systemic use of the endolysin Cpl-1 rescues mice with fatal
pneumococcal pneumonia. Criticalcare medicine 37, 642-649 (2009).
8.      McCullers, J.A., Karlstrom, A., Iverson, A.R., Loeffler, J.M. & Fischetti, V.A.
Novel Strategy to Prevent Otitis Media Cauesed by Colonizing Streptococcus pneumoniae.
PLOSpathogens3, 0001-0003 (2007).
9.      Pastagia, M., et al. A novel chimeric lysin shows superiority to mupirocin for skin
decolonization of methicillin-resistant and -sensitive Staphylococcus aureus strains.
Antimicrobial agents and chemotherapy 55, 738-744 (2011).
10.     Loeffler, J.M., Djurkovic, S. & Fischetti, V.A. Phage Lytic Enzyme Cpl-1 as a
Novel Antimicrobial for Pneumococcal Bacteremia. Infection and Immunity 71, 6199
6204 (2003).
11.     Entenza, J.M., Loeffler, J.M., Grandgirard, D., Fischetti, V.A. & Moreillon, P.
Therapeutic effects of bacteriophage Cpl-1 lysin against Streptococcus pneumoniae
endocarditis in rats. Antimicrobialagents and chemotherapy49, 4789-4792 (2005).
12.     Grandgirard, D., Loeffler, J.M., Fischetti, V.A. & Leib, S.L. Phage lytic enzyme
Cpl-1 for antibacterial therapy in experimental pneumococcal meningitis. The Journalof
infectious diseases 197, 1519-1522 (2008).
13.     Blaser, M. Stop killing beneficial bacteria. Nature 476, 393-394 (2011).
14.     Willing, B.P., Russell, S.L. & Finlay, B.B. Shifting the balance: antibiotic effects
on host-microbiota mutualism. Nature reviews. Microbiology 9, 233-243 (2011).
15.     Gilmer, D.B., Schmitz, J.E., Euler, C. & Fischetti, V.A. Novel Bacteriophage Lysin
with Broad Lytic Activity Protects against Mixed Infection by Methicillin-Resistant
Staphylococcus aureus and Streptococcus pyogenes TBD (2012).
16.     Schuch, R., Fischetti, V.A. & Nelson, D.C. A Genetic Screen to Identify
Bacteriophage Lysins. in Bacteriophages:Methods and Protocols, Volume 2: Molecular
and Applied Aspects, Vol. 502 307-319 (2009).
17.     Bateman, A. & Rawlings, N.D. The CHAP domain: a large family of amidases
including GSP amidase and peptidoglycan hydrolases. Trends Biochem Sci 28, 234-237
(2003).
18.     Whisstock, J.C. & Lesk, A.M. SH3 domains in prokaryotes. Trends in Biochemical
Sciences 24, 132-133 (1999).
19.     Rossi, P., et al. Structural elucidation of the Cys-His-Glu-Asn proteolytic relay in
the secreted CHAP domain enzyme from the human pathogen Staphylococcus
saprophyticus. Proteins 74, 515-519 (2009).
20.     Mueller, M., de la Pena, A. & Derendorf, H. Issues in Pharmacokinetics and
Pharmacodynamics of Anti-Infective Agents: Kill Curves versus MIC. Antimicrobial
agents and chemotherapy48, 369-377 (2004).
21.     Methods for dilution antimicrobial susceptibility tests for bacteria that grow
aerobically. Vol. 32 (Wayne (PA): Clinical and Laboratory Standards Institute (US),
2012).
22.     Friedman, L., Alder, J.D. & Silverman, J.A. Genetic changes that correlate with
reduced susceptibility to daptomycin in Staphylococcus aureus. Antimicrobial agents and
chemotherapy 50, 2137-2145 (2006).
                                                69

23.     Donlan, R.M. & Costerton, J.W. Biofilms: Survival Mechanisms of Clinically
Relevant Microorganisms. ClinicalMicrobiology Reviews 15, 167-193 (2002).
24.     Cottarel, G. & Wierzbowski, J. Combination drugs, an emerging option for
antibacterial therapy. Trends in biotechnology 25, 547-555 (2007).
25.     Tallarida, R.J. Revisiting the isobole and related quantitative methods for assessing
drug synergism. The Journalofpharmacology and experimental therapeutics342, 2-8
(2012).
26.     LaPlante, K.L., Leonard, S.N., Andes, D.R., Craig, W.A. & Rybak, M.J. Activities
of clindamycin, daptomycin, doxycycline, linezolid, trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole, and
vancomycin against community-associated methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus
with inducible clindamycin resistance in murine thigh infection and in vitro
pharmacodynamic models. Antimicrobialagents and chemotherapy 52, 2156-2162 (2008).
27.     Crandon, J.L., Kuti, J.L. & Nicolau, D.P. Comparative efficacies of human
simulated exposures of telavancin and vancomycin against methicillin-resistant
Staphylococcus aureus with a range of vancomycin MICs in a murine pneumonia model.
Antimicrobial agents and chemotherapy 54, 5115-5119 (2010).
28.     Abad, C.L., Kumar, A. & Safdar, N. Antimicrobial therapy of sepsis and septic
shock--when are two drugs better than one? Criticalcare clinics 27, el-27 (2011).
29.     Fischbach, M.A. Combination therapies for combating antimicrobial resistance.
Currentopinion in microbiology 14, 519-523 (2011).
30.     Loeffler, J.M., Nelson, D. & Fischetti, V.A. Rapid killing of Streptococcus
pneumoniae with a bacteriophage cell wall hydrolase. Science 294, 2170-2172 (2001).
31.     Costerton, J.W. Bacterial Biofilms: A Common Cause of Persistent Infections.
Science 284, 1318-1322 (1999).
32.     Kiedrowski, M.R. & Horswill, A.R. New approaches for treating staphylococcal
biofilm infections. Annals of the New York Academy of Sciences 1241, 104-121 (2011).
33.     Domenech, M., Garcia, E. & Moscoso, M. In vitro destruction of Streptococcus
pneumoniae biofilms with bacterial and phage peptidoglycan hydrolases. Antimicrobial
agents and chemotherapy 55, 4144-4148 (2011).
34.     Meng, X., et al. Application of a bacteriophage lysin to disrupt biofilms formed by
the animal pathogen Streptococcus suis. Applied and environmental microbiology 77,
8272-8279 (2011).
35.     Schuch, R., Nelson, D. & Fischetti, V. A bacteriolytic agent that detects and kills
Bacillus anthracis. Nature 418, 884-889 (2002).
36.     Fischetti, V.A., Nelson, D. & Schuch, R. Reinventing phage therapy: are the parts
greater than the sum? Nature Biotechnology 24, 1508-1511 (2006).
37.     Manoharadas, S., Witte, A. & Blasi, U. Antimicrobial activity of a chimeric
enzybiotic towards Staphylococcus aureus. Journalof biotechnology 139, 118-123 (2009).
38.     Rashel, M., et al. Efficient elimination of multidrug-resistant Staphylococcus
aureus by cloned lysin derived from bacteriophage phi MR1 1. The Journalof infectious
diseases 196, 1237-1247 (2007).
39.     Daniel, A., et al. Synergism between a novel chimeric lysin and oxacillin protects
against infection by methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus. Antimicrobial agents and
chemotherapy 54, 1603-1612 (2010).
40.     Kokai-Kun, J.F., Chanturiya, T. & Mond, J.J. Lysostaphin as a treatment for
systemic Staphylococcus aureus infection in a mouse model. The Journalof antimicrobial
chemotherapy 60, 1051-1059 (2007).
                                               70

41.     Dhand, A., et al. Use of antistaphylococcal beta-lactams to increase daptomycin
activity in eradicating persistent bacteremia due to methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus
aureus: role of enhanced daptomycin binding. Clinicalinfectious diseases : an official
publicationof the Infectious Diseases Society ofAmerica 53, 158-163 (2011).
42.     Matias, V.R. & Beveridge, T.J. Cryo-electron microscopy of cell division in
Staphylococcus aureus reveals a mid-zone between nascent cross walls. Molecular
microbiology 64, 195-206 (2007).
43.     Kashyap, D.R., et al. Peptidoglycan recognition proteins kill bacteria by activating
protein-sensing two-component systems. Nature medicine 17, 676-683 (2011).
44.     Moise, P.A., North, D., Steenbergen, J.N. & Sakoulas, G. Susceptibility
relationship between vancomycin and daptomycin in Staphylococcus aureus: facts and
assumptions. Lancet Infect Dis 9, 617-624 (2009).
45.     Jobson, S., Moise, P.A. & Eskandarian, R. Retrospective observational study
comparing vancomycin versus daptomycin as initial therapy for Staphylococcus aureus
infections. Clinicaltherapeutics33, 1391-1399 (2011).
46.     Schweizer, M.L., et al. Comparative effectiveness of nafcillin or cefazolin versus
vancomycin in methicillin-susceptible Staphylococcus aureus bacteremia. BMC infectious
diseases 11, 279 (2011).
47.     Berti, A.D., et al. Altering the proclivity towards daptomycin resistance in
methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus using combinations with other antibiotics.
Antimicrobial agents and chemotherapy 56, 5046-5053 (2012).
48.     Sopirala, M.M., et al. Synergy testing by Etest, microdilution checkerboard, and
time-kill methods for pan-drug-resistant Acinetobacter baumannii. Antimicrobial agents
and chemotherapy 54, 4678-4683 (2010).
49.     Methods for dilution antimicrobial susceptibility tests for bacteria that grow
aerobically. Vol. 32 (Clinical and Laboratory Standards Institute (US), Wayne (PA),
2012).
50.     ClinicalMicrobiology ProceduresHandbook 3rd Ed. Washington DC, (ASM
Press, 2010).
51.     Pereira, P.M., Filipe, S.R., Tomasz, A. & Pinho, M.G. Fluorescence ratio imaging
microscopy shows decreased access of vancomycin to cell wall synthetic sites in
vancomycin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus. Antimicrobialagents and chemotherapy 51,
3627-3633 (2007).
52.     Zhang, Y. I-TASSER server for protein 3D structure prediction. BMC
bioinformatics9, 40 (2008).
53.     Pettersen, E.F., et al. UCSF Chimera--a visualization system for exploratory
research and analysis. Journal of computationalchemistry 25, 1605-1612 (2004).
[000209]    This invention may be embodied in other forms or carried out in other ways
without departing from the spirit or essential characteristics thereof.           The present
disclosure is therefore to be considered as in all aspects illustrate and not restrictive, the
scope of the invention being indicated by the appended Claims, and all changes which
come within the meaning and range of equivalency are intended to be embraced therein.
                                                71

[000210]    Various references are cited throughout this Specification, each of which is
incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. The reference to any prior art in this
specification is not, and should not be taken as, an acknowledgement of any form of
suggestion that such prior art forms part of the common general knowledge.
[000211]    Throughout the specification and the claims that follow, unless the context
requires otherwise,    the words "comprise"       and "include"     and variations such as
"comprising" and "including" will be understood to imply the inclusion of a stated integer
or group of integers, but not the exclusion of any other integer or group of integers.
                                               72

THE CLAIMS DEFINING THE INVENTION ARE AS FOLLOWS:
1. A method of disrupting or treating a gram-positive bacterial bioflm comprising one or
more of Staphylococcus or Streptococcus bacteria comprising contacting the bioflm with
a chimeric protein comprising a catalytic domain or binding domain of a lysin
polypeptide comprising an amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 1 or variants thereof
having at least 80% identity to the catalytic domain or binding domain of SEQ ID NO: 1
and effective to kill or bind Staphylococcus and Streptococcus bacteria, said catalytic
domain or binding domain operably linked to a heterologous polypeptide, wherein the
chimeric protein is effective to kill the Staphylococcus and Streptococcus bacteria in the
biofilm and the biofilm is effectively dispersed or treated.
2.   The method of claim 1, wherein the chimeric protein is a chimeric lytic enzyme
comprising the catalytic domain of SEQ ID NO: 1 or variants thereof having at least 80%
identity to the catalytic domain of SEQ ID NO: 1 and effective to kill Staphylococcus and
Streptococcus bacteria, wherein said catalytic domain is operably linked to a binding
domain of another lysin.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein the catalytic domain is operably linked to a binding
domain of a Staphylococcus-specific lysin or wherein the catalytic domain is operably
linked to a binding domain of a Streptococcus-specific lysin.
4. The method of either of claims 1 or 2, wherein the catalytic domain comprises SEQ ID
NO: 3 or variants thereof having at least 80% identity to SEQ ID NO: 3 and biologically
active to kill Staphylococcus and Streptococcus bacteria.
5.   The method of claim 1, wherein the chimeric protein is a chimeric lytic enzyme
comprising the binding domain of SEQ ID NO: 1 or variants thereof having at least 80%
identity to the binding domain of SEQ ID NO: 1 and effective to bind Staphylococcus and
Streptococcus bacteria, wherein said binding domain is operably linked to a catalytic
domain of another lysin.
                                               73

6. The method of claim 5, wherein the binding domain is operably linked to a catalytic
domain of a Staphylococcus-specific lysin or wherein the binding domain is operably
linked to a catalytic domain of a Streptococcus-specific lysin.
7. The method of claim 1 or 5, wherein the binding domain comprises SEQ ID NO: 4 or
variants thereof having at least 80% identity to SEQ ID NO: 4 and biologically active to
bind Staphylococcus and Streptococcus bacteria.
8.  The method of any one of the preceding claims, further comprising contacting the
biofilm with one or more antibiotic.
9.    The method of claim 8, wherein the antibiotic is selected from daptomycin,
vancomycin, and linezolid.
10. A method of reducing a population of Staphylococcus or Streptococcus bacteria in a
biofilm formed on a medical device, catheter or implant comprising contacting the
medical device, catheter or implant with biofilm with a chimeric protein comprising a
catalytic domain or binding domain of a lysin polypeptide comprising an amino acid
sequence of SEQ ID NO: 1 or variants thereof having at least 80% identity to the catalytic
domain or binding domain of SEQ ID NO: 1 and effective to kill or bind Staphylococcus
and Streptococcus bacteria, said catalytic domain or binding domain operably linked to a
heterologous polypeptide, wherein the chimeric protein is effective to kill or release the
Staphylococcus and Streptococcus bacteria in the biofilm.
11.   The method of claim 10, wherein the chimeric protein is a chimeric lytic enzyme
comprising the catalytic domain of SEQ ID NO: 1 or variants thereof having at least 80%
identity to the catalytic domain of SEQ ID NO: 1 and effective to kill Staphylococcus and
Streptococcus bacteria, wherein said catalytic domain is operably linked to a binding
domain of another lysin.
                                              74

12. The method of claim 11, wherein the catalytic domain is operably linked to a binding
domain of a Staphylococcus-specific lysin or wherein the catalytic domain is operably
linked to a binding domain of a Streptococcus-specific lysin.
13.   The method of claim 10 or 11, wherein the catalytic domain comprises SEQ ID
NO: 3 or variants thereof having at least 80% identity to SEQ ID NO: 3 and biologically
active to kill Staphylococcus and Streptococcus bacteria.
14. The method of claim 10, wherein the chimeric protein is a chimeric lytic enzyme
comprising the binding domain of SEQ ID NO: 1 or variants thereof having at least 80%
identity to the binding domain of SEQ ID NO: 1 and effective to bind Staphylococcus and
Streptococcus bacteria, wherein said binding domain is operably linked to a catalytic
domain of another lysin.
15. The method of claim 14, wherein the binding domain is operably linked to a catalytic
domain of a Staphylococcus-specific lysin or wherein the binding domain is operably
linked to a catalytic domain of a Streptococcus-specific lysin.
16. The method of claim 10 or 14, wherein the binding domain comprises SEQ ID NO: 4
or variants thereof having at least 80% identity to SEQ ID NO: 4 and biologically active
to bind Staphylococcus and Streptococcus bacteria.
17. The method of any one of claims 10 to 16, further comprising contacting the biofilm
with one or more antibiotic.
18.   The method of claim 17, wherein the antibiotic is selected from daptomycin,
vancomycin, and linezolid.
19.   The method of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the Staphylococcus or
Streptococcus bacteria are antibiotic-resistant bacteria.
                                                75

20. The method of claim 19, wherein the antibiotic-resistant bacteria are selected from
methicillin-resistant   Staphylococcus     aureus      (MRSA),     vancomycin    resistant
Staphylococcus aureus (VRSA), daptomycin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (DRSA), or
linezolid-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (LRSA).
21.    The method of any one of claims 1 to 20, wherein the Staphylococcus or
Streptococcus bacteria have altered antibiotic sensitivity.
22.    The method of claim 21, wherein the bacteria are vancomycin intermediate
sensitivity Staphylococcus aureus (VISA).
23.   Use of a composition comprising an effective amount of chimeric lytic enzyme
comprising a catalytic domain or binding domain of a lysin polypeptide comprising an
amino acid sequence as set out in SEQ ID NO: 1 or variants thereof having at least 80%
identity to SEQ ID NO: 1 and effective to kill or bind Staphylococcus and Streptococcus
bacteria, wherein said catalytic domain is operably linked to a binding domain of another
lysin or wherein said binding domain is operably linked to a catalytic domain of another
lysin, and wherein the chimeric lytic enzyme is effective to kill Staphylococcus and
Streptococcus bacteria in the biofilm, in the manufacture of a medicament for disruption
or treatment of a bacterial biofilm comprising one or more of Staphylococcus or
Streptococcus bacteria.
24. The use of claim 23, further comprising one or more antibiotic.
25. The use of claim 23 or 24, wherein the catalytic domain comprises SEQ ID NO: 3 or
variants thereof having at least 80% identity to SEQ ID NO: 3 and biologically active to
kill Staphylococcus and Streptococcus bacteria.
26. The use of claim 23 or 24, wherein the binding domain comprises SEQ ID NO: 4 or
variants thereof having at least 80% identity to SEQ ID NO: 4 and biologically active to
bind Staphylococcus and Streptococcus bacteria.
                                               76

27. The use of any one of claims 23 to 26, wherein the biofilm comprises one or more
Staphylococcus or Streptococcus bacteria            selected from Staphylococcus aureus,
Staphylococcus simulans, Streptococcus suis, Staphylococcus epidermidis, Streptococcus
equi, Streptococcus equi zoo, Streptococcus agalactiae (GBS), Streptococcus pyogenes
(GAS), Streptococcus sanguinis, Streptococcus gordonii, Streptococcus dysgalactiae,
Group G Streptococcus, Group E Streptococcus and Streptococcuspneumonia.
28. The use of any one of claims 23 to 27, wherein bacteria in the biofilm are antibiotic
resistant bacteria or have altered antibiotic sensitivity.
29.   The use of claim 28, wherein the antibiotic-resistant bacteria are selected from
methicillin-resistant    Staphylococcus       aureus     (MRSA),    vancomycin    resistant
Staphylococcus aureus (VRSA), daptomycin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (DRSA),
linezolid-resistant   Staphylococcus aureus (LRSA),          or  vancomycin  intermediate
sensitivity Staphylococcus aureus (VISA).
                                                 77

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
                                                      1
<removed-date>
                                           SEQUENCE LISTING
              <110>   Schuch, Raymond
              <120>   BIOFILM PREVENTION, DISRUPTION AND TREATMENT WITH BACTERIOPHAGE
                      LYSIN
              <130>   3136-1-008PCT
              <140>   UNASSIGNED
<removed-apn>
              <141>   2013-05-09
              <150>   61/644,799
              <151>   2012-05-09
              <150>   61/736,813
              <151>   2012-12-13
              <160>   5
              <170>   PatentIn version 3.5
              <210>   1
              <211>   245
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Streptococcus suis
              <400>   1
              Met Thr Thr Val Asn Glu Ala Leu Asn Asn Val Arg Ala Gln Val Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Ser Gly Val Ser Val Gly Asn Gly Glu Cys Tyr Ala Leu Ala Ser Trp
                          20                  25                  30
              Tyr Glu Arg Met Ile Ser Pro Asp Ala Thr Val Gly Leu Gly Ala Gly
                      35                  40                  45
              Val Gly Trp Val Ser Gly Ala Ile Gly Asp Thr Ile Ser Ala Lys Asn
                  50                  55                  60
              Ile Gly Ser Ser Tyr Asn Trp Gln Ala Asn Gly Trp Thr Val Ser Thr
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Ser Gly Pro Phe Lys Ala Gly Gln Ile Val Thr Leu Gly Ala Thr Pro
                              85                  90                  95
              Gly Asn Pro Tyr Gly His Val Val Ile Val Glu Ala Val Asp Gly Asp
                          100                 105                 110

                                                  2
<removed-date>
              Arg Leu Thr Ile Leu Glu Gln Asn Tyr Gly Gly Lys Arg Tyr Pro Val
                      115                 120                 125
              Arg Asn Tyr Tyr Ser Ala Ala Ser Tyr Arg Gln Gln Val Val His Tyr
                  130                 135                 140
              Ile Thr Pro Pro Gly Thr Val Ala Gln Ser Ala Pro Asn Leu Ala Gly
              145                 150                 155                 160
<removed-apn>
              Ser Arg Ser Tyr Arg Glu Thr Gly Thr Met Thr Val Thr Val Asp Ala
                              165                 170                 175
              Leu Asn Val Arg Arg Ala Pro Asn Thr Ser Gly Glu Ile Val Ala Val
                          180                 185                 190
              Tyr Lys Arg Gly Glu Ser Phe Asp Tyr Asp Thr Val Ile Ile Asp Val
                      195                 200                 205
              Asn Gly Tyr Val Trp Val Ser Tyr Ile Gly Gly Ser Gly Lys Arg Asn
                  210                 215                 220
              Tyr Val Ala Thr Gly Ala Thr Lys Asp Gly Lys Arg Phe Gly Asn Ala
              225                 230                 235                 240
              Trp Gly Thr Phe Lys
                              245
              <210>   2
              <211>   738
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Streptococcus suis
              <400> 2
              atgacaacag taaatgaagc attaaataat gtaagagctc aggttgggtc cggtgtgtct
              60
              gttggcaacg gcgaatgcta cgctttggct agttggtacg agcgcatgat tagtccggat
              120
              gcaactgtcg gacttggcgc tggtgtgggc tgggtcagcg gtgcaatcgg cgatacaatc
              180
              tctgccaaaa acatcggctc atcatacaac tggcaagcta acggctggac agtttccaca
              240
              tctggtccat ttaaagcagg tcagattgtg acgcttgggg caacaccagg aaacccttac
              300

                                                  3
<removed-date>
              ggacatgtgg taatcgtcga agcagtggac ggcgatagat tgactatttt ggagcaaaac
              360
              tacggcggga aacgttatcc cgtccgtaat tattacagcg ctgcaagcta tcgtcaacag
              420
              gtcgtgcatt acatcacacc gcctggcacg gtcgcacagt cagcacccaa ccttgcaggc
              480
              tctcgttcct atcgcgagac gggcactatg actgtcacgg tcgatgctct caatgttcgc
<removed-apn>
              540
              agggcgccaa atacttcagg cgagattgta gcagtataca agcgtggtga atcatttgac
              600
              tatgatactg tcatcatcga tgtcaatggc tatgtctggg tgtcttacat aggcggcagc
              660
              ggcaaacgta actacgttgc gacgggcgct accaaagacg gtaagcgttt cggcaatgct
              720
              tggggtacat ttaaataa
              738
              <210>   3
              <211>   139
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Streptococcus suis
              <400>   3
              Leu Asn Asn Val Arg Ala Gln Val Gly Ser Gly Val Ser Val Gly Asn
              1               5                   10                  15
              Gly Glu Cys Tyr Ala Leu Ala Ser Trp Tyr Glu Arg Met Ile Ser Pro
                          20                  25                  30
              Asp Ala Thr Val Gly Leu Gly Ala Gly Val Gly Trp Val Ser Gly Ala
                      35                  40                  45
              Ile Gly Asp Thr Ile Ser Ala Lys Asn Ile Gly Ser Ser Tyr Asn Trp
                  50                  55                  60
              Gln Ala Asn Gly Trp Thr Val Ser Thr Ser Gly Pro Phe Lys Ala Gly
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Gln Ile Val Thr Leu Gly Ala Thr Pro Gly Asn Pro Tyr Gly His Val
                              85                  90                  95
              Val Ile Val Glu Ala Val Asp Gly Asp Arg Leu Thr Ile Leu Glu Gln
                          100                 105                 110

                                                  4
<removed-date>
              Asn Tyr Gly Gly Lys Arg Tyr Pro Val Arg Asn Tyr Tyr Ser Ala Ala
                      115                 120                 125
              Ser Tyr Arg Gln Gln Val Val His Tyr Ile Thr
                  130                 135
<removed-apn>
              <210>   4
              <211>   67
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Streptococcus suis
              <400>   4
              Arg Ser Tyr Arg Glu Thr Gly Thr Met Thr Val Thr Val Asp Ala Leu
              1               5                   10                  15
              Asn Val Arg Arg Ala Pro Asn Thr Ser Gly Glu Ile Val Ala Val Tyr
                          20                  25                  30
              Lys Arg Gly Glu Ser Phe Asp Tyr Asp Thr Val Ile Ile Asp Val Asn
                      35                  40                  45
              Gly Tyr Val Trp Val Ser Tyr Ile Gly Gly Ser Gly Lys Arg Asn Tyr
                  50                  55                  60
              Val Ala Thr
              65
              <210>   5
              <211>   280
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Staphylococcus aureus
              <400>   5
              Met Glu Thr Leu Lys Gln Ala Glu Ser Tyr Ile Lys Ser Lys Val Asn
              1               5                   10                  15
              Thr Gly Thr Asp Phe Asp Gly Leu Tyr Gly Tyr Gln Cys Met Asp Leu
                          20                  25                  30
              Ala Val Asp Tyr Ile Tyr His Val Thr Asp Gly Lys Ile Arg Met Trp
                      35                  40                  45
              Gly Asn Ala Lys Asp Ala Ile Asn Asn Ser Phe Gly Gly Thr Ala Thr
                  50                  55                  60

                                                  5
<removed-date>
              Val Tyr Lys Asn Tyr Pro Ala Phe Arg Pro Lys Tyr Gly Asp Val Val
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Val Trp Thr Thr Gly Asn Phe Ala Thr Tyr Gly His Ile Ala Ile Val
                              85                  90                  95
<removed-apn>
              Thr Asn Pro Asp Pro Tyr Gly Asp Leu Gln Tyr Val Thr Val Leu Glu
                          100                 105                 110
              Gln Asn Trp Asn Gly Asn Gly Ile Tyr Lys Thr Glu Leu Ala Thr Ile
                      115                 120                 125
              Arg Thr His Asp Tyr Thr Gly Ile Thr His Phe Ile Arg Pro Asn Phe
                  130                 135                 140
              Ala Thr Glu Ser Ser Val Lys Lys Lys Asp Thr Lys Lys Lys Pro Lys
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Pro Ser Asn Arg Asp Gly Leu Asn Lys Asp Lys Ile Val Tyr Asp Arg
                              165                 170                 175
              Thr Asn Ile Asn Tyr Asn Met Val Leu Gln Gly Lys Ser Ala Ser Lys
                          180                 185                 190
              Ile Thr Val Gly Ser Lys Ala Pro Tyr Asn Leu Lys Trp Ser Lys Gly
                      195                 200                 205
              Ala Tyr Phe Asn Ala Lys Ile Asp Gly Leu Gly Ala Thr Ser Ala Thr
                  210                 215                 220
              Arg Tyr Gly Asp Asn Arg Thr Asn Tyr Arg Phe Asp Val Gly Gln Ala
              225                 230                 235                 240
              Val Tyr Ala Pro Gly Thr Leu Ile Tyr Val Phe Glu Ile Ile Asp Gly
                              245                 250                 255
              Trp Cys Arg Ile Tyr Trp Asn Asn His Asn Glu Trp Ile Trp His Glu
                          260                 265                 270
              Arg Leu Ile Val Lys Glu Val Phe
                      275                 280

