Abstract
A cooler box 10 comprising a base wall 12 and side walls 14 which together define an internal
space 16. Disposed within the internal space 16 of the cooler box 10 is an internal cooling
assembly 20. The internal cooling assembly 20 comprises rigid side wall sections 22 and rigid
shelf sections 24. The side wall sections 22 and the shelf sections 24 are both freezer packs
which comprise a rigid external shell having a freezable liquid, semi-liquid, or gel therein. The
side wall sections 22 are adapted to extend along the internal surfaces of the side walls 14.
As the side wall sections 22 and the shelf sections 24 are all cooling sources, such as rigid or
semi-rigid ice packs, they create cooled subspaces for storing food and/or drinks.

            10
    16
20                        18
                                  34
             24b
              22b                33
                                 14
               4a
             22a
       18         20          32
                       12
   FIGURE 1          FIGURE 2

                                                   1
COOLER BOX
Field of the Invention
[1]     The present invention relates to a cooler box.
Background of the Invention
[2]     A cooler box (also called ice chest, cool box, esky, etc.) as is known is an insulated
box with a lid and is used to keep food or drinks cool using ice or frozen packs. Using ice
however increases the weight and melting ice becomes a problem.              Frozen packs are
convenient but may not provide the needed cooling.
[3]     The present invention seeks to overcome or substantially ameliorate at least some of
the deficiencies of the prior art, or to at least provide an alternative.
[4]     It is to be understood that, if any prior art information is referred to herein, such
reference does not constitute an admission that the information forms part of the common
general knowledge in the art, in Australia or any other country.
Summary of the Invention
[5]     According to a first aspect, the present invention provides a cooler box comprising:
        a base wall and side walls which together define an internal space, and
        at least one internal divider wall for placement within the internal space, the at least
        one divider wall for dividing the internal space into two or more subspaces,
        wherein the at least one internal divider wall is a cooling source for cooling the
        subspaces.
[6]     In one embodiment, the cooler box further comprises a lid to extend across a top edge
of the side walls to close the internal space, wherein the base wall, the side walls and the lid
are insulated.
[7]     In another embodiment, at least one internal divider wall comprises a horizontal shelf
section to extend substantially horizontally within the internal space.
[8]     In another embodiment, the cooler box comprises two or more shelf sections vertically
spaced within the internal space.
[9]     In another embodiment, the at least one internal divider wall comprises rigid side wall
sections adapted to extend along the internal surfaces of the side walls.
[10]    In another embodiment, the at least one internal divider wall forms a cooling assembly
within the internal space, the cooling assembly comprising vertical side wall sections
supporting spaced horizontal shelf sections.

                                                  2
[11]     In another embodiment, the cooling assembly further comprises middle vertical cooling
supports for supporting mid-sections of the shelf sections
[12]     In another embodiment, the side wall sections and the shelf sections are freezer packs
which comprise a rigid or semi-rigid external shell having a freezable liquid, semi-liquid, or gel
therein.
[13]     In another embodiment, the side wall sections cover substantially all of the internal
surfaces of the side walls.
[14]     In another aspect, the present invention provides a cooler box comprising:
         a base wall and side walls which together define an internal space, and
         at least one shelf to extend horizontally within the internal space, the at least one shelf
         for dividing the internal space into two or more subspaces,
         wherein the at least one shelf is supported by formations in the side walls, and
         wherein the at least one shelf is a cooling source for cooling the subspaces.
[15]     In another aspect, the present invention provides a cooler box comprising:
         a base wall and side walls which together define an internal space, and
         at least one shelf to extend horizontally within the internal space, the at least one shelf
         for dividing the internal space into two or more subspaces,
         side wall sections for supporting the at least one shelf, and
         wherein the at least one shelf and the side wall sections are cooling sources for cooling
         the subspaces.
[16]     Other aspects of the invention are also disclosed.
Brief Description of the Drawings
[17]     Notwithstanding any other forms which may fall within the scope of the present
invention, preferred embodiments of the present invention will now be described, by way of
examples only, with reference to the accompanying drawings in which:
[18]     Figure 1 shows a schematic side cross-section view of a cooler box according to a
preferred embodiment of the present invention with the lid on;
[19]     Figure 2 is a view of the cooler box similar to Figure 1 but with the lid off.
Description of Embodiments
[20]     It should be noted in the following description that like or the same reference numerals
in different embodiments denote the same or similar features.

                                                 3
[21]     Figures 1 and 2 show a cooler box 10 according to a preferred embodiment of the
present invention.     The cooler box 10 comprises a base wall 12 and side walls 14 which
together define an internal space 16. The cooler box 12 further comprises a lid 18 to extend
across the top edge of the side walls 14 to close the internal space 16. The base wall 12 and
the side walls 14 are insulated. The lid 18 is also insulated.
[22]     Disposed within the internal space 16 of the cooler box 10 is an internal cooling
assembly 20. The internal cooling assembly 20 comprises rigid side wall sections 22 and rigid
shelf sections 24. The side wall sections 22 and the shelf sections 24 are both freezer packs
which comprise a rigid external shell having a freezable liquid, semi-liquid, or gel therein.
[23]     The side wall sections 22 are adapted to extend along the internal surfaces of the side
walls 14. In the preferred embodiment, the side wall sections 22 line or cover substantially all
of the internal surfaces of the side walls 14. Alternatively, the side wall sections 22 can extend
along the internal surfaces of opposing portions of the side walls only.
[24]     The side wall sections 22 act as vertical supports for the shelf sections 24. Two or
more side wall sections 22a for example can support a lower shelf section 24a. The side wall
sections 22a raise the lower shelf section 24a from the base wall 12, thus creating a lower
sub-space 32.
[25]     Additional side wall sections 22b are then placed on top of the lower shelf section 24a,
with an upper shelf section 24b being supported by the side wall sections 22b. This then
creates a middle sub-space 33 between the lower shelf section 24a and the upper shelf
section 24. An upper sub-space 34 is also formed between the upper shelf section 24 and
the lid 18.
[26]     As the side wall sections 22 and the shelf sections 24 are all cooling sources, such as
rigid or semi-rigid ice packs, they create cooled subspaces for storing food and/or drinks. The
shelf sections 24 extending within the internal space 16 also provides direct cooling shelves
to items at the middle portion of the cooler box as well as providing more even cooling within
the cooler box 10.
[27]     Although a preferred embodiment of the present invention has been described, it will
be apparent to skilled persons that modifications can be made to the embodiment shown.
[28]     For example, the structure of the internal cooling assembly 20 can be amended. The
shelf sections can be made integral with the side wall sections supporting them for example.
Alternatively, the side wall sections can be made to extend the full length of the side wall of
the cooler box, with the side wall sections then having formation supports for supporting the

                                               4
shelf sections in a vertically spaced manner. The assembly 20 can further include middle
vertical cooling supports for supporting mid-sections of the shelf sections.
[29]     In another embodiment, the side walls of the cooler box can be modified to include
supports for supporting the shelf sections in a vertically spaced manner.    The side wall
sections can be omitted.

                                                 5
Claims
The claims defining the invention are as follows:
1. A cooler box comprising:
    a base wall and side walls which together define an internal space, and
    at least one internal divider wall for placement within the internal space, the at least one
    divider wall for dividing the internal space into two or more subspaces,
    wherein the at least one internal divider wall is a cooling source for cooling the subspaces.
2. The cooler box of claim 1 wherein the cooler box further comprises a lid to extend across
    a top edge of the side walls to close the internal space, wherein the base wall, the side
    walls and the lid are insulated.
3. The cooler box of claim 1 wherein at least one internal divider wall comprises a horizontal
    shelf section to extend substantially horizontally within the internal space.
4. The cooler box of claim 3 comprising two or more shelf sections vertically spaced within
    the internal space.
5. The cooler box of claim 1 wherein the at least one internal divider wall comprises rigid side
    wall sections adapted to extend along the internal surfaces of the side walls.
6. The cooler box of claim 1 wherein the at least one internal divider wall forms a cooling
    assembly within the internal space, the cooling assembly comprising vertical side wall
    sections supporting spaced horizontal shelf sections.
7. The cooler box of claim 6 wherein the cooling assembly further comprises middle vertical
    cooling supports for supporting mid-sections of the shelf sections
8. The cooler box of claim 7 wherein the side wall sections and the shelf sections are freezer
    packs which comprise a rigid or semi-rigid external shell having a freezable liquid, semi
    liquid, or gel therein.
9. The cooler box of claim 1 wherein the side wall sections cover substantially all of the
    internal surfaces of the side walls.
10. A cooler box comprising:
    a base wall and side walls which together define an internal space, and
    at least one shelf to extend horizontally within the internal space, the at least one shelf for
    dividing the internal space into two or more subspaces,
    wherein the at least one shelf is supported by formations in the side walls, and

                                                 6
    wherein the at least one shelf is a cooling source for cooling the subspaces.
11. A cooler box comprising:
    a base wall and side walls which together define an internal space, and
    at least one shelf to extend horizontally within the internal space, the at least one shelf for
    dividing the internal space into two or more subspaces,
    side wall sections for supporting the at least one shelf, and
    wherein the at least one shelf and the side wall sections are cooling sources for cooling
    the subspaces.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
