                                           22
                                         ABSTRACT
   The invention concerns a cargo transfer vessel for transferring fluid between
   an offshore production facility and a tanker and a method for transferring the
 5 fluid. The cargo transfer vessel comprises a hull having a first and a second
   outer longitudinal hull side; a deck, propulsion means for actively
   maintaining the cargo transfer vessel at a predetermined distance from the
   offshore production facility and the tanker during fluid transfer operations
   and fluid transfer means for transferring fluid between the offshore structure
10 and the tanker. The vessel is further characterized in that the hull comprises a
   main hull member and at least one protruding hull member arranged below
   the cargo transfer vessels water line at each of the outer longitudinal hull
   sides for suppressing roll of the vessel, wherein the at least one protruding
   hull member extends at least partly along the hulls longitudinal length, i.e.
15 from the start of the vessel' s bow to the end of tie vessel' s aft.

                          1/18
                                     8
   108                                 110          8b
                           109   6b        5a
8a                                              5,6
                               160
               00 00a
                 20
          7c           10720
       7a
                                               12
                                  13       13b
           12a
                    13a
                         FIG. 01

                                          1
   Title:
   Cargo Transfer Vessel
   This application is a divisional application of Australian Patent Application
   No. 2014301300, the disclosure of which is incorporated herein by
 5 reference.
   Technical field:
   The invention concerns a method and a system for transferring hydrocarbon
   fluid from an offshore production facility to a fluid carrying vessel.
   Background and prior art:
10 Loading of fluid to tankers in open sea may be a demanding operation, in
   particular in harsh environment. The operation requires dedicated shuttle
   tankers equipped with dynamic positioning system, excessive thruster
   capacity and specialized loading systems. Such shuttle tankers are equipped
   with loading systems, normally installed in the vessel's bow, enabling the
15 tanker to connect to a floating production facility, a loading tower or loading
   buoy via a loading hose, and thereby allowing transfer of the cargo to the
   tanker. The tanker can be moored to the production by a flexible hawser,
   assisted by vessel' s own thrusters or propellers. Tie tanker can alternatively
   be positioned by its own thruster system (Dynamic Positioning System)
20 without any mooring hawser.
   The most advanced system for loading tankers is the proven Submerged
   Turret Loading, STL, where the tankers is connected to the transfer line of
   cargo through the vessel' s bottom by arotating buoy moored to sea bed, as
   e.g. disclosed in WO 95/08469. The STL system allow operation all year
25 round in the most exposed and harsh environment such as the North Sea and
   North Atlantic regions. Typically for these systems are dedicated ships with
   additional special designed equipment,        resulting   in higher    investment
   compared with conventional tankers.
   In more benign areas, offshore loading with conventional tankers can be
30 performed using moored floating buoys (Catenary Anchor Leg Moorings,
   CALM Buoys) moored to the seabed. See e.g. WO 2012/035354. Loading of
   tankers with CALM buoys are limited by the sea state, current and wind.

                                            2
   The main challenge using conventional tankers are their limited maneuvering
   and station keeping capabilities. Lately the Hiload concept was introduced to
   the market. See e.g. WO 2005/118389 Al. The Hiload is a self-contained
   semi submerged construction with propellers and thrusters. The unit is
 5 capable of attaching to the tanker' s hull thereby assisting the tanker' s
   maneuverability. The Hiload requires a dedicated support vessel to assist the
   Hiload in idle periods and a specialized crew when in operation.
   A system that addresses the above disadvantages is disclosed in US
   5' 803' 779A loading buoy in the form of a floating hull is provided with
10 hawser lines, propulsion means and liquid transfer means to ensure safe liquid
   transfer operations at a predetermined distance from the offshore structure.
   However, the disclosed system is considered vulnerable to environmental
   induced movements such as roll, in particular during liquid transfer. In
   addition, the suitability for use as an effective means of transport is
15 questionable.
   There is therefore a need to mitigate the disadvantages with the existing
   systems and to further reduce the investments in extra equipment.
   The present invention may provide a method and a system that further
   improves the loading efficiency of conventional tankers, LNG carriers or
20 other ships carrying fluids in open sea.
   Summary of the invention:
   The present invention is set forth and characterized in the main claims, while
   the dependent claims describe other characteristics of the invention.
   More specifically, the invention provides transfer vessel for transferring fluid
25 between an offshore production facility and a tanker, comprising
             - a transfer vessel hull having a first and a second outer longitudinal
             hull side;
             - a transfer vessel deck;
             - propulsion    arrangement    for actively maintaining the transfer
30           vessel at a predetermined distance from the offshore production
             facility and the tanker during fluid transfer operations; and
             - fluid transfer arrangement      for transferring fluid between the
             offshore structure and the tanker,
          wherein the hull further comprises
35           -   a main hull member and

                                            3
              - at least one laterally protruding hull member arranged below the
              transfer vessel' s water line at each of the outer longitudinal hull
              sides for suppressing roll of the vessel,
   wherein the at least one laterally protruding hull member extends at least
 5 partly along the hull' slongitudinal length.
   The invention also concerns a cargo transfer vessel for transferring fluid
   between an offshore production facility and a tanker. The cargo transfer
   vessel comprise a hull having a first and a second outer longitudinal hull side;
   a deck, propulsion means for actively maintaining the cargo transfer vessel at
10 a predetermined distance from the offshore production facility and the tanker
   during fluid transfer operations and fluid transfer means for transferring fluid
   between the offshore structure and the tanker. The vessel is further
   characterized in that the hull comprises a main hull member and at least one
   protruding hull member arranged below the cargo transfer vessels water line
15 at each of the outer longitudinal hull sides for suppressing roll of the vessel,
   wherein the at least one protruding hull member extends at least partly along
   the hulls longitudinal length, i.e. from the start of the vessel' s bow to the eld
   of the vessel' sstern. The protruding hull member preferably extends between
   10 % and 90 % of the longitudinal length, more preferably between 20 % and
20 80 % of the longitudinal length, even more preferably between 30 % and 70
   % of the longitudinal length, even more preferably between 40 % and 60 % of
   the longitudinal length, for example about 50 %.
   In an advantageous embodiment the extension of the at least one protruding
   hull member includes the hulls longitudinal midpoint.
25 In another advantageous embodiment at least one longitudinal section of the
   at least one protruding hull member extends beyond the lateral boundaries of
   the cargo transfer vessel' s deck i.e. beyond the outer edge of the deck
   situated parallel to the water after submersion. In an alternative formulation at
   least one longitudinal section of the at least one protruding hull member
30 extends beyond a vertical projection of the portion of the vessel situated
   above the water line.
   In another advantageous embodiment the outermost horizontal projection of
   one or both end sections of at least one of the at least one protruding hull
   member defines a resistance reducing arc curving towards the hull' svertical
35 center plane, thus reducing the vessel' s propulsion resistance.The ends of the
   protrusion are defined as the ends situated at the most forward and the most

                                           4
   rearward part of the protrusion. Furthermore, an end section may be defined
   as an entire longitudinal half of a protrusion. However, in a more preferred
   definition the end section is defined as covering only a part of each
   longitudinal half, such as 40 % of the longitudinal half measured from the
 5 outer longitudinal end. Other examples of end section lengths may be 30 %,
   20 %, 10 % or 5 %.
   In another advantageous embodiment the outermost horizontal projection of
   both end sections of at least one of the at least one protruding hull member
   defines a resistance reducing arc curving towards the hull' svertical center
10 plane, wherein the length of the resistance reducing arc at one end section is
   shorter than the length of the resistance reducing arc at the opposite end
   section. The resistance reducing arc with the shorter length may be situated
   closest to the bow of the cargo transfer vessel.
   In another advantageous embodiment at least one of the resistance reducing
15 arc(s) terminates at a termination point situated at the surface of the main hull
   member.
   In another advantageous embodiment the inclination angle of at least part of
   the at least one protruding hull member, relative to the horizontal plane, is
   between 0' and 100. The at least part of the at least one protruding hull
20 member may for example be the part situated between of the protrusion ends.
   Furthermore, one or both of the protrusion ends may have an inclination angle
   exceeding 100 relative to the horizontal plane. The horizontal plane is defined
   as the plane oriented parallel to the water surface after vessel submersion.
   In another advantageous embodiment the main part of the cargo transfer
25 vessel' sbottom is flat.
   In another advantageous embodiment the fluid transfer means comprises a
   loading arrangement, preferably situated at the bow part of the vessel, for
   receiving fluid from the offshore structure comprising a loading manifold
   configured to be connected to an end of at least one production facility
30 loading hose, a discharge arrangement, preferably situated at the stern part or
   midship part of the vessel, for discharging fluid to the tanker, comprising at
   least one vessel discharge hose and a fluid coupling system situated in the
   cargo transfer vessel forming a fluid communicating coupling between the
   loading arrangement and the discharge arrangement.

                                            5
   The invention also concerns a method for transferring hydrocarbon containing
   fluid from an offshore production facility to a tanker via a transfer vessel
   comprising
              a floating hull having a first and a second outer longitudinal side,
 5        wherein the floating hull displays at least one roll suppressing
          protrusion arranged below the transfer vessels water line,
              a deck,
              a loading arrangement for receiving fluid from the offshore
          structure,
10            a discharge    arrangement   for transferring   fluid  to  the tanker
          comprising at least one vessel discharge hose, and
              a fluid coupling system situated in the transfer vessel forming a
          fluid communicating coupling between the loading arrangement and the
          discharge arrangement,
15        wherein the method comprises the following steps:
          a.     transferring an end of the vessel discharge hose from the transfer
                 vessel to a tanker manifold,
          b.     connecting the end of the vessel discharge hose to the tanker
                 manifold allowing the fluid to flow from the transfer vessel to a
20               fluid tank within the tanker,
          c.     moving the transfer vessel to a position where at least one
                 production facility loading hose may be transferred between the
                 offshore production facility and the transfer vessel,
          d.     connecting the at least one production facility loading hose to the
25               loading arrangement, and
   transferring desired amount of fluid between the offshore production facility
   and the tanker via the at least one production facility loading hose, the
   loading arrangement, the fluid coupling system and the discharge
   arrangement.
30 The invention also concerns a method for transferring hydrocarbon containing
   fluid from an offshore production facility to a tanker via a cargo transfer
   vessel. The vessel comprises a floating hull having a first and a second outer
   longitudinal side, a deck, a loading arrangement for receiving fluid from the
   offshore structure including a loading manifold, a discharge arrangement for
35 transferring fluid to the tanker including at least one vessel discharge hose,
   and a fluid coupling system situated in the cargo transfer vessel forming a
   fluid communicating coupling between the loading arrangement and the
   discharge arrangement.

                                             6
   The method comprises the following steps:
       a. transferring an end of the vessel discharge hose from the cargo transfer
           vessel to the tanker manifold,
       b. connecting the end of the vessel discharge hose to the tanker manifold,
 5         allowing the fluid to flow from the cargo transfer vessel to a fluid tank
           within the tanker,
       c. moving the cargo transfer vessel to a position where at least one
           production facility loading hose may be transferred between the
           offshore production facility and the cargo transfer vessel, for example
10         by means of a production facility messenger line,
       d. connecting the at least one production facility loading hose to the
           loading arrangement and
       e. transferring desired amount of fluid between the offshore production
           facility and the tanker via the at least one production facility loading
15         hose, the loading arrangement, the fluid coupling system and the
           discharge arrangement.
   The floating hull may advantageously display at least one roll suppressing
   protrusion arranged below the cargo transfer vessels water line. Further, the
   production facility loading hose may be situated on the offshore production
20 facility, on the cargo transfer vessel or a combination of both.
   In an advantageous embodiment the method comprises the additional step of
       - connecting at least one tanker hawser between the cargo transfer vessel
           and a first end of the tanker prior to step a.
   In another advantageous embodiment step a comprises the additional steps of
25     - transferring the end of the at least one vessel discharge hose to an
           assisting tug and
       - moving the assisting tug with the end of the vessel discharge hose to a
           position where the end of the vessel discharge hose may be connected
           to the tanker manifold.
30 In another advantageous embodiment step a comprises the additional step of
       - picking up and pulling at least one messenger line connected to the end
           of the at least one vessel discharge hose in order to facilitate the hose
           transfer.
   In another advantageous embodiment the method comprises the additional
35 step of

                                             7
       -   moving an assisting tug to a second end of the tanker,
       -   connecting a tug towing hawser between the assisting tug and the
           second end of the tanker and
       -   adding a pulling force on the second end of the tanker by means of the
 5         assisting tug, the pulling force being directed away from the offshore
           production facility.
   In another advantageous embodiment the method comprises the additional
   step of
       - connecting at least one production facility hawser between the offshore
10         production facility and the cargo transfer vessel after step c.
   The hawser may for example be stored on the production facility.
   In another advantageous embodiment the method comprises the additional
   step of
       - controlling the position of the cargo transfer vessel by means of
15         dynamic positioning means.
   In another advantageous embodiment the method comprises the additional
   step of
       - controlling the flow rate between the offshore production facility and
           the tanker by means of at least one booster pump during step e.
20 In another advantageous embodiment the cargo transfer vessel                   is in
   accordance with any one of features mentioned previously.
   The    invention    also  concerns   a  transfer  arrangement     for   transferring
   hydrocarbon containing fluid from an offshore production facility to a tanker.
   The transfer arrangement comprises an offshore production facility for
25 producing hydrocarbons, a tanker for receiving and storing hydrocarbons and
   a transfer vessel in accordance with any of the features mentioned previously.
   The transfer arrangement may advantageously also comprise an assisting tug
   suitable for transferring an end of at least one vessel discharge hose from the
   cargo transfer vessel to the tanker manifold on the tanker and/or suitable for
30 adding a pulling force on the second end of the tanker, the pulling force being
   directed away from the offshore production facility, and at least one
   production facility loading hose suitable for connection between the offshore
   production facility and the cargo transfer vessel.
   Normally a conventional tanker is requiring assistance from tugs and transfer
35 vessels. As apparent from the above description and the claims, the invention

                                            8
   offers a solution in which the transfer vessels include equipment allowing a
   tanker to approach and unload a floating production unit or terminal.
   Preferably the transfer vessel should be equipped with a dynamic positioning
   system (DP) allowing the transfer vessel to keep the position relative to the
 5 floating production terminal while the tanker weathervanes from the stern of
   the transfer vessel.
   In the following description, numerous specific details are introduced to
   provide a thorough understanding of embodiments of the claimed vessel and
   method. One skilled in the relevant art, however, will recognize that these
10 embodiments can be practiced without one or more of the specific details, or
   with other components, systems, etc. In other instances, well-known
   structures or operations are not shown, or are not described in detail, to avoid
   obscuring aspects of the disclosed embodiments.
   Brief description of the drawings:
15 Preferred embodiments of the present invention will now be described with
   reference to the attached drawings, in which:
   Figure 1 shows a perspective view of a cargo transfer vessel with a bow part
   in accordance with a first embodiment of the invention,
   Figure 2 shows a perspective view of the bow part of the cargo transfer vessel
20 in figure 1,
   Figure 3 shows a perspective view of a cargo transfer vessel with a bow part
   in accordance with a second embodiment of the invention,
   Figures 4 and 5 show perspective views from two different angles of the bow
   part of the cargo transfer vessel in figure 3,
25 Figures 6A and 6B show side views of a cargo transfer vessel in accordance
   with the invention, viewed perpendicular and parallel to the vessels
   longitudinal axis, respectively,
   Figure 7 shows a top view of a cargo transfer vessel with a reel-based
   offloading system in accordance with a first embodiment of the invention,
30 Figure 8 shows top views of the stern part of a reel-based offloading system
   in accordance a first embodiment of the invention, in which figure 8A and
   figure 8B shows the spooling device of the offloading system in two different
   spooling positions relative to an offloading hose drum,

                                           9
   Figure 9 shows perspective views of the stern part of a cargo transfer vessel
   with a reel-based offloading system in accordance with the first embodiment
   of the invention, in which figure 9A and figure 9B shows arrangements with a
   vessel discharge hose reeled onto, and unreeled from, the offloading hose
 5 drum, respectively,
   Figure 10 shows a side view of the stern part of a cargo transfer vessel with a
   reel-based offloading system in accordance with the first embodiment of the
   invention,
   Figure 11 shows a top view of the stern part of a cargo transfer vessel in
10 accordance with a second embodiment of the invention,
   Figures 12-16 show principle top view sketches of the intermediate steps in a
   method for the transfer of hydrocarbon fluid from an offshore production
   facility and the fluid carrying vessel via a dedicated cargo transfer vessel in
   accordance with the invention and
15 Figures 17 and 18 show principle sketches in top view and side view,
   respectively, illustrating the inventive transfer system in a fully assembled
   transfer mode.
   Detailed description of the invention
   Figures 1 and 2 shows a cargo transfer vessel 8 in accordance with the
20 invention, hereinafter referred to as a CTV, for assisting the offloading and
   transfer of fluid from an offshore production facility 1 to a fluid carrying
   vessel 2 (shown in figures 12-18). Examples of offshore production facilities
   1 may be a floating production storage and offloading unit (FPSO), a floating
   storage and offloading unit (FSO) or a floating liquefied natural gas unit
25 (FLNG). Examples of fluid carrying vessels 2 may be a conventional tanker
   or a LNG carrier. As best illustrated in figure 2 the bow part 8a of the CTV 8
   is equipped with a loading arrangement 7 having a loading manifold 7a
   configured to connect an end of a production facility loading hose 10 (such as
   a standard dry break loading hose end piece) into fluid communication with
30 an onboard fluid coupling system 16. The loading arrangement 7 also includes
   a loading crane (not shown) to inter alia facilitate said connection. The
   loading manifold 7a may have a quick disconnect function. Other equipment
   of the loading arrangement 7 may be a combined line-handling winch 7c
   suited for pull-in and connection of loading hoses 10, a back-up connection
35 for direct connect of a back-up loading hose (i.e. a fixed flange with an

                                            10
   integrated double valve for safe disconnection without oil-spill), sheaves etc.
   for pull-in of the back-up loading hose, valves and cargo pipes 109 for safe
   operation and transfer of oil, service cranes located adjacent of the bow part
   8a for equipment handling and service, and anchor winches with chain
 5 lockers.
   One or more optional second loading arrangements 107 may be positioned at
   the side(s) of the CTV 8, preferably aft of the CTV' s living quarter 10 as
   illustrated in figures 1 and 2. If the roll motion of the CTV 8 is sufficiently
   small (see below), loading of fluid at the side of the CTV 8 represents a
10 robust and safe loading method for a floating loading hose 10. It may also be
   a catenary type loading hose 10 used as an alternative, or an addition, to the
   bow loading arrangement 7.
   Figures 3-5 show a CTV 8 which is similar in design and function as the CTV
   8 disclosed with reference to figures 1 and 2. However, in contrast to the
15 previously disclosed CTV 8 the loading manifold(s) 107a of the side loading
   arrangement 107 is/are located solely at the side(s) of the CTV 8, i.e. not at
   the bow part 8a, thereby providing a less complex and less expensive
   solution. As for the first embodiment the side loading arrangement 107 may
   also include a dedicated service crane 107b.
20 In the above figures a protrusion 13 is seen extending along part of the CTV' s
   8 longitudinal length at each side 20a, 20b of the hull 20. The principal
   purpose of these protrusions 13 is to suppress roll of the CTV 8 due to
   environmental forces (waves, wind, current, etc). Extensive tests have shown
   that these protrusions 13 are effectively suppressing rolling motions down to
25 levels considered acceptable in order to perform fluid transfer at wind sea
   exposure of at least 5 meters significant wave height, even during side
   loading to the CTV 8.
   These   protrusions are better illustrated in figure 6, presenting two side views
   of the  CTV 8;
30     -   perpendicular to the CTV' s longitudinal axis (figure 6k) and
       -   along the longitudinal axis, as viewed from the bow side (figure 6B).
   The side loading arrangement(s) 107 is/are identical to the side loading
   arrangements 107 shown in figures 3-5. Figure 6A shows an example where
   the entire length of the protrusion 13 is situated below the water line 14, and
35 extends from at least near the CTV' sbow part 8a (approximately at the bow
   side end of the living quarter 108) to the CTV' sstern part 8b. Moreover, the

                                           11
   protrusion 13 curves in direction towards the water line 14 at both the bow
   end section 13a and the stern end section 13b in order to minimize the
   propulsion resistance during forward thrust. In particular, figure 6a shows an
   example where the mid part of the protrusion 13 follows at, or near, the base
 5 of the illustrated flat-bottom hull (figure 6B). Further, the stern end section
   13b curves fully up to the water line 14, above the vessels main thrusters 12,
   and the bow end section 13a curves partly up to the water line 14, aft of a
   bow-part situated DP thruster 12a. The particular bending radii in respect of
   the mid, non-bending part of the protrusion 13 and in respect of the water line
10 14, may be set based on computer simulations and/or model experiments. The
   protrusion 13 shown in figures 6A and 6B is mirrored on both sides of the
   vessel' s 8 outer longitudinal hull sides 20a,20b. The mirroring of the
   protrusions 13 on both hull sides 20a,20b is most apparent in figure 7 where
   the entire CTV 8 is shown in top view. Figure 7 also clearly shows the side
15 loading arrangement 107 situated at both sides of the CTV 8 and the reel
   based offloading system 6 situated at the stern part 8b.
   The discharge arrangement 5 shown in figures 8A and 8B for discharge of
   fluid from the CTV 8 to the tanker 2 is preferably similar to the standard
   arrangement used for loading from floating production and storage units 1 to
20 shuttle tankers or conventional tankers. The equipment on board the CTV 8 is
   in figure 8 shown as a standard Stern Discharge System (SDS) 5 which
   includes a reel-based offloading system 6 having inter alia a spooling device
   6a, an discharge hose drum 6b and a mooring hawser arrangement 6c. The
   hose drum 6b may be lowered into a recess 20c of the hull 20 to ensure
25 efficient operation and maintenance. Draining of the recess 20c may be made
   directly to a slop tank (not shown). Access to the lower section of the drum
   6b is preferably achieved from a position down in the recess 20c. Further, the
   mooring hawser arrangement 6c may be placed aft on the main deck 30 and
   include a plurality of tanker hawsers 4. The spooling device 6a is in figure 8
30 illustrated as an inclined (see figure 10) loading hose support structure
   (chute), which longitudinal end situated closest to the drum 6b may be shifted
   along the drum's axial extension, thereby ensuring even spooling. The
   spooling device 6a presented in figure 6 achieves the axial shifting of its end
   by controlled pivoting around the opposite end.
35 Figure 9A and 9B shows the vessel discharge hose 5a in an at least partly
   reeled and a fully unreeled state, respectively. In the reeled state, the
   pivotable spooling device 6a, which is configured to cover the full axial

                                          12
   distance of the drum 6b, is in figure 9A seen arranged with its end in an axial
   mid position relative to the drum 6b. In the unreeled state the spooling device
   6a is arranged with its end in a leftmost axial position relative to the drum 6b.
   The discharge hose 5a may comprise a main section and one or more second
 5 sections, in which the main section is a large diameter hose string made up of
   interconnected hose segments and the second section(s) are made of smaller
   diameter hose segments which are tailored for connection to a midship
   manifold 3 of the tanker 2. The second section(s) and the main section would
   in this embodiment be connected by transition piece(s).
10 In addition to tanker hawsers 4, the mooring hawser arrangement 6c may
   comprise a chafing chain, a thimble and a messenger line. The tanker hawser
   4 may be a super-line or double braid nylon hawser with soft eyes in both
   ends.
   Figure 10 shows a cross section side view along the stern part 8a of the CTV
15 8, illustrating offloading system 6 and the main thruster 12. The recess 20c
   surrounding the lowered hose drum 6b is clearly seen.
   The arrangement with the lowered hose drum 6b and the spooling device 6a
   for the discharge hose 5a also enables an efficient disconnection and
   replacement of a damaged hose section, preferably by use of a dedicated
20 discharge hose crane 110 (see e.g. figure 9).
   A reel-based offloading system 6 having an alternative spooling device 6a is
   illustrated in figure 11. In this embodiment the spooling device 6a is fixed
   relative to the underlying deck 30 and the vessel discharge hose 5a slides onto
   the support surface during reeling / unreeling, covering an axial distance
25 corresponding to the drum' s 6b axial length
   The operation of the inventive transfer arrangement may be described in the
   following steps (not necessarily in sequence), with reference to figures 12-18:
   1. (Figure 12) The CTV 8 is transferring one or more tanker hawsers 4 to a
        mooring connection (e.g. Smith bracket(s)) in the bow part 17 of the
30      tanker 2.
   2.   (Figure 13) After the tanker hawser(s) 4 is/are connected, the CTV 8
        moves to a "towing" position. At the same time, or afterwards, one or
        more pick-up and messenger lines connected to vessel discharge hose(s)
        5a is/are transferred to an assisting tug 15. During the transfer the

                                          13
      discharge hose(s) 5a is/are at least partly reeled to a discharge hose drum
      6b on the CTV 8
   3. (Figure 14) The tug 15 pulls the end of the discharge hose 5a to a position
      close to a tanker manifold 3, and transfer the pick-up and messenger
 5    line(s) to the tanker 2. The tanker manifold 3 is normally situated midship
      of the tanker 2.
   4. (Figure 15) After the pick up and messenger line(s) is/are transferred to
      the tanker 2, the tug 15 moves to the stern 18 of the tanker 2 and connects
      a tug hawser 19 to the tanker 2. The tug 15 then moves to a position
10    where it may start adding a constant force to the tanker 2. The tug 15 will
      operate according to instructions given by the operator in charge located
      in the CTV 8 and/or the tanker 2.
   5. (Figure 15) After the tug 15 is connected stern 18 of the tanker 2, the
      tanker 2 may shut off the main engine and the CTV 8 starts moving
15    towards the offshore production facility 1. The hook-up of the vessel
      discharge hose 5a to the tanker manifold 3 of the tanker 2 may continue
      during the move towards the facility 1. Further, the hook-up of the
      discharge hose 5a may be made by use of a standard crane on the tanker 2.
      The tanker 2 is lifting up the end(s) of the discharge hose(s) 5a and
20    connects the discharge hose(s) to the tanker manifold 3.
   6. (Figures 16 and 17) The CTV 8 and then tanker 2 are moving into a
      position where the CTV 8 can receive a production facility messenger line
      9 from and offloading station on the offshore production facility 1.
   7. (Figures 17 and 18) Keeping the CTV 8 positioned by a DP system
25     12,12a, the production facility loading hose 10 is pulled over from the
      offloading station 11 and connected to the loading arrangement 7,107 on
      the CTV 8.
   8. (Figures 17 and 18) With all connections made, the offloading and
      transfer operation may start.
30 9. When a constant or near constant flow is reached one or more booster
      pumps may be started to increase the transfer rate. The booster pump(s)
      is/are preferably equipped with a variable speed motor to allow a good
      control of the flow rate.

                                           14
   10. After completing the transfer operation the cargo pumps are stopped. The
       production facility loading hose(s) 10 is/are then flushed with liquid (e.g.
       water) and/or purged with nitrogen and/or inert gas from the production
       facility 1 side.
 5 11. When the flushing and/or the purge is completed, the loading hose(s) 10
       from the production facility 1 is/are disconnected and the CTV 8 and the
       tanker 2 moves away from the production facility 1.
   12. When reading a "safe" distance from the production facility 1 the
       disconnection of the vessel discharge hose(s) 5a on the tanker 2 can be
10     made.
   13. The discharge hose(s) 5a is/are then reeled back to the discharge hose
       drum 6b at the CTV 8.
   14. The main engine of the tanker 2 is started and the tanker hawser(s) 4
       between the tanker 2 and the CTV 8 is/are disconnected from the tanker 2.
15 15. The tanker 2 starts moving and the tug 15 is disconnected from the tanker
       stern 18.
   The function of the tug 15 may be partly or fully replaced by dynamic
   position means 12,12a on the CTV 8 and/or the tanker 2.
   The loading and transfer operation undertaken by use of the CTV 8 has
20 additional safety features, both related to the use of well proven loading
   arrangement and the introduction of additional safety distances between the
   offshore production facility 1 and the receiving tanker 2.
   The offloading arrangement for transfer of fluid between the offshore
   production facility 1 and the CTV 8 may be a conventional offshore loading
25 system that has been in operation both in the North Sea and in Brazil for
   several decades.
   The discharge arrangement for discharge of fluid between the CTV 8 and the
   tanker 2 may preferably be similar to the standard arrangement used for
   loading to trading tankers from "Calm Buoys". This system has been in
30 operation for a long period e.g. at offshore production units in West Africa.
   When combining the offloading arrangement and the discharge arrangement
   the distance between the offshore production facility 1 and the tanker 2 is

                                            15
   significantly increased compared to the standard tanker connection. The
   increased distance between the two units 1,2 is an important safety feature.
   The inventive roll suppressing means in form of protrusions 13 from the
   vessel' s hull 20 further increase the safety and simplicity of the fluid transfer
 5 and in addition contribute to set an optimum heading and position of the CTV
   8 in order to reduce the tensions and motions in the tanker hawser 4.The
   transfer system may be used for offloading from "spread" moored offshore
   floating units and from "turret" moored offshore units. The system may also
   be considered for offloading from "fixed" unit (unit fixed to the seabed)
10 having an offshore storage facility, e.g. a submerged oil storage tank.
   In the preceding description, various aspects of the vessel, the method and the
   transfer arrangement according to the invention have been described with
   reference to the illustrative embodiment. For purposes of explanation, specific
   numbers, systems and configurations were set forth in order to provide a
15 thorough understanding of the invention and its workings. However, this
   description is not intended to be construed in a limiting sense. Various
   modifications and variations of the illustrative embodiment, as well as other
   embodiments of the vessel, method or arrangement, which are apparent to
   persons skilled in the art to which the disclosed subject matter pertains, are
20 deemed to lie within the scope of the present invention.
   It is to be understood that, if any prior art publication is referred to herein,
   such reference does not constitute an admission that the publication forms a
   part of the common general knowledge in the art, in Australia or any other
   country.
25 In the claims which follow and in the preceding description of the invention,
   except where the context requires otherwise due to express language or
   necessary implication, the word "comprise" or variations such as "comprises"
   or "comprising" is used in an inclusive sense, i.e. to specify the presence of
   the stated features but not to preclude the presence or addition of further
30 features in various embodiments of the invention.

                                       16
Reference list:
1       Offshore production facility
2       Tanker / fluid carrying vessel
3       Tanker manifold
4       Tanker hawser
5       Discharge arrangement / Stern Discharge System (SDS)
5a      Vessel discharge hose
6       Reel-based offloading system
6a      Spooling device / loading hose support structure
6b      Discharge hose drum
6c      Mooring hawser arrangement
7       Loading arrangement
7a      Loading manifold
7c      Line-handling winch
8       Cargo transfer vessel / CTV
8a      Bow part of transfer vessel
8b      Stern part of transfer vessel
9       Production facility messenger line
10      Production facility loading hose
11      Offshore production facility offloading station
12      Propulsion means / main thruster / stern DP system
12a     Bow dynamic positioning means / Bow DP thruster / Bow DP
        system
13      Protruding hull member / Roll suppressing protrusion
13a     First end section of protruding hull member / bow end section

                                    17
13b  Second end section of protruding hull member / stern end
     section
14   Water line
15   Assisting tug
16   Fluid coupling system
17   First end of tanker / tanker bow
18   Second end of tanker / tanker stern
19   Tug hawser / tug towing hawser
20   Cargo transfer vessel hull
20a  First outer longitudinal hull side
20b  Second outer longitudinal hull side
20c  Recess in hull
21   Cargo transfer vessel messenger line
30   Cargo transfer vessel deck
107  Second loading arrangement / side loading arrangement
107a Loading manifold
107b Service crane
108  Living quarter
109  Cargo pipe
110  Discharge hose crane

                                          18
                                      CLAIMS
   1. A transfer vessel for transferring fluid between an offshore production
      facility and a tanker, comprising
          - a transfer vessel hull having a first and a second outer longitudinal
 5        hull side;
          - a transfer vessel deck;
          - propulsion arrangement for actively maintaining the transfer
          vessel at a predetermined distance from the offshore production
          facility and the tanker during fluid transfer operations; and
10        - fluid transfer arrangement for transferring fluid between the
          offshore structure and the tanker,
      wherein the hull further comprises
          -    a main hull member and
            -  at least one laterally protruding hull member arranged below the
15          transfer vessel's water line at each of the outer longitudinal hull
            sides for suppressing roll of the vessel,
                   wherein the at least one laterally protruding hull member
            extends at least partly along the hull's longitudinal length.
   2. The transfer vessel in accordance with claim 1, wherein the protruding
20    hull member extends at least to the hull's longitudinal midpoint.
   3. The transfer vessel in accordance with claim 1 or 2, wherein at least
      one longitudinal section of the protruding hull member extends
      laterally beyond the lateral boundaries of the transfer vessel' sdeck.
   4. The transfer vessel in accordance with any one of the preceding claims,
25    wherein the outermost horizontal projection of one or both end sections
      of the protruding hull member defines a resistance reducing arc curving
      towards the hull' svertical center plane.
   5. The transfer vessel in accordance with any one of the preceding claims,
      wherein the outermost horizontal projection of both end sections of at
30    least one of the at least one protruding hull member defines a resistance
      reducing arc curving towards the hull' s vertical center planeand,
      wherein the length of the resistance reducing arc at one end section is
      shorter than the length of the resistance reducing arc at the opposite
      end section.

                                       19
   6. The transfer vessel in accordance with claim 5, wherein the resistance
      reducing arc with the shorter length is situated closest to the bow of the
      transfer vessel.
   7. The transfer vessel in accordance with any one of claims 4 to 6,
 5    wherein at least one of the resistance reducing arcs terminates at a
      termination point situated at the surface of the main hull member.
   8. The transfer vessel in accordance with any one of the preceding claims,
      wherein a main part of the transfer vessel' sbottom is flat.
   9. The transfer vessel in accordance with any one of the preceding claims,
10    wherein said fluid transfer arrangement comprises
          a loading arrangement for receiving fluid from the offshore
      production facility comprising a loading manifold configured to be
      connected to an end of at least one production facility loading hose,
          a discharge arrangement for discharging fluid to the tanker
15    comprising at least one vessel discharge hose and
          a fluid coupling system situated in the transfer vessel forming a
      fluid communicating coupling between the loading arrangement and
      the discharge arrangement.
   1O.A method for transferring hydrocarbon containing fluid from an
20    offshore production facility to a tanker via a transfer vessel comprising
          a floating hull having a first and a second outer longitudinal side,
      wherein the floating hull displays at least one roll suppressing
      protrusion arranged below the transfer vessels water line,
          a deck,
25        a loading arrangement for receiving fluid from the offshore
      structure,
          a discharge arrangement for transferring fluid to the tanker
      comprising at least one vessel discharge hose, and
          a fluid coupling system situated in the transfer vessel forming a
30    fluid communicating coupling between the loading arrangement and the
      discharge arrangement,
      wherein the method comprises the following steps:
      c.     transferring an end of the vessel discharge hose from the transfer
             vessel to a tanker manifold,

                                          20
       d.      connecting the end of the vessel discharge hose to the tanker
               manifold allowing the fluid to flow from the transfer vessel to a
               fluid tank within the tanker,
       e.      moving the transfer vessel to a position where at least one
 5             production facility loading hose may be transferred between the
               offshore production facility and the transfer vessel,
       f.      connecting the at least one production facility loading hose to the
               loading arrangement, and
       g.      transferring desired amount of fluid between the offshore
10             production facility and the tanker via the at least one production
               facility loading hose, the loading arrangement, the fluid coupling
               system and the discharge arrangement.
   11.The method in accordance with claim               10,  wherein the method
       comprises the additional step of
15          connecting at least one tanker hawser between the transfer vessel
            and a first end of the tanker prior to step a.
   12.The method in accordance with claim 10 or 11, wherein step a
       comprises the additional steps of
            transferring the end of the at least one vessel discharge hose to an
20     assisting tug and
            moving the assisting tug with the end of the vessel discharge hose
       to a position where the end of the vessel discharge hose may be
       connected to the tanker manifold.
   13. The method in accordance with any one of claims 10 to 12, wherein step a
25     comprises the additional step of
           picking up and pulling at least one messenger line connected to the end
       of the at least one vessel discharge hose.
   14. The method in accordance with any one of claims 10 to 13, wherein the
       method comprises the additional step of
30             moving an assisting tug to a second end of the tanker,
               connecting a tug towing hawser between the assisting tug and the
            second end of the tanker and
               adding a pulling force on the second end of the tanker by means of
            the assisting tug, the pulling force being directed away from the
35          offshore production facility.

                                        21
   15. The method in accordance with any one of claims 10 to 14, wherein the
       method comprises the additional step of
           connecting at least one production facility messenger line between
           the offshore production facility and the transfer vessel after step c.
 5 16. The method in accordance with any one of claims 10 to 15, wherein the
       method comprises the additional step of
           controlling the position of the transfer vessel by means of dynamic
           positioning means.
   17. The method in accordance with any one of claims 10 to 16, wherein the
10     method comprises the additional step of
           controlling the flow rate between the offshore production facility
           and the tanker by means of at least one booster pump during step e.
   18. The method in accordance with any one of claims 10 to 17, wherein the
       transfer vessel is in accordance with any one of claims 1 to 9.
15 19.A transfer arrangement comprising an offshore production facility
       for producing hydrocarbons, at least one production facility loading
       hose situated on the offshore production facility, a tanker for receiving
   and storing hydrocarbons and a transfer vessel in
       accordance with any one of claims 1 to 9.
20 20. The transfer arrangement in accordance with claim 19, wherein the
       transfer arrangement further comprises an assisting tug for transferring
       an end of at least one vessel discharge hose from the transfer vessel to
       the tanker manifold on a tanker.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
