                                        ABSTRACT
The invention provides an apparatus for nasally delivering a supraglottic jet oxygenation
and ventilation.   The invention also provides methods of utilizing the apparatus for
nasally delivering supraglottic jet oxygenation and ventilation.

                                                                         4/5
                                                                          ............  ..............
                                                                                      ....
                                                                          ...........
                                                                               .................
                                                                          ...........                       X
                                                                                                            ....    NNXNN
                                                                                                                    ...       ..
                                                                                                                           ....
                                                                                                                           NN   N
                                                                                                                               "N:
                                                                                                                         .............
                                                                                                                          ......................
                                                                                      .........
                                                                          .................                                ......................
                                                                            ....     ......                               ..........
                                                                                                                        ............
                                                                                                                     .........
                                                                                                                       ..............
                                                  ...                    ...
                                                    ................................                                                   N
                  .................
                 .....  ................
                                      .
                     ...................
                                       ..  .
                                           .
                                           ..
                                            .
                                          .I...: NN -X-X
                                      .......... .
                                                 ...
                                                  .       ...........
                                                    ..........."**-....
                                                                      . k...                                                          .
                                                                                                                                      .
                                                                                                                                      .
                                                                                                                           -:::::N.:N ...
                                                  ... ............  N"
............. .......
                    ........... ...
                    .........                       .............
                                                          .........
                                                 X ... .......   .......
...........            -
             ..............                      \ ..
                                               .......  XXI
                                                       ...
                                                    .....      :.N:.x
                                                                   :N                                                              N
                                                                                       4                              ..    ......
                                                                                                                        ........  NO
                                                     ................
                                                      -..
                                                        X-X-:     ..........
                                                                ........
                                                             ......                                                    ............
                                                                                                                   .......
                                                           ...           ....
                                                                     ......
                                                                     .......
                                                                   ...............                                              m
                                                                                                                     N.
                                                                                                                 N
                                                                                        N. N,.l'.\-'X
                                                        . g\ -%og      "N                  N \
                                                                                         .j:N       X
                                                      IMM                                         N
                                                      ,\Mgm-                                        am
                                                      11101,111MOMME'll'
                                                                           N, M.                   IM 11
                                                                                          N
                                                                                 \\IN
                                                                               ZIN     xxx N, .
                                                                                                              IA
                                                                                                             ME
                                                                            N  N
                                                                                                            zx::Xl
                                                                             zz.
                                                                                                        .      ...........
                                                                                                          <HX
                                                                                            Ok
                                                                     Figure 4

           NASAL PULSATILE OXYGENATION AND VENTILATION AIRWAY
                                             APPARATUS
                                   FIELD OF THE INVENTION
   [001] The invention provides a nasal air jet insufflator (or jet nasal airway) apparatus for
 5 nasally delivering supraglottic jet oxygenation and ventilation and methods of use thereof.
                              BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
   [001] Respiratory depression or "labored breathing" is frequently seen in patients or
   subjects with various kinds of diseases. Oxygen is usually provided to patients either
   through their nose or mouth to improve the oxygenation and correct hypoxia. However, in
10 patients with severe respiration depression or apnea either under heavy sedation or light
   general anesthesia such as during colonoscopy, upper gastrointestinal endoscopy or
   cytoscopy or with some cardiopulmonary diseases, simple passive inhalation of oxygen via
   nose or mouth may not be adequate or impossible and thus result in hypoxia and/or
   hypercapnia, brain damage or even death. Tracheal intubation and mechanical ventilation
15 can help patient's breath but this needs medical personnel with special training and the
   procedure is invasive and may have multiple complications related to tracheal intubation.
   Additionally, these patients usually need continuous heavy sedation, light general anesthesia
   or a muscle relaxant to keep and tolerate the endotracheal tube in the trachea after tracheal
   intubation.
20  [002] Heavy sedations with intravenous infusion of general anesthetic propofol are
   frequently used to assist outpatient procedures          (e.g., endoscope examinations of
   gastrointestinal tracts or bile ducts, bronchoscope, endoscopy, cystoscopy, etc...). Propofol
   sedation can depress patient's breathing severely, especially when the patient is obese or in a
   prone position during endoscope examination or surgery in bile ducts. Passive inhalation of
25 oxygen via nose or mouth using nasal cannula or nasal airway with patient's natural
   breathing is often not adequate to correct hypoxia and/or hypercapnia caused by heavy
   sedation. Mask ventilation is often impossible because of the endoscope in the mouth.
   Tracheal intubations and mechanical ventilation are usually not chosen because these
   procedures are often short and do not warrant full general anesthesia.
30  [003] Hypoxia during tracheal intubation is the most common complications causing
   morbidity and mortality in the clinical practice of anesthesia, which is often related to an
                                                   1

   unexpected difficult airway. This can contribute to up to 28% of anesthesia related deaths.
   Occasionally, both mask ventilation and tracheal intubation are impossible in an apnea
   patient resulting in non-ventilation and non-intubation airway emergency. Lack of effective
   airway devices that maintain oxygenation and ventilation during the process of tracheal
 5 intubation in an apnea patient is still one of the primary causes of the morbidity and
   mortality during anesthesia practice. Accordingly, there exists a need for an improved
   airway apparatus capable of providing adequate oxygenation and ventilation before or
   during the process of tracheal intubation.
                                 SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
10 [004] Provided herein is an apparatus for nasally delivering a supraglottic jet ventilation,
   the apparatus comprising: (a) an elongated flexible tube having: (i) an annular cylindrical
   wall defining at least one tube lumen extending substantially the entire length thereof, said
   cylindrical wall having external and internal surfaces and having proximal and distal ends,
   (ii) a first catheter lumen extending lengthwise within said cylindrical wall between said
15 external surface and said internal surface and along a dorsal region thereof, said first lumen
   having a first opening through the external surface of said cylindrical wall adjacent the
   proximal end thereof and a second opening through the internal surface of said cylindrical
   wall adjacent the distal end thereof, (iii) a second catheter lumen extending lengthwise
   within said cylindrical wall along a ventral region thereof, said lumen having a first opening
20 through the external surface of said cylindrical wall adjacent the proximal end thereof and a
   second opening through a distal face of said cylindrical wall at the distal end of said
   cylindrical wall; (b) a first catheter extending dorsally through said first catheter lumen, said
   first catheter having a proximal end extending outside of said cylindrical wall through said
   first opening and having a distal end extending into said tube lumen through said second
25 opening (c) a second catheter extending ventrally through said second catheter lumen, said
   second catheter having a proximal end extending outside of said cylindrical wall through
   said first opening and having a distal end extending through said second opening.
    [005] In one aspect, the apparatus further comprises an inflatable balloon cuff extending
   substantially along the external surface of said cylindrical wall, wherein said balloon cuff is
30 coupled to the distal end of said tube. The balloon cuff is capable of stopping nasal bleeding
   by inflating the cuff, thereby exerting pressure on nasal wall.
                                                    2

    [006] In another aspect, the apparatus further comprises a marker present along the
   external surface of said cylindrical wall, wherein said marker comprises a ruler marking.
   The presence of said marker helps determine the depth of the jet nasal airway device in the
   nasal cavity.
 5  [007] In another aspect, the apparatus further comprises an attachment mechanism that is
   capable of securing the apparatus to a subject's face. The attachment mechanism may
   comprise a movable clip wrapped around the substantial portion of the external surface of
   said cylindrical wall. In an exemplary embodiment, a flexible wire or rope may be coupled
   to both ends of said movable clip in order to secure the apparatus to a subject's face after the
10 placement of the apparatus on the subject's face.
    [008] In another aspect, the apparatus further comprises a mechanism for synchronizing a
   subject's breath to a jet ventilator. In one example, the apparatus comprises a breath sound
   sensor located on the inner surface of said cylindrical wall. A breath sound detector may be
   coupled to said breath sound sensor, wherein said breath sound detector may also be coupled
15 to a jet ventilator to initiate a jet pulse when the subject inhales or breathes in air. In another
   example, the capnogram generated from a PetCO 2 monitoring catheter imbedded in the
   apparatus can be used to trigger the jet ventilator and be synchronized to the subject's
   spontaneous breathing with the supraglottic oxygenation and ventilation. In yet another
   example, the apparatus comprises a pressure sensor located on the inner surface of said
20 cylindrical wall to sense airway pressures. A pressure detector may be coupled to said
   pressure sensor, wherein said pressure detector may also be coupled to a jet ventilator to
   initiate a jet pulse when the subject inhales or breathes in air.
    [009] In some embodiments, the apparatus comprises the foregoing balloon cuff and
   further comprises at least one or more of the foregoing markers, the foregoing attachment
25 mechanisms, and the foregoing mechanisms for synchronizing a subject's breath to a jet
   ventilator. In some embodiments, the apparatus comprises the foregoing marker and further
   comprises at least one or more of the foregoing balloon cuffs, the foregoing attachment
   mechanisms, and the foregoing mechanisms for synchronizing a subject's breath to a jet
   ventilator. In some embodiments, the apparatus comprises the foregoing attachment
30 mechanism and further comprises at least one or more of the foregoing balloon cuffs, the
   foregoing markers, and the foregoing mechanisms for synchronizing a subject's breath to a
   jet ventilator. In some embodiments, the apparatus comprises the foregoing mechanism for
   synchronizing a subject's breath to a jet ventilator attachment mechanism and further
                                                     3

   comprises at least one or more of the foregoing balloon cuffs, the foregoing markers, and the
   foregoing attachment mechanisms.
   [0010] In another aspect, provided herein are methods of ventilating and/or oxygenating a
   subject with compromised breathing, comprising: (a) within a nasal airway of said subject,
 5 positioning an apparatus described herein; and (b) initiating jet ventilation through said jet
   catheter tube using a jet ventilator or device.
   [0011] In another aspect, provided herein are systems for ventilating and/or oxygenating a
   subject with compromised breathing, the systems comprising: (a) an apparatus described
   herein; (b) a jet ventilator or device; and (c) a CO 2 monitoring device. In another aspect,
10 methods of synchronizing a subject's breathing with a jet ventilator are provided. In another
   aspect, provided herein are methods for treating a disease. Also provided are methods for
   making the apparatus.
   [0012] Unless otherwise defined, all technical and scientific terms used herein have the
   same meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art to which this
15 invention belongs. Other features and advantages of the present invention will become apparent
   from the following detailed description examples and figures. It should be understood, however,
   that the detailed description and the specific examples while indicating preferred embodiments
   of the invention are given by way of illustration only, since various changes and modifications
   within the spirit and scope of the invention will become apparent to those skilled in the art from
20 this detailed description. It is also contemplated that whenever appropriate, any embodiment of
   the present invention can be combined with one or more other embodiments of the present
   invention, even though the embodiments are described under different aspects of the present
   invention.
                           BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
25 [0013] The invention will be better understood from a reading of the following detailed
   description taken in conjunction with the drawings in which like reference designators are
   used to designate like elements, and in which:
   [0014] Figure 1 is a schematic drawing of the apparatus, according to one embodiment of
   the invention.
30 [0015] Figure 2 is a schematic drawing of the apparatus, according to another embodiment
   of the invention.
                                                     4

   [0016] Figure 3 illustrates a jet nasal prototype using a regular nasal airway and a jet
   catheter inside its lumen.
   [0017] Figure 4 illustrates a jet nasal airway device, according to one embodiment of the
   invention.
 5 [0018] Figure 5 illustrates a closer view of the jet nasal airway device of Figure 4.
                       DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
   [0019] The invention provides an apparatus for nasally delivering a supraglottic jet
   oxygenation and ventilation and methods of use thereof.
   [0020] The apparatus includes an elongated flexible tube having: (i) an annular cylindrical
10 wall defining at least one tube lumen extending substantially the entire length thereof, said
   cylindrical wall having external and internal surfaces and having proximal and distal ends,
   (ii) a first catheter lumen extending lengthwise within said cylindrical wall between said
   external surface and said internal surface and along a dorsal region thereof, said first lumen
   having a first opening through the external surface of said cylindrical wall adjacent the
15 proximal end thereof and a second opening through the internal surface of said cylindrical
   wall adjacent the distal end thereof, (iii) a second catheter lumen extending lengthwise
   within said cylindrical wall along a ventral region thereof, said lumen having a first opening
   through the external surface of said cylindrical wall adjacent the proximal end thereof and a
   second opening through a distal face of said cylindrical wall at the distal end of said
20 cylindrical wall; (b) a first catheter extending dorsally through said first catheter lumen, said
   first catheter having a proximal end extending outside of said cylindrical wall through said
   first opening and having a distal end extending into said tube lumen through said second
   opening (c) a second catheter extending ventrally through said second catheter lumen, said
   second catheter having a proximal end extending outside of said cylindrical wall through
25 said first opening and having a distal end extending through said second opening
   [0021] In one aspect, the apparatus comprises an inflatable balloon cuff that extends
   substantially along the external surface of the cylindrical wall. The inflatable balloon cuff
   may be coupled to the distal end of the tube. The inflatable balloon cuff is capable of
   stopping nasal bleeding by exerting pressure on the nasal wall inside the nasal cavity.
30 [0022] In another aspect, the apparatus comprises a marker present along the external
   surface of the cylindrical wall. The marker comprises a ruler marking, for example, in
                                                    5

   centimeters (cm), millimeters (mm), or a combination thereof. The marker may be present
   on the proximal portion of the tube. The presence of the marker helps determine the depth of
   nasal airway in the nasal cavity. Preferably, the distal end of the jet nasal airway should pass
   the posterior nostril so that high speed flow jet pulses will not be applied to the mucus
 5 membrane on the inner wall of nasal cavity and cause possible nasal bleeding. Therefore the
   apparatus should preferably be long enough to reach above the vocal cord so that the length
   of the apparatus in the nasal cavity can be adjusted to make the distal end of jet nasal airway
   apparatus pointing directly or close to the vocal cord opening to optimize the effects of
   active supraglottic jet oxygenation and ventilation. The inner diameter (ID) should
10 preferably be small enough so that it will facilitate the insertion of the apparatus while
   minimizing the chance of bleeding during placement of the apparatus in the nasal cavity.
   [0023] In yet another aspect, the apparatus comprises an attachment mechanism that is
   capable of securing the apparatus to a subject's face. The attachment mechanism includes a
   movable clip wrapped around a substantial portion of the external surface of the cylindrical
15 wall. A flexible wire or rope may be coupled to both ends of said movable clip in order to
   secure the apparatus to the subject's face after the placement of the apparatus on the
   subject's face.
   [0024] In addition, according to another aspect of the invention, the apparatus includes a
   breath sound or pressure detection mechanism to detect inhaling and/or exhaling breath
20 sound. A breath sound or pressure sensor may be located on the inner surface of the tube
   lumen. The sound or pressure detector can be directly or indirectly coupled, respectively, to
   the breath sound or pressure sensor, for example, through an electric wire, and also can be
   directly or indirectly coupled to a jet ventilator to initiate a jet pulse so that the jet ventilator
   will provide an active jet pulse into trachea via supraglottic jet oxygenation and ventilation
25 when the subject inhales or breaths in.
   [0025] In some embodiments, the apparatus of the invention may include a plurality of
   catheter lumens, each extending lengthwise within the cylindrical wall between the external
   surface and the internal surface. In one example, the apparatus of the invention may include
   a first catheter lumen and a second catheter lumen. The first catheter lumen may extend
30 lengthwise along a dorsal region of the tube and the second catheter lumen may extend
   lengthwise along a ventral region of the tube.
   [0026] The first catheter lumen comprises a first opening through the external surface of the
   cylindrical wall adjacent to the proximal end thereof and a second opening through the
                                                    6

   internal surface of the cylindrical wall adjacent to the distal end thereof. The second catheter
   lumen also comprises a first opening through the external surface of the cylindrical wall
   adjacent to the proximal end thereof and a second opening through a distal face of the
   cylindrical wall at the distal end of the cylindrical wall.
 5 [0027] The first catheter lumen may include a first catheter that may extend dorsally through
   said first catheter lumen. The first catheter has a proximal end extending outside of the
   cylindrical wall through the first opening and a distal end extending into the tube lumen
   through the second opening.
   [0028] The second catheter lumen may include a second catheter that may extend ventrally
10 through said second catheter lumen. The second catheter has a proximal end extending
   outside of the cylindrical wall through the first opening and a distal end extending through
   the second opening.
   [0029] In certain embodiments, the first catheter is adapted to accommodate a jet ventilator,
   a jet device or oxygen insufflation. In some embodiments, the first catheter is adapted to
15 accommodate a CO 2 monitor or sensor. The CO 2 signal can also be used to trigger the jet
   ventilator so that the jet pulses are injected when the subject inhales or breaths in and
   supraglottic jet oxygenation and ventilation is synchronized with the subject's spontaneous
   breathing.
   [0030] In certain embodiments, the second catheter is adapted to monitor CO 2. In some
20 embodiments, the second catheter is adapted to accommodate a jet ventilator. In some
   embodiments, the second catheter is adapted to accommodate a jet device. In some
   embodiments, the second catheter is adapted to accommodate oxygen insufflation.
   [0031] In some embodiments, the jet catheter extends beyond the distal end of the tube. In
   one example, the jet catheter may extend such that the distal end of the jet catheter is flush
25 with the distal end of the tube. In some embodiments, the distal end of the jet catheter is set
   back relative to the distal end of the catheter adapted to monitor CO 2 in the direction of the
   tube lumen proximal end. For example, the jet catheter may be set back in order that the jet
   pulses are not directed below the vocal cord, thereby minimizing the amount of the jet pulse
   directed into the esophagus.
30 [0032] The inner diameter of the first and second catheter lumens (e.g., the jet catheter
   lumen or the CO 2 monitoring catheter lumen) may be smaller than the inner diameter of the
   tube lumen. In certain embodiments, the first catheter lumen or the second monitoring
                                                    7

   catheter lumen has an inner diameter of between about 0.1 mm and 2.5 mm and the tube
   lumen has an inner diameter of between about 1 mm and 10 mm.
   [0033] In some embodiments, the apparatus further comprises a visual monitoring unit for
   observing the vocal cord. In certain embodiments, the visual monitoring unit is positioned
 5 within the tube lumen.
   [0034] In some embodiments, the apparatus further comprises a jet ventilation source for
   providing jet ventilation through the jet catheter and/or CO 2 monitoring catheter. The jet
   ventilation   source    may be     controlled    for jet  pulse frequency,      pulse pressure,
   inspiratory/expiratory ratio (I/E) ratio, and the oxygen concentrations in the jet pulse.
10 [0035] The length of the apparatus may range between about 2 and 20 cm. The apparatus is
   capable of being used on subjects of many age groups, including adult, child, and infant
   subjects.
   [0036] Provided herein are methods of oxygenating and/or ventilating a subject, where the
   subject is afflicted with a disease or condition, is undergoing tracheal intubation, or is under
15 heavy sedation during a surgery, which results in compromised breathing. The methods
   includes the step of positioning or placing a nasal jet airway device described herein, using
   an attachment mechanism described herein, on the subject for nasally delivering supraglottic
   jet pulses of air, oxygen, or mixtures thereof at various concentrations. Also, provided herein
   are methods of synchronizing the jet pulses to the foregoing subjects
20 [0037] The methods may include adjusting the flexible wire or rope to adjust the movable
   clip in order to secure the apparatus to a subject's face so that it will not move around after
   the distal end of jet nasal airway apparatus has been properly placed in the nasal cavity.
   [0038] In some embodiments, when there is a nasal bleeding, the methods include the step
   of inflating the balloon cuff to exert pressure on the nasal wall, and thereby stop the
25 bleeding.
   [0039] In some embodiments, the method includes the step of measuring the depth of nasal
   airway in the nasal cavity using the ruler markings of the marker. Initial depth of the nasal
   airway with active oxygenation and ventilation in the nasal cavity can be the distance
   between ear and nostril on the same side. The depth of the nasal airway with active
30 oxygenation and ventilation in the nasal cavity can be adjusted by moving in or out of the
                                                     8

   nasal cavity to obtain, for example, the maximum levels of chest rise, breath sound, or end
   tidal CO 2 .
   [0040] In some embodiments, the methods include the step of detecting the inhaling and
   exhaling breath sound or the end tidal CO 2 of a subject and synchronizing the subject's
 5 spontaneous breathing with a jet ventilator.
   [0041] In some embodiments, the methods further comprise the step of adjusting the
   position of the jet pulse in the nasal airway to optimize the end-tidal CO 2 with a capnogram
   having a stable plateau. In some embodiments, the methods further comprise the step of
   observing the subject's vocal cord by at least one visual monitoring unit, such as a fiber
10 optic scope.
   [0042] In some embodiments, the methods further comprise the step of changing jet
   ventilation through the jet catheter to the CO 2 monitoring catheter, and using jet catheter for
   CO 2 monitoring. In some embodiments, the choice of the catheter function depends on best
   chest rise and maximum end-tidal CO 2 obtained with use of each of two catheters.
15 [0043] In some embodiments, the methods further comprise the step of capping the
   proximal end of the jet catheter. In some embodiments, the method further comprises the
   step of capping the proximal end of the CO 2 monitoring catheter. In some embodiments, the
   methods further comprise the step of providing conventional ventilation using a breathing
   bag to the subject through the first tube. In some embodiments, the methods further
20 comprise the step of delivering medication to the subject through the jet catheter. In some
   embodiments, the methods further comprise the step of delivering medication to the subject
   through the CO 2 monitoring catheter. In some embodiments, the methods further comprise
   the step of applying suction forces to the nasal airway in a subject through the jet catheter or
   CO 2 monitoring catheter.
25 [0044] The apparatus of the invention can be used to treat any suitable disease or condition.
   For example, without limitation, the disease or condition is respiratory depression, apnea,
   hypoxia, hypercapnia, or any combination thereof.
   [0045] Provided are systems for ventilating a subject with compromised breathing. The
   subject with compromised breathing may, for example, be a subject afflicted with a disease
30 or condition, or is a subject undergoing tracheal intubation, or is a subject under heavy
   sedation during a surgery. The system may include the jet nasal airway device described
   herein.
                                                   9

   [0046] In certain embodiments, the systems further comprise a unit for viewing a vocal cord,
   such as a fiber optic unit.
   [0047] In some embodiments, the systems further comprise a jet ventilator. The jet ventilator
   can be any device that generates jet pulses. In some embodiments, the systems further
 5 comprise a CO 2 monitoring unit. The CO 2 monitoring unit is capable of monitoring end-tidal
   CO 2.
   [0048] In some embodiments, the system further comprises a mechanism for applying
   suction to the apparatus through the tube lumen. In certain embodiments, the system further
   comprises a central control unit. In some embodiments, the central control unit comprises a
10 sensor of breathing, a computer to integrate breathing signal and provide triggering signal
   for jet ventilator to synchronize the jet pulse from the jet ventilator with spontaneous
   breathing of subject.
   [0049] In certain embodiments, as shown in Figure 2, provided herein is a jet nasal airway
   device comprising a nasal airway unit (1) comprising: a tube (7) having a proximal end (9), a
15 distal end (6), an anterior surface (10), and a posterior surface (11), a first tube wall (15) and
   a second tube wall (16) enclosing a tube lumen (8); a jet catheter (4) partially enclosed
   within the first tube wall (15) having proximal end (12), a distal end (5) and comprising a
   first jet catheter wall and a second jet catheter wall (13 and 17, respectively) enclosing a jet
   catheter lumen (14), wherein the proximal end (12) of jet catheter extends outwards from the
20 first tube wall (15), wherein the distal end (5) of jet catheter extends inwards from the first
   tube wall (15) into the tube lumen; an end-tidal CO 2 monitoring catheter (2), partially
   enclosed within the second tube wall (16) having proximal end (18), a distal end (3) and
   comprising a first end-tidal CO 2 monitoring catheter wall and a second end-tidal CO 2
   monitoring catheter wall (19, 20) enclosing an end-tidal CO 2 monitoring catheter lumen
25 (21), wherein the proximal end (18) of an end-tidal CO 2 monitoring catheter extends
   outwards from the second tube wall (16), wherein the distal end (3) of an end-tidal CO 2
   monitoring catheter is located within the second tube wall (16).
   [0050] As shown in the embodiments of Figures 1 and 2, the nasal airway device also
   comprises an inflatable balloon cuff (30), a marker (41), an attachment mechanism (51), a
30 breath sound sensor (61) and a breath sound detector (62). The balloon cuff (31) may be
   coupled to the distal end (6) of the tube (7).
   [0051] The marker (41) includes a ruler marking (42), for example, in centimeters,
                                                   10

   millimeters, or other distance measuring markings. The marker (41) may be present in the
   proximal portion of the tube (9).
   [0052] The attachment mechanism (51) includes a movable clip (52) wrapped around a
   substantial portion of the external surface of the cylindrical wall (15). Both ends (53, 54) of
 5 movable clip (52) may be coupled to a flexible wire or rope (55) so that the device can be
   secured to the subject's face.
   [0053]    A breath sound sensor (61) may be located on the inner surface of the tube lumen
   (8). A sound detector (62) can be directly or indirectly coupled to the breath sound sensor
   (61), for example, through an electric wire, and also can be directly or indirectly coupled to a
10 jet ventilator to initiate jet pulse so that the jet ventilator will provide active jet pulse into
   trachea via supraglottic jet ventilation when the subject inhales or breaths in. Alternatively or
   additionally, a pressure sensor (not shown) may be located on the inner surface of the tube
   lumen (7). A pressure detector (not shown) can be directly or indirectly coupled to the breath
   sound sensor, for example, through an electric wire, and also can be directly or indirectly
15 coupled to a jet ventilator to initiate jet pulse so that the jet ventilator will provide active jet
   pulse into trachea via supraglottic jet ventilation when the subject inhales or breaths in.
   Accordingly, jet ventilation is synchronized with the subject's breathing so that jet ventilator
   may inject active jet pulses when the subject is inhaling or breathing in.
   [0054]    Figures 4 and 5 depict a jet nasal airway device (1) according to certain
20 embodiments. Jet nasal airway device (1) comprises: a tube (7) having a proximal end (9)
   and a distal end (6); a jet catheter (4); and an end-tidal CO 2 monitoring catheter (2). The
   device (1) also includes ruler markings (42), for example, in centimeters or other distance
   measuring markings, on a surface of tube (7). The nasal airway device (1) also comprises a
   stopper or ring (43), such as a plastic ring, surrounding the tube (7) near its proximal end (9).
25 Ring (43) can slide axially along at least the proximal end (9) of tube (7) to loosely maintain
   the depth of device in the nasal cavity after proper airway placement. In use, prior to
   insertion of the device into a subject, the ring may be positioned or located at a position near
   the proximal end of the tube. The device may then be inserted into the nasal cavity of a
   subject to a depth greater, e.g., 2 to 4 cm, than ultimately desired. The device is then
30 extruded while adjusting its position (e.g.,        by rotation) to achieve, for example, the
   maximum levels of chest rise, breath sound, or end-tidal CO 2. Once the device is properly
   positioned, the ring may be slid distally until it loosely abuts the nostril to maintain the
   device at the desired depth within the nasal cavity.
                                                    11

   [0055] In some embodiments, the proximal end of the end-tidal CO 2 monitoring catheter is
   capped. In some embodiments, the proximal end of the end-tidal CO 2 monitoring catheter is
   cuffed. In some embodiments, the proximal end of the jet catheter is capped. In some
   embodiments, the proximal end of the jet catheter is cuffed. The end-tidal CO 2 monitoring
 5 can be can be directly or indirectly coupled to a jet ventilator to initiate jet pulse so that the
   jet ventilator will provide active jet pulse into trachea via supraglottic jet ventilation when
   the subject inhales or breaths in. Accordingly, in certain embodiments, jet ventilation is
   synchronized with the subject's breathing so that jet ventilator may inject active jet pulses
   when the subject is inhaling or breathing in.
10 [0056] As shown in the embodiment of Figure 1, the nasal airway unit (1) comprises inner
   lumen at the proximal end with active oxygenation and ventilation (away from the subject's
   vocal cord) features and an adaptor for connecting to a conventional mechanical ventilator to
   perform conventional mechanical ventilation such as pressure- or volume- controlled
   ventilation if needed. The apparatus also comprises proximal end of the built-in jet catheter
15 (4) or end-tidal CO 2 monitoring catheter, which can be coupled to a jet ventilator and/or end
   tidal CO 2 monitor; distal end (5) of the built-in jet or end-tidal CO 2 monitoring catheter;
   proximal end of the built-in end-tidal CO 2 monitoring or jet catheter (2), which can be
   coupled to an end tidal CO 2 monitor and/or a jet ventilator; distal end (5) of the built-in end
   tidal CO 2 monitoring or jet catheter; a balloon cuff (30) on the outer surface of the nasal
20 airway with active oxygenation and ventilation to treat occasional nose bleeding or assist
   conventional mechanical ventilation; proximal end (31) of the tube connecting to balloon
   cuff for inflation of balloon cuff if needed; marker (41) in numbers, for example, in
   centimeters to indicate distance between marker and the most distal end (5) of the nasal
   airway with active oxygenation and ventilation; movable stopper or a clip (55) wrapping
25 around outer surface of the nasal airway with active oxygenation and ventilation with tape or
   rope on both end to secure the device on the subject's face after proper airway placement;
   and breath sound sensor (61) located on the inner surface of the lumen in the nasal airway
   with active oxygenation and ventilation to detect the subject's inhaling and exhaling breath
   sound. The distal end (62) of the breath sound detector can be coupled to the breath sound
30 sensor through an electric wire and also can be coupled to a jet ventilator to initiate jet pulse
   so that jet ventilator will provide active jet pulse into the trachea via supraglottic jet
   ventilation when the subject inhales or breaths in.
   [0057] The terms "apparatus for nasally delivering a jet of air or oxygen" or "jet nasal
   airway device" or "supraglottic jet nasal airway" or "nasal jet airway device" are used
                                                   12

   interchangeably. Various features of a nasal jet airway device are described in PCT patent
   application publication WO 2011/014543 and U.S. patent application publication U.S.
   2012/0130264, both of which are incorporated by reference herein in their entirety.
   [0058] In certain embodiments, the first catheter is adapted to accommodate an air or
 5 oxygen jet. In some embodiments, the second catheter is adapted to monitor CO 2. In some
   embodiments, the second catheter is an end-tidal CO 2 monitoring catheter. In some
   embodiments, the jet nasal airway device further comprises a jet ventilation source for
   providing jet oxygenation and ventilation through the jet catheter. In one aspect, the jet nasal
   airway device further comprises an inflatable insufflation cuff.
10 [0059] In some embodiments, the inner diameter of the jet catheter lumen is smaller than the
   inner diameter of the tube lumen. In some embodiments, the first tube wall (15) has a
   protruding end. In some embodiments, the second tube wall (16) has a protruding end. In
   some embodiments, the distal end of the tube lumen is beveled. For example, the distal end
   of the tube lumen is beveled for ease of insertion of the apparatus into the nasal airway of the
15 subject. In some embodiments, the distal end of the tube lumen is beveled such that the
   dorsal end is longer than the ventral end. In some embodiments, the distal end of the tube
   lumen is beveled such that the ventral end is longer than the dorsal end. In some
   embodiments, the distal end of the tube lumen is beveled at angle to the dorsal-ventral axis.
   [0060] In some embodiments, the jet catheter lumen (14) has an inner diameter of 0.1 mm to
20 2.3 mm. In some embodiments, the jet catheter lumen has an inner diameter of 0.5 mm to 1.5
   mm. In some embodiments, the jet catheter lumen has an inner diameter of 0.1 mm to 2.5
   mm. In some embodiments, the jet catheter lumen has an inner diameter of 1 mm to 1.5 mm.
   In some embodiments, the jet catheter lumen has an inner diameter of 1.5 mm to 2.3 mm. In
   some embodiments, the jet catheter lumen has an inner diameter of 1.5 mm to 2.5 mm.
25 [0061] In some embodiments, the end-tidal CO 2 monitoring catheter (21) has an inner
   diameter of 0.1 mm to 4 mm. In some embodiments, the end-tidal CO 2 monitoring catheter
   has an inner diameter of 0.5 mm to 1.5 mm. In some embodiments, the end-tidal CO 2
   monitoring catheter has an inner diameter of 0.1 mm to 2.5 mm. In some embodiments, the
   end-tidal CO 2 monitoring catheter has an inner diameter of 1 mm to 3 mm. In some
30 embodiments, the end-tidal CO 2 monitoring catheter has an inner diameter of 2.5 mm to 3.5
   mm. In some embodiments, the end-tidal CO 2 monitoring catheter has an inner diameter of
   2.5 mm to 4 mm.
                                                   13

   [0062] In some embodiments, the tube's lumen has an inner diameter of 1 mm to 12 mm. In
   some embodiments, the tube's lumen has an inner diameter of 1 mm to 9 mm. In some
   embodiments, the tube's lumen has an inner diameter of 1 mm to 3 mm. In some
   embodiments, the tube's lumen has an inner diameter of 2 mm to 4 mm. In some
 5 embodiments, the tube's lumen has an inner diameter of 3 mm to 5 mm. In some
   embodiments, the tube's lumen has an inner diameter of 4 mm to 6 mm. In some
   embodiments, the tube's lumen has an inner diameter of 5 mm to 7 mm. In some
   embodiments, the tube's lumen has an inner diameter of 6 mm to 8 mm. In some
   embodiments, the tube's lumen has an inner diameter of 7 mm to 9 mm. In some
10 embodiments, the tube's lumen has an inner diameter of 3 mm to 8 mm. In some
   embodiments, the tube's lumen has an inner diameter of 2 mm to 5 mm. In some
   embodiments, the tube's lumen has an inner diameter of 6 mm to 9 mm.
   [0063] In some embodiments, the jet nasal airway device comprises an inflatable balloon
   cuff that extends substantially along the external surface of the cylindrical wall. The
15 inflatable balloon cuff may be coupled to the distal end of the tube. The inflatable balloon
   cuff is capable of stopping nasal bleeding by exerting pressure on the nasal wall inside the
   nasal cavity. In use, the length of the ballon cuff may be almost the entire depth of the device
   inserted into the nasal cavity. In some cases, the balloon cuff length is at least 95% of the
   nasal airway depth inserted by the device. In some cases, the balloon cuff length is at least
20 90% of the nasal airway depth inserted by the device. In some cases, the balloon cuff length
   is at least 85% of the nasal airway depth inserted by the device. In some cases, the balloon
   cuff length is at least 80% of the nasal airway depth inserted by the device. In some cases,
   the balloon cuff length is at least 75% of the nasal airway depth inserted by the device. In
   some cases, the balloon cuff length is at least 70% of the nasal airway depth inserted by the
25 device. In some cases, the balloon cuff length is at least 65% of the nasal airway depth
   inserted by the device. In some cases, the balloon cuff length is at least 60% of the nasal
   airway depth inserted by the device. In some cases, the balloon cuff length is at least 55% of
   the nasal airway depth inserted by the device. In some cases, the balloon cuff length is at
   least 50% of the nasal airway depth inserted by the device.
30 [0064] In some embodiments, the jet nasal airway device further comprises a visual
   monitoring unit for observing the vocal cord, such as an optic fiber.
   [0065] In some embodiments, the visual monitoring unit is attached to the jet nasal airway
   device. In some embodiments, the visual monitoring unit is included within the jet nasal
                                                   14

   airway device. In some embodiments, the visual monitoring unit is positioned within the
   tube's lumen.
   [0066] In some embodiments, the jet nasal airway device is compressible. In some
   embodiments, the jet nasal airway device is flexible. In some embodiments, the jet nasal
 5 airway device is elastic.
   [0067] In some embodiments, the jet nasal airway device has a length of 2-20 cm. In some
   embodiments, the jet nasal airway device has a length of 2-5 cm. In some embodiments, the
   jet nasal airway device has a length of 4-8 cm. In some embodiments, the jet nasal airway
   device has a length of 5-10 cm. In some embodiments, the jet nasal airway device has a
10 length of 8-12 cm. In some embodiments, the jet nasal airway device has a length of 10-15
   cm. In some embodiments, the jet nasal airway device has a length of 12-20 cm.
   [0068] In some embodiments, the device is an implantable device that is positioned within
   an anatomical cavity of the nose.
   [0069] In some embodiments, the device is comprised of a biocompatible material. In some
15 embodiments, the device is comprised of a combination of biocompatible materials. In some
   embodiments, the device is comprised of a biocompatible material that provides the
   necessary physical properties for the device of the invention. In some embodiments, the
   device is comprised of a polymeric material (both natural and synthetic), a polymeric fiber, a
   ceramic material, a composite material, a metal, a metal oxide, and combinations thereof. In
20 some embodiments, the device is comprised of amylose and amylopectin derivatives,
   polyamides, polyvinyl alcohol, polyvinyl acetals, polyvinylpyrrolidone, polyacrylates, epoxy
   resins, and polyurethanes (mixtures thereof, blends with other ingredients, or copolymers
   thereof) and combinations thereof.
   [0070] In some embodiments, the device is coated. In some embodiments, the device is
25 coated with a polymer or coating composition. In some embodiments, the device is coated
   with hyaluronic acid. In some embodiments, the device is coated with PerylenemTM. In some
   embodiments, the device is coated with heparin. In some embodiments, the device is coated
   with a lubricant. In some embodiments, the device is coated with a thrombo-prevention
   compound. In some embodiments, the device is coated with an anti-bacterial compound. In
30 some embodiments, the device is coated with a vaso-constriction medicine, such as
   neosynephrine, to prevent nose bleeding. In some embodiments, the device is coated with an
   anti-inflammatory compound. In some embodiments, the device is cross-linked or bound to a
                                                15

   drug by gamma irradiation, chemical binding (as with binder or crosslinking molecules such
   as N-hydroxysuccinimide),      or any other method. In some embodiments, the device is
   capable of the controlled release of a drug such as a surfactant, lubricant, antibiotic, anti
   acid, antifungal agent, anti-inflammatory, or the like.
 5 [0071] In some embodiments, the device is formed in part or in whole from a number of
   materials. In some embodiments, the materials are typically selected so as to ensure optimal
   device performance given the particular construction and/or geometry of the device. In some
   embodiments, the materials are tailored to the environment conditions to which the device
   may be exposed. In some embodiments, the environmental conditions of the nose may vary
10 according to a number of factors, e.g., the particular temperature of the animal whose nose is
   to receive the device, whether the animal is healthy or diseased, whether pus or other bodily
   fluids are present, edema of the mucosa, etc.
   [0072] In some embodiments, the device is substantially uniform in composition. In some
   embodiments, the device comprises of a plurality of regions that form an integrated whole.
15 In some embodiments, the device is comprised of an interior region and a peripheral region,
   wherein the regions exhibit different compositions. In some embodiments, the peripheral
   region is formed from a biocompatible material. In some embodiments, the microstructure of
   the materials used with the invention is controlled in order to produce a device of controlled
   mechanical properties (e.g., tensile strength, elasticity). In some embodiments, the material
20 is typically synthetic or man-made. In some embodiments, naturally occurring composition
   are used. In some embodiments, biocompatibility             requires  a material purity of a
   pharmaceutically acceptable grade.
   [0073] In some embodiments, the material is a hydrophilic polymer. In some embodiments,
   the   material   hydrophilic    polymers   include   polyethylene    glycol,  polyoxyethylene,
25 polymethylene glycol, polytrimethylene glycols, polycinylpyrrolidones,         and derivatives
   thereof. In some embodiments, the polymers are linear or multiply branched. In some
   embodiments, the material is polyethylene glycol (PEG) containing compound. In some
   embodiments, the material is a polyvinyl alcohol, polyacrylic acid, polyglycolic acid,
   polydioxanone. In some embodiments, the material is a biodegradable material such as
30 polyesters of an a-hydroxy acids, lactic acid, glycolic acid, lactic esters, caprolactone,
   polyether-polyester combinations especially of polyethylene glycol (PEG) and aliphatic
   polyesters like poly (lactic acid), poly (glycolic acid) and poly (caprolactone), either as a
   blend or as a copolymer, in order to increase the hydrophilicity and degradation rate. In
                                                   16

   some embodiments, the material is a biodegradable polyanhydrides or polyorthoesters
   having labile backbone linkages.
   [0074] In some embodiments, the material is a polysaccharide. In some embodiments, the
   material is hyaluronic acid. In some embodiments, the material is cyclodextrin. In some
 5 embodiments, the material is hydroxymethylcellulose. In some embodiments, the material is
   cellulose ether. In some embodiments, the material is a glycan. In some embodiments, the
   material is a collagen and other collagenic (collagen-like) materials
   [0075] In some embodiments, the device is used in conjunction with pharmaceutical
   technologies known in the art. In some embodiments, a pharmacologically active constituent
10 is bound to the device member or may be eludable. In some embodiments,                     such
   pharmacologically active constituents may promote healing and may include, for example,
   antibiotics, antifungal agent, anti-inflammatory, or the like. In some embodiments, the
   biocompatible material may be free from any pharmacologically active constituents.
   [0076] In some embodiments, the device comprises a pharmaceutical substance that treats or
15 prevents a microbial infection, the substance delivered may comprise pharmaceutically
   acceptable salt or dosage form of an antimicrobial agent (e.g., antibiotic, antiviral,
   antiparacytic, antifungal, etc.), a corticosteroid or other anti-inflammatory (e.g., an NSAID),
   a decongestant (e.g., vasoconstrictor), a mucous thinning agent (e.g., an expectorant or
   mucolytic), an agent that prevents of modifies an allergic response (e.g., an antihistamine,
20 cytokine inhibitor, leucotriene inhibitor, IgE inhibitor, immunomodulator), etc.
   [0077] In some embodiments, the device is inserted for a long period of time. In some
   embodiments, the device remains in the nose for a long period of time. In some
   embodiments, the device remains in the nose for at least one year. In some embodiments, the
   device remains in the nose for at least two years. In some embodiments, the device remains
25 in the nose for at least three years.
   [0078] In some embodiments, the device remains in the nose for at least a month. In some
   embodiments, the device remains in the nose for at least three months. In some
   embodiments, the device remains in the nose for at least four months. In some embodiments,
   the device remains in the nose for at least five months. In some embodiments, the device
30 remains in the nose for at least seven months.
   [0079] In some embodiments, the device remains in the nose for at least an hour. In some
   embodiments, the device remains in the nose for at least a day. In some embodiments, the
                                                    17

   device remains in the nose for at least three days. In some embodiments, the device remains
   in the nose for at least four days. In some embodiments, the device remains in the nose for at
   least a week. In some embodiments, the device remains in the nose for at least two weeks.
   [0080] In some embodiments, the device is degraded at a programmed rate. In some
 5 embodiments, the device is designed to degrade at a rate wherein structure may be
   completely removed by aqueous solution flushing. In some embodiments, the device
   maintains sufficient structural integrity to maintain potency for a designed period of time. In
   some embodiments, the period of treatment may be for a period between two weeks, two
   months, six months, twelve months or more.
10 [0081] In some embodiments, a measure of the ability to maintain structural integrity would
   be that the device can sustain a radially applied force without breaking (after the defined
   period of time) that is at least one-half of the structural force that can be sustained prior to
   implantation or immersion in a test environment.
   [0082] In some embodiments, it is well-known in the art that chemical materials, including
15 lubricants, medicaments, and the like, may be dissolved or dispersed in a polymer and this
   will bloom or exude or migrate from the polymer for local delivery of the material.
   [0083] In some embodiments, the device provides high frequency jet ventilation (HFJV) or
   low frequency jet ventilation (LFJV) characterized by its opening system, low tidal volume
   and low airway pressure. In some embodiments, the device maintains effective oxygenation
20 and/or ventilation.
   [0084] Having described preferred embodiments of the invention with reference to the
   accompanying drawings, it is to be understood that the invention is not limited to the precise
   embodiments, and that various changes and modifications may be effected therein by those
   skilled in the art without departing from the scope or spirit of the invention as defined in the
25 appended claims.
                                                   18

WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
1.     An apparatus for nasally delivering a supraglottic jet ventilation, the apparatus
comprising:
       a.       an elongated flexible tube having:
                     i.   an annular cylindrical wall defining at least one tube lumen
                          extending substantially the entire length thereof, said cylindrical wall
                          having external and internal surfaces and having proximal and distal
                          ends,
                    ii.   a first catheter lumen extending lengthwise within said cylindrical
                          wall between said external surface and said internal surface and
                          along a dorsal region thereof, said first lumen having a first opening
                          through the external surface of said cylindrical wall adjacent the
                          proximal end thereof and a second opening through the internal
                          surface of said cylindrical wall adjacent the distal end thereof,
                   iii.   a second catheter lumen extending lengthwise within said cylindrical
                          wall along a ventral region thereof, said lumen having a first opening
                          through the external surface of said cylindrical wall adjacent the
                          proximal end thereof and a second opening through a distal face of
                          said cylindrical wall at the distal end of said cylindrical wall;
       b.       a first catheter extending dorsally through said first catheter lumen, said first
       catheter having a proximal end extending outside of said cylindrical wall through
       said first opening and having a distal end extending into said tube lumen through said
       second opening;
       c.       a second catheter extending ventrally through said second catheter lumen,
       said second catheter having a proximal end extending outside of said cylindrical wall
       through said first opening and having a distal end extending through said second
       opening; and
       d.      one or more of the following:
                     i.   a breath sound sensor and/or pressure sensor located on the internal
                          surface of said cylindrical wall;
                    ii.   a marker present along the external surface of said cylindrical wall,
                          wherein said marker comprises a ruler marking and is present on the
                          proximal portion of said tube; and wherein the presence of said
                          marker helps determine the depth of nasal airway in the nasal cavity;
                                                 19

                   iii.  an inflatable balloon cuff extending substantially along the external
                         surface of said cylindrical wall, wherein said balloon cuff is coupled
                         to the distal end of said tube; or
                   iv.   an attachment mechanism that is capable of securing the apparatus to
                         subject's face.
2.      The apparatus of claim 1, has said breath sound sensor and/or said pressure sensor
located on the internal surface of said cylindrical wall.
3.      The apparatus of claim 2, wherein the apparatus has said breath sound sensor and
further comprises a breath sound detector coupled to said breath sound sensor, wherein said
breath sound detector is coupled to a jet ventilator to initiate a jet pulse when a subject
inhales or breathes in air.
4.      The apparatus of claim 2, wherein the apparatus has said pressure sensor and further
comprises a pressure detector coupled to said pressure sensor, wherein said pressure detector
is coupled to ajet ventilator to initiate ajet pulse when the subject inhales or breathes in air.
5.      The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the apparatus has said marker further comprising a
marker present along the external surface of said cylindrical wall, wherein said marker
comprises a ruler marking and is present on the proximal portion of said tube.
6.      The apparatus of claim 4, wherein the presence of said marker indicates the depth of
nasal airway in the nasal cavity.
7.      The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the apparatus has said balloon cuff, and wherein
said balloon cuff, upon inflation, is capable of stopping nasal bleeding by exerting pressure
on nasal wall.
8.      The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the apparatus has said attachment mechanism and
wherein said attachment mechanism comprises a movable clip wrapped around the
substantial portion of the external surface of said cylindrical wall.
                                                 20

9.      The apparatus of claim 8, further comprising a flexible wire or rope coupled to both
ends of said movable clip in order to secure the apparatus to the subject's face after the
placement of the apparatus on the subject's face.
10.     The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the first or the second catheter        is adapted to
accommodate a jet ventilator or oxygen insufflator, and wherein the other of the first or
second catheter is adapted to monitor CO 2 .
11.     The apparatus of claim 10, wherein the first catheter is adapted to accommodate a jet
ventilator or oxygen insufflator and the second catheter is adapted to monitor CO 2.
12.     The apparatus of claim 10, wherein the first catheter is adapted to monitor CO 2 and
the second catheter is adapted to accommodate a jet ventilator or oxygen insufflator.
13.     The apparatus of claim 10, wherein the first catheter or the second catheter          is
adapted to accommodate a jet ventilator or oxygen insufflator, and wherein the inner
diameter of the jet catheter lumen is smaller than the inner diameter of said tube.
14.     The apparatus of claim 10, wherein the distal end of the jet catheter is set back
relative to the distal end of the catheter adapted to monitor CO 2 in the direction of the tube
lumen proximal end.
15.     The apparatus of claim 10, wherein the jet catheter lumen and/or the CO 2 monitoring
catheter lumen has an inner diameter of between about 0.1 mm and 2.5 mm.
16.     The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said tube has an inner diameter of between about 1
mm and 10 mm.
17.     The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising a visual monitoring unit for observing
the vocal cords.
18.     The apparatus of claim 17, wherein said visual monitoring unit is positioned within
said tube lumen or through a subject's oral cavity.
                                               21

19.    The apparatus of claim 10, further comprising a jet ventilation source for providing jet
ventilation through the jet catheter.
20.    The apparatus of claims 19, wherein said CO 2 monitor is coupled to the jet ventilation
source to initiate a jet pulse when a subject inhales or breathes in air.
21.    The apparatus of of claim 19, wherein the jet ventilation source is controlled for jet
pulse frequency, pulse pressure, inspiratory/expiratory ratio (I/E) ratio, and the oxygen
concentrations in the jet pulse.
22.    The apparatus of claim 1, having a length of between about 2 and 20 cm.
23.    A method of ventilating and/or oxygenating a subject with compromised breathing,
comprising:
            a. within a nasal airway of said subject, positioning an apparatus of claim 10;
            b. initiating jet ventilation through said jet catheter tube using a jet ventilator or
                device.
24.    The method of claim 23, wherein the subject is afflicted with a disease or condition
resulting in compromised breathing.
25.    The method of claim 24, wherein the disease or condition is respiratory depression,
apnea, hypoxia, hypercapnia, or any combination thereof
26.    The method of claim 23, wherein the subject is obese.
27.    The method of claim 23, wherein the subject is in a prone position.
28.    The method of claim 23, wherein the subject is undergoing tracheal intubation.
29.    The method of claim 23, wherein the subject is under heavy sedation during a surgery
                                                22

30.   A system for ventilating and/or oxygenating a subject with compromised breathing, the
system comprising:
             a. the apparatus of claim 10;
            b.  a jet ventilator or device; and
            c.  a CO 2 monitoring device.
31.   The system of claim 30, further comprising a unit for viewing vocal cords.
32.   The system of claim 31, wherein the unit for viewing vocal cords is a fiber optic unit.
33.   The system of claim 30, wherein the jet ventilator generates jet pulses.
34.   The system of claim 33, wherein the jet ventilator is capable of being adjusted for jet
pulse frequency, pulse pressure (driving pressure), inspiratory/expiratory ratio (I/E)     and
inspiratory oxygen concentrations.
35.   The system of claim 30, further comprising a mechanism for applying suction to the
apparatus through the tube lumen.
36.   The system of claim 30, further comprising a central control unit.
37.   The system of claim 36, wherein the central control unit comprises a sensor of
breathing, a computer to integrate breathing signal and provide a triggering signal for a jet
ventilator to synchronize the jet pulse from the jet ventilator with spontaneous breathing of
the subject.
38.   The system of claim 30, wherein the breathing signal is provided by a breath sound
detector or pressure detector located on the internal surface of said cylindrical wall.
39.   The system of claim 30, wherein the CO 2 monitor measures end tidal CO 2.
40.   The system of claim 39, wherein the end tidal CO 2 measurement provides a triggering
signal for the jet ventilator to synchronize the jet pulse from the jet ventilator with
spontaneous breathing of the subject.
                                                23

41.    A method of synchronizing a subject's breathing with a jet ventilator, the method
comprising:
         providing the system of claim 30;
         within a nasal airway of said subject, positioning the system;
         initiating jet ventilation through said jet catheter tube using the jet ventilator or
device;
         detecting within the tube lumen a breath sound, an end tidal CO 2 or a pressure; and
         using the measurement to provide a triggering signal for the jet ventilator or device to
initiate a jet pulse when the subject inhales or breathes in air.
42.    The method of claim 41, wherein the subject is afflicted with a disease or condition
resulting in compromised breathing.
43.    The method of claim 42, wherein the disease or condition is respiratory depression,
apnea, hypoxia, hypercapnia, or any combination thereof
44.    The method of claim 41, wherein the subject is obese.
45.    The method of claim 41, wherein the subject is in a prone position.
46.    The method of claim 41, wherein the subject is undergoing tracheal intubation.
47.    The method of claim 41, wherein the subject is under heavy sedation during a surgery.
                                                24

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
