Australians are disillusioned with our political system. One reason is
constituents feel elected representatives are more accountable to party
leaders than the constituents who voted for them. This app is intended to
create a platform where political candidates can communicate directly to
their constituents and constituents can follow all the candidates relevant to
their electorate in one place. This app enables constituents to get to know
candidates in a forum which is equal and impartial. The app enables
candidates to communicate directly to their constituents. The app
empowers constituents to get involved in democratic governance by
making it convenient for them to view the opinions and ideas of all the
candidates relevant to them in one feed.

         Editorial Note
          <removed-apn>
There is one page of description only

The app enables candidates to communicate directly to constituents by
posting comments to a feed where constituents can view posts from all
candidates using the app organised by electoral boundary.
The feed looks like a social media feed but only candidates can post to
the feed.
The app has a different interface for constituents and candidates.
The app can be configured by the constituent to select any electoral
boundary feed within a jurisdiction.
Candidates are required to set up an account to access the candidate
interface.
Separately to the posts feed, constituents can access a biography of
each of the candidates who have posts in the feed which is written and
maintained by the candidate from their interface.
Separately to the posts feed, constituents can access the terms and
conditions candidates are required to comply with in order to maintain an
account so there is complete transparency between all users.

      Editorial Note
       <removed-apn>
There is one page of claims only

1. The app has different interfaces for candidates and constituents.
2. The candidate interface enables account holders to nominate one
   electorate and post to a feed which displays posts from other
   account holders who have nominated that same electorate.
3. The candidate interface includes a field where the account holder
   can input and edit a biography which can be viewed from the feed
   which contains the account holder's posts.
4. The constituent interface displays posts from account holders in
   separate feeds corresponding to the electorate nominated by the
   account holder.
5. The constituent interface is able to be configured to limit or expand
   the feeds displayed.

