ABSTRACT:
The disclosure provides compounds for reducing the prevalence of the perinucleolar
compartment in cells, for example, of formula (I), wherein RI, R2, R3, and R4 are as
defined herein, that are useful in treating a disease or disorder associated with
increased prevalence of the perinucleolar compartment, such as cancer. Also disclosed
is a composition containing a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier and at least one
compound embodying the principles of the invention, and a method of treating or pre
venting cancer in a mammal.

    COMPOUNDS AND METHODS FOR THE PREVENTION AND TREATMENT OF
                       TUMOR METASTASIS AND TUMORIGENESIS
                   CROSS-REFERENCE TO A RELATED APPLICATION
[0001]      This patent application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application
No. 61/576,780, filed December 16, 2011, which is incorporated by reference. This invention
was made with government support under RO1 GM078555, R03 MH082371 and U54
HG005031 awarded by the National Institutes of Health. The government has certain rights
in the invention.
                            BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
[0002]      Metastasis is the cellular mechanism used by disease to spread from an organ to
another non-adjacent part of the organism. This process is particularly important in the
development of solid tumors and is responsible for the majority of deaths associated with this
disease. It is well recognized in the field that treatment of a tumoral lesion has a better
prognosis if started in a pre-metastatic stage. In the last decade, although understanding of
the underlying mechanisms involved in metastasis has advanced, the therapeutic tools
impacting specifically the metastatic process are very limited.
                                           SUMMARY
[0003]      Inhibitors of the perinucleolar compartment (PNC), a subnuclear body
characterized by its location to the periphery of the nucleolus and which is associated with
malignancy both in vitro and in vivo, are disclosed as a solution to the unmet need for treating
cancer, specifically the metastatic cancers. Compounds embodying aspects of the invention
disrupt the assembly of the PNC. Such disruption reduces (without overt cytotoxicity) the
prevalence in cells of a multicomponent subnuclear structure that is highly prevalent in
metastatic tumors and for which presence (of the structure) positively correlates with
metastatic capacity. In accordance with the invention, the present disclosure provides
compositions comprising these compounds and methods of using these compounds as
therapeutic agents in the treatment of cancer.

                                                 2
[00061      The disclosure additionally provides a method for disrupting a PNC in a cell,
comprising contacting the cell with a compound embodying the principles of the invention or
a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.
[00071      The disclosure further provides a method for reducing the prevalence of
perinucleolar compartment in a cell, comprising contacting the cell with a compound
embodying the principles of the invention or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.
[00081      The disclosure further provides a method for reducing ATP levels produced by
metastatic cancer cells, in a mammal afflicted with metastatic cancer, comprising
administering to a mammal in need thereof a compound embodying the principles of the
invention or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt the
[00091      The disclosure additionally provides a method for reducing the colony formation
of cancer cells in a mammal, comprising administering to a mammal in need thereof a
compound embodying the principles of the invention or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt
thereof.
[00101      The disclosure additionally provides a method for reducing the migration of
cancer cells in a mammal, comprising administering to a mammal in need thereof a
compound embodying the principles of the invention or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt
thereof.
          BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE SEVERAL VIEWS OF THE DRAWING
[00111      Fig. 1 illustrates a histogram representing the number and size of PC3M soft agar
colonies after 14 days of treatment with a representative embodiment of the invention at two
different concentrations, as well as representative images of colonies observed at these
concentrations.
                       DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
[0012]      In one embodiment, the invention provides a compound of the formula:
                                                   NH     2
                                               N            R3
                                                       R4

                                                   3
        wherein R' is selected from alkyl, hydroxyalkyl, thioalkyl, alkoxyalkyl,
alkylthioalkyl, cycloalkyl, hydroxycycloalkyl, hydroxycycloalkylalkyl, thiocycloalkyl,
alkoxycycloalkyl, alkylthiocycloalkyl, dialkylaminoalkyl, heterocyclyl, heterocyclylalkyl,
heteroaryl, arylalkyl, arylalkylpiperidin-4-yl, arylpiperazinylalkyl, and heteroarylalkyl,
        R2 is aryl or heteroaryl,
        R3 is selected from H, alkyl, cycloalkyl, aryl, heteroaryl, arylalkyl, and
heteroarylalkyl,
        R4 is selected from alkyl, cycloalkyl, cycloalkylalkyl, aryl, heteroaryl, arylalkyl, and
heteroarylalkyl,
        or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof,
        wherein R'1     2
                       ,R
                          R 3, anR4otethnHaropinlysbtttdoteayln/r
                               and R4 , other than H, are optionally substituted on the aryl and/or
alkyl portion with one or more substituents selected from halo, alkyl, hydroxyalkyl,
thioalkyl, alkoxy, alkylthioalkyl, alkoxycarbonyl, alkylthiocarbonyl, amino, alkylamino,
dialkylamino, aminosulfonyl, hydroxyl, perfluoroalkoxy, alkylenedioxy, and alkylcarbonyl,
        with the proviso that when R 2 and R3 are both unsubstituted phenyl and R 4 is
unsubstituted benzyl, R' is not 3-hydroxypropyl.
[00131      In accordance with an embodiment, R 2 is phenyl, optionally substituted with one
or more substituents selected from halo, alkyl, hydroxyalkyl, thioalkyl, alkoxy,
alkylthioalkyl, alkoxycarbonyl, alkylthiocarbonyl, amino, alkylamino, dialkylamino, and
alkylcarbonyl.
10014]      In accordance with certain embodiments, R 2 is phenyl.
100151      In accordance with any of the above embodiments, R3 is phenyl, optionally
substituted with one or more substituents selected from halo, alkyl, hydroxyalkyl, thioalkyl,
alkoxy, alkylthioalkyl, alkoxycarbonyl, alkylthiocarbonyl, amino, alkylamino, dialkylamino,
and alkylcarbonyl.
            In accordance with any of the above embodiments, R is benzyl, wherein the
                                                                      4
10016]
phenyl ring is optionally substituted with one or more substituents selected from alkyl,
hydroxyalkyl, thioalkyl, alkoxy, alkylthioalkyl, alkoxycarbonyl, alkylthiocarbonyl, amino,
alkylamino, dialkylamino, aminosulfonyl, hydroxyl, perfluoroalkoxy, and alkylcarbonyl.

                                                 4
[0017]      In accordance with any of the above embodiments, R 4 is benzyl.
[00181      In accordance with any of the above embodiments, R' is a 5 or 6-membered
heterocyclyl group having at least one hetero atom selected from 0, N, and S; a hydroxy C1
C7 cycloalkyl group; a hydroxy C1-C6 alkyl group; a N,N-di(C 1 -C6 alkyl)amino C1-C 6 alkyl
group; a C1-C  6 alkoxy C 1-C6 alkyl group; a heteroaryl C1 -C6 alkyl group; a heterocyclyl C1
C6 alkyl group; phenyl CI-C 6 alkyl group wherein the phenyl ring is substituted with one or
more C1-C 6 alkoxy groups; N-benzyl piperazinyl; N-phenyl piperazinylalkyl; a phenyl C1 -C6
alkyl group where the alkyl is substituted with a hydroxy group; or a 5 or 6 membered
heteroarylamino C1 -C6 alkyl group wherein the heteroaryl group has at least one hetero atom
selected from 0, N, and S.
[00191      In accordance with certain preferred embodiments, R' is selected from the
following:
                     HO
                                      HO,
                                                     HO,,
                                                       O
HO           >    HO>                HO                     Me2 N          Me2 N
       S N                                                              MeO
                  N        ON              N                            MeO
                                                           OH
        OH
          NH
                                       MeO
                                                                         HO
                   NN
 H                        0               MeO             EtO
                                  ~sss  ,       OMe     ,      OEt         ,O
            Ph-N                              OH          I
                            O    N    <         OH                               COOMe
                                               OH,     COOMe        MeOOC
       rN
PK~  N                  , and

                                                  5
                                                                               3           4
[00201      In accordance with certain specific embodiments, R2 is phenyl, R is phenyl, R is
benzyl, and R 1 is selected from the following:
                          HO               HO,,           HOH
[00211       o         )ee,                                   '          H"
 HO                HOHO                               /    Me2N           Me2 N
           N                                                            MeO
                                                                        MeO
                                                           OH
                            H            MeO                             HO
                    ~N
                           0             O MeO          EtO
 HO
                             C/OMeI                     ,      OEt         ,           OH,
 Ph-NC                                          OH
                            O       N_           OH                              COOMe
                             \-/-      ,        OH,    COOMe         MeOOC
          N
     N,
 Ph'    _,J             , and
[00221      In accordance with certain embodiments, R 4 is 4-methoxybenzyl.
[00231      In accordance with certain preferred embodiments, R1 is selected from the
following:
                     HO              HO             ,HO                              ,<and
                                                                               3           4
            In accordance with certain specific embodiments, R is phenyl, R is phenyl, R is
                                                                   2
10024]
4-methoxybenzyl, and R' is selected from the following:

                                               6
                <HO              ,HO             -HO                                  , and
[0025]     In accordance with any of the above embodiments, R 4 is phenylethyl, wherein the
phenyl ring is optionally substituted with one or more substituents selected from alkyl,
hydroxyalkyl, alkoxy, and alkoxycarbonyl.
[0026]     In accordance with certain embodiments, R 4 is phenylethyl.
[0027]     In accordance with certain preferred embodiments, R' is selected from the
following:
                    HO              HO,             HO,,H
                                 /a                             <HO'-
 HHO              O                 HO ~            7    Me2 N           Me2N
       SNa
                                                            NOH, and MeOOC
                                                                               3            4
           In accordance with certain specific embodiments, R is phenyl, R is phenyl, R is
                                                                2
[00281
phenylethyl, and R' is selected from the following:
           OHO                      HO,,           HO,
                                                               /HO         HHO
 HO                HO                /   Me2N            Me2N
                                                             NOH    MeOOC
                 HO
 HO'
            and
10029]     In accordance with certain embodiments, R 4 is heteroaryl CI-C 6 alkyl.

                                                 7
[00301      In accordance with certain embodiments, R, is
[00311      In accordance with certain preferred embodiments, R' is selected from the
following:
             O   /HO          ~   HO            s                 NN
                          N
               and 0
[00321      In accordance with certain specific embodiments, R2 is phenyl, R3 is phenyl, R4 is
          Candy R1 is selected from the following:
                          NN
               and 0
[00331      In accordance with certain embodiments, R 4 is selected from
4-aminosulfonylbenzyl, 4-trifluoromethoxybenzyl, 4-methoxybenzyl, and cyclopropylmethyl.
[00341      In accordance with certain preferred embodiments, R' is selected from the
following:
 0           MeO                 HO                                 0
                                                            OH ,Hand
[0035]      Referring now to terminology used generically herein, the tenrin "alkyl" means a
straight-chain or branched alkyl substituent containing from, for example, 1 to about 6 carbon
atoms, preferably from 1 to about 4 carbon atoms, more preferably from 1 to 2 carbon atoms.
Examples of such substituents include methyl, ethyl, propyl, isopropyl, n-butyl, sec-butyl,
isobutyl, tert-butyl, pentyl, isoamyl, hexyl, and the like.
[00361      The tern "alkenyl," as used herein, means a linear alkenyl substituent containing
at least one carbon-carbon double bond and from, for example, about 2 to about 6 carbon
atoms (branched alkenyls are about 3 to about 6 carbons atoms), preferably from about 2 to

                                                8
about 5 carbon atoms (branched alkenyls are preferably from about 3 to about 5 carbon
atoms), more preferably from about 3 to about 4 carbon atoms. Examples of such
substituents include vinyl, propenyl, isopropenyl, n-butenyl, sec-butenyl, isobutenyl, tert
butenyl, pentenyl, isopentenyl, hexenyl, and the like.
[0037]      The term "alkynyl," as used herein, means a linear alkynyl substituent containing
at least one carbon-carbon triple bond and from, for example, 2 to about 6 carbon atoms
(branched alkynyls are about 3 to about 6 carbons atoms), preferably from 2 to about 5
carbon atoms (branched alkynyls are preferably from about 3 to about 5 carbon atoms), more
preferably from about 3 to about 4 carbon atoms. Examples of such substituents include
ethynyl, propynyl, isopropynyl, n-butynyl, sec-butynyl, isobutynyl, tert-butynyl, pentynyl,
isopentynyl, hexynyl, and the like.
[00381      The term "cycloalkyl," as used herein, means a cyclic alkyl substituent containing
from, for example, about 3 to about 8 carbon atoms, preferably from about 4 to about 7
carbon atoms, and more preferably from about 4 to about 6 carbon atoms. Examples of such
substituents include cyclopropyl, cyclobutyl, cyclopentyl, cyclohexyl, cycloheptyl,
cyclooctyl, and the like. The cyclic alkyl groups may be unsubstituted or further substituted
with alkyl groups such as methyl groups, ethyl groups, and the like. The term
"cycloalkylalkyl," as used herein, refers to an alkyl group linked to a cycloalkyl group and
further linked to a molecule via the alkyl group.
[0039]      The term "heterocyclyl," as used herein, refers to a monocyclic or bicyclic 5- or
6-membered ring system containing one or more heteroatoms selected from the group
consisting of 0, N, S, and combinations thereof. The heterocyclyl group can be any suitable
heterocyclyl group and can be an aliphatic heterocyclyl group, an aromatic heterocyclyl
group, or a combination thereof. The heterocyclyl group can be a monocyclic heterocyclyl
group or a bicyclic heterocyclyl group. Suitable bicyclic heterocyclyl groups include
monocylic heterocyclyl rings fused to a C6 -Cio aryl ring. When the heterocyclyl group is a
bicyclic heterocyclyl group, both ring systems can be aliphatic or aromatic, or one ring
system can be aromatic and the other ring system can be aliphatic as in, for example,
dihydrobenzofuran. Non-limiting examples of suitable aromatic heterocyclyl groups include
tetrahydrofuranyl, tetrahydropyranyl, tetrahydrothiopheneyl, pyrrolidinyl, piperidinyl, and
morpholinyl. Non-limiting examples of suitable aromatic heterocyclyl groups include
furanyl; thiopheneyl; pyrrolyl; pyrazolyl; imidazolyl; 1,2,3-triazolyl; 1,2,4-triazolyl;
isoxazolyl; oxazolyl; isothiazolyl; thiazolyl; 1,3,4-oxadiazol-2-yl; 1,2,4-oxadiazol-2-yl; 5-

                                                          9
methyl-1,3,4-oxadiazole; 3-methyl-1,2,4-oxadiazole; pyridinyl; pyrimidinyl; pyrazinyl;
triazinyl; benzofuranyl; benzothiopheneyl; indolyl; quinolinyl; isoquinolinyl; benzimidazolyl;
benzoxazolinyl; benzothiazolinyl; and quinazolinyl. The heterocyclyl group is optionally
substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4, or 5 substituents as recited herein such as with alkyl groups such as
methyl groups, ethyl groups, and the like, or with aryl groups such as phenyl groups,
naphthyl groups and the like, wherein the aryl groups can be further substituted with, for
example halo, dihaloalkyl, trihaloalkyl, nitro, hydroxy, alkoxy, aryloxy, amino, substituted
amino, alkylcarbonyl, alkoxycarbonyl, arylcarbonyl, aryloxycarbonyl, thio, alkylthio,
arylthio, and the like, wherein the optional substituent can be present at any open position on
the heterocyclyl group.
[0040]       The term "heterocyclylalkyl," as used herein, refers to an alkyl group linked to a
heterocyclyl group and further linked to a molecule via the alkyl group.
[0041]       The term "arylalkyl," as used herein, refers to an alkyl group linked to a C6-Cio
aryl ring and further linked to a molecule via the alkyl group. The tern "alkylaryl," as used
herein, refers to a C6 -Cio aryl ring linked to an alkyl group and further linked to a molecule
via the aryl group.
[0042]       The term "alkylcarbonyl," as used herein, refers to an alkyl group linked to a
carbonyl group and further linked to a molecule via the carbonyl group, such as alkyl-C(=O)-.
The term "alkoxycarbonyl," as used herein, refers to an alkoxy group linked to a carbonyl
group and further linked to a molecule via the carbonyl group, such as alkyl-O-C(=O)-.
10043]       Whenever a range of the number of atoms in a structure is indicated (such as a
Ci-CI 2 , C1-C8 , CI-C 6 , C 1-C 4 , or C2 -C12 , C2 -C8 , C2 -C6 , C 2 -C4 alkyl, alkenyl, alkynyl, etc.), it is
specifically contemplated that any sub-range or individual number of carbon atoms falling
within the indicated range also can be used. Thus, for instance, the recitation of a range of 1
8 carbon atoms (such as C1-C8 ), 1-6 carbon atoms (such as CI-C), 1-4 carbon atoms (such as
C 1-C4 ), 1-3 carbon atoms (such as C1-C3 ), or 2-8 carbon atoms (such as C2 -C8 ) as used with
respect to any chemical group (such as alkyl, alkylamino, etc.) referenced herein
encompasses and specifically describes 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, or 12 carbon atoms,
and combinations thereof, as appropriate, as well as any sub-range thereof (such as 1-2
carbon atoms, 1-3 carbon atoms, 1-4 carbon atoms, 1-5 carbon atoms, 1-6 carbon atoms, 1-7
carbon atoms, 1-8 carbon atoms, 1-9 carbon atoms, 1-10 carbon atoms, 1-I1 carbon atoms, 1
12 carbon atoms, 2-3 carbon atoms, 2-4 carbon atoms, 2-5 carbon atoms, 2-6 carbon atoms,
2-7 carbon atoms, 2-8 carbon atoms, 2-9 carbon atoms, 2-10 carbon atoms, 2-11 carbon

                                                 10
atoms, 2-12 carbon atoms, 3-4 carbon atoms, 3-5 carbon atoms, 3-6 carbon atoms, 3-7 carbon
atoms, 3-8 carbon atoms, 3-9 carbon atoms, 3-10 carbon atoms, 3-11 carbon atoms, 3-12
carbon atoms, 4-5 carbon atoms, 4-6 carbon atoms, 4-7 carbon atoms, 4-8 carbon atoms, 4-9
carbon atoms, 4-10 carbon atoms, 4-11 carbon atoms, and/or 4-12 carbon atoms, etc., as
appropriate). Similarly, the recitation of a range of 6-10 carbon atoms (such as, C 6 -Cio) as
used with respect to any chemical group (such as, aryl) referenced herein encompasses and
specifically describes 6, 7, 8, 9, and/or 10 carbon atoms, as appropriate, as well as any
sub-range thereof (such as, 6-10 carbon atoms, 6-9 carbon atoms, 6-8 carbon atoms, 6-7
carbon atoms, 7-10 carbon atoms, 7-9 carbon atoms, 7-8 carbon atoms, 8-10 carbon atoms,
and/or 8-9 carbon atoms, etc., as appropriate).
[00441       The term "halo" or "halogen," as used herein, means a substituent selected from
Group VIIA, such as, for example, fluorine, bromine, chlorine, and iodine.
[0045]       The term "aryl" refers to an unsubstituted or substituted aromatic carbocyclic
substituent, as commonly understood in the art, and the tenr "C6 -Cio aryl" includes phenyl
and naphthyl. It is understood that the term aryl applies to cyclic substituents that are planar
and comprise 4n+2 7t electrons, according to Hilckel's Rule.
[0046]       The phrase "phannaceutically acceptable salt" is intended to include non-toxic
salts synthesized from the parent compound which contains a basic or acidic moiety by
conventional chemical methods. Generally, such salts can be prepared by reacting the free
acid or base forns of these compounds with a stoichiometric amount of the appropriate base
or acid in water or in an organic solvent, or in a mixture of the two. Generally, non-aqueous
media such as ether, ethyl acetate, ethanol, isopropanol, or acetonitrile are preferred. Lists of
suitable salts are found in Remington 's PharmaceuticalSciences, 18th ed., Mack Publishing
Company, Easton, PA, 1990, p. 1445, and JournalofPharmaceuticalScience, 66, 2-19
(1977).
[0047]       Suitable bases include inorganic bases such as alkali and alkaline earth metal
bases, such as those containing metallic cations such as sodium, potassium, magnesium,
calcium and the like. Non-limiting examples of suitable bases include sodium hydroxide,
potassium hydroxide, sodium carbonate, and potassium carbonate. Suitable acids include
inorganic acids such as hydrochloric acid, hydrobromic acid, hydroiodic acid, sulfuric acid,
phosphoric acid, and the like, and organic acids such as p-toluenesulfonic, methanesulfonic
acid, benzenesulfonic acid, oxalic acid, p-bromophenylsulfonic acid, carbonic acid, succinic
acid, citric acid, benzoic acid, acetic acid, maleic acid, tartaric acid, fatty acids, long chain

                                                  11
fatty acids, and the like. Preferred pharmaceutically acceptable salts of inventive compounds
having an acidic moiety include sodium and potassium salts. Preferred pharmaceutically
acceptable salts of inventive compounds having a basic moiety (such as a
dimethylaminoalkyl group) include hydrochloride and hydrobromide salts. The compounds
of the present invention containing an acidic or basic moiety are useful in the form of the free
base or acid or in the form of a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.
[0048]       It should be recognized that the particular counterion forming a part of any salt of
this invention is usually not of a critical nature, so long as the salt as a whole is
pharmacologically acceptable and as long as the counterion does not contribute undesired
qualities to the salt as a whole.
[0049]       It is further understood that the above compounds and salts may form solvates, or
exist in a substantially uncomplexed form, such as the anhydrous form. As used herein, the
term "solvate" refers to a molecular complex wherein the solvent molecule, such as the
crystallizing solvent, is incorporated into the crystal lattice. When the solvent incorporated in
the solvate is water, the molecular complex is called a hydrate. Pharmaceutically acceptable
solvates include hydrates, alcoholates such as methanolates and ethanolates, acetonitrilates
and the like. These compounds can also exist in polymorphic forms.
[0050]       In any of the above embodiments, the compound or salt of formula (I) can have at
least one asymmetric carbon atom. When the compound or salt has at least one asymmetric
carbon atom, the compound or salt can exist in the racemic form, in the form of its pure
optical isomers, or in the form of a mixture wherein one isomer is enriched relative to the
other. In particular, in accordance with the present invention, when the inventive compounds
have a single asymmetric carbon atom, the inventive compounds may exist as racemates, that
is as mixtures of equal amounts of optical isomers, that is equal amounts of two enantiomers,
or in the form of a single enantiomer. As used herein, "single enantiomer" is intended to
include a compound that comprises more than 50% of a single enantiomer (that is
enantiomeric excess up to 100% pure enantiomer).
[0051]       When the compound or salt has more than one chiral center, the compound or salt
can therefore exist as a mixture of diastereomers or in the form of a single diastereomer. As
used herein, "single diastereomer" is intended to mean a compound that comprises more than
50% of a single diastereomer (that is diastereomeric excess to 100% pure diastereomer).
[0052]       Synthetic Method

                                                 12
[0053]      A general synthesis of embodiments of the compounds of the invention is depicted
in Scheme 1. The synthesis of the compound 104 commences with reaction of alpha
hydroxyketone 100 with a primary amine in the presence of catalytic zinc chloride to give the
alpha aminoketone 101, which is not isolated but reacts directly with malononitrile to give
aminopyrrole 102. Reaction of aminopyrrole 102 with triethyl orthoformate gives the
imidate 103. Reaction of imidate 103 with primary amine R'INH 2 in a solvent such as
methanol provides final product 104.
Scheme 1
              0                 R4 NH2         O                 CH 2(CN) 2     R      N
           R2       OH          ZnCl 2     R2       NHR          DMF           R2          NH2
                                                                              NH       2
                         R3      R4
      HC(OEt) 3                      H2N        RNH2                        N            R3
                            R2H        2                       -                 '-      R3
                              CN                                                    R4
[0054]      The present invention is further directed to a pharmaceutical composition
comprising a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier and at least one compound or salt described
herein.
[0055]      It is preferred that the pharmaceutically acceptable carrier be one that is
chemically inert to the active compounds and one that has no detrimental side effects or
toxicity under the conditions of use.
[0056]      The choice of carrier will be determined in part by the particular compound of the
present invention chosen, as well as by the particular method used to administer the
composition. Accordingly, there is a wide variety of suitable formulations of the
pharmaceutical composition of the present invention. The following formulations for oral,
aerosol, nasal, pulmonary, parenteral, subcutaneous, intravenous, intramuscular,
intraperitoneal, intrathecal, intratumoral, topical, rectal, and vaginal administration are merely
exemplary and are in no way limiting.
10057]      The pharmaceutical composition can be administered parenterally, such as
intravenously, subcutaneously, intradernally, or intramuscularly. Thus, the invention
provides compositions for parenteral administration that comprise a solution or suspension of
the inventive compound or salt dissolved or suspended in an acceptable carrier suitable for

                                                   13
parenteral administration, including aqueous and non-aqueous isotonic sterile injection
solutions.
[0058]       Overall, the requirements for effective pharmaceutical carriers for parenteral
compositions are well known to those of ordinary skill in the art. See, such as Banker and
Chalmers, eds., Pharmaceuticsand PharmacyPractice,J. B. Lippincott Company,
Philadelphia, pp. 238-250 (1982), and Toissel, ASHP Handbook on Injectable Drugs, 4th ed.,
pp. 622-630 (1986). Such solutions can contain anti-oxidants, buffers, bacteriostats, and
solutes that render the formulation isotonic with the blood of the intended recipient, and
aqueous and non-aqueous sterile suspensions that can include suspending agents, solubilizers,
thickening agents, stabilizers, and preservatives. The compound or salt of the present
invention may be administered in a physiologically acceptable diluent in a pharmaceutical
carrier, such as a sterile liquid or mixture of liquids, including water, saline, aqueous dextrose
and related sugar solutions, an alcohol, such as ethanol, isopropanol, or hexadecyl alcohol,
glycols, such as propylene glycol or polyethylene glycol, dimethylsulfoxide, glycerol ketals,
such as 2,2-dimethyl-1,3-dioxolane-4-methanol, ethers, such as poly(ethyleneglycol) 400, an
oil, a fatty acid, a fatty acid ester or glyceride, or an acetylated fatty acid glyceride with or
without the addition of a pharmaceutically acceptable surfactant, such as a soap or a
detergent, suspending agent, such as pectin, carbomers, methylcellulose,
hydroxypropylmethylcellulose, or carboxymethylcellulose, or emulsifying agents and other
pharmaceutical adjuvants.
[0059]       Oils useful in parenteral fonnulations include petroleum, animal, vegetable, or
synthetic oils. Specific examples of oils useful in such fonnulations include peanut, soybean,
sesame, cottonseed, corn, olive, petrolatum, and mineral. Suitable fatty acids for use in
parenteral formulations include oleic acid, stearic acid, and isostearic acid. Ethyl oleate and
isopropyl myristate are examples of suitable fatty acid esters.
[0060]       Suitable soaps for use in parenteral formulations include fatty alkali metal,
ammonium, and triethanolamine salts, and suitable detergents include (a) cationic detergents
such as, for example, dimethyl dialkyl ammonium halides, and alkyl pyridinium halides, (b)
anionic detergents such as, for example, alkyl, aryl, and olefin sulfonates, alkyl, olefin, ether,
and monoglyceride sulfates, and sulfosuccinates, (c) nonionic detergents such as, for
example, fatty amine oxides, fatty acid alkanolamides, and polyoxyethylenepolypropylene
copolymers, (d) amphoteric detergents such as, for example, alkyl-beta-aminopropionates,
and 2-alkyl-imidazoline quaternary ammonium salts, and (e) mixtures thereof.

                                                 14
[00611      The parenteral formulations can contain preservatives and buffers. In order to
minimize or eliminate irritation at the site of injection, such compositions may contain one or
more nonionic surfactants having a hydrophile-lipophile balance (HLB) of from about 12 to
about 17. The quantity of surfactant in such formulations will typically range from about 5 to
about 15% by weight. Suitable surfactants include polyethylene sorbitan fatty acid esters,
such as sorbitan monooleate and the high molecular weight adducts of ethylene oxide with a
hydrophobic base, formed by the condensation of propylene oxide with propylene glycol.
The parenteral formulations can be presented in unit-dose or multi-dose sealed containers,
such as ampules and vials, and can be stored in a freeze-dried lyophilizedd) condition
requiring only the addition of the sterile liquid excipient, for example, water, for injections,
immediately prior to use. Extemporaneous injection solutions and suspensions can be
prepared from sterile powders, granules, and tablets of the kind previously described.
[0062]      Topical formulations, including those that are useful for transdermal drug release,
are well-known to those of skill in the art and are suitable in the context of the invention for
application to skin. Topically applied compositions are generally in the forn of liquids,
creams, pastes, lotions and gels. Topical administration includes application to the oral
mucosa, which includes the oral cavity, oral epithelium, palate, gingival, and the nasal
mucosa. In some embodiments, the composition contains at least one active component and a
suitable vehicle or carrier. It may also contain other components, such as an anti-irritant.
The carrier can be a liquid, solid or semi-solid. In embodiments, the composition is an
aqueous solution. Alternatively, the composition can be a dispersion, emulsion, gel, lotion or
cream vehicle for the various components. In one embodiment, the primary vehicle is water
or a biocompatible solvent that is substantially neutral or that has been rendered substantially
neutral. The liquid vehicle can include other materials, such as buffers, alcohols, glycerin,
and mineral oils with various emulsifiers or dispersing agents as known in the art to obtain
the desired pH, consistency and viscosity. It is possible that the compositions can be
produced as solids, such as powders or granules. The solids can be applied directly or
dissolved in water or a biocompatible solvent prior to use to form a solution that is
substantially neutral or that has been rendered substantially neutral and that can then be
applied to the target site. In embodiments of the invention, the vehicle for topical application
to the skin can include water, buffered solutions, various alcohols, glycols such as glycerin,
lipid materials such as fatty acids, mineral oils, phosphoglycerides, collagen, gelatin and
silicone based materials.

                                                  15
 [00631      Formulations suitable for oral administration can consist of (a) liquid solutions,
such as a therapeutically effective amount of the inventive compound dissolved in diluents,
such as water, saline, or orange juice, (b) capsules, sachets, tablets, lozenges, and troches,
each containing a predetermined amount of the active ingredient, as solids or granules, (c)
powders, (d) suspensions in an appropriate liquid, and (e) suitable emulsions. Liquid
formulations may include diluents, such as water and alcohols, for example, ethanol, benzyl
alcohol, and the polyethylene alcohols, either with or without the addition of a
pharmaceutically acceptable surfactant, suspending agent, or emulsifying agent. Capsule
forms can be of the ordinary hard- or soft-shelled gelatin type containing, for example,
surfactants, lubricants, and inert fillers, such as lactose, sucrose, calcium phosphate, and corn
starch. Tablet forms can include one or more of lactose, sucrose, mannitol, corn starch,
potato starch, alginic acid, microcrystalline cellulose, acacia, gelatin, guar gum, colloidal
silicon dioxide, croscarmellose sodium, tale, magnesium stearate, calcium stearate, zinc
stearate, stearic acid, and other excipients, colorants, diluents, buffering agents, disintegrating
agents, moistening agents, preservatives, flavoring agents, and pharmacologically compatible
excipients. Lozenge forms can comprise the active ingredient in a flavor, usually sucrose and
acacia or tragacanth, as well as pastilles comprising the active ingredient in an inert base,
such as gelatin and glycerin, or sucrose and acacia, emulsions, gels, and the like containing,
in addition to the active ingredient, such excipients as are known in the art.
10064]       The compound or salt of the present invention, alone or in combination with other
suitable components, can be made into aerosol formulations to be administered via inhalation.
The compounds are preferably supplied in finely divided form along with a surfactant and
propellant. Typical percentages of active compound are 0.01 %-20% by weight, preferably
 1%- 10%. The surfactant must, of course, be nontoxic, and preferably soluble in the
propellant. Representative of such surfactants are the esters or partial esters of fatty acids
containing from 6 to 22 carbon atoms, such as caproic, octanoic, lauric, palmitic, stearic,
linoleic, linolenic, olesteric and oleic acids with an aliphatic polyhydric alcohol or its cyclic
anhydride. Mixed esters, such as mixed or natural glycerides may be employed. The
surfactant may constitute 0.1%-20% by weight of the composition, preferably 0.25%-5%.
The balance of the composition is ordinarily propellant. A carrier can also be included as
desired, such as lecithin for intranasal delivery. These aerosol formulations can be placed into
acceptable pressurized propellants, such as dichlorodifluoromethane, propane, nitrogen, and

                                                  16
the like. They also may be fonnulated as phannaceuticals for non-pressured preparations,
such as in a nebulizer or an atomizer. Such spray formulations may be used to spray mucosa.
[0065]       Additionally, the compound or salt of the present invention may be made into
suppositories by mixing with a variety of bases, such as emulsifying bases or water-soluble
bases. Formulations suitable for vaginal administration may be presented as pessaries,
tampons, creams, gels, pastes, foams, or spray formulas containing, in addition to the active
ingredient, such carriers as are known in the art to be appropriate.
[00661       It will be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art that, in addition to the
aforedescribed pharmaceutical compositions, the compound or salt of the present invention
may be formulated as inclusion complexes, such as cyclodextrin inclusion complexes, or
liposomes. Liposomes serve to target the compounds to a particular tissue, such as lymphoid
tissue or cancerous hepatic cells. Liposomes can also be used to increase the half-life of the
inventive compound. Liposomes useful in the present invention include emulsions, foams,
micelles, insoluble monolayers, liquid crystals, phospholipid dispersions, lamellar layers and
the like. In these preparations, the active agent to be delivered is incorporated as part of a
liposome, alone or in conjunction with a suitable chemotherapeutic agent. Thus, liposomes
filled with a desired inventive compound or salt thereof, can be directed to the site of a
specific tissue type, hepatic cells, for example, where the liposomes then deliver the selected
compositions. Liposomes for use in the invention are formed from standard vesicle-forming
lipids, which generally include neutral and negatively charged phospholipids and a sterol,
such as cholesterol. The selection of lipids is generally guided by consideration of, for
example, liposome size and stability of the liposomes in the blood stream. A variety of
methods are available for preparing liposomes, as described in, for example, Szoka et al.,
Ann. Rev. Biophys. Bioeng., 9, 467 (1980), and U.S. Patents 4,235,871, 4,501,728, 4,837,028,
and 5,019,369. For targeting to the cells of a particular tissue type, a ligand to be
incorporated into the liposome can include, for example, antibodies or fragments thereof
specific for cell surface determinants of the targeted tissue type. A liposome suspension
containing a compound or salt of the present invention may be administered intravenously,
locally, topically, etc. in a dose that varies according to the mode of administration, the agent
being delivered, and the stage of disease being treated.
10067]       The perinucleolar compartment (PNC) is a subnuclear body dynamic structure,
highly enriched in RNA-binding proteins and pol III RNA, which has been associated with
malignancy both in vitro and in vivo. In addition, its presence positively correlates with

                                                 17
metastatic capacity, making it a potential marker for cancer development and prognosis vivo
(Pollock, C. et al., Cold Spring Harb PerspectBiol., 2010; 2(2), 1-10; Slusarczyk, A. et al.,
Cold Spring Harb Symp Quant Biol. 2010, 75, 599-605).
10068]       Although the precise function of the PNC remains to be identified, PNC formation
is closely associated with the metastatic phenotype. Notably, solid tumor cell lines seem to
have a higher PNC population. A striking observation is the difference in PNC population
between metastatically transformed cell lines and their parental counterparts. This
observation particularly holds for the PC-3M cell line that was created by removing and
culturing a metastatic lesion after implantation of the human prostrate tumor PC-3 cell line in
nude mice. PNC prevalence (the percentage of cells with at least one PNC) increases in
parallel with disease progression (staging and grading) for breast, ovarian, and colorectal
cancers and reaches near 100% in distant metastases. A high PNC prevalence in early stage
of breast cancer associates with poor patient outcomes (Kamath, R.V. et al., Cancer Res.,
2005, 65(1), 246-53). In addition, PNC prevalence directly correlates with the levels of
metastatic capacity in mouse metastasis models of human cancer cells.
100691       PNCs are not associated with traits that are common in both cancer and normal
cells, such as proliferation, glycolysis, and differentiation states. The selective association
with metastasis makes PNC an ideal and simple marker that reflects the complex trait of
cellular malignancy. Thus, PNC reduction can be used as a phenotypic change to identify
novel compounds that may not directly target the PNC structure itself, but induce desired
changes that lead to the inhibition of cellular malignancy.
[0070]       Previous studies have shown that classical antitumoral agents, such as
topoisomearse I and II inhibitors, DNA cross linkers, a subset of nucleoside analogs, and
methotrexate, cause reduction of PNC prevalence (Jin, Y. et al, Chem Biol., 2002, 9, 157-62;
Norton, J. T. et al., Anti-Cancer Drugs.2008, 19(1), 23-36; Norton, J. T. et al., J. Biol. Chem.
2009, 284, 4090-4101). It has also been shown that the reduction of PNC by these agents is
not a non-specific cytotoxic effect but a result of inhibition of the molecular target. This is
exemplified by DNA alkylators, microtubule disrupting drugs, hydoxyurea and some
nucleoside analogs which are cytotoxic agents that do not disrupt the PNC. Mechanistically
it has also been suggested that those drugs which induce PNC reduction may be causing it via
DNA damage. To that end, the DNA might serve as a locus for the nucleation of the PNC
and this notion is also supported by the fact that the PNC is a heritable trait. However all the

                                                18
agents that are known to reduce PNC have known mechanisms of inducing cytotoxity,
making it difficult to separate an anti-metastic effect from cell death.
[0071]      The invention further provides a method for treating cancer. The method
comprises administering an effective amount of the compound of the invention to an animal
afflicted therewith. Preferably, the animal is a mammal. More preferably, the mammal is a
human.
[0072]      The term "mammal" includes, but is not limited to, the order Rodentia, such as
mice, and the order Logomorpha, such as rabbits. It is preferred that the mammals are from
the order Carnivora, including Felines (cats) and Canines (dogs). It is more preferred that the
mammals are from the order Artiodactyla, including Bovines (cows) and Swines (pigs) or of
the order Perssodactyla, including Equines (horses). It is most preferred that the mammals
are of the order Primates, Ceboids, or Simioids (monkeys) or of the order Anthropoids
(humans and apes). An especially preferred mammal is the human. Furthermore, the subject
can be the unborn offspring of any of the forgoing hosts, especially mammals (such as,
humans), in which case any screening of the subject or cells of the subject, or administration
of compounds to the subject or cells of the subject, can be performed in utero.
[0073]       In accordance with an embodiment, the invention provides a method of treating or
preventing cancer comprising administering to a patient in need thereof a therapeutically
effective amount of a compound represented by Formula I, or a pharmaceutically acceptable
salt thereof The cancer can be any suitable cancer responsive to reduction of PNC
prevalence, for example, cancers in which PNCs are prevalent.
10074]       In accordance with another embodiment, the invention provides a method of
treating cancer. The cancer can be any suitable cancer. Preferably, the cancer is a metastatic
cancer. For example, the cancer may be adrenocortical carcinoma, AIDS-related lymphoma,
AIDS-related malignancies, anal cancer, cerebellar astrocytoma, extrahepatic bile duct
cancer, bladder cancer, osteosarcoma/malignant fibrous histiocytoma, brain stem glioma,
ependymoma, visual pathway and hypothalamic gliomas, breast cancer, bronchial
adenomas/carcinoids, carcinoid tumors, gastrointestinal carcinoid tumors, carcinoma,
adrenocortical, islet cell carcinoma, primary central nervous system lymphoma, cerebellar
astrocytoma, cervical cancer, chronic lymphocytic leukemia, chronic myelogenous leukemia,
clear cell sarcoma of tendon sheaths, colon cancer, colorectal cancer, cutaneous t-cell
lymphoma, endometrial cancer, ependymoma, esophageal cancer, Ewing's sarcoma/family of
tumors, extracranial germ cell tumors, extragonadal germ cell tumors, extrahepatic bile duct

                                                 19
cancer, eye cancers, including intraocular melanoma, and retinoblastoma, gallbladder cancer,
gastrointestinal carcinoid tumor, ovarian germ cell tumor, gestational trophoblastic tumor,
hairy cell leukemia, head and neck cancer, Hodgkin's disease, hypopharyngeal cancer,
hypothalamic and visual pathway glioma, intraocular melanoma, Kaposi's sarcoma, laryngeal
cancer, acute lymphoblastic leukemia, acute myeloid leukemia, liver cancer, non-small cell
lung cancer, small cell lung cancer, non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, Waldenstrom's
macroglobulinemia, malignant mesothelioma, malignant thymoma, medulloblastoma,
melanoma, intraocular melanoma, merkel cell carcinoma, metastatic squamous neck cancer
with occult primary, multiple endocrine neoplasia syndrome, multiple myeloma/plasma cell
neoplasm, mycosis fungoides, myelodysplastic syndrome, chronic myelogenous leukemia,
myeloid leukemia, multiple myeloma, myeloproliferative disorders, nasal cavity and
paranasal sinus cancer, nasopharyngeal cancer, neuroblastoma, oral cancer, oral cavity and
lip cancer, oropharyngeal cancer, osteosarcoma/malignant fibrous histiocytoma of bone,
ovarian cancer, ovarian low malignant potential tumor, pancreatic cancer, paranasal sinus and
nasal cavity cancer, parathyroid cancer, penile cancer, pheochromocytoma, pituitary tumor,
pleuropulmonary blastoma, prostate cancer, rectal cancer, renal cell (kidney) cancer,
transitional cell cancer (such as renal pelvis and ureter), retinoblastoma, rhabdomyosarcoma,
salivary gland cancer, malignant fibrous histiocytoma of bone, soft tissue sarcoma, sezary
syndrome, skin cancer, small intestine cancer, stomach (gastric) cancer, supratentorial
primitive neuroectodermal and pineal tumors, cutaneous T-cell lymphoma, testicular cancer,
malignant thymoma, thyroid cancer, gestational trophoblastic tumor, urethral cancer, uterine
sarcoma, vaginal cancer, vulvar cancer, and Wilms' tumor.
[0075]       In any of the embodiments of the invention, the cancer can be any cancer in any
organ, for example, a cancer is selected from the group consisting of brain carcinoma,
glioma, thyroid carcinoma, breast carcinoma, small-cell lung carcinoma, non-small-cell
carcinoma, gastric carcinoma, colon carcinoma, gastrointestinal stromal carcinoma,
pancreatic carcinoma, bile duct carcinoma, CNS carcinoma, ovarian carcinoma, endometrial
carcinoma, prostate carcinoma, renal carcinoma, anaplastic large-cell lymphoma, leukemia,
multiple myeloma, mesothelioma, and melanoma, and combinations thereof.
10076]       In an embodiment, the metastatic cancer is selected from the group consisting of
breast cancer, ovarian cancer, colorectal cancer, brain cancer, and prostate cancer.
10077]       In accordance with other embodiments, the invention provides a method of
potentiating or enhancing anticancer activity of an anticancer agent, the method comprising

                                                20
coadministering to a patient in need thereof an effective amount of an anticancer agent and a
compound or salt of the invention. The anticancer agent can be chosen from reversible DNA
binders, DNA alkylators, and DNA strand breakers.
[00781      Examples of suitable reversible DNA binders include topetecan hydrochloride,
irinotecan (CPTl 1 - Camptosar), rubitecan, exatecan, nalidixic acid, TAS-103, etoposide,
acridines (such as amsacrine, aminocrine), actinomycins (such as actinomycin D),
anthracyclines (such as doxorubicin, daunorubicin), benzophenainse, XR 11 576/MLN 576,
benzopyridoindoles, Mitoxantrone, AQ4, Etopside, Teniposide, (epipodophyllotoxins), and
bisintercalating agents such as triostin A and echinomycin.
[00791      Examples of suitable DNA alkylators include sulfur mustard, the nitrogen
mustards (such as mechlorethamine), chlorambucil, melphalan, ethyleneimines (such as
triethylenemelamine, carboquone, diaziquone), methyl methanesulfonate, busulfan, CC-1065,
duocarmycins (such as duocarmycin A, duocarnycin SA), metabolically activated alkylating
agents such as nitrosoureas (such as carmustine, lomustine, (2-chloroethyl)nitrosoureas),
triazne antitumor drugs such as triazenoimidazole (such as dacarbazine), mitomycin C,
leinamycin, and the like.
10080]      Examples of suitable DNA strand breakers include doxorubicin and daunorubicin
(which are also reversible DNA binders), other anthracyclines, bleomycins, tirapazamine,
enediyne antitumor antibiotics such as neocarzinostatin, esperamicins, calicheamicins,
dynemicin A, hedarcidin, C-1027, N1999A2, esperamicins, zinostatin, and the like.
100811       "Treatment" refers to a therapeutic intervention that ameliorates a sign or
symptom of a disease or pathological condition after it has begun to develop. As used herein,
the term "ameliorating," with reference to a disease or pathological condition, refers to any
observable beneficial effect of the treatment. The beneficial effect can be evidenced, for
example, by a delayed onset of clinical symptoms of the disease in a susceptible subject, a
reduction in severity of some or all clinical symptoms of the disease, a slower progression of
the disease, an improvement in the overall health or well-being of the subject, or by other
parameters well known in the art that are specific to the particular disease. Treatment of
cancer can be evidenced, for example, by a reduction in tumor size, a reduction in tumor
burden, a reduction in clinical symptoms resulting from the cancer, increase in longevity,
increase in tumor free survival time, and the like. Treating in embodiments, can include
inhibiting the development or progression of a cancer or metastatic cancer.

                                                  21
 [0082]      By the term "coadminister" is meant that each of the at least two compounds be
 administered during a time frame wherein the respective periods of biological activity
overlap. Thus, the term includes sequential as well as coextensive administration of two or
more drug compounds. The compounds can be administered simultaneously, separately
 (chronologically staggered), cyclically, or sequentially and in any order, such as before or
after.
 [0083]      One skilled in the art will appreciate that suitable methods of utilizing a
compound and administering it to a human for the treatment or prevention of disease states,
in particular, cancer, which would be useful in the method of the present invention, are
available. Although more than one route can be used to administer a particular compound, a
particular route can provide a more immediate and more effective reaction than another route.
Accordingly, the described methods are merely exemplary and are in no way limiting.
 [00841      The dose administered to a mammal, particularly, a human, in accordance with the
present invention should be sufficient to effect the desired response. Such responses include
reversal or prevention of the adverse effects of the disease for which treatment is desired or to
elicit the desired benefit. One skilled in the art will recognize that dosage will depend upon a
variety of factors, including the age, condition, and body weight of the human, as well as the
source, particular type of the disease, and extent of the disease in the human. The size of the
dose will also be determined by the route, timing and frequency of administration as well as
the existence, nature, and extent of any adverse side-effects that might accompany the
administration of a particular compound and the desired physiological effect. It will be
appreciated by one of skill in the art that various conditions or disease states may require
prolonged treatment involving multiple administrations.
[0085]       Suitable doses and dosage regimens can be detennined by conventional range
finding techniques known to those of ordinary skill in the art. Generally, treatment is
initiated with smaller dosages that are less than the optimum dose of the compound.
Thereafter, the dosage is increased by small increments until the optimum effect under the
circumstances is reached. The present inventive method typically will involve the
administration of about 0.1 to about 300 mg of one or more of the compounds described
above per kg body weight of the animal or mammal.
[00861      The therapeutically effective amount of the compound or compounds
administered can vary depending upon the desired effects and the factors noted above.
Typically, dosages will be between 0.01 mg/kg and 250 mg/kg of the subject's body weight,

                                                 22
 and more typically between about 0.05 mg/kg and 100 mg/kg, such as from about 0.2 to
 about 80 mg/kg, from about 5 to about 40 mg/kg or from about 10 to about 30 mg/kg of the
 subject's body weight. Thus, unit dosage foris can be formulated based upon the suitable
ranges recited above and the subject's body weight. The term "unit dosage form" as used
herein refers to a physically discrete unit of therapeutic agent appropriate for the subject to be
treated.
 [0087       Alternatively, dosages are calculated based on body surface area and from about 1
mg/m 2 to about 200 mg/m 2 , such as from about 5 mg/m 2 to about 100 mg/m 2 will be
administered to the subject per day. In particular embodiments, administration of the
therapeutically effective amount of the compound or compounds involves administering to
the subject from about 5 mg/n    2
                                   to about 50 mg/m 2 , such as from about 10 mg/m 2 to about 40
mg/m 2 per day. It is currently believed that a single dosage of the compound or compounds
is suitable, however a therapeutically effective dosage can be supplied over an extended
period of time or in multiple doses per day. Thus, unit dosage forms also can be calculated
using a subject's body surface area based on the suitable ranges recited above and the desired
dosing schedule.
[0088]       In accordance with other embodiments, the invention provides a method of
potentiating or enhancing anticancer activity of radiation treatment, the method comprising
coadministering to a patient in need thereof an effective amount of a radiation treatment and a
compound or salt of the invention. The radiation treatment can be any suitable radiation
treatment used in the treatment of cancers.
[00891       The invention further provides a use of a compound or salt of the invention in the
manufacture of a medicament for treating or preventing cancer. The medicament typically is
a pharmaceutical composition as described herein.
[0090]       The following examples further illustrate the invention but, of course, should not
be construed as in any way limiting its scope.
                                           EXAMPLES
[00911       General Chemistry. Reagents and solvents used were commercial anhydrous
grade and used without further purification. Column chromatography was carried out over
silica gel (100-200 mesh). 'H NMR spectra were recorded with a Bruker 400 MHz
spectrometer from solutions in CDCl 3 and DMSO-d6. Chemical shifts in 1H NMR spectra
are reported in parts per million (ppm, 6) downfield from the internal standard Me 4 Si (TMS,
                                   3
6 = 0 ppm). Chemical shifts in       C NMR spectra are reported in parts per million (ppm, 6)

                                                 23
calibrated from residual CHCl 3 (6 = 77.0 ppm) signal and are reported using an APT pulse
sequence displaying methyl and methine (CH 3 and CH) signals as down and quaternary and
methylene (C and CH 2 ) signals as up. Molecular weight confirmation was performed using
an Agilent 6224 Time-Of-Flight Mass Spectrometer (TOF, Agilent Technologies, Santa
Clara, CA). A 3 minute gradient from 5 to 100% Acetonitrile in water (0.03% formic acid)
was used with a 5.1 minute run time at a flow rate of 0.4 mL/min. A Waters Atlantis T3 C18
column (1.8 micron, 2.1 x 50 mm) was used at a temperature of 25 'C. Confirmation of
molecular formula was confirmed using electrospray ionization in the positive mode with the
Agilent Masshunter software (version B.02).
                                           EXAMPLE 1
100921       This Example illustrates a procedure for the synthesis of 2-Amino-1-benzyl-4,5
diphenyl-1H-pyrrole-3-carbonitrile A, an intermediate in the synthesis of a compound in
accordance with an embodiment of the invention.
[0093]       A modified Voigt reaction/ Knoevenagel condensation sequence was carried out
using the procedure described in Roth, H. J. et al., Arch. Pharmaz. 1975, 308, 179-185.
Benzoin (2.19 g, 10.3 mmol), benzylamine (1.66 g, 15.5 mmol, 1.5 equiv.), and zinc chloride
(0.10 g, 0.73 mmol, 0.07 equiv.) were heated at reflux for 3 hours and the mixture was
removed from the oil bath. To the still warm mixture was added malononitrile (1.35 g, 20.64
mmol, 2.0 equiv.) in DMF (3 mL). The reaction mixture was allowed to cool to room
temperature and stirred for 16 hrs, affording the crude pyrrole as a dark brown solid. The
solid was partitioned between water and CH 2 Cl 2 and the aqueous extracted with additional
CH 2 Cl 2 (2x50 mL). The combined organics were dried with Na 2 SO 4 and the solvent
removed in vacuo to afford the previously reported pyrrole product A as a light brown solid
(1.67 g, 4.78 mmol, 46% yield), which was used without further purification. Rf       = 0.22
(20% EtOAc in hexanes); 'H NMR         a 4.91 (s, 2 H), 7.06-7.37 (complex, 15 H); 13   NMR Sd
(CH, CH 3 ) 125.8 (x 2), 126.3, 127.9, 128.1, 128.2 (x 2), 128.6 (x 2), 128.7 (x 2), 129.2 (x 2),
131.0; u (C, CH 2 ) 46.9, 117.5, 120.9, 125.6, 130.8, 133.1, 136.0, 146.0, 162.5; IR 3329, 3228,
3031, 2195, 1663, 1556 cm'; HRMS calcd for C 2 4 H 2 aN3 [M + H*] 350.1657, found
350.1648.

                                                  24
                                                                         NC
                      o          NH2     + NC      CN       4        H2 N   N
                HO
                                                                            A
                                             EXAMPLE 2
[0094]          This Example illustrates a procedure for the synthesis of (E)-Ethyl N-(1 -benzyl-3
cyano-4,5-diphenyl-1H-pyrrol-2-yl)formimidate B, an intermediate in the synthesis of a
compound in accordance with an embodiment of the invention.
[00951          2-Amino-1-benzyl-4,5-diphenyl-1H-pyrrole-3-carbonitrile A (1.07 g, 3.06 mmol)
and triethylorthoformate (4.54 g, 30.6 mmol, 10 equiv.) were heated at 75 'C for 14 hrs and
the excess triethylorthoformate was removed in vacuo. The residue was dissolved in a
minimum of CH 2 Cl 2 , adsorbed onto celite, and chromatographed on silica to afford the
formimidate product B as a tan solid (0.80 g, 1.97 mmol, 64% yield). Rf = 0.47 (20% EtOAc
in hexanes); mp = 154-156 'C; 'H NMR 6 1.30 (t, J= 7.2 Hz, 3 H), 4.27 (dq, J= 0.8, 8.2 Hz,
2 H), 5.05 (s, 2 H), 6.86 (dd, J= 2.0, 8.0 Hz, 2 H), 7.06 (dd, J= 1.6, 8.0 Hz, 2 H), 7.14-7.29
(complex, 11 H), 8.51 (s, 1 H);      1C NMR 6 d (CH, CH 3 ) 13.9, 126.4 (x 2), 126.5, 127.2,
128.1 (x 2), 128.2, 128.4 (x 4), 129.0 (x 2), 131.2 (x 2), 158.3; u (C, CH 2 ) 46.9, 63.2, 117.9,
123.1, 128.5, 130.8, 132.8, 137.6, 143.9; IR 2208, 1627, 1605 cm-; HRMS calcd for
C2 7 H2 4 N 3 0 [M + H-] 406.1919, found 406.1915.
                                   h PPh
                            T/      NH2                            /    Nz/OEt
                        Phz                                 Phz
                                CN                                  CN
                                A                                   B
                                             EXAMPLE 3
[0096]          This Example illustrates a synthesis of a compound in accoradance with an
embodiment of the invention, trans-4-(7-Benzyl-4-imino-5,6-diphenyl-4,7-dihydro-3H
pyrrolo[2,3-d]pyrimidin-3-yl)cyclohexanol 2.
[0097]          A solution of the fornimidate B (40 mg, 0.099 mmol) and trans-4
aminocyclohexanol hydrochloride (23 mg, 0.15 mmol, 1.5 equiv) in MeOH (1.5 mL) were
heated in a reaction vial at 60 'C for 17 hrs then cooled to room temperature. Evaporation of
the solvent and purification of the residue by mass-directed preparative reverse-phase HPLC

                                                25
afforded the pyrolopyrimidine product 2 as a tan solid (16 mg, 0.034 mmol, 34% yield). Rf       =
0.39 (1:1 acetone:CH 2CI 2 with 1% Et 3N); mp = 171-185 'C; IH NMR S 1.66 (in, 4 H), 2.13
(d, J= 8.8 Hz, 4 H), 3.70 (m, 1 H), 5.14 (in, 1 H), 5.28 (s, 2 H), 6.45 (br s, 1 H),6.95 (m, 2
H), 7.04 (d, J= 6.8 Hz, 2 H), 7.18-7.26 (complex, 11 H), 7.80 (s, 1 H);    13C NMR 6 d (CH,
CH 3) 52.0, 69.7, 126.7 (x 2), 126.9, 127.3, 128.0, 128.1 (x 2), 128.3 (x 2), 128.4 (x 2), 130.5
(x 2), 131.0 (x 2), 142.3; u (C, CH 2) 30.6, 34.7, 46.0, 102.9, 118.1, 130.4, 133.2, 133.6,
 137.7, 142.5, 155.1; IR 1625, 1604 cm-1; HRMS calcd for C3 1 H3 1N 4 0 [M + H*] 475.2498,
found 475.2492.
                                                         HO,
              Ph                                                       NH    Ph
 Ph         N              HO
                                                                                 Ph
     11   /x N~/~                                                                 Ph:Z~t'
 Ph                                   NH 2
          CN                          HCI                                Ph'
          B                                                            2
                                           EXAMPLE 4
[0098]        This Example illustrates a procedure for the synthesis of 2-amino-i -phenethyl
4,5-diphenyl-1H-pyrrole-3-carbonitrile C, an intermediate in the synthesis of a compound in
accordance with an embodiment of the invention.
[0099]        Benzoin (4.35g, 20.5 mmol), phenethylamine (3.73 g, 30.7 mmol), and zinc
chloride (0.10 g, 0.73 mmol, 0.07 equiv.) were heated at reflux for 3 hours and the mixture
was removed from the oil bath. To the still warm mixture malononitrile (2.71 g, 41.0 mmol,
2.0 equiv.) in DMF (3 mL) was added. The reaction mixture was allowed to cool to room
temperature and stirred for 16 hrs, affording the crude pyrrole as a dark brown solid. The
solid was partitioned between water and CH 2Cl 2 and the aqueous extracted with additional
CH 2 Cl 2 (2x 50 mL). The combined organics were dried with Na 2 SO 4 and the solvent
removed in vacuo to afford pryrrole product C (3.50 g, 9.63 mmol, 47% yield) as a light
brown solid. R1 =0.13 (20% EtOAc inhexanes); mp          =  144-149 C; IR 3330, 2199, 1634,
1601, 1502 cm'; HRMS calcd for C2 5 H2 3 N 3 [M + H+] 364.1814, found 364.1827.

                                                26
                                                                          NC
                                NH2
                           +             +   NC     CN                H2 N   N
            HO
                                                                         C
                                           EXAMPLE 5
 [0100]     This example demonstrates a high content assay for PNC detection.
 10101]     The quantitative output for this assay is the reduction of PNC prevalence. The
PNC can be detected in living cells by the expression of a green fluorescent protein (GFP)
tagged to the PNC localized protein, PTB. A PC3M cell line was used that stably expresses
GFP-PTB to mark PNCs. This method eliminates the need for immunofluorescent staining.
Previous studies demonstrate that the fusion proteins behave similarly to their endogenous
counterparts: transient and stable over-expression of the fusion protein did not have
detectable adverse effects on cell morphology or cell growth. After treatment, cells are fixed
and the nuclei are counterstained with Hoechst 33342 dye; the cells are then ready for
analysis.
 [01021     The IN Cell Analyzer 1000 automated fluorescent imaging system (GE
Healthcare, Piscataway, NJ) was used for automated image acquisition. Images were
acquired with a 20x objective using a 475/20nm excitation filter, a 535/50 nm HQ emission
filter, a Q505LP dichroic filter, and an exposure time of 100 to 150 ms (adjusted to obtain a
dynamic range of~200 to 1750), with no camera binning. The instrument acquired images of
each well in a 1536-well plate with a laser-based autofocus system. To score PNC
prevalence in a high-content throughput, the Multi-Target Analysis (MTA) algorithm (GE
Healthcare, Investigator v3.5) to identify individual cells and granules (PNCs) within these
cells was used. The nucleus was segmented via a region growing method (50 [im 2 minimum
area) with light shading and noise removal to allow "touching" nuclei to be separated.
Granules in the nucleus (PNCs) were segmented using a multiscale top hat method, which
measures granules of I to 2 pim in size and used a smart masking method to identify the
boundaries of each segmented granule. The algorithm was optimized and validated using
positive and negative controls (50 jLM camptothecin and DMSO, respectively). In particular,
the MTA algorithm allows for the identification of multiple subcellular compartments and

                                                27
organelles (or granules) within those compartments. In this instance, the algorithm's
capability to identify objects within the same color channel that only differ in size or
fluorescent intensity was utilized. Also, the algorithm allows for building complex
hierarchical classification systems, using output measures within the algorithm to filter and
define subpopulations. For this particular assay, PNC-positive cells were scored when 1 to 3
PNC granules were detected per nucleus. Cells that contained 0 granules were scored as PNC
negative, and cells with >3 granules were assumed to be false positives (very few cells have
more than 3 PNCs in one focus plane), and were also scored as PNC negative. The assay was
conducted using the sequence set forth in Table 1.
Table 1
  Sequence     Value         Parameter       Description
  1            Cells         5 tL            750-1000 cells/well
  2            Time          4 hrs           Incubate at 37 'C and 5% CO 2
  3            Reagent       23 nL           0.5 nM to 58 tM final concentrations (in
                                             titration)
  4            Time          16 hrs          Incubate at 37 'C and 5% CO 2
  5            Reagent       4 ptL           Fixation step with 6% EM grade
                                             paraformaldehyde and 0.1% Triton X-100
  6            Time          20 min          RT incubation
  7            Wash          5 pL            Liquid was aspirated and 5ptL of PBS was added
  8            Wash          5 pL            Liquid was aspirated and 5tL of PBS was added
  9            Reagent       5 pL            Staining with PBS containing 1 ptg/mL Hoechst
                                             33342
  10           Detector      Fluorescence    IN Cell 1000, 20 x objective
                                          EXAMPLE 6
[01031      This example demonstrates an adenosine triphosphate (ATP) quantitation assay.
[0104]      This follow-up assay was conducted to measure the effect of compounds on cell
health by measuring ATP levels (ATPLite T). ATPLite"          is an ATP monitoring system
based on firefly (Photinuspyralis) luciferase. The level of ATP in a metabolically active cell
is a general marker for its viability. ATP levels are often reduced during necrosis or
apoptosis. In this assay, the luciferase enzyme catalyzes the conversion of the added

                                                28
substrate D-luciferin to oxyluciferin and light with ATP. Thus, the emitted light is
proportional to the ATP concentration. For this assay, the highly metastatic PC3M reporter
cell line stably expressing the PTB-GFP was provided by Professor Sui Huang of
Northwestern University. The media and cell culture reagents were purchased from
Invitrogen (Carlsbad, CA), ATPLite       came from PerkinElmer. The assay was conducted
using the sequence set forth in Table 2.
Table 2
    Sequence             Value               Parameter                    Description
         1               Cells                  5 pL                    2000 cells/well
         2               Time                   4 hrs           Incubate at 37 "C and 5% CO 2
         3              Reagent                23 nL                0.5 nM to 58 iM final
                                                                  concentrations (in titration)
         4               Time                  24 hrs           Incubate at 37 "C and 5% CO 2
         5              Reagent                 3 ptL                      ATPLite
         6               Time                 20 min                    RT incubation
         7            Centrifuge               1 min                      1500 RPM
         8             Detector            Luminescence                    ViewLux
                                          EXAMPLE 7
[0105]       This example demonstrates a tumor cell migration assay.
[01061       High-content tumor cell migration assays in 3-dimensional extracellular matrices
are powerful tools for modeling and understanding the biology of this critical step in the
process of metastasis. However, most of the available methods are not amenable to the
throughput required by studies of comparative pharmacology or small scale screening. For
                                                        TM
this reason, compounds were tested in BellBrook Labs       automated high-content tumor cell
invasion assays. A standard screening-sized plate with an array of embedded microchannels
was designed and constructed from common thermoplastics.
10107]       PC3M cells were tested for invasion through 3D fibrillar collagen in the Iuvo
Single Microchannel Plate, in the presence of varying levels of test compounds. Channels
were prefilled with 820 nL of 3-dimensional type I collagen at 1 mg/mL, through the input
port. Following gelation, 2,000 PC3M cells were seeded into the output port using growth
media (RPMI + 10% FBS with antibiotics) in a volume of 5 ptL. Cells were incubated in a
370 C incubator inside a humidified container to control evaporation (Bioassay dish,
Corning). Media, including test compounds, was changed daily for 5 days. At the end of the
assay, cells were fixed and stained with Hoechst 33342, then imaged with 4x objective under

                                                   29
epifluorescence. Under these conditions, cells across the 140 pm height range of the
microchannel can be reliably identified. Test compounds were serially diluted by a factor of
3 to produce 10 concentrations ranging from 50 or 100 pM to 2.5 nM. All assays were
conducted in the presence of 0.1% DMSO. Four replicates were performed for all test
concentrations. Each plate had 4 dose response curves, as well as 16 channels with no
compound and 16 channels with 50 tM blebbistatin (positive control). Analysis was done by
automatically cropping each image at the right edge of the channel and counting cells via the
'count nuclei' function on Metamorph (Molecular Devices). Non-linear regression analysis
was performed with GraphPad Prism. The results are set forth in Table 3.
Table 3
  Compound           PNC AC 5o (pM)       Invasion cell #    Proliferation     Comments
                                          IC 50 (ptM)        output port ICso
                                                             ([tM)
         2                  0.40                  3.16              3.98          embodiment
      Control             inactive               79.43             19.95       Negative control
         1                  0.09                  3.16              5.01          embodiment
                                            EXAMPLE 8
[0108]      This example demonstrates the effect of an embodiment of the invention on
colony formation of PC3M cells.
[01091      Compound 2 was tested for its ability to affect anchorage independent growth in a
soft agar assay, a stringent method to detect malignant transformation of cells in vitro.
Compound 2 demonstrated a dose dependent reduction in the number of colonies after 14
days at very low concentrations (3.8, 18.6 nM), with no impact on cell viability. Thus, the
compound exhibits potent inhibition of anchorage independent growth in PC3M cells. The
left hand side of Fig. 1 illustrates a histogram representing the number and size of PC3M soft
agar colonies after 14 days of treatment with compound 2 at two different concentrations. A
clear reduction of the number of colonies of PC3M cells was observed, particularly at a
compound concentration of 18.6 nM. The right hand side of Fig. 1 illustrates two
representative images taken at two different regions of the soft agar medium after treatment
with DMSO (vehicle) (top row), compound 2 at 3.8 nM (middle row), and compound 2 at
 18.6 nM (bottom row).

                                             30
                                       EXAMPLE 9
[0110]     This example demonstrates biological activities of embodiments of the invention.
The high content assay for PNC detection as described in Example 5 was used to provide the
PNC AC 50 results. The ATP quantitation assay as described in Example 6 was used to
provide the ATP AC50 results. The results are set forth in Table 4.
Table 4
 Compound      Structure                                    PNC          ATP
                                                            IC50(pLM)    ICso(pIM)
 56                                                         0.009        19.182
                              HN    N
                          H
                  O             NH
                     H
 2                                                          0.024        19.182
                               N   N     /,
                         H
                              NH
                HO  *          NH
                    OH
   . - -                                                    0 .0 3 0     1 52 .3 6 9
                                 N
                           N
                O          NH

                                     31
3                                  -    0.047 9.614
                     NK N
              HO
                    NH
   HO
        H
57              0          ---          0.059 96.138
       H2 Nls
                N
                       N
    O          NH
4                5                      0.118 76.365
                       N
               rN
                 NH
61                          -0.118            24.149
                 H       N         N
                 HN
        noN
                         N
      HOZ

                       32
59      -o                0.118 24.149
           KN  , N
   oc       NH
60                        0.118 24.149
   Oc       NH
58          -- o          0.118 24.149
               H
   HO
      H
9                    9    0.148 19.182
                 N N

                             33
63                              0.148 19.182
           N      N
         N
      r'OHNH
62                        -     0.148 24.149
         OH   N       N
            N
              NH
8                  -            0.148 24.149
              rN        N
   HO        N          /
                NH
5                               0.187 19.182
                     N    /N
   HO       NH
              NH-

                        34
64                         0.187 38.273
       KN   NN
    0  NH
13                    -    0.235 15.237
                  N
          rN
            NH
65                  -      0.235 19.182
           NK   N
67                      -  0.296 24.149
             NH
     H
   O        H N

                             35
66                              0.296 76.365
             N
      C:,     NH
           OH
68                      -       0.296 38.273
                   Ni
           KrN
            NH
   C~x T'OHN
15                       /      0.372 24.149
          HO          N
                        NH.0
71                   r?         0.372 121.031
   0c          NIl

                                36
70       F                         0.372 24.149
       F      0
          F
              N        N
    HOV         NH
   HO
69        F                        0.372 19.182
        F4-0
            F
                       N
              fN
                 NH
       HN
72                     -0.469            24.149
                    NN
         H
                    NH
20                  r?             0.469 96.138
              N               /
      N _,, ~
        INH

                                37
16                                 0.590 38.273
                          N I N
      HO             ,N
                          NH
73               -                 0.590 24.149
         OH     N       N
                NH
7                                  0.628 20.434
                 0
               N        N
   HO        N
               NH
74         F                       0.743 24.149
         F      0
            F
                   N      N
                   NI-I

                        38
19             -0.935            24.149
                N N
            NH
38            -0.935             96.138
        o        N    /
          NH
76       -o 10.935               48.183
           NH
75   F                     0.935 24.149
      F
            KNN
   0      NH

                      39
14          -O           1.177 24.149
                N   N
               NH
27 -- O1.177 N H               24.149
            NH
                 N
         rN
17        -o             1.177 30.402
          NH
77    --                 1.177 96.138
          N        N

                        40
8                          1.254 20.434
             N      N
             NH
37                         1.254 25.725
                  0
   N            N     N
     N       N
                NH
34                         1.254 20.434
            0
                 N
         N
         NH
6                          1.482 48.183
       (N       N
         HON
         NI-

                      41
78                        1.482 30.402
          HKN     N
             NH
   HON        NH
      H
25                        1.866 60.659
            NH
24                      - 1.866 24.149
                 NN
        - N    r   NH
81                        1.866 76.365
              N   N
              NH  1'

                               42
80                                 1.866 21.523
          N
         "OHNH
79                                 1.866 382.734
         H2 N-S
               ON       N
                 NH
36                                 1.987 25.725
       N              N    N
          NN        N
                      NH
82                           N
                                /l 2.349 30.402
   82N
                        N
              CN          NH

                                    43
31                          -2.957     24.149
       0             KN            N$
                         NH
83                 -2.957              24.149
       OH r               N
           N
              NH
33 ~-0                  12.957         48.183
                       <NN
                         NH
85           -2.957                    24.149
         N'l

                          44
84        F                  2.957 24.149
        F      O
           F
                     N
            Hi
   HOONN
      H
26                     --    3.722 60.659
                  N
              NH
86                           3.722 24.149
                 NHI
   HO
      H
11                           3.965 64.618
                   0
               NN
              HN
                 NH  /

                                  45
23                       -4.686            121.031
                      KN        N
        - N           NH
39                                   4.686 48.183
           NH
48                                   4.686 30.402
   88N                                .6N8
       ~OHN
88             -4.686                      30.402
            <N
             NH

                          46
87                           4.686 60.659
   0        <N       /
           NI
                             5.899 38.273
            N    N N
              NH
30        -o                 5.899 24.149
            N                5932
              N H,
40      -- 0                 5.899 38.273
     o3"     <N        /N
           NH

                                   47
90                          -5.899          76.365
          N           /
              NH]
89           -5.899                         24.149
          <N0
                               0
                        0-i
91    F                               5.899 30.402
     Fi    0
        F
   oN                          /I
              NH
21                                    7.427 24.149
                  N 1
    NN

                         48
22                     -    7.427 24.149
          KNN    N
            NH
97                  --      7.427 96.138
         NH
93            -             7.427 60.659
            N    N
        H
   O H    N
                     0
45            1             9.350 24.149
    0  ~      N    N
              NH

                             49
94                                9.350  24.149
                r NN4      -    /
             NH
   HO
        H
43                                9.960  20.434
             0
     /0    N    N     /
          NH
           NH
96                        --      11.770 30.402
            N                N
                        NH
95                                11.770 24.149
           N
            NH

                              50
99                               14.818 inactive
     HO
         H         NH
           HO
46                               14.818 24.149
                        r N N
           A
    1- 0                 NH
98           -- 0                14.818 121.031
          of
          0N
101                              14.818 24.149
              OH     N  N
                  N     /
                     NH

                        51
97                         14.818 48.183
         NKN      N
             NH
                      0
100                        14.818 48.183
    CNH
     "'OHN
                    0
102                        15.785 25.725
               0
             N     N
141                        15.785 20.434
           0
       [,        N    /
        NH

                                   52
32                                 ?   18.655 24.149
        103<N                          14
                             NH
103                -18.655                    24.149
                         NHO
                           N
                              / ~    0
              NH
                              O-
29                              .-     23.485 27.096
       0N
              N8
104            -23.485                        30.402
             N NN/
    0c      NH
                            0-

                            53
106                            23.485 30.402
                  N    N
    HO,      N
                  NH
105                            23.485 304.016
        H 2 N---S
                HN     N
    HO       N          /
                  NH
107                            25.018 32.386
                       0
    0                N    N
                    NN    /
                     NH
108                            29.566 38.273
        [N         N
         NH
         OH

                     54
53                  ?         29.566 24.149
               N
    0
      0       NH
37                            39.650 81.349
         0
           N
        NH
110                        Br 46.859 30.402
           Or   <NN
                 NH
109                           46.859 96.138
                        OH

                                     55
       111                                    93.496    121.031
    111N                    N
                 iN
                     0 INH
                    OTH
137                                           inactive inactive
                     0
                rN     ,N
               N
                   NH
           HO
50                                            inactive 32.386
                              0
                           <N    N
              rNN
           O                NH
116                             N          Br inactive inactive
                                   N
                                NH
10                           N        \ Br    inactive 96.138
                             N
                             NH

                               56
114               0                 inactive inactive
          O    N     NH
            N
    Br          N
140                N                inactive inactive
            rN
       HO N
            NH
118                  N              inactive 121.031
                     N
               NH
125                               / inactive 30.402
                            N   N
                            NH
              N       N
                        /                    48.183
                  Ninactive
10                N
               NH

                           57
120                      N    inactive 241.489
                         N
                   N
    HO"K
                   NH
139             N             inactive inactive
             HKN      N
                      /
                NH
    HO'NN
        H
128                           inactive inactive
             NH
      H/,,
           N
    O    0   N   N
130                         / inactive 24.149
                     <N
                      NH
                      0N

                             58
136                                inactive inactive
              N      N
    H2N/   N
              NH
131                                inactive  121.031
          N    IN
                    N "--N      OH
                           H
                 NH
119                                inactive  121.031
            OHfN       N
              N NH
           HN        N
             N
         NHNH
,1    0    NH                      inactive inactive
          <N

                    59
115            N/      inactive 121.031
             ON
               NH
127                    inactive 96.138
         o     NI N
            N     /
               NH
124                    inactive inactive
          N
             NH
138            N       inactive 60.659
    /0      r     N
       -N'/
               NH

                              60
121                              inactive 121.031
          ON               Nr
                       NH
12                               inactive 24.149
                   <N    N
                    NH
18                               inactive 76.365
               <N    N
    H2N -    N
                NH
112           -O                 inactive 60.659
                  N    N
                N      /
                  NH

                               61
132                                 inactive inactive
                rN    N
              N                   O
                 NH
    HOa
        H\
126                                 inactive 96.138
             N      N
    0
           N
             NH
129                                 inactive inactive
    o       KN      N      -    O
             NH
                       0
135                                 inactive 30.402
                             -
                                  O
              HN      N
                 NH
                         O0

                               62
134                               inactive 60.659
    O       <N         N
             NH
123          5                    inactive 24.149
    o      KN          N
          N             /\O
             NH
                            0
113                               inactive 30.402
         N       N            0
      NO
         NH
      OH
                       0
35                                Inactive 19.87
       N
        - '
44             .,15.79                     19.87
       1AH
             ,07/

                                                 63
 [0111]      All references, including publications, patent applications, and patents, cited
herein are hereby incorporated by reference to the same extent as if each reference were
individually and specifically indicated to be incorporated by reference and were set forth in
its entirety herein.
 10112]      The terms "comprising," "having," "including," and "containing" are to be
construed as open-ended terms (that is meaning "including, but not limited to,") unless
otherwise noted. Recitation of ranges of values herein are merely intended to serve as a
shorthand method of referring individually to each separate value falling within the range,
unless otherwise indicated herein, and each separate value is incorporated into the
specification as if it were individually recited herein. All methods described herein can be
performed in any suitable order unless otherwise indicated herein or otherwise clearly
contradicted by context. The use of any and all examples, or exemplary language (such as,
"such as") provided herein, is intended merely to better illuminate the invention and does not
pose a limitation on the scope of the invention unless otherwise claimed. No language in the
specification should be construed as indicating any non-claimed element as essential to the
practice of the invention.
[0113]       Preferred embodiments of this invention are described herein, including the best
mode known to the inventors for carrying out the invention. Variations of those preferred
embodiments may become apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art upon reading the
foregoing description. The inventors expect skilled artisans to employ such variations as
appropriate, and the inventors intend for the invention to be practiced otherwise than as
specifically described herein. Accordingly, this invention includes all modifications and
equivalents of the subject matter recited in the claims appended hereto as permitted by
applicable law. Moreover, any combination of the above-described elements in all possible
variations thereof is encompassed by the invention unless otherwise indicated herein or
otherwise clearly contradicted by context.
This application is a divisional application from Australian application 2012353651. The full
disclosure of AU2012353651 is incorporated herein by reference.

                                                  64
CLAIMS:
        1.       A compound of formula (I):
                                                    NH     R2
                                                  RiR
                                                  RN          R
                                                          R4
                                                     (I)
        wherein R is selected from the group consisting of the following:
                                                                    OH
         MeO                                       MeO
         MeO              '               OH
 HO                      HO                     O               MeO             EtO
                                                         /            OMe     ,      OEt
        OH                          z;
         OH,      COOMe     ,and
        R 2 is phenyl, optionally substituted with one or more substituents selected from halo,
alkyl, hydroxyalkyl, thioalkyl, alkoxy, alkylthioalkyl, alkoxycarbonyl, alkylthiocarbonyl, amino,
alkylamino, dialkylamino, and alkylcarbonyl,
        R3 is phenyl, optionally substituted with one or more substituents selected from halo,
alkyl, hydroxyalkyl, thioalkyl, alkoxy, alkylthioalkyl, alkoxycarbonyl, alkylthiocarbonyl, amino,
alkylamino, dialkylamino, and alkylcarbonyl,
        R 4 is selected from the group consisting of cyclohexylmethyl, cyclopropylmethyl, benzyl,
and phenylethyl, wherein the phenyl ring is optionally substituted with one or more substituents
selected from alkyl, hydroxyalkyl, thioalkyl, alkoxy, alkylthioalkyl, alkoxycarbonyl,
alkylthiocarbonyl, amino, alkylamino, dialkylamino, hydroxyl, perfluoroalkoxy, and
alkylcarbonyl, and phenylethyl, wherein the phenyl ring is optionally substituted with one or
more substituents selected from alkyl, hydroxyalkyl, alkoxy, and alkoxycarbonyl,

                                                65
        or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.
        2.      A pharmaceutical composition comprising a compound or salt of claim 1 and a
pharmaceutically acceptable carrier.
        3.      A method for treating cancer in a mammal, comprising administering to a
mammal in need thereof a compound or salt of claim 1, wherein the cancer is a metastatic cancer
selected from the group consisting of breast cancer, ovarian cancer, colorectal cancer, brain
cancer, and prostate cancer.
        4.      The method of claim 3, further comprising administering to the mammal a
chemotherapeutic agent or subjecting the mammal to a radiation treatment.
        5.      A method for (a) disrupting a perinucleolar compartment in a cell, (b) reducing
the prevalence of perinucleolar compartment in a cell, (c) reducing ATP levels produced by
metastatic cancer cells, in a mammal afflicted with metastatic cancer, (d) reducing the colony
formation of cancer cells in a mammal, or (e) reducing the migration of cancer cells in a
mammal, comprising contacting the cell with a compound or salt of claim 1.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
