                                    ABSTRACT
The disclosed Equine Transport Vibration and Shock Absorber is a composite
that is attached to the area of floor on which an animal stands during
transportation and will reduce vibration and vertical shock transmitting to the
said animal. The Equine Transport Vibration and Shock Absorber will consist of
two polymers, the upper polymer 6 will be made of a high flexible tear strength
material and will be of a larger size 7 than the lower polymer providing
attachment points 7 to the current floor. The lower polymer 4 will be of a flexible
energy absorbing material and will consist of two densities with the lower
density on the outer edge 5 of the under polymer providing a gradual gradient on
the outer edges of the Equine Transport Vibration and Shock Absorber.

FIG 1
      5     4 5 7
FIG 2
        4 7
FIG 3

                        AUSTRALIA
                    PATENTS ACT 1990
                COMPLETE SPECIFICATION
                   INNOVATION PATENT
EQUINE TRANSPORT VIBRATION AND SHOCK ABSORBER
The following statement is a full description of this invention,
  including the best method of performing it known to me:

      EQUINE TRANSPORT VIBRATION AND SHOCK ABSORBER
For many years purpose built motor vehicles and trailers have been used for the
transportation of horses and livestock. The flooring in the said vehicles consists
of a rubber or similar covering to which the said animal stands on during
transportation. The current surfaces used in transport flooring provide minimal
protection from vibration and vertical shock associated with road transport for
the said animal being transported. This invention has been specially devised in
order to provide an additional surface between the said vehicle flooring and the
animal that will reduce and/or absorb vibration and shock associated with
transportation from reaching the said animal during transportation.
The Equine Transport Vibration and Shock Absorber in accordance with this
invention comprises of a composite made from polymers that will absorb and/or
reduce vibration and vertical shock forces during transportation. This composite
will preferably consist of two layers. The upper layer will consist of a polymer
with high tear strength qualities such as rubber or similar. The said upper layer
will be of a larger size than the second layer providing anchor points for the
Equine Transport Vibration and Shock Absorber to be bonded or similar to the
said transport floor. The second layer will consist of a flexible energy absorption
polymer preferably made from closed cell foam or similar however other
materials can also be used. The second layer will consist of two densities with
the lower density bordering the outer edges of the said second layer. This lower
density will provide a lower gradient on the edge of the said Equine Transport
Vibration and Shock Absorber. The Equine Transport Vibration and Shock
Absorber will consist of a size and shape that covers the area on the said floor to
which the animal comes into contact with when standing during transportation.
The invention may be better understood with reference to the illustration of
embodiments of the invention which:
Figure 1 is a side view of the Equine Transport Vibration and Shock Absorber
The protective upper level 6 with the outer edges 7 providing a bonding point to
the said transport floor. The second layer comprising of a polymer 4 that absorbs
and/or reduces vibration and vertical shock. Polymer 4 will preferably have two
densities with the lower density 5 bordering the outer edges of polymer 4.
Figure 2 is an under view of the Equine Transport Vibration and Shock Absorber
showing top layer 7, lower layer 4 with variation in density 5.
Figure 3 illustrates how the Equine Transport Vibration and Shock Absorber
covers the area in which the animal comes into contact with the transport floor.

                                      2
  EQUINE TRANSPORT VIBRATION AND SHOCK ABSORBER
 The claims defining the invention are as follows:
1. The Equine Transport Vibration and Shock Absorber comprising of a
   composite made from polymers that will absorb and/or reduce vibration
   and vertical shock forces. This composite will preferably consist of two
   layers. The upper layer will consist of a flexible high tear strength
   polymer. The lower layer will consist of a flexible energy absorption
   polymer.
2. The Equine Transport Vibration and Shock Absorber as claimed in claim 1
   with the lower layer consisting of two densities with the lower density
   bordering the outer edges of the said second layer. This lower density will
   provide a lower gradient on the edge of the said Equine Transport
   Vibration and Shock Absorber
3. The Equine Transport Vibration and Shock Absorber as claimed in claims
   1 and 2 with the upper layer larger in size than the second layer providing
   anchor points for the Equine Transport Vibration and Shock Absorber to
   be bonded or similar to the floor
4. The Equine Transport Vibration and Shock Absorber as claimed in claims
   1-3 will consist of a size and shape that only covers the area on the floor
   on which the animal stands during transport
5. The Equine Transport Vibration and Shock Absorber as claimed in claims
   1-4 will be of a density and flexibility providing a non-slip surface

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
