CONCRETE WORK TOOL, METHOD OF MAKING, AND
APPLICATIONS
ABSTRACT
       A concrete float body (10) whose bottom (working) surface (12) has a 3D
shape/profile/contour over a nose region (14) and a tail region (16) of the float body (10). The
nose region (14) may be tapered across a width dimension of the float body (10). The tail region
(16) may be tapered across a width dimension of the float body (10). The nose and tail regions
(14, 16) may have rounded corners. A perimetal edge (29) of the float body (10) may have a
radius (27). The 3D surface may be produced by extruding, cutting from a solid material, die
cast molding, or injection molding the float body wherein the bottom surface has a curvilinear
shape along the width dimension, and monotonically decreasing a thickness dimension of the
float body (10) between the bottom surface and a top surface by removing material from the
bottom surface.

     I 1/7
]IN~
 IG

                                                    1
CONCRETE WORK TOOL, METHOD OF MAKING, AND
APPLICATIONS
Background
[0001] Aspects and embodiments of the invention are most generally directed to a concrete
work tool, a method for making a concrete work tool, and applications for use of a concrete
work tool. Aspects and embodiments are more particularly directed to a concrete float having a
particular shape and a method for making the concrete float; most particularly to a concrete float
having a 3-D-shaped bottom surface, a method for making the concrete float, and applications
for use of the concrete float.
[0002] The objective to pouring and finishing concrete is to produce a finished product that is
level, smooth and sealed. A smooth and sealed final product is accomplished in two ways:
firstly, by leveling the newly poured concrete with a large straight edge (screed); and secondly,
by working the concrete with a concrete float by hand to further level and seal the concrete.
Finish leveling and sealing the concrete is accomplished by creating what is known as cream to
fill in low and unlevel spots atop of the surface. What's known as cream is the result of hand
floats and 'finish-men' smoothing and leveling the concrete. Cream is created when the cement
and other ingredients in concrete are agitated back and forth by hand with concrete floats. The
purpose to create cream is to use the cream to fill in and level the concrete as is begins to setup
(harden).
[0003] Traditionally, a finish float is a hand held tool that is straight and level. The float is
moved across the surface of the concrete back and forth, west to east, east to west, north to
south, south to north, and in random directions in the path of circles or half-moon shapes. These
motions help level high areas within the concrete while making cream that can be used to fill in
low areas. This process is known as working or finishing the concrete. The final result of
finishing concrete should be a smooth level surface. The finish tool should be helpful in
leveling the concrete to remove all imperfections.
[0004] Traditional and currently available concrete floats have shapes, non-functional tool
edges, and other design features and characteristics (e.g., flat bottom surfaces), which make it
easy for the float to dig into the fresh concrete, leave marks, and/or make it otherwise difficult

                                                    2
and heavy to use. The inventor has recognized the advantages and benefits of a tool/float that
addresses these issues; that is, one that is easier to use and which performs better by not leaving
as many or any lines or marks in fresh concrete as a traditional float. These advantages and
benefits are achieved and enabled by the embodied float exhibiting one or more of material
reduction from specific areas of the tool to reduce weight as to reduce fatigue of a 'finish man,'
3D nose and/or tail section bottom surfaces that provide greater ease of use, even for a less
experienced finish persons, a properly rounded edge radius that allows the user to pass the float
along the surface of the concrete without digging-in, allowing the user to raise the float at a
sharper angle which further allows the user to scrap, drag, push and pull cream over the concrete
to level and seal the surface without thinning cream too much, which can cause pre-mature
sealing of the concrete surface.
Summary
[0005] An aspect of the invention is a concrete work tool in the form of a concrete float. In a
non-limiting, exemplary embodiment the float includes an elongate float body characterized by
a length dimension, L, and a width dimension, W, wherein L is equal to or greater than 2W,
having a bottom surface, further wherein at least a portion of the bottom surface has a
curvilinear shape along the width dimension. In various non-limiting embodiments, the float
may be further characterized by one or more of the following features, limitations,
characteristics, components, separately or in various combinations as a person skilled in the art
would understand:
       -wherein the at least the portion of the bottom surface having the curvilinear shape along
the width dimension is at least one of a nose section of the float body and a tail section of the
float body;
       -wherein the at least the portion of the bottom surface having the curvilinear shape has a
monotonically decreasing thickness between the bottom surface and a top surface of the float
body over a selected length approaching at least one of an end of the nose section and an end of
the tail section of the float body, wherein the bottom surface is inclined with respect to a non
inclined top surface such that the bottom surface of the at least one of the nose section and the
tail section has a three-dimensional shape;
       -wherein both the nose section of the float body and the tail section of the float body have
the curvilinear shape along the width dimension;

                                                  3
      -wherein both the nose section of the float body and the tail section of the float body have
a monotonically decreasing thickness between the bottom surface and the top surface of the float
body over a selected length approaching the end of the nose section and the end of the tail
section of the float body;
      -wherein at least the end of the nose section has curvilinear comers;
      -wherein a perimeter edge of the float body is curvilinear;
      -further comprising a handle attached to a top surface of the float body;
      -wherein the nose section of the float body has a monotonically decreasing width
dimension over a selected length approaching an end of the nose section.
[0006] An aspect of the invention is a method for making a concrete work tool in the form of a
concrete float. In a non-limiting, exemplary embodiment the method includes the steps of
providing an elongate float body characterized by a length dimension, L, and a width dimension,
W, wherein L is equal to or greater than 2W, having a bottom surface, further wherein at least a
portion of the bottom surface has a curvilinear shape along the width dimension; and starting
from a location no greater than a midpoint along the length dimension of the bottom surface
towards at least one of a nose end and a tail end of the float body, monotonically decreasing a
thickness dimension of the float body between the bottom surface and a top surface by removing
material from the bottom surface. In various non-limiting embodiments, the method may further
include one or more of the following features, steps, limitations, characteristics, components,
separately or in various combinations as a person skilled in the art would understand:
      -further comprising symmetrically tapering the nose section of the float body across the
width dimension such that a leading edge of the nose section has a reduced width dimension;
      -in which the leading edge of the tapered nose section has a straight portion intermediate
opposing curvilinear sections;
      -further comprising providing a radius to at least a portion of a perimetal edge of the float
body;
      -further comprising providing the radius to opposing perimetal edge regions along the
length dimension of the float body;
      -wherein providing an elongate float body having a curvilinear bottom surface along the
width dimension comprises extruding the float body;
      -further comprising attaching a handle to the float body.

                                                  4
Brief Description of the Figures
[0007] Fig. 1 is a bottom plan view of the float body, particularly showing 3D-shaped nose and
tail sections of the bottom surface of the float body as well as a tapered nose section along a
width dimension of the float body, according to an exemplary, illustrative embodiment of the
invention.
[0008] Fig. 2 is a front cross sectional view of a float (including a handle) that illustrates the 2D
curvilinear shape of the bottom surface across the width dimension of the float body, according
to an illustrative embodiment of the invention.
[0009] Fig. 3 is a side cross sectional view of a mid-to-nose end region of the float body
illustrating the monotonic taper of the bottom surface towards the nose tip to impart a 3D shape
on the 2D curvilinear bottom surface of the float body, according to an exemplary, illustrative
embodiment of the invention.
[0010] Fig. 4 is a side cross sectional view of a mid-to-tail end region of the float body
illustrating the monotonic taper of the bottom surface towards the tail tip to impart a 3D shape
on the 2D curvilinear bottom surface of the float body, according to an exemplary, illustrative
embodiment of the invention.
[0011] Fig. 5 is a schematic bottom plan view of a mid-to-nose end region of the float body
illustrating both the symmetrical taper of the nose end across the width dimension of the float
body with rounded or curvilinear regions at the nose tip and the radiused perimetal edge of the
float body, according to an exemplary, illustrative embodiment of the invention.
[0012] Fig. 6 is a schematic bottom plan view of a mid-to-tail end region of the float body
illustrating both rounded, or curvilinear, regions at the tail tip and the radiused perimetal edge of
the float body, according to an exemplary, illustrative embodiment of the invention.
[0013] Fig. 7 is a top plan view of the float including a handle attached to the top surface of the
float body, according to an exemplary, illustrative embodiment of the invention.

                                                   5
Detailed Description of Non-limiting, Exemplary Embodiments of the Invention
[0014] In its most general aspect, the invention is a concrete float body 10 (Fig. 1) whose
bottom (working) surface 12 has a 3D shape/profile/contour over a nose region 14 and a tail
region 16 of the float body. This is generally illustrated by the radiating dashed lines 13.
[0015] Fig. 1 further shows the elongate float body characterized by a length dimension, L, and
a width dimension, W, wherein L is equal to or greater than 2W. Typical traditional values of L
and W for a finish float are about 16 inches (e.g., 15.875 in) and about two inches (e.g., 2.125
in), respectively. According to various embodiments, L may be about eight to 36 inches and W
may be about two to four inches. Further shown is the symmetrically tapered nose section 17 in
the width dimension with a straight portion 21 between two opposing curvilinear portions 23,
and at the tail end 16 a straight portion 25 between two opposing curvilinear portions 27.
Further shown is the radiused perimetal edge 29 of the float body. Embodied float body
materials may be magnesium, plastic, aluminum, or other suitable material that can be extruded
and produced with the design characteristics and shape features described herein.
[0016] Fig. 2 is a front cross sectional view of a float 100 (including a handle 9, not part of the
invention per se) that illustrates the 2D curvilinear shape/profile 26 of the bottom surface across
the width dimension of the float body. Once a particular curvature or curvilinear shape 26 is
chosen for the bottom surface 12, the float body may advantageously be made by known
processes including extrusion, cutting from solid material, die cast molding, or injection
molding such that the bottom surface is uniformly curved in 2D (across width dimension, W)
along the entire length, L, of the float body. In a particular non-limiting, exemplary
embodiment the reduction of material from the centerline of the bottom surface to the left and
right sides over a total width dimension, W, of about two to four inches is between 0.03-0.25 in.
In a prototype embodiment, a 0.07 in reduction of material demonstrated satisfactory results.
[0017] Fig. 3 is a side cross sectional view of a mid-to-nose end region of the float body
illustrating the monotonic taper of the bottom surface towards the nose tip to impart a 3D shape
on the 2D curvilinear bottom surface of the float body. In a particular non-limiting, exemplary
embodiment the reduction of material at the nose tip may advantageously be about 0.0 15 in
(1/64) to about 0.07 in (5/64) less than the dimension at 3.878 inches back from the tip. In a
prototype embodiment, a 0.047 in (3/64) reduction of material demonstrated satisfactory results.

                                                      6
[0018] Fig. 4 is a side cross sectional view of a mid-to-tail end region of the float body
illustrating the monotonic taper of the bottom surface towards the tail tip to impart a 3D shape
on the 2D curvilinear bottom surface of the float body. In a particular non-limiting, exemplary
embodiment the reduction of material at the tail tip may advantageously be about 0.015 in (1/64)
to about 0.07 in (5/64) less than the dimension at 0.875 inches back from the tip. In a prototype
embodiment, a 0.030-0.035 in (1/32) reduction of material demonstrated satisfactory results.
[0019] In addition to the 3D-shaped bottom surface of the float body described hereinabove, the
float body approaching the nose end may advantageously taper across the width dimension, W,
as illustrated in Figs. 1, 5, and 7. At the nose tip, the float body has a straight portion 21
between two opposing curvilinear end regions 23 (Fig. 1). The straight portion comprises about
1/3 to about 3/4 of the tip width. Fig. 5 is a schematic bottom plan view of prototype
embodiment of a 16 in long float body, illustrating the symmetrical taper of the nose end across
the width dimension of the float body with rounded or curvilinear regions at the nose tip and the
radiused perimetal edge of the float body. In the illustrated, exemplary embodiment having a W
dimension of 2.125 in, the straight portion of the tip 21 was 0.64 in followed by a        2 in radius to
each side 23. The    12 in radius is followed by a tapered 1.691 in length that is 0.889 in from the
bisected center, and another taper that is 1.754 in, which ends 3.876 from the nose tip and 0.955
from the bisected center.
[0020] Fig. 6 is a similar (to Fig. 5) schematic bottom plan view of a mid-to-tail end region of
the float body illustrating both rounded, or curvilinear, regions 27 at the tail tip and the 1/8 in
radiused perimetal edge 29 of the float body. Here, the straight portion is 1.138 in followed by a
12 in radius to each side 27. The     12 in radius 27 is followed by a straight 0.376 in length that is
0.955 in from the bisected center.
[0021] It is to be appreciated that all of the disclosed dimensions may be linearly scaled to
different L and W dimensions of the float body.
[0022] Fig. 7 is a top plan view of the float including a handle 9 attached to the top surface of
the float body.
[0023] While several inventive embodiments have been described and illustrated herein, those
of ordinary skill in the art will readily envision a variety of other means and/or structures for

                                                    7
performing the function and/or obtaining the results and/or one or more of the advantages
described herein, and each of such variations and/or modifications is deemed to be within the
scope of the inventive embodiments described herein. More generally, those skilled in the art
will readily appreciate that all parameters, dimensions, materials, and configurations described
herein are meant to be exemplary and that the actual parameters, dimensions, materials, and/or
configurations will depend upon the specific application or applications for which the inventive
teachings is/are used. Those skilled in the art will recognize, or be able to ascertain using no
more than routine experimentation, many equivalents to the specific inventive embodiments
described herein. It is, therefore, to be understood that the foregoing embodiments are presented
by way of example only and that, within the scope of the appended claims and equivalents
thereto, inventive embodiments may be practiced otherwise than as specifically described and
claimed. Inventive embodiments of the present disclosure are directed to each individual
feature, system, article, material, kit, and/or method described herein. In addition, any
combination of two or more such features, systems, articles, materials, kits, and/or methods, if
such features, systems, articles, materials, kits, and/or methods are not mutually inconsistent, is
included within the inventive scope of the present disclosure.
[0024] All definitions, as defined and used herein, should be understood to control over
dictionary definitions, definitions in documents incorporated by reference, and/or ordinary
meanings of the defined terms.
[0025] The indefinite articles "a" and "an," as used herein in the specification and in the claims,
unless clearly indicated to the contrary, should be understood to mean "at least one."
[0026] The phrase "and/or," as used herein in the specification and in the claims, should be
understood to mean "either or both" of the elements so conjoined, i.e., elements that are
conjunctively present in some cases and disjunctively present in other cases. Multiple elements
listed with "and/or" should be construed in the same fashion, i.e., "one or more" of the elements
so conjoined. Other elements may optionally be present other than the elements specifically
identified by the "and/or" clause, whether related or unrelated to those elements specifically
identified. Thus, as a non-limiting example, a reference to "A and/or B", when used in
conjunction with open-ended language such as "comprising" can refer, in one embodiment, to A
only (optionally including elements other than B); in another embodiment, to B only (optionally

                                                   8
including elements other than A); in yet another embodiment, to both A and B (optionally
including other elements); etc.
[0027] As used herein in the specification and in the claims, "or" should be understood to have
the same meaning as "and/or" as defined above. For example, when separating items in a list,
"or" or "and/or" shall be interpreted as being inclusive, i.e., the inclusion of at least one, but also
including more than one, of a number or list of elements, and, optionally, additional unlisted
items. Only terms clearly indicated to the contrary, such as "only one of' or "exactly one of,"
or, when used in the claims, "consisting of," will refer to the inclusion of exactly one element of
a number or list of elements. In general, the term "or" as used herein shall only be interpreted as
indicating exclusive alternatives (i.e. "one or the other but not both") when preceded by terms of
exclusivity, such as "either," "one of," "only one of," or "exactly one of." "Consisting
essentially of," when used in the claims, shall have its ordinary meaning as used in the field of
patent law.
[0028] As used herein in the specification and in the claims, the phrase "at least one," in
reference to a list of one or more elements, should be understood to mean at least one element
selected from any one or more of the elements in the list of elements, but not necessarily
including at least one of each and every element specifically listed within the list of elements
and not excluding any combinations of elements in the list of elements. This definition also
allows that elements may optionally be present other than the elements specifically identified
within the list of elements to which the phrase "at least one" refers, whether related or unrelated
to those elements specifically identified. Thus, as a non-limiting example, "at least one of A and
B" (or, equivalently, "at least one of A or B," or, equivalently "at least one of A and/or B") can
refer, in one embodiment, to at least one, optionally including more than one, A, with no B
present (and optionally including elements other than B); in another embodiment, to at least one,
optionally including more than one, B, with no A present (and optionally including elements
other than A); in yet another embodiment, to at least one, optionally including more than one, A,
and at least one, optionally including more than one, B (and optionally including other
elements); etc.
[0029] It should also be understood that, unless clearly indicated to the contrary, in any methods
claimed herein that include more than one step or act, the order of the steps or acts of the

                                                  9
method is not necessarily limited to the order in which the steps or acts of the method are
recited.
[0030] In the claims, as well as in the specification above, all transitional phrases such as
"comprising," "including," "carrying," "having," "containing," "involving," "holding,"
"composed of," and the like are to be understood to be open-ended, i.e., to mean including but
not limited to. Only the transitional phrases "consisting of' and "consisting essentially of' shall
be closed or semi-closed transitional phrases, respectively, as set forth in the United States
Patent Office Manual of Patent Examining Procedures, Section 2111.03.

                                                   10
CLAIMS:
1.     A concrete work tool in the form of a concrete float, comprising:
       an elongate float body characterized by a length dimension, L, and a width dimension, W,
wherein L is equal to or greater than 2W, having a bottom surface,
       further wherein at least a portion of the bottom surface has a curvilinear shape along the
width dimension.
2.     The concrete work tool of claim 1, wherein the at least the portion of the bottom surface
having the curvilinear shape along the width dimension is at least one of a nose section of the
float body and a tail section of the float body.
3.     The concrete work tool of claim 2, wherein the at least the portion of the bottom surface
having the curvilinear shape has a monotonically decreasing thickness between the bottom
surface and a top surface of the float body over a selected length approaching at least one of an
end of the nose section and an end of the tail section of the float body,
       wherein the bottom surface is inclined with respect to a non-inclined top surface such that
the bottom surface of the at least one of the nose section and the tail section has a three
dimensional shape.
4.     The concrete work tool of claim 2, wherein both the nose section of the float body and the
tail section of the float body have the curvilinear shape along the width dimension.
5.     The concrete work tool of claim 3, wherein both the nose section of the float body and the
tail section of the float body have a monotonically decreasing thickness between the bottom
surface and the top surface of the float body over a selected length approaching the end of the
nose section and the end of the tail section of the float body.
6.     The concrete work tool of claim 2, wherein the nose section of the float body has a
monotonically decreasing width dimension over a selected length approaching an end of the
nose section.
7.     The concrete work tool of claim 3, wherein at least the end of the nose section has
curvilinear corners.

                                                  11
8.     The concrete work tool of claim 3, wherein a perimeter edge of the float body is
curvilinear.
9.     The concrete work tool of claim 3, further comprising a handle attached to a top surface of
the float body.
10.    A method for making a concrete work tool in the form of a concrete float, comprising:
       providing an elongate float body characterized by a length dimension, L, and a width
dimension, W, wherein L is equal to or greater than 2W, having a bottom surface, further
wherein at least a portion of the bottom surface has a curvilinear shape along the width
dimension; and
       starting from a location no greater than a midpoint along the length dimension of the
bottom surface towards at least one of a nose end and a tail end of the float body, monotonically
decreasing a thickness dimension of the float body between the bottom surface and a top surface
by removing material from the bottom surface.
11.    The method of claim 10, further comprising symmetrically tapering the nose section of the
float body across the width dimension such that a leading edge of the nose section has a reduced
width dimension.
12.    The method of claim 11, in which the leading edge of the tapered nose section has a
straight portion intermediate opposing curvilinear sections.
13.    The method of claim 10, further comprising providing a radius to at least a portion of a
perimetal edge of the float body.
14.    The method of claim 10, further comprising providing the radius to opposing perimetal
edge regions along the length dimension of the float body.
15.    The method of claim 10, wherein providing an elongate float body having a curvilinear
bottom surface along the width dimension comprises extruding the float body.
16.    The method of claim 10, further comprising attaching a handle to the float body.

                          12
                   Albert DiLuzio
Patent Attorneys for the Applicant/Nominated Person
              SPRUSON & FERGUSON

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
