  ABSTRACT
  The present invention includes methods and kits for the diagnosing a neurological
  disease within primary care settings comprising: obtaining a blood test sample from a
  subject, measuring IL-7 and TNFa biomarkers in the blood sample, comparing the level
5 of the one or a combination of biomarkers and neurocognitive screening tests with the
  level of a corresponding one or combination of biomarkers in a normal blood sample and
  neurocognitive screening tests, and predicting that an increase in the level of the blood
  test sample in relation to that of the normal blood sample indicates that the subject is
  likely to have a neurological disease.

                                                 1
    BLOOD-BASED SCREEN FOR DETECTING NEUROLOGICAL DISEASES IN
                                PRIMARY CARE SETTINGS
           The present application is a divisional application of Australian Application No.
   2014287206, which is incorporated in its entirety herein by reference.
 5 Field of Invention
             The present invention relates in general to the field of screening, detecting and
   discriminating between neurological diseases within primary care settings, and more
   particularly, to biomarkers for the detection, screening, and discriminating patients with
   neurological diseases.
10 Background Art
             Without limiting the scope of the invention, its background is described in
   connection with neurological diseases.
             The detection and evaluation of disease conditions has progressed greatly as a
   result of the sequencing of the human genome and the availability of bioinformatics
15 tools.  One such system is taught in United States Patent No. 8,430,816, issued to
   Avinash, et al., for a system and method for analysis of multiple diseases and severities.
   Briefly, these inventors teach a data processing technique that includes a computer
   implemented method for accessing reference deviation maps for a plurality of disease
   types. The reference deviation maps may include subsets of maps associated with
20 severity levels of respective disease types and a disease severity score may be associated
   with each severity level. The method is said to also include selecting patient severity
   levels for multiple disease types based on the subsets of reference deviation maps. Also,
   the method may include automatically calculating a combined patient disease severity
   score based at least in part on the disease severity scores associated with the selected
25 patient severity levels, and may include outputting a report based at least in part on the
   combined patient disease severity score.
            Another such invention, is taught in United States Patent No. 8,008,025, issued
   to Zhang and directed to biomarkers for neurodegenerative disorders.           Briefly, this
   inventor teaches methods for diagnosing neurodegenerative disease, such as Alzheimer's
30 Disease, Parkinson's Disease, and dementia with Lewy body disease by detecting a
   pattern of gene product expression in a cerebrospinal fluid sample and comparing the

                                             la
  pattern of gene product expression from the sample to a library of gene product
  expression pattern known to be indicative          of the presence     or absence of a
  neurodegenerative disease. The methods are also said to provide for monitoring
  neurodegenerative disease progression and assessing the effects of therapeutic treatment.
5 Also provided are kits, systems and devices for practicing the subject methods.

                                                        2
             United States Patent Application Publication No. 2013/0012403, filed by Hu is directed to
    Compositions and Methods for Identifying Autism Spectrum Disorders.                This application is
    directed to microRNA chips having a plurality of different oligonucleotides with specificity for
    genes associated with autism spectrum disorders. The invention is said to provide methods of
  5 identifying microRNA profiles for neurological and psychiatric conditions including autism
    spectrum disorders, methods of treating such conditions, and methods of identifying therapeutics
    for the treatment of such neurological and psychiatric conditions.
             Yet another application is United States Patent Application Publication No. 2011/0159527,
    filed by Schlossmacher, et al., for Methods and Kits for Diagnosing Neurodegenerative Disease.
  0 Briefly, the application is said to teach methods and diagnostic kits for determining whether a
    subject may develop or be diagnosed with a neurodegenerative disease. The method is said to
    include quantitating the amount of alpha-synuclein and total protein in a cerebrospinal fluid (CSF)
    sample obtained from the subject and calculating a ratio of alpha-synuclein to total protein content;
    comparing the ratio of alpha-synuclein to total protein content in the CSF sample with the alpha
 .5 synuclein to total protein content ratio in CSF samples obtained from healthy neurodegenerative
    disease-free subjects; and determining from the comparison whether the subject has a likelihood to
    develop neurodegenerative disease or making a diagnosis of neurodegenerative disease in a subject.
    It is said that a difference in the ratio of alpha-synuclein to total protein content indicates that the
    subject has a likelihood of developing a neurodegencrative disease or has developed a
  o neurodegencrative disease.
    Summary of the Invention
             In one embodiment, the present invention includes a method and/or apparatus for screening
    for neurological disease within a primary care setting comprising: obtaining a blood test sample
    from a subject in the primary care setting; measuring two or more biomarkers in the blood sample
25  selected from IL7, TNFa, IL5, IL6, CRP, ILIO, TNC, ICAMI, FVII, 1309, TNFRI, A2M, TARC,
    eotaxin3, VCAM1, TPO, FABP, IL18, B2M, SAA, PPY, DJ1, and/or a-synuclein; comparing the
    level of the one or a combination of biomarkers with the level of a corresponding one or
    combination of biomarkers in a normal blood sample; measuring an increase in the level of the two
    or more biomarkers in the blood test sample in relation to that of the normal blood sample, which
30  indicates that the subject is likely to have a neurological disease; identifying the neurological
    disease based on the two biomarkers measured; and selecting a course of treatment for the subject
    based on the neurological disease predicted.          In one aspect, at least one of the biomarker
    measurements is obtained by a method selected from the group consisting of immunoassay and

                                                          3
    enzymatic activity assay. In another aspect, the method further comprises advising the individual or
    a primary health care practitioner of the change in calculated risk. In another aspect, the method
    further comprises advising the individual or a primary health care practitioner of the change in
    calculated risk. In another aspect, the method uses 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, or 13 biomarkers to
  5 distinguish between neurological diseases.        In another aspect, the isolated biological sample is
    serum or plasma.         In another aspect, the sample is a serum sample and upon the initial
    determination of a neurological disease within the primary care clinic, providing that primary care
    provider with information regarding the specific type of specialist referral appropriate for that
    particular blood screen finding and directing the individual to a specialist for that neurological
  0 disease and treatment in accordance therewith. In another aspect, the neurological diseases are
    selected from Alzheimer's Disease, Parkinson's Disease, Down's syndrome, Frontotemporal
    dementia, Dementia with Lewy Bodies, and neurodegenerative disease.              In another aspect, the
    method further comprises the step of refining the analysis by including the following parameters:
    patient age, and a neurocognitive screening tests, wherein the combination of two or more of our
  5 serum-based markers, age and the neurocognitive screening tests are at least 90% accurate in a
    primary care setting for the determination of Alzheimer's disease when compared to a control
    subject that does not have a neurological disease or disorder. In another aspect, the method further
    comprises the step of determining one or more of the following parameters: sleep disturbance
    (yes/no),    visual    hallucinations   (yes/no),   psychiatric/personality   changes    (yes/no),  age,
 .0 neurocognitive screening, and two or more of our serum-based markers for the accurate detection
    and discrimination between neurodegenerative diseases. In another aspect, the level of expression
    of the various proteins is measured by at least one of fluorescence detection, chemiluminescence
    detection, electrochemiluminescence         detection   and patterned    arrays, reverse transcriptase~
    polymerase chain reaction, antibody binding, fluorescence activated sorting, detectable bead
25  sorting, antibody arrays, microarrays, enzymatic arrays, receptor binding arrays, allele specific
    primer extension, target specific primer extension, solid-phase binding arrays, liquid phase binding
    arrays, fluorescent resonance transfer, or radioactive labeling. In another aspect, the method is used
    to screen for at least one of mild AD (CDR global score <=1.0) with an overall accuracy of 94, 95,
    96, 97, 98, 99 or 100% (sensitivity (SN), specificity (SP) of (SN=0.94, SP=0.83)), or very early AD
30  (CDR global score      = 0.5), with an overall accuracy of 91, 92, 93, 94, 95, 96, 97, 98, 99, or 100%
    (SN=0.97, SP=0.72). In another aspect, the method is used to screen in the primary setting used a
    higher specificity than sensitivity, wherein the specificity is in the range of 0.97 to 1.0, and the
    sensitivity is in the range of 0.80 to 1.0.

                                                       4
            Another embodiment of the present invention includes a method and apparatus for
    distinguishing between one or more neurological disease states; the method comprising: obtaining
    from at least one biological sample isolated from an individual suspected of having a neurological
    disease measurements of biomarkers comprising the biomarkers IL-7 and TNFa; adding the age of
  5 the subject and the results from one or more neurocognitive screening tests from the subject (clock
    drawing, verbal fluency, list learning, sleep disturbances, visual hallucinations, behavioral
    disturbances, motor disturbances); calculating the individual's risk for developing the neurological
    disease from the output of a model, wherein the inputs to the model comprise the measurements of
    the two biomarkers, the subject's age and the results from one or more cognitive tests, and further
  0 wherein the model was developed by fitting data from a longitudinal study of a selected population
    of individuals and the fitted data comprises levels of the biomarkers, the subject's age and the
    results from one or more cognitive tests and neurological disease in the selected population of
    individuals; and comparing the calculated risk for the individual to a previously calculated risk
    obtained from at least one earlier sample from the individual. In one aspect, at least one of the
  5 biomarker measurements is obtained by a method selected from at least one of fluorescence
    detection, chemiluminescence detection, electrochemiluminescence detection and patterned arrays,
    reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction, antibody binding, fluorescence activated sorting,
    detectable bead sorting, antibody arrays, microarrays, enzymatic arrays, receptor binding arrays,
    allele specific primer extension, target specific primer extension, solid-phase binding arrays, liquid
 .0 phase binding arrays, fluorescent resonance transfer, or radioactive labeling. In another aspect, two
    or more of the methods for biomarker measurement are used to cross-validate the neurological
    disease. In another aspect, the method further comprises advising the individual or a health care
    practitioner of the change in calculated risk. In another aspect, the method further comprises
    advising the individual or a health care practitioner of the change in calculated risk. In another
25  aspect, the biomarkers further comprise one or more biomarkers selected from fL7, TNFa, IL5, IL6,
    CRP, IL1O, TNC, ICAMI, FVII, 1309, TNFRI, A2M, TARC, eotaxin3, VCAMI, TPO, FABP,
    IL 18, B2M, SAA, PPY, DJ1, and/or a-synuclein. In another aspect, the method uses 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8,
    9, 10, 11, 12, or 13 biomarkers to distinguish the neurological disease.       In another aspect, the
    isolated biological sample is serum or plasma. In another aspect, the sample is a serum sample and
30  upon the initial determination of a neurological disease, directing the individual to a specialist for
    that neurological disease.      In another aspect, the neurological diseases are selected from
    Alzheimer's Disease, Down's syndrome, Frontotemporal dementia, Dementia with Lewy Bodies,
    Parkinson's Disease, and dementia. In another aspect, the method is used to exclude one or more
    neurological diseases selected from Alzheimer's Disease, Down's syndrome, Frontotemporal

                                                          5
    dementia, Dementia with Lewy Bodies, Parkinson's Disease, and dementia. In another aspect, the
    method is used to screen in the primary setting used a higher specificity than sensitivity, wherein
    the specificity is in the range of 0.97 to 1.0, and the sensitivity is in the range of 0.80 to 1.0.
             In another embodiment, the present invention also includes a method of performing a
  5 clinical trial to evaluate a candidate drug believed to be useful in treating neurological diseases, the
    method comprising: (a) measuring an two or more biomarkers selected from IL7, TNFa, 1L5, IL6,
    CRP, IL10, TNC, ICAMI, FVI, 1309, TNFR1, A2M, TARC, eotaxin3, VCAMI, TPO, FABP,
    ILl8, B2M, SAA, PPY, DJL, and/or a-synuclein from one or more blood samples obtained from
    patients suspected of having a neurological disease, the patient's age, and results from one or more
  0 neurocognitive screening tests of the patient; (b) administering a candidate drug to a first subset of
    the patients, and a placebo to a second subset of the patients; (c) repeating step (a) after the
    administration of the candidate drug or the placebo; and (d) determining if the candidate drug
    reduces the expression of the one or more biomarkers that is statistically significant as compared to
    any reduction occurring in the second subset of patients, wherein a statistically significant reduction
 .5 indicates that the candidate drug is useful in treating the neurological disease. In another aspect, the
    method further comprises the steps of obtaining one or more additional blood samples from the
    patient after a predetermined amount of time and comparing the levels of the biomarkers from the
    one or more additional samples to determine disease progression. In another aspect, the method
    further comprises the steps of treating the patient for a pre-determined period of time, obtaining one
 to or more additional blood samples from the patient after the predetermined amount of time and
    comparing the levels of the biomarkers from the one or more additional samples to determine
    disease progression.
            In another embodiment, the present invention also includes a method of selecting subjects
    for a clinical trial to evaluate a candidate drug believed to be useful in treating neurological
25  diseases, the method comprising: (a) measuring an two or more biomarker selected from IL7,
    TNFa, IL5, IL6, CRP, IL10, TNC, ICAMI, FVII, 1309, TNFR1, A2M, TARC, eotaxin3, VCAM1,
    TPO, FABP, IL 18, B2M, SAA, PPY, DJ1, and/or a-synuclein in a blood samples obtained from the
    subject, the patient's age and the results from one or more neurocognitive screening tests to
    determine a neurodegenerative disease profile; and (b) determining if the subject should participate
30  in the clinical trial based on the results of the identification of the neurodegenerative disease profile
    of the subject obtained from the step (a), wherein the subject is only selected if the
    neurodegenerative disease profile if the candidate drug is likely to be useful in treating the
    neurological disease.

                                                        6
            In another embodiment, the present invention also includes a method of evaluating the effect
    of a treatment for a neurological disease, the method comprising: treating a patient for a
    neurological disease; measuring two or more biomarkers from a blood samples obtained from
    patients suspected of having a neurological disease, the patient's age, and results from one or more
  5 cognitive tests of the patient; and determining if the treatment reduces the expression of the one or
    more biomarkers that is statistically significant as compared to any reduction occurring in the
    second subset of patients that have not been treated or from a prior sample obtained from the
    patient, wherein a statistically significant reduction indicates that the treatment is useful in treating
    the neurological disease.
  0         In another embodiment, the present invention also includes a method of aiding diagnosis of
    neurological diseases, comprising: obtaining a blood sample from a human individual; comparing
    normalized measured levels of IL-7 and TNFa biomarkers from the individual's blood sample to a
    reference level of each neurological disease diagnosis biomarker; wherein the group of neurological
    disease diagnosis biomarkers comprises IL-7 and TNFa; and obtaining the patient's age and results
 .5 from one or more cognitive tests of the patient; wherein the reference level of each neurological
    disease diagnosis biomarker comprises a normalized measured level of the neurological disease
    diagnosis biomarker from one or more blood samples of human individuals without neurological
    disease ; and wherein levels of neurological disease diagnosis biomarkers greater than the reference
    level of each neurological disease diagnosis biomarker, the patient's age and the patient's results
  o from one or more cognitive tests indicate a greater likelihood that the individual suffers from
    neurological disease.    In one aspect the present invention also includes a method of level of
    expression of IL-7 and TNF alpha in the blood are elevated when compared to the reference level
    indicates a greater likelihood that the individual suffers from the neurological disease. In another
    aspect, the method further comprises the step of determining the blood levels of one or more
25  biomarkers selected from IL7, TNFa, L5, IL6, CRP, IL10, TNC, ICAMI, FVII, 1309, TNFR1,
    A2M, TARC, eotaxin3, VCAMI, TPO, FABP, IL18, B2M, SAA, PPY, DJI, and/or a-synuclein.
    I another aspect, the method uses 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, or 13 biomarkers to distinguish the
    neurological disease. In another aspect, the levels of CRP and IL10 are lower when compared to
    the reference level indicates a greater likelihood that the individual suffers from the neurological
30  disease.    In another aspect, the method further comprises the steps of obtaining one or more
    additional blood samples from the patient after a predetermined amount of time and comparing the
    levels of the biomarkers from the one or more additional samples to determine disease progression.
    In another aspect, the isolated blood sample is serum sample. In another aspect, the blood sample is

                                                         7
    a serum sample and upon the initial determination of a neurological disease, directing the individual
    to a specialist for that neurological disease. In another aspect, the neurological diseases are selected
    from Alzheimer's Disease, Parkinson's Disease, and dementia. In another aspect, the method is
    used to screen in the primary setting used a higher specificity than sensitivity, wherein the
  5 specificity is in the range of 0.97 to 1.0, and the sensitivity is in the range of 0.80 to 1.0.
            In another embodiment, the present invention also includes a rapid-screening kit for aiding
    diagnosis of a neurological disease in a primary care setting, comprising: one or more reagents for
    detecting the level of expression of IL-7 and TNFa in a blood sample obtained from a human
    individual, and one or more neurological screening test sheets; and instructions for comparing
  0 normalized measured levels of the IL-7 and TNFa biomarkers from the individual's blood sample
    to a reference level, the patient's age and the patient's results from the neurological screening tests;
    wherein the reference level of each neurological disease diagnosis biomarker comprises a
    normalized measured level of the neurological disease diagnosis biomarker from one or more blood
    samples of human individuals without neurological disease; and wherein levels of neurological
 .5 disease diagnosis biomarkers less than the reference level of each neurological disease diagnosis
    biomarker indicate a greater likelihood that the individual suffers from neurological disease,
    wherein the test is at least 90% accurate. In another aspect, the level of expression of IL-7 and TNF
    alpha in the blood are elevated when compared to the reference level indicates a greater likelihood
    that the individual suffers from the neurological disease.             In another aspect, the kit further
 to comprises one or more reagents for detecting the level of expression markers selected from IL7,
    TNFa, IL5, IL6, CRP, ILIO, TNC, ICAMI, FVII, 1309, TNFRI, A2M, TARC, eotaxin3, VCAMI,
    TPO, FABP, IL18, B2M, SAA, PPY, DJI, and/or a-synuclein. In another aspect, the levels of CRP
    and IL10 are lower when compared to the reference level indicates a greater likelihood that the
    individual suffers from the neurological disease. In another aspect, the sample is a serum sample
25  and upon the initial determination of a neurological disease, directing the individual to a specialist
    for that neurological disease.      In another aspect, the neurological diseases are selected from
    Alzheimer's Disease, Down's syndrome, Frontotemporal dementia, Dementia with Lewy Bodies,
    Parkinson's Disease, and dementia.         In another aspect, the level of expression of the various
    proteins is measured at least one of the nucleic acid, the protein level, or functionally at the protein
30  level. In another aspect, the level of expression of the various proteins is measured by at least one
    of fluorescence detection, chemiluminescence detection, electrochemiluminesconce detection and
    patterned arrays, reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction, antibody binding, fluorescence
    activated sorting, detectable bead sorting, antibody arays, microarrays, enzymatic arrays, receptor

                                                        8
    binding arrays, allele specific primer extension, target specific primer extension, solid-phase
    binding arrays, liquid phase binding arrays, fluorescent resonance transfer, or radioactive labeling.
            In another embodiment, the present invention also includes a method of determining one or
    more neurological disease profiles that best matches a patient profile, comprising: (a) comparing, on
  5 a suitably programmed computer, the level of expression of IL-7 and TNFa in a blood sample from
    a patient suspected of having one or more neurological diseases with reference profiles in a
    reference database to determine a measure of similarity between the patient profile and each the
    reference profiles; (b) identifying, on a suitably programmed computer, a reference profile in a
    reference database that best matches the patient profile based on a maximum similarity among the
  o measures of similarity determined in step (a); and (c) outputting to a user interface device, a
    computer readable storage medium, or a local or remote computer system; or displaying, the
    maximum similarity or the disease of the disease cell sample of the reference profile in the
    reference database that best matches the patient profile.        In one aspect, the method further
    comprises the step of determining the level of expression of one or more markers from a blood
 .5 sample selected from IL7, TNFa, ILS, IL6, CRP, IL10, TNC, ICAMI, FVII, 1309, TNFRI, A2M,
    TARC, eotaxin3, VCAM1, TPO, FABP, 1I18, B2M, SAA, PPY, DJI, and/or a-synuclein.                       In
    another aspect, the method uses 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, or 13 biomarkers to distinguish the
    neurological disease. In another aspect, the method is used to screen in the primary setting used a
    higher specificity than sensitivity, wherein the specificity is in the rnge of 0.97 to 1.0, and the
 -o sensitivity is in the range of 0,80 to 1.0.
    Brief Description of the Drawings
            For a more complete understanding of the features and advantages of the present invention,
    reference is now made to the detailed description of the invention along with the accompanying
    figures and in which:
25          Figure 1 shows data from the Neurodegenerative Panel I that assays THPO, FABP3, PPY,
    IL 18, and 1309 on an MSD platform from two control participants in duplicate. As can be seen, the
    assays are highly reliable;
            Figure 2 is a box Plot of Random Forest Risk Scores for AD vs. normal controls (NC);
            Figure 3 is a receiver operation characteristic (ROC) plot of serum biomarker profile;
30          Figure 4 is a Gini Plot from Random Forest Biomarker Model;
            Figure 5 is a receiver operation characteristic (ROC) plot of serum biomarker profile; and

                                                       9
             Figure 6 highlights the importance of the relative profiles in distinguishing between
    neurodegenerative diseases. The relative profiles across disease states varied.
    Description of the Invention
             While the making and using of various embodiments of the present invention are discussed
  5 in detail below, it should be appreciated that the present invention provides many applicable
    inventive concepts that can be embodied in a wide variety of specific contexts.           The specific
    embodiments discussed herein are merely illustrative of specific ways to make and use the
    invention and do not delimit the scope of the invention.
             To facilitate the understanding of this invention, a number of terms are defined below.
  0 Terms defined herein have meanings as commonly understood by a person of ordinary skill in the
    areas relevant to the present invention. Terms such as "a", "an" and "the" are not intended to refer
    to only a singular entity, but include the general class of which a specific example may be used for
    illustration. The terminology herein is used to describe specific embodiments of the invention, but
    their usage does not delimit the invention, except as outlined in the claims.
  5          As used herein, the phrase "primary care clinic", "primary care setting", "primary care
    provider" are used interchangeably to refer to the principal point of contact/consultation for patients
    within a health care system and coordinates with specialists that the patient may need.
             As used herein, the phrase "specialist" refers to a medical practice or practitioner that
    specializes in a particular disease, such as neurology, psychiatry or even more specifically
 .0 movement disorders or memory disorders.
             As used herein, the following abbreviations are used and can include mammalian version of
    these genes but in certain embodiments the genes are human genes: IL7 - interleukin-7, TNFa
    tumor necrosis factor alpha, IL5 - interleukin-5, IL6- interleukin-6, CRP- C-reactive protein, IL10
    interleukin-10, TNC- Tenascin C, ICAM1 -intracellular adhesion molecule 1, FVII - factor VII,
25  1309 - chemokine (C-C motif) ligand 1, TNFR1 - tumor necrosis factor receptor 1, A2M - alpha-2
    microglobulin, TARC - Chemokine (C-C Motif) Ligand 17, eotaxin3, VCAMl - Vascular Cell
    Adhesion Molecule 1, TPO - thyroid peroxidase, FABP3 - fatty acid binding protein 3, IL18
    interleukin-18, B2M - beat-2-microglobulin, SAA - serum amyloid Al cluster, PPY - pancreatic
    polypeptide, DJ1 - Parkinson Protein 7, a-synuclein.
30           As used herein, the phrase "neurological disease" refers to a disease or disorder of the
    central nervous system and many include, e.g., neurodegenerative disorders such as AD,
    Parkinson's disease, mild cognitive impairment (MCI) and dementia and neurological diseases

                                                      10
    include multiple sclerosis, neuropathies. The present invention will find particular use in detecting
    AD and for distinguishing the same, as an initial or complete screen, from other neurodegenerative
    disorders such as Parkinson's Disease, Frontotemporal dementia, Dementia with Lewy Bodies, and
    Down's syndrome.
  5         As used herein, the terms "Alzheimer's patient", "AD patient", and "individual diagnosed
    with AD" all refer to an individual who has been diagnosed with AD or has been given a probable
    diagnosis of Alzheimer's Disease (AD).
            As used herein, the terms "Parkinson's disease patient", and "individual diagnosed with
    Parkinson's disease" all refer to an individual who has been diagnosed with PD or has been given a
  0 diagnosis of Parkinson's disease.
            As used herein, the terms "Frontotemporal dementia", and "individual diagnosed with
    frontotemporal dementia" all refer to an individual who has been diagnosed with FTD or has been
    given a diagnosis of FTD.
            As used herein, the term "Dementia with Lewy bodies" (DLB), and "individual diagnosed
  5 with DLB" all refer to an individual who has been diagnosed with DLB or has been given a
    diagnosis of DLB.
            As used herein, the term "Down's syndrome" (DS), and "individual diagnosed with Down's
    syndrome" all refer to an individual who has been diagnosed with DS or has been given a diagnosis
    of DS.
 !0         As used herein, the phrase "neurological disease biomarker" refers to a biomarker that is a
    neurological disease diagnosis biomarker.
            As used herein, the term "neurological disease biomarker protein", refers to any of: a protein
    biomarkers or substances that are functionally at the level of a protein biomarker.
            As used herein, methods for "aiding diagnosis" refer to methods that assist in making a
25  clinical determination regarding the presence, or nature, of the neurological disease (e.g., AD, PD,
    DLB, FTD, DS or MCI), and may or may not be conclusive with respect to the definitive diagnosis.
    Accordingly, for example, a method of aiding diagnosis of neurological disease can comprise
    measuring the amount of one or more neurological disease biomarkers in a blood sample from an
    individual.
30          As used herein, the term "stratifying" refers to sorting individuals into different classes or
    strata based on the features of a neurological disease.     For example, stratifying a population of

                                                         11
    individuals with Alzheimer's disease involves assigning the individuals on the basis of the severity
    of the disease (e.g., mild, moderate, advanced, etc.).
             As used herein, the term "predicting" refers to making a finding that an individual has a
    significantly enhanced probability of developing a certain neurological disease.
 5           As used herein, "biological fluid sample" refers to a wide variety of fluid sample types
    obtained from an individual and can be used in a diagnostic or monitoring assay. Biological fluid
    sample include, e.g., blood, cerebral spinal fluid (CSF), urine and other liquid samples of biological
    origin.    Commonly, the samples are treatment with stabilizing reagents, solubilization, or
    enrichment for certain components, such as proteins or polynucleotides, so long as they do not
 0  interfere with the analysis of the markers in the sample.
             As used herein, a "blood sample" refers to a biological sample derived from blood,
    preferably peripheral (or circulating) blood. A blood sample may be, e.g., whole blood, serum or
    plasma. In certain embodiments, serum is preferred as the source for the biomarkers as the samples
    are readily available and often obtained for other sampling, is stable, and requires less processing,
 5  thus making it ideal for locations with little to refrigeration or electricity, is easily transportable, and
    is commonly handled by medical support staff.
             As used herein, a "normal" individual or a sample from a "normal" individual refers to
    quantitative data, qualitative data, or both from an individual who has or would be assessed by a
    physician as not having a disease, e.g., a neurological disease. Often, a "normal" individual is also
 -o age-matched within a range of 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9 or 10 years with the sample of the individual to
    be assessed.
             As used herein, the term "treatment" refers to the alleviation, amelioration, and/or
    stabilization of symptoms, as well as delay in progression of symptoms of a particular disorder. For
    example, "treatment" of AD includes any one or more of: (1) elimination of one or more symptoms
25  of AD, (2) reduction of one or more symptoms of AD, (3) stabilization of the symptoms of AD
    (e.g., failure to progress to more advanced stages of AD), and (4) delay in onset of one or more
    symptoms of AD delay in progression (i.e., worsening) of one or more symptoms of AD; and (5)
    delay in progression (i.e., worsening) of one or more symptoms of AD.
             As used herein, the term "fold difference" refers to a numerical representation of the
30  magnitude difference between a measured value and a reference value, e.g., an AD biomarker, a
    Parkinson's biomarker, a dementia biomarker, or values that allow for the differentiation of one or
    more of the neurological diseases.      Typically, fold difference is calculated mathematically by

                                                        12
    division of the numeric measured value with the numeric reference value.              For example, if a
    measured value for an AD biomarker is 20 nanograms/milliliter (ng/ml), and the reference value is
    10 ng/ml, the fold difference is 2 (20/10=2).         Alternatively, if a measured value for an AD
    biomarker is 10 nanograms/milliliter (ng/ml), and the reference value is 20 ng/ml, the fold
  5 difference is 10/20 or 450 or -50%).
            As used herein, a "reference value" can be an absolute value, a relative value, a value that
    has an upper and/or lower limit, a range of values; an average value, a median value, a mean value,
    or a value as compared to a particular control or baseline value. Generally, a reference value is
    based on an individual sample value, such as for example, a value obtained from a sample from the
  0 individual with e.g., a neurological disease such as AD, Parkinson's Disease, or dementia,
    preferably at an earlier point in time, or a value obtained from a sample from an neurological
    disease patient other than the individual being tested, or a "normal" individual, that is an individual
    not diagnosed with AD, Parkinson's Disease, or dementia. The reference value can be based on a
    large number of samples, such as from AD patients, Parkinson's Disease patients, dementia
 .5 patients, or normal individuals or based on a pool of samples including or excluding the sample to
    be tested.
            As used herein, the phrase "a predetermined amount of time" is used to describe the length
    of time between measurements that would yield a statistically significant result, which in the case of
    disease progression for neurological disease can be 7 days, 2 weeks, one month, 3 months, 6
  0 months, 9 months, 1 year, I year 3 months, I year 6 months, I year 9 months, 2 years, 2 years 3
    months, 2 years 6 months, 2 years 9 months, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9 or even 10 years and combinations
    thereof.
            As used herein, the phrases "neurocognitive screening tests", or "cognitive test" are used to
    describe one or more tests known to the skilled artisan for measuring cognitive status or impairment
25  and can include but is not limited to: a 4-point clock drawing test, an verbal fluency test, trail
    making test, list learning test, and the like. The skilled artisan will recognize and know how these
    tests can be modified, how new tests that measure similar cognitive function can be developed and
    implemented for use with the present invention.
            The differential diagnosis of neurodegenerative         diseases is difficult, yet of critical
30  importance for clinical treatment and management as well as for designing therapeutic and
    prevention trials    In order for patients to be referred to specialty clinics for advanced assessments
    and treatment implementation, an appropriate referral is normally required from primary care

                                                       13
    providers.     However, prior work demonstrates that the assessment and management                  of
    neurodegenerative diseases is poor in primary care settings          with inappropriate medications
    frequently administered.     Given that the average physician visit duration in an ambulatory setting
    for those age 65+ is approximately 18 minutes", primary care providers are in desperate need for a
  5 rapid and cost-effective method for screening neurological illness within their geriatric patients so
    appropriate referrals to a specialist can be made as warranted
            The availability of blood-based screening tools that can be implemented within primary care
    clinic settings has significant implications. From a clinical standpoint, while fewer than half of
    physicians surveyed believed screenings for neurodegenerative disease was important, the vast
  o majority of the general public and caregivers believed such screenings were vitally important".
    Additionally, the average physician visit is less than 20 minutes for elderly patients in an
    ambulatory setting severely limiting the time available for even brief neurological and cognitive
    assessments. Therefore, primary care providers are in desperate need of a method for determining
    which patients should be referred to a specialist for advanced clinical evaluation of possible
 .5 neurodegenerative disease. While a tremendous amount of work has been completed demonstrating
    the utility of advanced neuroimaging techniques (MRI, fMRI, DTI, PET) in diagnosing
    neurodegenerative diseases, they are cost prohibitive as the first step in a multi-stage diagnostic
    process. Due to cost and access, it has been proposed that blood-based biomarkers "will most likely
    be the prerequisite to future sensitive screening of large populations" at risk for neurodegenerative
 tO disease and the baseline in a diagnostic flow approach.        For example, PET amyloid-beta (AP)
    scans were recently FDA approved for use in the diagnostic process of Alzheimer's disease. If PET
    AP imaging were made available at even $1,000 per exam (less than a third to one tenth of the
    actual cost) and only 1 million elders were screened annually within primary care settings (there are
    40 million Americans age 65+), the cost would be $1 billion (U.S. dollars) annually for
25  neurodegenerative screening. If a blood-based screener were made available at $100/person, the
    cost would be $100 million annually. If 15% tested positive and went on to PET As imaging ($150
    million), the cost savings of this screen - follow-up procedure would be $750 million dollars
    annually screening less than one fortieth of those who actually need annual screening.
            A blood-based tool can easily fit the role as the first step in the multi-stage diagnostic
30  process for neurodegenerative diseases with screen positives being referred to specialist for
    confirmatory diagnosis and treatment initiation. In fact, this is the process already utilized for the
    medical fields of cancer, cardiology, infectious disease and many others.

                                                      14
            While application of specialty clinic-based screens to primary care settings seems straight
    forward, this is not the case and no prior procedures will work within primary care settings as
    demonstrated below. The ability to implement blood-based screenings as the first step in a multi
    stage diagnostic process is critical, yet very complicated due to substantially lower base rates of
  5 disease presence as compared to specialty clinics 3 and this lower base rate has a tremendous impact
    on the predictive accuracy of test results.
            Another substantial advancement comes from the current procedure.              Specifically, the
    procedure can also be utilized for screening patients prior to entry into a clinical trial. A major
    impediment to therapeutic trials aimed at preventing, slowing progression, and/or treating AD is the
  0 lack of biomarkers available for detecting the disease' 4 '".       The validation of a blood-based
    screening tool for AD could significantly reduce the costs of such trials by refining the study entry
    process. If imaging diagnostics (e.g., Ap neuroimaging) are required for study entry, only positive
    screens on the blood test would be referred for the second phase of screening (i.e., PET scan),
    which would drastically reduce the cost for identification and screening of patients. The new
 .5 methods for screening of the present invention facilitate recruitment, screening, and/or selection of
    patients from a broader range of populations and/or clinic settings, thereby offering underserved
    patient populations the opportunity to engage in clinical trials, which has been a major limitation to
    the majority of previously conducted trials 6 .
            The present inventors provide for the first time, data that demonstrates the following: a
  0 novel procedure can detect and discriminate between neurodegenerative diseases with high
    accuracy. The current novel procedure which can be utilized for implementation as the first line
    screen within primary care settings that leads to specific referrals to specialist providers for disease
    confirmation and initiation of treatment.
            Methods. Neurodegenerative disease patients. AD and Control Patients. Non-fasting serum
25  samples from the 300 TARCC participants (150 AD cases, 150 controls) were analyzed.
    Additionally, 200 plasma samples (100 AD cases and 100 controls), from the same subject group
    were analyzed.     The methodology of the TARCC protocol has been described elsewhereT ".
    Briefly, each participant undergoes an annual standardized assessment at one of the five
    participating TARCC sites that includes a medical evaluation, neuropsychological testing, and a
30  blood draw.    Diagnosis of AD is based on NINCDS-ADRDA criteria23 and controls performed
    within normal limits on psychometric testing. Institutional Review Board approval was obtained at
    each site and written informed consent is obtained for all participants.

                                                        15
            Non-AD Patients. Down's Samples. Serum samples were obtained from II male patients
    diagnosed with Down's syndrome (DS) from the Alzheimer's Disease Cooperative Studies core at
    the University of California San Diego (UCSD).         Parkinson's disease Samples.   Serum samples
    from 49 patients (28 males and 21 females) diagnosed with Parkinson's disease (PD) came from the
  5 University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center (UTSW) Movement Disorders Clinic. Dementia
    with Lewy Bodies (DLB) and Frontotemporal dementia (FTD) Samples. Serum samples from II
    DLB and 19 FTD samples were obtained from the UTSW Alzheimer's Disease Coordinating
    Center (ADCC).
            Serum sample collection.      TARCC and UTSW ADC serum samples were collected as
  0 follows: (1) non-fasting serum samples was collected in 10 ml tiger-top tubes, (2) allowed to clot
    for 30 minutes at room temperature in a vertical position, (3) centrifuged for 10 minutes at 1300 x g
    within one hour of collection, (4) 1.0 ml aliquots of serum were transferred into cryovial tubes, (5)
    FreezerworksTM barcode labels were firmly affixed to each aliquot, and (6) samples placed into -80'
    C freezer for storage until use in an assay. Down's syndrome serum samples were centrifuged at
 .5 3000rpm for 10 minutes prior to aliquoting and storage in a -80* C freezer.
            Plasma: (1) non-fasting blood was collected into 10 ml lavender-top tubes and gently invert
     10-12 times, (2) centrifuge tubes at 1300 x g for 10 minutes within one hour of collection, (3)
    transfer I ml aliquots to cryovial tubes, (4) affix FreezerworksTM barcode labels, and (5) placed in
    80* C freezer for storage.
 .0         Human serum assays. All samples were assayed in duplicate via a multi-plex biomarker
    assay platform using electrochemiluminescence (ECL) on the SECTOR Imager 2400A from Meso
    Scale Discovery (MSD; www.mesoscale.com).            The MSD platform has been used extensively to
    assay biomarkers associated with a range of human disease including AD"22 . ECL technology
    uses labels that emit light when electrochemically stimulated, which improves sensitivity of
25  detection of many analytes at very low concentrations.          ECL measures have well-established
    properties of being more sensitive and requiring less volume than conventional ELISAs26 , the gold
    standard for most assays.      The markers assayed were from a previously generated and cross
    validated AD algorithm17,' 9 ,29 and included: fatty acid binding protein (FABP3), beta 2
    microglobulin, pancreatic polypeptide (PPY), sTNFRl, CRP, VCAM1, thrombopoeitin (THPO), a2
30  macroglobulin (A2M), exotaxin 3, tumor necrosis factor a, tenascin C, IL-5, IL6, IL7, IL1O, IL18,
    1309, Factor VII, TARC, SAA, and ICAMI. Figure 1 illustrates the reliability of the MSD assay of
    the present invention.

                                                      16
            Statistical Analyses. Analyses were performed using R (V 2.10) statistical software" and
    IBM SPSS 19. Chi square and t-tests were used to compare case versus controls for categorical
    variables (APOE 4 allele frequency, gender, race, ethnicity, presence of cardiovascular risk
    factors) and continuous variables (age, education, Mini Mental State Exam [MMSE] and clinical
  5 dementia rating sum of boxes scores [CDR-SB]), respectively.              The biomarker data was
    transformed using the Box-Cox transformation. The random forest (RF) prediction model was
    performed using R package randomForest (V 4.5)", with all software default settings. The ROC
    (receiver operation characteristic) curves were analyzed using R package AUC (area under the
    curve) was calculated using R package DiagnosisMed (V 0.2.2.2). The sample was randomly
  0 divided into training and test samples separately for serum and plasma markers. The RF model was
    generated in the training set and then applied to the test sample. Logistic regression was used to
    combine demographic data (i.e. age, gender, education, and APOE4 presence [yes/no]) with the RF
    risk score as was done in the present inventors' prior work.""'    2". Clinical variables were added
    to create a more robust diagnostic algorithm given the prior work documenting a link between such
  5 variables and cognitive dysfunction in AD33 ~36 . In order to further refine the algorithm, the
    biomarker risk score was limited to the smallest set of markers that retained optimal diagnostic
    accuracy as a follow-up analysis. For the second aim of these studies, support vector machines
    (SVM) analysis was utilized for multi-classification of all diagnostic groups. A random sample of
    data from 100 AD cases and controls utilized in the first set of analyses (AD n=5 1; NC n=49) was
 !0 selected and combined with serum data from II DS, 49 PD, 19 FTD and 11 DLB cases along with
    12 additional normal controls (NC) (62 total NCs). The SVM analyses were run on the total
    combined sample with five-fold cross-validation. SVM is based on the concept of decision planes
    that define decision boundaries and is primarily a method that performs classification tasks by
    constructing hyperplanes in a multidimensional space that separates cases of different class labels.
25  An SVM-based method was used with five-fold cross-validation to develop the classifier for the
    combined samples, and then applied the classifier to predict the combined samples.
            Results. As with prior work from the present inventors, the AD patients were significantly
    older (p<0.001), achieved fewer years of education (p<0.001), scored lower on the MMSE
    (p<0.001) and higher on the CDR-SB (p<0.001) (see Table 1). There was no significant difference
30  between groups in terms of gender or presence of dyslipidemia, diabetes, or hypertension. The AD
    group had significantly more APOE4 carriers while the NC group had significantly more
    individuals who were classified as obese (BMI>=30).

                                                     17
  Table 1. Demographic Characteristics of Cohort
                                        AD (N=150)            Control (N=150)          P-value
   Gender (male)                        35%                   31%                      0.46
   Age (years)                          78.0(8.2)             70.6(8.9)                <0.001
                                        57-94                 52-90
   Education (years)                     14.0(3.4)            15.6(2.7)                <0.001
                                        0-22                  10-23
   APOE4 presence (yes/no)              61%                   26%                      <0.00 I
   Hispanic Ethnicity                   5%                    5%                       0.61
   Race (non-Hispanic white)            95%                   97%                      0.49
   MMSE                                  19.2(6.1)            29.4(0.9)                <0.001
                                         1-30                 26-30
   CDR-SB                               7.8(4.4)              0.0(0.04)                <0.001
                                         1-18                 0-1
   Hypertension (% yes)                 56%                   59%                      0.73
   Dyslipidemia (% yes)                 53%                   56%                      0.49
   Diabetes (% yes)                     12%                   13%                      0.60
   Obese (% yes)                         13%                  24%                      0.04
          When the serum-based RF biomarker profile from the ECL assays was applied to the test
  sample, the obtained sensitivity (SN) was 0.90, specificity (SP) was 0.90 and area under the ROC
  curve (AUC) was 0.96 (See Figures 2 and 3, and Table 2).
5         Table 2: Statistical results for AD biomarker sensitivity and specificity and area under the
  receiver operating characteristic curve (AUC).
                                          AUC      Sensitivity (95% CI)     Specificity (95% Cl)
   Serum Biomarker alone                  0.96     0.90 (0.81,0.95)        0.90 (0.82, 0.95)
   Clinical variables alone               0.85     0.77 (0.66, 0.85)       0.82 (0.72, 0.89)
   Biomarkers + Clinical variables        0.98     0.95 (0.87, 0.98)       0.90 (0.81, 0.95)
   Abbreviated Biomarker Profile          0.95      0.88 (0.79, 0.94)      0.92 (0.83, 0.96)
   (8 proteins)
   Abbreviated Biomarker Profile          0.98     0.92 (0.84, 0.96)       0.94 (0.87, 0.98)
   (8 proteins) + Clinical Variables
   Plasma Biomaker alone                  0.76     0.65 (0.46, 0.74)       0.790.69, 0.95)

                                                    18
           Figure 3 shows a ROC plot for a serum biomarker profile using 21 serum biomarkers. The
   plasma-based algorithm yielded much lower accuracy estimates of SN, SP, and AUC of 0.65, 0.79,
   and 0.76, respectively. Therefore, the remaining analyses focused solely on serum. Inclusion of
   age, gender, education and APOE4 into the algorithm with the RF biomarker profile increased SN,
 5 SP, and AUC to 0.95, 0.90, and 0.98, respectively (Table 2). Next the RF was re-run to determine
   the optimized algorithm with the smallest number of serum biomarkers. Using only the top 8
   markers from the biomarker profile (see Figure 4) yielded a SN, SP, and AUC of 0.88, 0.92 and
   0.95, respectively (see Figure 5 and Table 2). The addition of age, gender, education and APOE4
   genotype increased SN, SP, and AUC to 0.92, 0.94, and 0.98, respectively.
 0         Figure 4 shows a Gini Plot from Random Forest Biomarker Model demonstrating variable
   importance and differential expression. Figure 5 shows a ROC plot using only the top 8 biomarkers
   for the AD algorithm.
           For the SVM multi-classifier analyses to determine if the AD blood-based biomarker
   profiles could be utilized to discriminate AD from other neurological diseases, analyses were
 5 conducted on protein assays from 203 participants (AD n=51, PD n=49, DS n=1 1, FTD n=19, DLB
   n= 11, NC n=62). Demographic characteristics of this sample are provided in Table 3.
   Table 3: Demographic characteristics of a second cohort for multivariate classification
                    AD             PD            DS             FTD          DLB         NC
                    N=51           N=49          N=ll           N=19        N=ll         N=61
   Age              78.0 (9.0)     68 (9.6)      52(2.0)        65.8(8.8)   75.6(4.5)    70(9.0)
   Education         15.0(3.0)     --            -              14.8(3.2)    14.8(2.8)   16.2(2.7)
   Gender           22 M;29 F      28 M;21F      52 M           14M;5F       8 M;3F      23 M;38F
   Note: information not available regarding education for PD and DS cases. Abbreviations: AD,
   Alzheimer's disease. PD, Parkinson's disease. DS, Down's syndrome. FTD, Frontotemporal
   dementia. DLB, Lewy Body dementia. NC, normal controls.
           Figure 6 highlights the importance of the relative profiles in distinguishing between
20 neurodegencrative diseases. The relative profiles across disease states varied. For example, A2M
   and FVII are disproportionately elevated in DLB and FTD whereas TNFa is disproportionately
   elevated in AD and lowest in PD and DLB whereas PPY is lowest in PD and highest in DLB.
   Using the SVM-based algorithm, biomarker profiles combining all proteins were created to
   simultaneously classify all participants. Surprisingly, the overall accuracy of the SVM was 100%

                                                        19
    (SN=1.0, SP=1.0) with all of the individuals being correctly classified within their respective
    categorizations.
             Implementing the blood screen in a community-based settin.       The 1998 Consensus Report
    of the Working Group on: "Molecular and Biochemical Markers of Alzheimer's Disease"'
  5 provided guidelines regarding the minimal acceptable performance standards of putative
    biomarkers for AD. It was stated that sensitivity (SN) and specificity (SP) should be no less than
    0.80 with positive predictive value (PPV) of 80% or more, with PPV approaching 90% being best.
    The report also states that a "high negative predictive value [NPV] would be extremely useful." The
    PI and bioinformatics team on this grant have extensive experience calculating diagnostic accuracy
  0 statistics, including PPV and NPV7- 2 03, 84 3 .     The important difference between SN/SP and
    PPV/NPV is that the latter are prediction accuracy statistics (i.e. how correct is a clinician when
    diagnosing a patient based on the test). PPV/NPV are dependent on base rates of disease presence".
    With regards to AD, it is estimated that the base rate of disease presence in the community is 11%
                                 3
    of those age 65 and above      as compared to 50% or more in specialty clinic settings. PPV and NPV
 .5 are based on Bayesian statistics and calculated as outlined here:
                              (SN    x  BR)
                  (SN   x  BR)         I - SP)     RC
                               NSP V RC)
                  (SP - RC+ (I - SN)                BR
             PPV   = positive predictive value, SN  =  sensitivity, BR = base rate, RC  = remaining cases,
    NPV = negative predictive value, SP = specificity. In an 8-protein screen or algorithm, when SP
    was held at 0.98, SN fell to 0.86. Applying PPV and NPV calculations with an estimated base rate
20  of AD of 11% within the community,         the screen and/or algorithm of the present invention is very
    accurate and can be used within a community-based setting, that is, at the primary point-of-care.
    This is in comparison to the minimal requirements to be acceptable based on the 1998 Consensus
    Report where PPV was less than 35% (see Table 4).

                                                    20
  Table 4: Diagnostic Accuracy of Blood-                            Base Rate =  11%
  Based Screen for Alzheimer's disease
  in Primary Care Settings
                                                SN       SP         PPV        NPV
  Current Novel Procedure                      0.86      0.98      0.84         0.98
   1998 Consensus Report minimal               0.80      0.80      0.33         0.97
  guidelines"
  Our Prior work' 7                            0.94      0.84       .42         .99
  Our Prior work's                             0.89      0.85      0.42         0.98
  Our Prior work 9                             0.75      0.91      0.50         0.97
  AIBL study4 5                                0.85      0.85      0.41         0.98
  Peptoid approach*                            0.94      0.94      0.66         0.99
  Laske and colleagues47                       0.94      0.80      0.37         0.99
  BR = base rate, SN = sensitivity, SP=specificity, PPV = positive predictive value,
  NPV=negative predictive value
          The findings from the present inventors' prior work as well as that from other research
  groups have also been included for comparison. As is clearly illustrated from above, the current
  novel procedure is the only procedure that can possibly be utilized in primary care settings in order
  to have an acceptable accuracy in referrals to specialty clinics. With the exception of the peptoid
5 approach, no other efforts would be better than chance (i.e., 50%) when indicating to a primary care
  provider that a specialty referral would be needed.
  Table 5: Diagnostic Accuracy of                                       Base Rate = 11%
  Blood-Based Screen for
  Neurodegenerative Diseases in
  Primary Care Settings
                                          SN                P           PPV           NPV
  Current Novel Procedure                 1.0                1.0        1.0           1.0
   1998 Consensus Report minimal          0.80              0.80        0.33          0.97
  guidelines37
  BR = base rate, SN = sensitivity, SP=specificity, PPV = positive predictive value, NPV=negative
  predictive value

                                                       21
            The current approach is 100% at identifying neurodegenerative diseases via the use of
    overall profiles. Given the very low prevalence of these diseases in the general population, the high
    accuracy is needed for appropriate referrals to specialist to be made by the primary care
    practitioners.
  5          Combining specific biomarkers with select cognitive testing.         In our recent work, we
    demonstrated that molecular profiles could be generated for neuropsychological test performance,
    and that these profiles accounted for upwards of 50% of the variance in test scores 48 . It was further
    demonstrated that specific serum-based biomarkers and select cognitive testing can be combined to
    refine the assessment process and increase diagnostic accuracy. In one example, only the top 2
  0 markers were selected from the serum-algorithm (TNFa and IL7), in conjunction with a single,
    easy-to-administer cognitive test (in this example a 4-point clock drawing test, but other short and
    easy tests can be used, e.g., verbal fluency, trail making, list learning, and the like). When these 3
    items were combined into a single logistic regression, 92% accuracy was found (SN=0.94,
    SP=0.90) in distinguishing all AD (n=150) from NC (n=150). When the sample was restricted only
 ,5 to mild AD (CDR global score <=1.0), an overall accuracy of 94% (SN=0.94, SP=0.83) was found.
    Lastly, and importantly, the sample was restricted only to very early AD (CDR global score = 0.5),
    which resulted in an overall accuracy of 91% (SN=0.97, SP=0.72).                These findings clearly
    demonstrate the possibility of combining specific biomarkers with select cognitive testing to refine
    the overall algorithm.
  o          In summary, the current approach: (1) is highly accurate at detecting Alzheimer's disease;
    (2) is highly accurate at detecting and discriminating between neurodegencrative diseases; (3) can
    be implemented within primary care settings as the first step in a multi-stage diagnostic process;
    and (4) the combination of specific serum biomarkers and select neurocognitive screening
    assessments can refine the screening process with excellent accuracy.
25          Table 6 shows the selection of the specialist for referral, and hence the course of treatment,
    based on the results of the screen of the two or more biomarkers measured at the primary care
    center or point of care.

                                                        22
                              Screen Result                       Specialist Referral
                              Alzheimer's Disease                Memory Disorders Specialist
                              Parkinson's Disease                 Movement Disorders Specialist
    Serum Screen in           Dementia with Lewy                  Specialty Clinic for DLB patients
    Primary Care Setting      Bodies
                              Frontotemporal                      Specialty Clinic for FTD patients
                              Dementia                            and inclusion of psychiatry
                              Down's syndrome                    Neurodevelopmental disease
                                                                  specialist md genetic
                                                                 testing/counseling
             It is contemplated that any embodiment discussed in this specification can be implemented
    with respect to any method, kit, reagent, or composition of the invention, and vice versa.
    Furthermore, compositions of the invention can be used to achieve methods of the invention.
             It will be understood that particular embodiments described herein are shown by way of
  5 illustration and not as limitations of the invention. The principal features of this invention can be
    employed in various embodiments without departing from the scope of the invention. Those skilled
    in the art will recognize, or be able to ascertain using no more than routine experimentation,
    numerous equivalents to the specific procedures described herein. Such equivalents are considered
    to be within the scope of this invention and are covered by the claims.
 .0          All publications and patent applications mentioned in the specification are indicative of the
    level of skill of those skilled in the art to which this invention pertains. All publications and patent
    applications are herein incorporated by reference to the same extent as if each individual
    publication or patent application was specifically and individually indicated to be incorporated by
    reference.
15           The use of the word "a" or "an" when used in conjunction with the term "comprising" in the
    claims and/or the specification may mean "one," but it is also consistent with the meaning of "one
    or more," "at least one," and "one or more than one." The use of the term "or" in the claims is used
    to mean "and/or" unless explicitly indicated to refer to alternatives only or the alternatives are
    mutually exclusive, although the disclosure supports a definition that refers to only alternatives and
20  "and/or." Throughout this application, the term "about" is used to indicate that a value includes the
    inherent variation of error for the device, the method being employed to determine the value, or the
    variation that exists among the study subjects.

                                                         23
            As used in this specification and claimss, the words "comprising" (and any form of
    comprising, such as "comprise" and "comprises"), "having" (and any form of having, such as
    "have" and "has"), "including" (and any form of including, such as "includes" and "include") or
    "containing" (and any form of containing, such as "contains" and "contain") are inclusive or open
  5 ended and do not exclude additional, unrecited elements or method steps.
            The term "or combinations thereof' as used herein refers to all permutations and
    combinations of the listed items preceding the term. For example, "A, B, C, or combinations
    thereof" is intended to include at least one of: A, B, C, AB, AC, BC, or ABC, and if order is
    important in a particular context, also BA, CA, CB, CBA, BCA, ACB, BAC, or CAB. Continuing
  0 with this example, expressly included are combinations that contain repeats of one or mom item or
    term, such as BB, AAA, AB, BBC, AAABCCCC, CBBAAA, CABABB, and so forth. The skilled
    artisan will understand that typically there is no limit on the number of items or terms in any
    combination, unless otherwise apparent from the context.       In certain embodiments, the present
    invention may also include methods and compositions in which the transition phrase "consisting
 .5 essentially of' or "consisting of" may also be used.
            As used herein, words of approximation such as, without limitation, "about", "substantial"
    or "substantially" refer to a condition that when so modified is understood to not necessarily be
    absolute or perfect but would be considered close enough to those of ordinary skill in the art to
    warrant designating the condition as being present. The extent to which the description may vary
 to will depend on how great a change can be instituted and still have one of ordinary skilled in the art
    recognize the modified feature as still having the required characteristics and capabilities of the
    unmodified feature. In general, but subject to the preceding discussion, a numerical value herein
    that is modified by a word of approximation such as "about" may vary from the stated value by at
    least +1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, I1, 12 or 15%.
25          All of the compositions and/or methods disclosed and claimed herein can be made and
    executed without undue experimentation in light of the present disclosure. While the compositions
    and methods of this invention have been described in terms of preferred embodiments, it will be
    apparent to those of skill in the art that variations may be applied to the compositions and/or
    methods and in the steps or in the sequence of steps of the method described herein without
30  departing from the concept, spirit and scope of the invention. All such similar substitutes and
    modifications apparent to those skilled in the art are deemed to be within the spirit, scope and
    concept of the invention as defined by the appended claims.

                                                        24
                                                  REFERENCES
            1.      Villemagne VL, Rowe CC. Long night's journey into the day: Amyloid-p imaging in
    Alzheimer's disease. Journal of Alzheimer's Disease. 2013;33(SUPPL. 1):S349-S359.
            2.      Pyykk6 OT, Helisalmi S, Koivisto AM, et al. APOE4 predicts amyloid-P in cortical
  5 brain biopsy but not idiopathic normal pressure hydrocephalus. Journal of Neurology, Neurosurgery
    and Psychiatry. 2012;83(l):1119-1124.
            3.      Benadiba M, Luurtsema G, Wichert-Ana L, Buchpigel CA, Filho GB. New
    molecular targets for PET and SPECT imaging in neurodegenerative diseases. Revista Brasileira de
    Psiquiatria. 2012;34(SUPPL2):S125-S148.
 '0         4.      McKeith IG, Fairbairn AF, Bothwell RA, et al. An evaluation of the predictive
    validity and inter-rater reliability of clinical diagnostic criteria for senile dementia of Lewy body
    type. Neurology. 1994;44(5):872-877.
            5.      Van Den Dungen P, Van Marwijk HWM, Van Der Horst HE, et al. The accuracy of
    family physicians' dementia diagnoses at different stages of dementia: A systematic review.
 .5 International Journal of Geriatric Psychiatry. 2012;27(4):342-354.
            6.      Lippinen M, Rdihd I, Isoaho R, Vahlberg T, Kivela S-L. Diagnosing cognitive
    impairment and dementia in primary health care - a more active approach is needed. Age and
    Ageing. November 1, 2003 2003;32(6):606-612.
            7.      Belmin J, Min L, Roth C, Reuben D, Wenger N. Assessment and management of
 !0 patients with cognitive impairment and dementia in primary care. Journal of Nutrition, Health and
    Aging. 2012;16(5):462-467.
            8.      Maeck L, Haak S, Knoblauch A, Stoppe G. Dementia diagnostics in primary care: a
    representative 8-year follow-up study in lower saxony, Germany. Dementia & Geriatric Cognitive
    Disorders. 2008;25(2):127-134.
25          9.      Fiss T, Thyrian JR, Fendrich K, Van Den Berg N, Hoffmann W. Cognitive
    impairment in primary ambulatory health care: Pharmacotherapy and the use of potentially
    inappropriate medicine. International Journal of Geriatric Psychiatry. 2013;28(2):173-181.
            10.     Lo A, Ryder K, Shorr R. Relationship between patient age and duration of
    physician visit in ambulatory setting: Does one size fit all? Journal of the American Geriatrics
30  Society. 2005;53(7):1162-1 167.

                                                       25
             11.    Bond J, Graham N, Padovani A, MacKell J, Knox S, Atkinson J. Screening for
    cognitive impairment, Alzheimer's disease and other dementias: Opinions of European caregivers,
    payors, physicians and the general public. Journal of Nutrition, Health and Aging. 2010;14(7):558
    562.
  5          12.    Schneider P, Hampel H, Buerger K. Biological marker candidates of alzheimer's
    disease in blood, plasma, and serum. CNS Neuroscience and Therapeutics. 2009;15(4):358-374.
             13.    Alzheimer's Association. 2013 Alzheimer's Disease Facts and Figures. Alzheimer's
    & Dementia. 2013;9(2):1-72.
             14.    Shaw LM, Korecka M, Clark CM, Lee VM, Trojanowski JQ. Biomarkers of
  0 neurodegeneration for diagnosis and monitoring therapeutics. Nature Reviews. Drug Discovery.
    2007;6(4):295-303.
             15.    Thal LJ, Kantarci K, Reiman EM, et al. The role of biomarkers in clinical trials for
    Alzheimer disease. Alzheimer Disease & Associated Disorders. 2006;20(1):6-15.
             16.    Martin MA, Swider SM, Olinger T, et al. Recruitment of Mexican American adults
  5 for an intensive diabetes intervention trial. Ethnicity and Disease. 201 1;21(1):7-12.
             17.    O'Bryant SE, Xiao G, Barber R, et al. A serum protein-based algorithm for the
    detection of Alzheimer disease. Archives of Neurology. 2010;67(9):1077-1081.
             18.    O'Bryant S, Xiao, G, Barber, R, Reisch, J, Hall, , Cullum, CM, Doody, R, Fairchild,
    T, Adams, P, Wilhelmsen, K, & Diaz-Arrastia, R. A blood based algorithm for the detection of
 !0 Alzheimer's disease. Dementia and Geriatric Cognitive Disorders. 2011;32:55-62.
             19.    O'Bryant SE, Xiao 0, Barber R, et al. A Blood-Based Screening Tool for
    Alzheimer's Disease That Spans Serum and Plasma: Findings from TARC and ADNI. PLoS ONE.
    201 1;6(12):e28092.
            20.     O'Bryant SE, Xiao G, Edwards M, et al. Biomarkers of Alzheimer's disease among
25  Mexican Americans. Journal of Alzheimer's Disease. 2013;34(4):841-849.
            21.     Waring S, O'Bryant, SE, Reisch, JS, Diaz-Arrastia, R, Knebl, J, Doody, R, for the
    Texas Alzheimer's Research Consortium. The Texas Alzheimer's Research Consortium longitudinal
    research cohort: Study design and baseline characteristics. Texas Public Health Journal.
    2008;60(3):9-13.

                                                       26
            22.    O'Bryant SE, Hobson V, Hall JR, et al. Brain-derived neurotrophic factor levels in
    alzheimer's disease. Journal of Alzheimer's Disease. 2009;17(2):337-341.
            23.    McKhann D, Drockman, D., Folstein, M. et al. Clinical diagnosis of Alzheimer's
    disease: Report of the NINCDS-ADRDA Work Group. Neurology. 1984;34:939-944.
  5         24.    Bjerke M, Portelius E, Minthon L, et al. Confounding factors influencing amyloid
    beta concentration in cerebrospinal fluid. International Journal of Alzheimer's Disease. 2010.
            25.    Kounnas MZ, Danks AM, Cheng 5, et al. Modulation of y-Secretase Reduces            p
    Amyloid Deposition       in  a Transgenic      Mouse    Model of Alzheimer's       Disease.  Neuron.
    2010;67(5):769-780.
  0         26.    Kuhle J, Regeniter A, Leppert D, et al. A highly sensitive electrochemiluminescence
    immunoassay for the neurofilament          heavy chain protein. Journal       of Neuroimmunology.
    2010;220(1-2):114-119.
            27.    Oh ES, Mielke MM, Rosenberg PB, et al. Comparison of conventional ELISA with
    electrochemiluminescence technology for detection of amyloid-p in plasma. Journal of Alzheimer's
  5 Disease. 2010;21(3):769-773.
            28.    Alves G, Bronnick K, Aarsland D, et al. CSF amyloid-p and tau proteins, and
    cognitive performance, in early and untreated Parkinson's Disease: The Norwegian ParkWest study.
    Journal of Neurology, Neurosurgery and Psychiatry. 2010;81(10):1080-1086.
            29.    O'Bryant SE, Xiao G, Barber R, et al. A blood-based algorithm for the detection of
 !o Alzheimer's disease. Dementia and Geriatric Cognitive Disorders. 201 1;32(1):55-62.
            30.    RDevelopmentCoreTeam.             R: A language      and environment for statistical
    computing. 2009; www.R-project.org.
            31.    Breiman L. Random forests. Machine Leaming. 2001;45(l):5-32.
            32.    O'Bryant SE XG, Edwards M, Devous MD, Gupta V, Martins R, Zhang F, Barber
25  RC for the Texas Alzheimer's Research Consortium. Biomarkers of Alzheimer's Disease Among
    Mexican Americans. Journal of Alzheimer's Disease. 2013, in press.
            33.    Dickstein DL, Walsh J, Brautigam H, Stockton Jr SD, Gandy S, Hof PR. Role of
    vascular risk factors and vascular dysfunction in Alzheimer's disease. Mount Sinai Journal of
    Medicine. 2010;77(1):82-102.

                                                     27
            34.     Piazza F, Galimberti G, Conti E, et al. Increased tissue factor pathway inhibitor and
    homocysteine in Alzheimer's disease. Neurobiology of Aging. 2010.
            35.     Okereke 01, Selkoe DJ, Pollak MN, et al. A profile of impaired insulin degradation
    in relation to late-life cognitive decline: A preliminary investigation. International Journal of
  5 Geriatric Psychiatry. 2009;24(2):177-182.
            36.     van Oijen M, Hofman A, Soares HD, Koudstaal PJ, Breteler MM. Plasma Abeta(1
    40) and Abeta(1-42) and the risk of dementia: a prospective case-cohort study.[see comment].
    Lancet Neurology. 2006;5(8):655-660.
            37.     Anonymous. Consensus report of the Working Group on: "Molecular and
  0 Biochemical Markers of Alzheimer's Disease". The Ronald and Nancy Reagan Research Institute of
    the Alzheimer's Association       and the National      Institute on Aging Working          Group.[see
    comment][erratum appears in Neurobiol Aging 1998 May-Jun;19(3):285]. Neurobiology of Aging.
     1998;19(2):109-116.
            38.     O'Bryant SE, Lucas JA. Estimating the predictive value of the Test of Memory
  5 Malingering: An illustrative example for clinicians. Clinical Neuropsychologist. 2006;20(3):533
    540.
            39.     Bauer L, O'Bryant SE, Lynch JK. McCaffrey RJ, Fisher JM. Examining the test of
    memory malingering trial 1 and word memory test immediate recognition as screening tools for
    insufficient effort. Assessment. 2007;14(3):215-222.
 !0         40.     Clark IIH, Hobson VL, O'Bryant SE. Diagnostic accuracy of/         retention scores on
    RBANS verbal memory subtests for the diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease and mild cognitive
    impairment. Archives of Clinical Neuropsychology. 2010;25(4):318-326.
            41.     Duff K, Humphreys Clark JD, O'Bryant SE, Mold JW, Schiffer RB, Sutker PB.
    Utility of the RBANS in detecting cognitive impairment associated with Alzheimer's disease:
25  Sensitivity, specificity, and positive and negative predictive powers. Archives of Clinical
    Neuropsychology. 2008;23(5):603-612.
            42.     Duff K, Hobson VL, Beglinger LJ, O'Bryant SE. Diagnostic accuracy of the RBANS
    in mild cognitive impairment: Limitations on assessing milder impairments. Archives of Clinical
    Neuropsychology. 2010;25(5):429-441.

                                                     28
           43.     O'Bryant SE, Humphreys JD, Smith GE, et al. Detecting dementia with the mini
   mental state examination in highly educated individuals. Archives of Neurology. 2008;65(7):963
   967.
           44.     O'Bryant SE, Lucas JA, Willis FB, Smith GE, Graff-Radford NR, Ivnik RJ.
 5 Discrepancies between self-reported years of education and estimated reading level among elderly
   community-dwelling African-Americans: Analysis of the MOAANS data. Archives of Clinical
   Neuropsychology. 2007;22(3):327-332.
           45.     Doecke J, Laws, SM, Faux, NG, Wilson, W, Burnham, SC, Lam, CP, Mondal, A,
   Bedo, J, Busy, Al, Brown, B, De Ruyck, K, Ellis, KA, Fowler, C, Gupta, VB, Head, R, Macaulay,
 o L, Pertile, K, Rowe, CC, Rembach, A, Rodrigues, M, Rumble, R, Szoeke, C, Taddei, K, Taddei, T,
   Trounson, B, Aimes, D, Masters, CL, Martins, RN. Blood-based protein biomarkers for the
   diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease. Arch Neurol. 2012;published online.
           46.     Reddy MM, Wilson R, Wilson J, et al. Identification of candidate IgG biomarkers
   for alzheimer's disease via combinatorial library screening. Cell. 2011;144(1):132-142.
 5         47.     Laske C LT, Stransky E, Hoffmann N, Fallgatter AJ, Dietzsch J. . Identification of a
   blood-based biomarker panel for classification of Alzheimer's disease. International Journal of
   Neuropsychopharmacology. 2011;14(9):1147-1155.
           48.     O'Bryant SE GX, Barber RC, Cullun CM, Weiner M, Hall J, Edwards M, Grammas
   P, Wilhelmsen K, Doody R, Diaz-Arrastia R. Molecular neuropsychology: creation of test-specific
.o blood biomarker algorithms. Dementia and Geriatric Cognitive Disorders. 2013, in press.

                                                        29
    Claims:
      .     A method of screening for neurological disease within a primary care setting comprising:
             obtaining a blood test sample from a subject in the primary care setting;
             measuring two or more biomarkers in the blood sample selected from 117, TNFh, IL5, IL6,
  5 CRP, ILI0, TNC, ICAMI, FVIL, 1309, TNFRI, A2M, TARC, eotaxin3, VCAMI, TPO, FABP,
    IL18, B2M, SAA, PPY, DJI, and a-synuclein;
            comparing the level of the one or a combination of biomarkers with the level of a
    corresponding one or combination of biomarkers in a normal blood sample;
            measuring an increase in the level of the two or more biomarkers in the blood test sample in
  0 relation to that of the normal blood sample, which indicates that the subject is likely to have a
    neurological disease;
             identifying the neurological disease based on the two biomarkers measured; and
             selecting a course of treatment for the subject based on the neurological disease predicted.
    2.      The method of claim 1, wherein at least one of the biomarker measurements is obtained by a
 .5 method selected from the group consisting of immunoassay and enzymatic activity assay.
    3.      The method of claim 1, further comprising advising the individual or a primary health care
    practitioner of the change in calculated risk.
    4.      The method of claim 1, further comprising advising the individual or a primary health care
    practitioner of the change in calculated risk.
20  5.      The method of claim 1, wherein the method uses 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, or 13
    biomarkers to distinguish between neurological diseases.
    6.      The method of claim 1, wherein the isolated biological sample is serum or plasma.
    7.      The method of claim 1, wherein the sample is a serum sample and upon the initial
    determination of a neurological disease within the primary care clinic, providing that primary care
25  provider with information regarding the specific type of specialist referral appropriate for that
    particular blood screen finding and directing the individual to a specialist for that neurological
    disease and treatment in accordance therewith.
    8.      The method of claim 1, wherein the neurological diseases are selected from Alzheimer's
    Disease, Parkinson's Disease, Down's syndrome, Frontotemporal dementia, Dementia with Lewy
30  Bodies, and neurodegenerative disease.

                                                        30
    9.      The method of claim 1, further comprising the step of refining the analysis by including the
    following parameters: patient age, and a neurocognitive screening tests, wherein the combination of
    two or more of our serum-based markers, age and the neurocognitive screening tests) are at least
    90% accurate in a primary care setting for the determination of Alzheimer's disease when compared
  5 to a control subject that does not have a neurological disease or disorder.
     10.    The method of claim 1, further comprising the step of determining one or more of the
    following parameters: sleep disturbance (yes/no), visual hallucinations (yes/no),
    psychiatric/personality changes (yes/no), age, neurocognitive screening, and two or more of our
    serum-based markers for the accurate detection and discrimination between neurodegenerative
  0 diseases.
     11.    The method of claim 1, wherein the level of expression of the various proteins is measured
    by at least one of fluorescence detection, chemiluminescence detection, electrochemiluminescence
    detection and patterned arrays, reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction, antibody binding,
    fluorescence activated sorting, detectable bead sorting, antibody arrays, microarrays, enzymatic
  5 arrays, receptor binding arrays, allele specific primer extension, target specific primer extension,
    solid-phase binding arrays, liquid phase binding arrays, fluorescent resonance transfer, or
    radioactive labeling.
     12.    The method of claim 1, wherein the method is used to screen for at least one of mild AD
    (CDR global score <=1.0) with an overall accuracy of 94, 95, 96, 97, 98, 99 or 100 % (sensitivity
 .0 (SN), specificity (SP) of (SN=0.94, SP=0.83)), or very early AD (CDR global score         = 0.5), with an
    overall accuracy of 91, 92, 93, 94, 95, 96, 97, 98, 99, or 100/    (SN=0.97, SP=0.72).
     13.    The method of claim 1, wherein the method is used to screen in the primary setting uses a
    higher specificity than sensitivity, wherein the specificity is in the range of 0.97 to 1.0, and the
    sensitivity is in the range of 0.80 to 1.0.
25   14.    A method for distinguishing between one or more neurological disease states, the method
    comprising:
            obtaining from at least one biological sample isolated from an individual suspected of
    having a neurological disease measurements of biomarkers comprising the biomarkers IL-7 and
    TNFa;
30          adding the age of the subject and the results from one or more neurocognitive screening tests
    from the subject (clock drawing, verbal fluency, sleep disturbances, visual hallucinations,
    behavioral disturbances, motor disturbances);

                                                         31
             calculating the individual's risk for developing the neurological disease from the output of a
    model, wherein the inputs to the model comprise the measurements of the two biomarkers, the
    subject's age and the results from one or more cognitive tests, and further wherein the model was
    developed by fitting data from a longitudinal study of a selected population of individuals and the
 5  fitted data comprises levels of the biomarkers, the subject's age and the results from one or more
    cognitive tests and neurological disease in the selected population of individuals; and
             comparing the calculated risk for the individual to a previously calculated risk obtained from
    at least one earlier sample from the individual.
    15.      The method of claim 14, wherein at least one of the biomarker measurements is obtained by
 0  a method selected from at least one of fluorescence detection, chemiluminescence detection,
    electrochemiluminescence detection and patterned arrays, reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain
    reaction, antibody binding, fluorescence activated sorting, detectable bead sorting, antibody arrays,
    microarrays, enzymatic arrays, receptor binding arrays, allele specific primer extension, target
    specific primer extension, solid-phase binding arrays, liquid phase binding arrays, fluorescent
 5  resonance transfer, or radioactive labeling.
    16.      The method of claim 14, wherein two or more of the methods for biomarker measurement
    are used to cross-validate the neurological disease.
    17.      The method of claim 14, further comprising advising the individual or a health care
    practitioner of the change in calculated risk.
 -o 18.      The method of claim 14, further comprising advising the individual or a health care
    practitioner of the change in calculated risk.
    19.      The method of claim 14, wherein the biomarkers further comprise one or more biomarkers
    selected from IL7, TNFa, IL5, IL6, CRP, IL 10, TNC, ICAM1, FVII, 1309, TNFRI, A2M, TARC,
    eotaxin3, VCAM1, TPO, FABP, IL18, B2M, SAA, PPY, DJI, and a-synuclein.
25  20.      The method of claim 14, wherein the method uses 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, or 13
    biomarkers to distinguish the neurological disease.
    21.      The method of claim 14, wherein the isolated biological sample is serum or plasma.
    22.      The method of claim 14, wherein the sample is a serum sample and upon the initial
    determination of a neurological disease, directing the individual to a specialist for that neurological
30  disease.

                                                         32
    23.      The method of claim 14, wherein the neurological diseases are selected from Alzheimer's
    Disease, Down's syndrome, Frontotemporal dementia, Dementia with Lewy Bodies, Parkinson's
    Disease, and dementia.
    24.      The method of claim 14, wherein the method is used to exclude one or more neurological
 5  diseases selected from Alzheimer's Disease, Down's syndrome, Frontotemporal dementia,
    Dementia with Lewy Bodies, Parkinson's Disease, and dementia.
    25.      The method of claim 14, wherein the method is used to screen in the primary setting uses a
    higher specificity than sensitivity, wherein the specificity is in the range of 0.97 to 1.0, and the
    sensitivity is in the range of 0.80 to 1.0.
 0  26.      A method of performing a clinical trial to evaluate a candidate drug believed to be useful in
    treating neurological diseases, the method comprising:
             (a) measuring an two or more biomarkers selected from IL7, TNFa, IL5, IL6, CRP, EI10,
    TNC, ICAMI, FVII, 1309, TNFRI, A2M, TARC, eotaxin3, VCAMI, TPO, FABP, ILl 8, B2M,
    SAA, PPY, DJI, and a-synuclein from one or more blood samples obtained from patients suspected
 5  of having a neurological disease, the patient's age, and results from one or more neurocognitive
    screening tests of the patient;
             (b) administering a candidate drug to a first subset of the patients, and a placebo to a second
    subset of the patients;
             (c) repeating step (a) after the administration of the candidate drug or the placebo; and
 !0          (d) determining if the candidate drug reduces the expression of the one or more biomarkers
    that is statistically significant as compared to any reduction occurring in the second subset of
    patients, wherein a statistically significant reduction indicates that the candidate drug is useful in
    treating the neurological disease.
    27.      The method of claim 26, further comprising the steps of obtaining one or more additional
25  blood samples from the patient after a predetermined amount of time and comparing the levels of
    the biomarkers from the one or more additional samples to determine disease progression.
    28.      The method of claim 26, further comprising the steps of treating the patient for a pre
    determined period of time, obtaining one or more additional blood samples from the patient after
    the predetermined amount of time and comparing the levels of the biomarkers from the one or more
30  additional samples to determine disease progression.

                                                         33
    29.      A method of selecting subjects for a clinical trial to evaluate a candidate drug believed to be
    useful in treating neurological diseases, the method comprising:
             (a) measuring an two or more biomarker selected from IL7, TNFa, IL5, IL6, CRP, IL 10,
    TNC, ICAMI, FVII, 1309, TNFRI, A2M, TARC, eotaxin3, VCAM1, TPO, FABP, fIL18, B2M,
  5 SAA, PPY, DJI, and a-synuclein in a blood samples obtained from the subject, the patient's age
    and the results from one or more neurocognitive screening tests to determine a neurodegenerative
    disease profile; and
             (b) determining if the subject should participate in the clinical trial based on the results of
    the identification of the neurodegenerative disease profile of the subject obtained from the step (a),
  0 wherein the subject is only selected if the neurodegenerative disease profile if the candidate drug is
    likely to be useful in treating the neurological disease.
    30.      A method of evaluating the effect of a treatment for a neurological disease, the method
    comprising:
             treating a patient for a neurological disease;
  5          measuring two or more biomarkers from a blood samples obtained from patients suspected
    of having a neurological disease, the patient's age, and results from one or more cognitive tests of
    the patient; and
             determining if the treatment reduces the expression of the one or more biomarkers that is
    statistically significant as compared to any reduction occurring in the second subset of patients that
 !0 have not been treated or from a prior sample obtained from the patient, wherein a statistically
    significant reduction indicates that the treatment is useful in treating the neurological disease.
    31.      A method of aiding diagnosis of neurological diseases, comprising:
             obtaining a blood sample from a human individual;
             comparing normalized measured levels of IL-7 and TNFa biomarkers from the individual's
25  blood sample to a reference level of each neurological disease diagnosis biomarker, wherein the
    group of neurological disease diagnosis biomarkers comprises IL-7 and TNFa; and
             obtaining the patient's age and results from one or more cognitive tests of the patient,
    wherein the reference level of each neurological disease diagnosis biomarker comprises a
    normalized measured level of the neurological disease diagnosis biomarker from one or more blood
30  samples of human individuals without neurological disease; and wherein levels of neurological
    disease diagnosis biomarkers greater than the reference level of each neurological disease diagnosis

                                                       34
    biomarker, the patient's age and the patient's results from one or more cognitive tests indicate a
    greater likelihood that the individual suffers from neurological disease.
    32.     The method of claim 31, wherein the level of expression of IL-7 and TNF alpha in the blood
    are elevated when compared to the reference level indicates a greater likelihood that the individual
  5 suffers from the neurological disease.
    33.     The method of claim 31, further comprising the step of determining the blood levels of one
    or more biomarkers selected from IL7, TNFQ, IL5, IL6, CRP, IL10, TNC, ICAM1, FVII, I309,
    TNFRI, A2M, TARC, eotaxin3, VCAMI, TPO, FABP, IL18, B2M, SAA, PPY, D1, and a
    synuclein.
  0 34.     The method of claim 33, wherein the method uses 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, or 13
    biomarkers to distinguish the neurological disease.
    35.     The method of claim 33, wherein the levels of CRP and fl 10 are lower when compared to
    the reference level indicates a greater likelihood that the individual suffers from the neurological
    disease.
  5 36.     The method of claim 33, further comprising the steps of obtaining one or more additional
    blood samples from the patient after a predetermined amount of time and comparing the levels of
    the biomarkers from the one or more additional samples to determine disease progression.
    37.     The method of claim 31, wherein the isolated blood sample is serum sample.
    38.     The method of claim 31, wherein the blood sample is a serum sample and upon the initial
 !0 determination of a neurological disease, directing the individual to a specialist for that neurological
    disease.
    39.     The method of claim 31, wherein the neurological diseases are selected from Alzheimer's
    Disease, Parkinson's Disease, and dementia.
    40.     The method of claim 31, wherein the method is used to screen in the primary setting uses a
25  higher specificity than sensitivity, wherein the specificity is in the range of 0.97 to 1.0, and the
    sensitivity is in the range of 0.80 to 1.0.

                                                        35
    41.     A rapid-screening kit for aiding diagnosis of a neurological disease in a primary care setting,
    comprising:
            one or more reagents for detecting the level of expression of IL-7 and TNFa in a blood
    sample obtained from a human individual, and one or more neurological screening test sheets ; and
  5         instructions for comparing normalized measured levels of the IL-7 and TNFa biomarkers
    from the individual's blood sample to a reference level, the patient's age and the patient's results
    from the neurological screening tests, wherein the reference level of each neurological disease
    diagnosis biomarker comprises a normalized measured level of the neurological disease diagnosis
    biomarker from one or more blood samples of human individuals without neurological disease; and
  0 wherein levels of neurological disease diagnosis biomarkers less than the reference level of each
    neurological disease diagnosis biomarker indicate a greater likelihood that the individual suffers
    from neurological disease, wherein the test is at least 90% accurate.
    42.     The kit of claim 41, wherein the level of expression of IL-7 and TNF alpha in the blood are
    elevated when compared to the reference level indicates a greater likelihood that the individual
  5 suffers from the neurological disease.
    43.     The kit of claim 41, further comprising one or more reagents for detecting the level of
    expression markers selected from IL7, TNFa, IL5, IL6, CRP, IL10, TNC, ICAMI, FVII, 1309,
    TNFR1, A2M, TARC, eotaxin3, VCAMI, TPO, FABP, IL18, B2M, SAA, PPY, DJI, and a
    synucleim.
 .o 44.     The kit of claim 43, wherein the levels of CRP and IL10 are lower when compared to the
    reference level indicates a greater likelihood that the individual suffers from the neurological
    disease.
    45.     The kit of claim 41, wherein the sample is a serum sample and upon the initial determination
    of a neurological disease, directing the individual to a specialist for that neurological disease.
25  46.     The kit of claim 41, wherein the neurological diseases are selected from Alzheimer's
    Disease, Down's syndrome, Frontotemporal dementia, Dementia with Lewy Bodies, Parkinson's
    Disease, and dementia.
    47.     The kit of claim 41, wherein the level of expression of the various proteins is measured at
    least one of the nucleic acid, the protein level, or functionally at the protein level.
30  48.     The kit of claim 41, wherein the level of expression of the various proteins is measured by at
    least one of fluorescence detection, chemiluminescence detection, electrochemiluminescence

                                                        36
    detection and patterned arrays, reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction, antibody binding,
    fluorescence activated sorting, detectable bead sorting, antibody arrays, microarrays, enzymatic
    arrays, receptor binding arrays, allele specific primer extension, target specific primer extension,
    solid-phase binding arrays, liquid phase binding arrays, fluorescent resonance transfer, or
  5 radioactive labeling.
    49.     A method of determining one or more neurological disease profiles that best matches a
    patient profile, comprising:
            (a) comparing, on a suitably programmed computer, the level of expression of IL-7 and
    TNFa in a blood sample from a patient suspected of having one or more neurological diseases with
 '0 reference profiles in a reference database to determine a measure of similarity between the patient
    profile and each the reference profiles;
            (b) identifying, on a suitably programmed computer, a reference profile in a reference
    database that best matches the patient profile based on a maximum similarity among the measures
    of similarity determined in step (a); and
 .5         (c) outputting to a user interface device, a computer readable storage medium, or a local or
    remote computer system; or displaying, the maximum similarity or the disease of the disease cell
    sample of the reference profile in the reference database that best matches the patient profile.
    50.     The method of claim 49, further comprise the step of determining the level of expression of
    one or more markers from a blood sample selected from IL7, TNFa, IL5, IL6, CRP, IL 10, TNC,
 !o ICAMI, FVII, 1309, TNFRI, A2M, TARC, eotaxin3, VCAMI, TPO, FABP, IL18, B2M, SAA,
    PPY, DJI, and a-synuclein.
    51.     The method of claim 50, wherein the method uses 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, or 13
    biomarkers to distinguish the neurological disease.
    52.     The method of claim 50, wherein the method is used to screen in the primary setting uses a
25  higher specificity than sensitivity, wherein the specificity is in the range of 0.97 to 1.0, and the
    sensitivity is in the range of 0.80 to 1.0.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
