                                      ABSTRACT
A medicine identification assembly, including:
        a syringe plunger for drawing a medicine from a medicine container into the
dosage chamber of a syringe, the syringe plunger including a verification chamber to
receive the medicine container after said drawing;
        wherein the verification chamber includes a trapping mechanism to trap the
medicine container within the verification chamber; wherein the verification chamber is
configured to allow visual inspection of the medicine container trapped within the
verification chamber so that the medicine that was drawn from the medicine container
into the dosage chamber can be securely identified by visual inspection of an identifier of
the medicine container trapped within the verification chamber.

         5/23
      42
                 40
                     30
                    23
      32
                          20
12
                        50
              22
   FIGURE 5

                                                  1
                                             SYRINGE
   Technical Field
   [001]The present invention relates to a syringe and in particular to a hypodermic needle
 5 syringe. However, it will be appreciated that the invention is not limited to this form of
   syringe but could include other forms such as needleless syringes.
   [002] The invention has been developed primarily for use in an emergency situation such
   as by ambulance officers will be described hereinafter with reference to this application.
   However, it will be appreciated that the invention is not limited to this particular field of use.
 0
   Background
   [003] At present syringes are used to impart one or more of a range of medicines into a
   patient to effect a medical treatment. Their use though needs to be accurate.
   [004]Throughout this document and            the claims the        term    "medicine" includes
 5 therapeutic, pharmaceutical, nutrient or medicinal material but also includes material
   which is used as physiologically effective agents or treatment agents including
   stimulants, coagulants etc.
   [005] It is important that the correct medicine at the correct dosage is applied. Therefore
   the syringe is provided with a dosage chamber with detailed graduations so that an
 0 accurate measurement can be taken. The dosage chamber usually needs to be filled
   with a combination of the medicine at a known concentration and a dosage solution for
   diluting the medicine to the required application concentration.             Often this dosage
   solution is merely purified water or a medical quality saline solution.
   [006]Ampoules are generally used as the secure sealed method of providing highly
25 concentrated and accurately concentrated medicines. These ampoules are monitored
   exactly at the place of manufacture and then accounted for with high degree of security
   at distribution areas such as hospitals or other medical outlets. This high control is
   maintained for a number of reasons including:
       a) as a safety issue, due to the possible highly toxic nature of the medicine if
30         incorrectly used,

                                                    2
       b) due to the high value on illegal drug distributions channels for misuse on non
           medicinal purposes
       c) but also in order to maintain and monitor efficacy due to expiry dates of the
           medicines.
 5 [007] One usual method of use of ampoules is a single use ampoule. This could be a glass
   ampoule having a main body and a thin neck. The ampoule is therefore clearly sealed and
   able to show no tampering. Therefore there is a clear knowledge of type of medicine,
   quality, amount and concentration. The ampoule can then be broken by breaking the neck
   and the hypodermic needle inserted to withdraw the contents. Separate single or multi use
 0 ampoules or other containers contain the dosage solution of purified water or a medical
   quality saline solution or other suitable solution. The correct amount of dosage solution can
   be inserted or drawn into the dosage chamber of the syringe.
   [008] However it is often necessary for the preparation of syringe with the dosage
   chamber filled with the required dosage of medicine and at a known concentration and a
 5 dosage solution for diluting the medicine to the required application concentration to be
   undertaken at a time earlier than its use and by someone else other than the treating
   medic. This could be the assisting ambulance officer or nurse or other paramedic or
   other qualified medicine dispensary person at a hospital or medical practice.
   [009] Delays can occur between the preparation of the syringe of the required medicine
 0 at the required dosage and the use of the syringe to administer the medicine. This can
   result from other treatment being required first or due to the physical situation of
   treatment that ambulance officers meet when attending accidents or other emergencies
   such as traffic accidents, industrial accidents, household accidents and medical
   emergencies. Further there can be the need for multiple treatments requiring multiple
25 syringes of different medicines at different dosages. Still further multiple syringes could
   be needed as there are multiple patients at the same accident or emergency and being
   treated by the same treating medic.
   [0010]       Fundamentally though it is essential that the treating medic, whether an
   ambulance officer, paramedic, doctor or other physician must be fully aware and check
30 the medicine before administering it. This includes checking that a previously prepared
   syringe containing a volume of a medicine is in fact drawn from an identifiable source
   and confirm correct medicine for treatment of a given patient at a given time.

                                                   3
   [0011]      It can be seen that where time is consumed in an emergency situation by
   having to identify a pre-prepared treatment, any delay in administering a treatment
   could potentially be fatal.
   [0012]      It is desired to provide a syringe, a medicine identification assembly, or a
 5 method of identifying a medicine in or dispensed from a dosage chamber of a syringe
   which will overcome or substantially ameliorate at least one or more of the deficiencies
   of the prior art, or to at least provide a useful alternative.
   [0013]      It is to be understood that, if any prior art information is referred to herein,
   such reference does not constitute an admission that the information forms part of the
 0 common general knowledge in the art, in Australia or any other country.
   Summary
   [0014]      In accordance with some embodiments of the present invention there is
   provided a medicine identification assembly, including:
 5         a syringe plunger for drawing a medicine from a medicine container into the
   dosage chamber of a syringe, the syringe plunger including a verification chamber to
   receive the medicine container after said drawing;
           wherein the verification chamber includes a trapping mechanism to trap the
   medicine container within the verification chamber; wherein the verification chamber is
 0 configured to allow visual inspection of the medicine container trapped within the
   verification chamber so that the medicine that was drawn from the medicine container
   into the dosage chamber can be securely identified by visual inspection of an identifier
   of the medicine container trapped within the verification chamber.
25 [0015]      Also described herein is a syringe, comprising:
          a dosage chamber having a dispensing opening for receiving and dispensing a
   dosage of medicine therefrom, and a plunger opening for receiving a plunger;
          a plunger locatable through the plunger opening and movable within the dosage
   chamber to enable partial withdrawal of the plunger from the dosage chamber to draw a
30 medicine from a medicine container through the dispensing opening and into the
   dosage chamber, and subsequent partial or complete insertion of the plunger into the

                                                 4
   dosage chamber to dispense the medicine from the dosage chamber through the
   dispensing opening;
          a verification chamber to receive the medicine container from which the medicine
   was drawn, wherein the verification chamber is integral with or a fixed attachment to the
 5 dosage chamber or the plunger; and
           a tamperproof locking mechanism operable to prevent removal of the medicine
   container from the verification chamber;
           wherein the verification chamber is configured to allow visual inspection of the
   medicine container locked within the verification chamber so that the medicine that was
 0 drawn from the open ampoule into the dosage chamber can be securely identified by
   visual inspection of an identifier of the medicine container locked within the verification
   chamber.
   [001 5A]     The medicine container can be of a type that has a frangible seal that is
 5 broken to access the medicine stored therein, and the verification chamber acts as a
   sharps container to protect a user of the syringe from a broken seal of the medicine
   container locked within the verification chamber.
   [0015B]      In accordance with some embodiments of the present invention there is
 0 provided a medicine identification assembly, including:
           a verification chamber to receive a medicine container from which a medicine
   was drawn into the dosage chamber of the syringe, the verification chamber and the
   engagement means being integrally formed; and
           a tamperproof locking mechanism operable to prevent removal of the medicine
25 container from the verification chamber; wherein the verification chamber is configured
   to allow visual inspection of the medicine container locked within the verification
   chamber so that the medicine that was drawn from the medicine container into the
   dosage chamber attached to the verification chamber can be securely identified and
   verified by visual inspection of an identifier of the medicine container locked within the
30 verification chamber.
   [0015C]      Also described herein is a method of identifying a medicine in or dispensed
   from a dosage chamber of a syringe, including the steps of:

                                                 5
            drawing a medicine from a medicine container into a dosage chamber of a
   syringe by partial withdrawal of a plunger of the syringe from the dosage chamber;
          inserting the medicine container into a verification chamber of the syringe, wherein
   the verification chamber is integral with or a fixed attachment to the dosage chamber or
 5 the plunger of the syringe; and
            operating a tamperproof locking mechanism to prevent removal of the medicine
   container from the verification chamber,
            wherein the verification chamber is configured to allow visual inspection of the
   medicine container locked within the verification chamber so that the medicine that was
 0 drawn from the medicine container into the dosage chamber can be securely identified
   and verified by visual inspection of an identifier of the medicine container locked within
   the verification chamber.
   [001 5D]     Also described herein is a syringe, comprising:
 5        a dosage chamber having a dispensing opening for receiving and dispensing a
   dosage of medicine therefrom, and a plunger opening for receiving a plunger;
          a plunger locatable through the plunger opening and movable within the dosage
   chamber to enable partial withdrawal of the plunger from the dosage chamber to draw a
   medicine from a medicine container through the dispensing opening and into the
 0 dosage chamber, and subsequent partial or complete insertion of the plunger into the
   dosage chamber to dispense the medicine from the dosage chamber through the
   dispensing opening;
          a verification chamber having an opening to receive the medicine container from
   which the medicine was drawn, wherein the verification chamber is integral with or a
25 fixed attachment to the dosage chamber or the plunger; and
          a tamper-resistant closure operable to block the opening of the verification
   chamber and prevent or at least inhibit removal of the medicine container from the
   verification chamber;
          wherein the verification chamber is configured to allow visual inspection of the
30 medicine container locked within the verification chamber so that the medicine that was
   drawn from the open ampoule into the dosage chamber can be securely identified and
   verified by visual inspection of an identifier of the medicine container locked within the
   verification chamber.

                                                  6
   [0016]      Also described herein is a syringe for use with an ampoule and comprising a
   dosage chamber able to receive an accurate dosage of medicine and the dosage
   chamber having an opening for dispensing of the accurate dosage of medicine, a
   plunger locatable within the dosage chamber to effect the dispensing of the accurate
 5 dosage of medicine out of the opening of dosage chamber; an identifier attached to the
   syringe for identifying the accurate dosage of medicine in the dosage chamber.
   [0017]      The identifier can be an attachment to the dosage chamber.
   [0018]      The identifier can be a fixed attachment to the dosage chamber.
   [0019]      The identifier can be integral with the dosage chamber.
 0 [0020]      The identifier can be an attachment to the plunger.
   [0021]      The identifier can be fixed attachment to the plunger.
   [0022]      The identifier can be integral with the plunger.
   [0023]      The identifier can be formed as a receptacle for receiving a printed
   information notifier.
 5 [0024]      Preferably the syringe has the printed information notifier being detachable
   from the medicine container containing the medicine.
   [0025]      The identifier can be formed as a chamber for receiving the medicine
   container containing the medicine after dispensing the contents into the dosage
   chamber.
20 [0026]      The identifier can be formed as a chamber for receiving the medicine
   container in the form of an ampoule that contains the medicine and includes details
   about the medicine on the ampoule is broken to allow dispensing of the contents into
   the dosage chamber and retention of the broken ampoule within the chamber.
   [0027]      Preferably the chamber includes a transparent window allowing reading of
25 the details about the medicine on the ampoule.
   [0028]      The syringe can include a security mechanism for retaining the identifier such
   that the accurate dosage of medicine in the dosage chamber is known.
   [0029]      Preferably the security mechanism is a one way lockable means so as to
   allow receipt of identifier and locking to prevent removal of the identifier.

                                                   7
   [0030]      Preferably the security mechanism includes an entrapment mechanism of a
   one way lockable means is a one way ratchet means for locking receptacle for receiving
   a printed information notifier after insertion of the notifier.
   [0031]      Also described herein is a syringe wherein the security mechanism includes
 5 an entrapment mechanism of a one way retention means of the chamber for receiving in
   a irremovable manner an ampoule that contained the medicine and includes details
   about the medicine on the ampoule which after the ampoule is broken to allow
   dispensing of the contents into the dosage chamber the broken ampoule is retained
   irremovably in the chamber.
 0 [0032]      Also described herein is a syringe for use with an ampoule and comprising a
   dosage chamber able to receive an accurate dosage of medicine and the dosage
   chamber having an opening for dispensing of the accurate dosage of medicine, a
   plunger locatable within the dosage chamber to effect the dispensing of the accurate
   dosage of medicine out of the opening of dosage chamber; an identifier attached to the
 5 syringe for identifying the accurate dosage of medicine in the dosage chamber, wherein
   the identifier is an attachment to the dosage chamber formed as a chamber for
   receiving the medicine container containing the medicine after dispensing the contents
   into the dosage chamber, wherein the medicine container is in the form of an ampoule
   that contains the medicine and includes details about the medicine on the ampoule is
 0 broken to allow dispensing of the contents into the dosage chamber and retention of the
   broken ampoule within the chamber.
   [0033]      Preferably the identifier is a fixed attachment to the plunger.
   [0034]      Preferably the identifier is integral with the plunger.
   [0035]      The syringe can have the security mechanism including an entrapment
25 mechanism of a one way retention means of the chamber for receiving in a irremovable
   manner an ampoule that contained the medicine and includes details about the
   medicine on the ampoule which after the ampoule is broken to allow dispensing of the
   contents into the dosage chamber the broken ampoule is retained irremovably in the
   chamber.
30 [0036]      Preferably the identifier is integral with the plunger.
   [0037]      Preferably the identifier is formed to advise the type of solute.

                                                    8
   [0038]       Preferably the identifier is as a receptacle for receiving a printed information
   notifier.
   [0039]      Also described herein is a method of identifying an accurate dosage of
   medicine in a dosage chamber of a syringe including the steps of:
 5             a)     Using an accurate dosage from a detailed single dosage medicine in a
                     frangible medicine container to locate the accurate dosage of medicine
                      in the dosage chamber;
               b)     identifying the accurate dosage of medicine in the dosage chamber by
                      retaining the medicine container after being used in a receiving
 0                   chamber on the syringe;
               c)     identifying the solute in the dosage chamber by an identifier;
               d)    securing the medicine container within the chamber
   wherein the accurate dosage of medicine in a dosage chamber of a syringe is shown by
   the details on the single dosage medicine and the identifier on the solute.
 5
   Brief Description of the Drawings
   [0040]       Notwithstanding any other forms which may fall within the scope of the
   present invention, some embodiments of the invention will now be described, by way of
   example only, with reference to the accompanying drawings in which:
20        Figures 1 and 2 are examples of diagrammatic cross sections of a syringe in
          accordance with the prior art;
          Figure 3 is a detail of a diagrammatic cross section of a syringe in accordance with
          a preferred embodiment of the present invention having a chamber integral with a
          plunger;
25        Figure 4 is a detail of a diagrammatic cross section of a plunger of a syringe in
          accordance with a preferred embodiment of the present invention having a
          chamber integral with the plunger;

                                          9
   Figure 5 is a diagrammatic cross section of a syringe in accordance with a
   preferred embodiment of the present invention having a chamber integral with a
   plunger;
   Figure 6 is a perspective diagrammatic view of two forms of the preferred
 5 embodiments of the present invention identified as a large syringe and a small
   syringe and respected chambers for holding the used ampoules;
   Figures 7 and 8A and 8B are diagrammatic views of a large syringe in a combined
   form and in a separate component form;
   Figures 9, 1CA, 1OB, 11 and 12 are diagrammatic views of a small syringe of figure
 0 6 in a combined form and in a separate component form;
   Figure 13 a diagrammatic views of examples of separate chambers for holding
   used ampoule in which the chamber can be attached to the syringe body all
   plunger;
   Figure 14 is a diagrammatic view of examples of notification of the type of solute
 5 or volume of solute contained in the dosage chamber of the syringe;
   Figure 15 of diagrammatic view of examples of notification of the resultant
   concentration of the drug and solute in the dosage chamber of the syringe;
   Figures 16 and 17 are diagrammatic views of known protected needles of syringes
   or retractable needles to which the invention can also be applied;
   Figure 18 is a diagrammatic view of known pre-filled syringes to which the
   invention can also be applied;
   Figure 19 is a diagrammatic view of a flow diagram of the method of usage of a
   syringe in accordance with an embodiment of the invention; and
   Figures 20 to 24 are diagrammatic views of examples of steps 1 to 5 of the
25 message of usage of the syringe of figure 19.

                                                 10
   Detailed Description
   [0041]      It should be noted in the following description that like or the same reference
   numerals in different embodiments denote the same or similar features.
   [0042]      Referring to the drawings and particularly the prior art of Figures 1 and 2
 5 there is shown a syringe 11 having a plunger 20 with a finger pushing end 21 and an
   elongated shaft 22 ending with a O-ring resilient plunger head 23 which is insertable
   into an open first end 33 of a dosage chamber 30 so as to expel the contents out the
   other second end 34 of the dosage chamber 30 through a needle arrangement 40.
   [0043]      Generally the dosage chamber 30 is formed by a cylinder 31 with internal
 0 cavity 32 extending between open first end 33 and dispensing second end 34. The
   needle arrangement 40 can include a needle mount 41 attachable to the second end
   34 of the cylinder 31 and holding a needle 42 for dispensing subcutaneously into a
   patient. However the needle arrangement can be other non-needle forms.
   [0044]      Usually the syringe provided with the dosage chamber will receive an
 5 accurate dosage D and with detailed graduations an accurate measurement can be
   taken. The dosage chamber usually needs to be pre-filled with a combination of the
   medicine at a known concentration and a dosage solution for diluting the medicine to
   the required application concentration.      Often this dosage solution is merely purified
   water or a medical quality saline solution.
 0 [0045]      Referring to the drawings of the embodiments of the invention and
   particularly the Figures 3 to 5 there is shown a syringe 12 for use with an ampoule 45.
   The syringe has a hollow cylindrical tube forming a dosage chamber 30 able to receive
   an accurate dosage D of medicine. The dosage chamber 30 has an opening 34 for
   dispensing of the accurate dosage of medicine such as through a needle arrangement
25 40 including a needle mount 41 holding and feeding to a needle 42 for dispensing
   subcutaneously into a patient. A plunger 20 is locatable and insertable into opening 33
   at the other end of the dosage chamber 30 to effect the dispensing of the accurate
   dosage of medicine out of the opening of dosage chamber by being plunged further into
   the dosage chamber 30.
30 [0046]      Of particular importance is the inclusion of an identifier 50 attached to the
   syringe for identifying the accurate dosage of medicine in the dosage chamber. The

                                                   11
   identifier can be attached to or a modification of the plunger 20 or attached to or a
   modification of the dosage chamber 30 or be integral within the plunger 20 or the
   dosage chamber 30.
   [0047]      The identifier in the embodiments shown in Figures 3 to 5 is an attachment to
 5 the plunger 20 formed as a cylindrical chamber 51 mounted or affixed to the end of the
   shaft 22 of the plunger 20 to form a modified finger pushing end.             The cylindrical
   chamber 51 of the identifier 50 formed on the end of the plunger has a an opening 54
   at one end within an annular finger plate 52 extending perpendicular to the extension of
   the shaft 22 and central cavity 53 open at the top end by the opening 54 and closed at
 0 the other end 55.
   [0048]      The central cavity is sized to receive the used ampoule 45. As shown in one
   form it could be larger than the diameter of the shaft 22, or equal size to the diameter of
   the shaft 22 or smaller than the diameter of the shaft 22. The cylindrical chamber 51 is
   transparent.
 5 [0049]      The cylindrical chamber 51 is for receiving the medicine container containing
   the medicine after dispensing the contents into the dosage chamber.            The medicine
   container is in the form of an ampoule 45 that contains the medicine and includes
   details about the medicine on a non-removable identification badge 48.
   [0050]      The ampoule 45 is usually glass and has a nipple 47 which is broken to allow
 0 dispensing of the accurate single dosage contents into the dosage chamber 30. The
   identifier 50 has the broken ampoule 45 retained within the chamber 53. The ampoule
   badge 47 includes details about the medicine which after the ampoule is broken to allow
   dispensing of the contents into the dosage chamber the broken ampoule is retained in
   the chamber. Therefore the exact details of the medicine are always known even if the
25 syringe is not used immediately but for example 5 to 30 minutes later during attendance
   at an emergency.
   [0051]      As the identifier 50 is a fixed attachment to the plunger 20 it remains attached
   to the syringe 12. However the usual operation of the syringe can occur in that the end
   plate 52 of the identifier chamber 50 can still be used as a finger plate for pushing the
30 plunger 20 when requiring dispensing of the accurate dosage.          Preferably the broken
   ampoule 45 is inserted into the opening 54 of the cylinder 53 with broken nipple 47
   leading first into the cylinder so as to keep any sharp edges fully enclosed and away

                                                12
   from user. The cylindrical chamber 51 is transparent so that the ampoule badge 47
   including details about the medicine is clearly visible.
   [0052]      The syringe further has a security mechanism including an entrapment
   mechanism 56 on the inner surface of the This entrapment mechanism 56 is a one
 5 way retention means of the chamber for receiving in an irremovable manner the
   ampoule 45 that contained the medicine and which includes details about the medicine
   on the ampoule. Thereby, after the ampoule 45 is broken to allow dispensing of the
   contents into the dosage chamber 30 the broken ampoule is retained irremovably in the
   chamber.
 0 [0053]      The identifier can also advise the type of solute. The identifier can be a
   receptacle for receiving a printed information notifier which indicates the solute. A
   second part of the notifier can provide indication of concentration of dosage due to the
   addition of the solute.
   [0054]      However the identifier can have other forms such as a break-off tag so that
 5 the remaining tag indicates the solute. A second grouping of break off tags can provide
   indication of concentration of dosage due to the addition of the solute.
   [0055]      In use it can be seen that there is provided a method of identifying an
   accurate dosage of medicine in a dosage chamber of a syringe.             Firstly there is
   provided an accurate dosage from a detailed single dosage medicine in a frangible
 0 medicine container to locate the accurate dosage of medicine in the dosage chamber.
   Secondly there is identifying the accurate dosage of medicine in the dosage chamber by
   retaining the medicine container after being used in a receiving chamber on the syringe.
   Also there is identifying the solute in the dosage chamber by an identifier. In order to
   ensure there is no tampering or relabeling then there is securing of the medicine
25 container within the chamber.
   [0056]      By these steps it is possible to know without a doubt the accurate dosage of
   medicine in a dosage chamber of a syringe is shown by the details on the single dosage
   medicine and the identifier on the solute.
   [0057]      It can be understood that the invention can include variations other than
30 those disclosed in the drawings.

                                                13
   [0058]       For example a syringe could have the identifier as an attachment to the
   dosage chamber 30. This could be a cylindrical chamber like the cylindrical chamber
   51which has an integral C-clamp that clamps around the cylindrical dosage chamber.
   This C-clamp can include a locking means to prevent removal from the dosage
 5 chamber.
   [0059]      The identifier could be a cylindrical chamber like the cylindrical chamber 51
   which is a fixed attachment to the dosage chamber.
   [0060]      The identifier could be a cylindrical chamber like the cylindrical chamber 51
   which is integral with the dosage chamber.
 0 [0061]      The identifier could be a cylindrical chamber like the cylindrical chamber 51
   which is an attachment to the plunger. As the shaft of the plunger can be a range of
   shapes from cylindrical to cross shape to x-shape and other cross sectional shapes
   then the cylindrical chamber 51 can have an integral clamp which affixes to that shape.
   [0062]      The identifier could be a fixed attachment to the plunger or lockable
 5 attachment or integral with the plunger.      The attachment can be at the end of the
   plunger such as in Figures 3 to 5 so as not to limit the extent of the plunger into dosage
   chamber 30 or take a small portion of the path of the plunger.
   [0063]      The identifier can be formed as a receptacle for receiving a printed
   information notifier.
 0
   General Characteristics
   [0064]       It can be seen that the invention approaches a number of general
   characteristics which are new and inventive at least in combination including:
   a)    Identifier of drug
25 b)    Controlled holder of broken ampoule
   c)    Notifier of solute
   d)   Tamperproof
   e)    Unrestricted use of syringe
   f)    retrofitting

                                                  14
   [0065]      The embodiments of the invention can include one or a combination of more
   than one of the above features in a synergistic and improved combination that provides
   an improved and useful development of the art.
       a) Identifier of drug
 5 [0066]      The drug needs to be clearly identified in any usage. This is important in
   order to determine what is the material that is being injected which might occur at a later
   time that when the syringe is initially filled. This particularly occurs when treatment is
   being performed in an emergency situation because the medical attendee could be
   undertaking a number of tests and procedures which need to be arranged for
 0 prearranged at any critical incident. However the drug also there is to be well-known
   went in a preplanned approach such as a predefined medical procedure in hospital
   conditions in which the application of the drug can be initially prepared ready for the
   time in the preplanned procedure is to be applied.
   [0067]      A particular importance of this identification of drug is already instilled in the
 5 supply of the drug by use of ampoules are clearly identified the drug, the source of the
   drug, the concentration of the drug, the creation date or use by date of the drug, and
   even the batch number of the drug. Therefore everything from the constituencies of the
   drug to the possible manufacturing error that may have occurred in a particular batch
   can be readily identified.
 0 [0068]      It is clearly useful to maintain the full range of this knowledge and particularly
   the identification of the drug and concentration of drug by making use of the ampoule
   itself as the identifier of the drug even after the ampoule has been emptied into the
   applying syringe. It is therefore an important element to retain the used ampoule with
   the syringe.
25 [0069]      However mere location is not sufficient as it is important that there is no
   accidental mismatch of the used ampoule and the applying syringe. An even further
   element of importance is that the information that the ample is providing needs to be
   readily accessible even after it being used but is being retained with the syringe. In this
   regard there is a particular requirements of:
30         i) tamperproof retention of the ampoule and

                                                   15
            ii) visible the reading of the detailed information on the ampoule lending retained
                in tamperproof manner to the syringe.
        b) Controlled holder of broken ampoule
   [0070]        The used drug ampoule needs to be retained with the syringe. Generally
 5 ampoules are formed of glass as that is the least reacted to the drug and the most
   readily decontaminated before filling with the drug. Therefore the next of the ample is
   shattered in order to open such a small quantity container and such shattered container
   needs to be retained in a safe manner.
   [0071]        The retention of the ampoule can be by protruding clip on arms that readily
 0 hold the ampoule. However such is not an effective means of protecting the user of the
   syringe from being injured by the protruding shattered ampoule. Further it is not an
   effective means of allowing ready viewing of the information on the ampoule as the
   holding arms will cover substantial portion and will hold the ampoule in a single relative
   position.
 5 [0072]        Therefore preferably the invention includes a container which is able to
   receive the shattered ampoule and retain in a safe and enclosed manner. Further by at
   least a portion of the container being transparent the medical user of the syringe can
   readily view the substantial information that is available on the extremities of the used
   ampoule.
 0 [0073]        It is a substantial advantage of the invention that this container is readily
   associated with the syringe. This can be achieved by the container being:
   i) attachable to the body of the syringe
   ii) attachable to the plunger of the syringe
   iii) integral with the body of the syringe or
25 iv) integral with the plunger of the syringe
   [0074]        By the chamber being attachable to the body or plunger of the syringe, it is
   able to be retrofitted to a syringe. However to increase the security of the relationship
   between the ampoule and the syringe is beneficial that the connection of the chamber to
   the body or plunger of the syringe is not reversible seven of the chamber cannot be
30 accidentally detached and re-attached to one of a multiple number of possible syringes.

                                                  16
   [0075]      However a significant benefit is achieved by the chamber being integral with
   the body or plunger of the syringe. In this way there is no action required in order to
   associate the chamber with the syringe as it is already fully associated and cannot be
   misunderstood as being associated with that syringe. Still further the integral element of
 5 the chamber with the body will plunge of the syringe increases the effective use of
   correct procedure in retaining the substantial information on the broken ampoule after
   the drug has been inserted into the syringe, as it is readily available and already in the
   hands of the medical user or person preparing the syringe for the medical user.
   [0076]      To further add benefits to the correct association of the used ampoule to the
 0 syringe into which the drug from the ampoule has been inserted, the chamber can
   include a tamperproof closure. Therefore after the used ampoule is inserted into the
   chamber, the tamperproof closure can permanently retain the ampoule in the chamber.
   [0077]      The chamber can be integral with the body of the syringe by being:
   i) in line with the syringe and line of insertion of the plunger into the syringe or
 5 ii) otherwise attached or adjacent to but in an integral manner to that direct in line
       position.
   [0078]      This can mean that the chamber takes a portion of the dosage chamber of
   the body the syringe and can move within the dosage chamber upon pressure from the
   plunger. However if the chamber is not in line with the syringe and the line of insertion
 0 of the plunger you can remain in a fixed integral position adjacent the dosage chamber
   and still be readily accessible and associated with the syringe.          The volume of the
   dosage chamber will not be affected by the chamber holding the used ampoule.
   [0079]      Similarly the chamber can be integral with the plunger of the syringe by
   being:
25 i) in line with the linear insertion portion of the plunger into the syringe or
   ii) otherwise attached or adjacent to but in an integral manner to that linear position.
   [0080]      With the chamber in line with the plunger, it can have a structural integrity
   such that it forms part of the plunger duties and is inserted into the dosage chamber of
   the syringe in order to expel the dosage of drug from the other end of the dosage
30 chamber. In this way the chamber has a dimension limited to the internal dimension of

                                                 17
   the dosage chamber. It can be seen that the chamber the holding used ampoule could
   still be part of the plunger while not being a portion that needs to proceed insertion into
   the dosage chamber. In this regard the chamber holding the used ampoule of it forms a
   rear portion of plunger. Further the chamber in this form can have a direction greater
 5 than the dosage chamber and therefore receive and ampoule with dimensional greater
   than the dosage chamber.
   [0081]       A particular benefit of the chamber not proceeding into the dosage chamber
   of the syringe is that the details of the ample more readily viewable through a single
   thickness of the chamber holding the used ampoule rather than needing viewing
 0 through both the dosage chamber and the chamber holding the used ampoule.
   [0082]       However it can be seen that this complication can be overcome in that the
   timing for the need to read the ampoule is prior to the usage and dispensing of the drug
   from the dosage chamber. Further if it is needed that the details of the drug that has
   been administered is required then the withdrawal of the chamber from the dosage
 5 chamber will allow ready viewing through a single transparent wall of the chamber
   holding the used ampoule.
   [0083]       Overall therefore the chamber when in line with the plunger can form the
   entire plunger or only a portion extending from the extreme finger pushing end of the
   plunger. Further the chamber can be done mentioned smaller, equal to, or greater than
 0 the diameter of the dosage chamber.
   [0084]       An important element of the chamber is that it includes a closure that retains
   the used ampoule therein. Therefore it is preferable that this opening into the chamber
   and closure thereof is situated at the extreme finger pushing end of the plunger when
   the chamber is in line with the plunger.
25      c) Notifier of solute
   [0085]       The drug that is administered is of importance not only by its identification but
   also by its concentration.     The drug initially is provided at a particular concentration
   identified by the ampoule. The quantity of the drug that is being administered can be
   identified by point of the quantity markings along the length of the dosage chamber of
30 the syringe.      However the drug may be required to be administered at a different
   percentage concentration. It is therefore known to have the drug provided in the syringe

                                                   18
   in a decreased concentration by the inclusion of a drug inert solute. This site had is
   usually saline or purified water or the like.
   [0086]       It can therefore be seen that it is important to identify solute features of:
   i) the type of solute,
 5 ii) the amount of solute, and
   iii) the resultant concentration of the drug.
   Clearly having two of these pieces of information will provide the third.
   [0087]       It is particularly beneficial in the invention that the steps of identifying the
   features of the solute are readily achievable by the medical user or the assistant to the
 0 medical user. It is possible that this information can be written on the extremity of the
   syringe or the plunger or the chamber holding the used ampoule. However handwriting
   is not a clear indicator and writing on an extremity particularly with felt pens or biros or
   the like can result in smudging of the information so as to make it illegible.
   [0088]       Therefore a particularly important version of the invention includes a solid
 5 identification or notification mechanism that incorporates elements of the syringe. This
   can be the syringe body or plunger having a number of predefined snap off portions of
   the medical user or assistant can readily choose the appropriate one that identifies one
   or more of the above identified solute features.
        d) Tamperproof
20 [0089]       As identified above it is important that the details of the drug that is in a
   syringe is clearly identifiable including other characteristics such as concentration and
   alteration of that concentration by means of a solute.           Therefore in an emergency
   situation where an assistant to a medical user has prepared the syringe with the
   required mixture of drug and solute is necessary for the medical user to be fully assured
25 of the correct information available and the contents of the syringe. If a medical user
   does not have such confidence they would wish to remix and restart the contents of the
   contents of the syringe.
   [0090]       Elements of certainty that are provided in the system which provides such
   confidence to the medical user is the amount of exact information detailed on the used
30 ampoule as well as the notification mechanism of the type and amount of solute.

                                                 19
   [0091]      A further element is added to it even further add confidence to the medical
   user by having tamperproof closure of the chamber holding the used ampoule.             Still
   further if the chamber is integral with the syringe there can be no question of the
   accuracy of the information of the contents of the syringe. If the chamber is not integral
 5 and it also would be preferable to have a tamperproof mount of the chamber to the body
   of the syringe or the plunger. This again will secure the accuracy of the information of
   the contents of the syringe.
   [0092]      There are a number of ways of obtaining such tamperproof connection
   including one way insertion of sawtooth protrusions into a receiving socket. Another
 0 wave may merely be a sawtooth protruding clip which engages an overhanging rim.
       e) Unrestricted use of syrinqe\needle
   [0093]      it is important in the present system to ensure that the substantial benefits of
   one or more of the characteristics do not affect the use of the syringe and needle.
   Other characteristics can be combined with such substantial benefits of the present
 5 system such as use with retractable or disposable needles. Further it can be used with
   prefilled dosage chambers.
       f) Retrofittinq
   [0094]      The approach that has been taken in providing substantial benefits detailed
   above is preferably included in integral formations and therefore is created at
 0 manufacture.       However the novel features and design are also included on integral
   chambers that holds the used ampoules in which such changes are attachable to the
   syringe body or plunger.         This allows the benefits of the invention to be applied
   retrospectively in a retracted format to pre-manufactured syringes.
25 Examples of needles/syringes
   [0095]      In examples of the invention there can be a plurality of different types of
   needles to which the invention can be applied including as shown in figures 6 of:
       a) Medium to large volume i.e. greater than 5ml
       b) Small volume i.e. less than 5millilitres (ml)
30     c) Safety needles including retractable needles

                                               20
       d) Other forms including disposable and pre-filled syringes.
   [0096]      Example A - medium to large
   [0097]      Referring to figures 7, 8A and 8B there is a particular preferred example of a
   medium to large volume syringe 62.        In particular this is a preferred example of a
 5 medium to large volume syringe where the chamber to hold the used ampoule is
   integral with plunger 620 and has a diameter substantially equal to the diameter of the
   dosage chamber 630 of the syringe.
   [0098]      The identifier in the embodiments shown is an attachment to the plunger 20
   formed as a cylindrical chamber 621 mounted integral to one end of the shaft 622 of the
 0 plunger 620 to form a modified pushing end and still allow other end 623 to force the
   contents in the syringe 630.
   [0099]      The cylindrical chamber 621 formed on the end of the plunger 620 has an
   opening 624 at one end within an annular finger plate extending perpendicular to the
   extension of the elongation of the plunger 622 and central cavity of the chamber 621
 5 open at the top end by the opening 624 and closable by a hinged lid 625. This lid can
   be tamperproof closable so that contents cannot be withdrawn.         The central cavity is
   sized to receive the used ampoule 45.
   [00100]     Example B - small
   [00101]     Referring to figures 9, 10A, 10B, 11 and 12 there is a particular preferred
 0 example of a small volume syringe 72 i.e. less than 5millilitres. In particular this is a
   preferred example of a small volume syringe 72 where the chamber to hold the used
   ampoule is integral with plunger 720 and has a diameter substantially greater than the
   diameter of the dosage chamber 732 of the syringe 72.
   [00102]     The identifier in the embodiments shown is integral to the plunger 720 formed
25 as a cylindrical chamber 721 mounted integral to one end of the narrower shaft 722 of
   the plunger 720 to form a modified pushing end and still allow other narrower portion
   722 and end 723 to force the contents in the dosage chamber 732 syringe 730.
   [00103]     The cylindrical chamber 721 formed on the end of the plunger 720 has an
   opening 724 at one end with an annular finger plate extending perpendicular to the
30 extension of the elongation of the plunger 722 and central cavity of the chamber 721
   open at the top end by the opening 724 and closable by a hinged lid 725. This lid can

                                                21
   be tamperproof closable so that contents cannot be withdrawn. The central cavity is
   sized to receive the used ampoule 45.
   [00104]     Example C - retractable
   [00105]     Many syringes include retractable needles due to the occupational health and
 5 safety concerns and general safety concerns. However such mechanisms, such as the
   examples shown in Figures 16 and 17 can readily be used in combination with the
   arrangements of the invention.
   [00106]     In one form the mechanism for retraction is a separate clip-on arrangement
   to the end of the syringe. This has no effect on the syringe and therefore a range of
 0 embodiments of the invention can readily be used with such retractable needles.
   [00107]     In another form of retraction mechanism, the needle is protracted from the
   syringe while in use but retracted into the syringe after use. The invention in some
   forms can be readily applied to this form of needle. If required and suitable, the dosage
   chamber could merely be extended so that not only is it able to contain the dosage of
 5 drug and solute but also to be sized to retain the syringe after use. Further the dosage
   chamber could further include a container that holds the notifier that includes details
   The operation of the plunger can be on the chamber holding the notifier so that it is
   withdrawn along the dosage chamber to allow room for the needle to be retracted.
   [00108]     However retraction mechanisms are more readily useable with embodiments
 0 of the invention in which the chamber holding the notifier is integral with the syringe, or
   is attached alongside the dosage chamber or syringe. In this way the operation of the
   retractable needle is not altered from its usual mechanism while gaining the substantial
   benefits of the invention.
   [00109]     Example D - disposable
25 [00110]     A disposable syringe generally refers to a low cost single use syringe. For
   health and safety reasons
   [00111]     The invention is particularly relevant to disposable syringes. Generally to
   keep costs down it is important that the same type of syringe is used in multiple different
   ways and for multiple different purposes. Therefore a mould can be made so that
30 millions of one type of such disposable syringes can be made. This causes a range of
   problems which the invention is aiming to overcome.

                                                   22
   [00112]      Firstly drugs can usually not be held over time in plastic. The drugs can be
   affected by leaching of material out of the plastics, by leaching of the drug into the
   plastic and by the porosity or translucency of the syringe affecting the drug. Generally
   therefore it is important to retain drugs in glass ampoules. These are protective of the
 5 drugs and sealed from the manufacture and have detailed information of the drug.
   Therefore the first problem of the identification of the drug and dosage is provided by
   the notifier system.
   [00113]      Further it is important to have a system that can readily be altered to provide
   the benefits of the invention.        This can be achieved by a simple alteration to the
 0 structure of the syringe but more preferably the plunger so that current syringes, and
   needles can be readily used but have the benefits of the present invention.
   [00114]     Still further the system allows the full use of the current disposable syringes
   but with the benefit of irremovably attachable chambers for receiving the notifier.
   [00115]      Example E - pre-filled syringe
 5 [00116]      In a system of providing a syringe with a drug in place in a pre-filled syringe,
   it is necessary that various combinations of volumes and concentrations with different
   usages are provided due to different circumstances or different sized people or other
   relevant medical reasons. This requires a multitude of different pre-packaged pre-filled
   syringes to be made for the same drug and requires a medical user to have a range of
 0 such
   [00117]      It is expected that usually the packaging will identify the drug and
   concentration. Therefore when the package is opened and the subcutaneous needle is
   attached to the syringe and made ready for the medical user it is resting in an
   unidentified state until used. In an emergency situation this has the same problems that
25 the invention is trying to overcome.
   [00118]      If a particular drug is provided in a pre-filled syringe and it is open to the user
   to add a solute then there is no clear indication of the dosage or concentration. In this
   situation there are the same problems that the invention is trying to overcome.
   [00119]     The present invention can be used to improve this pre-filled syringe in a
30 number of ways.

                                                  23
   [00120]      Firstly the pre-filled syringe can include a chamber for receiving a notifier.
   That is the drug in the syringe needs to be clearly identified and usually a plastic syringe
   does not provide a surface that allows clear printing like on a glass ampoule. Therefore
   when the drug is inserted at manufacture, the relevant notifier detailing all of the
 5 information can be By the plunger being locked to the dosage chamber and the
   chamber holding the notifier being locked within an end of the dosage chamber or
   integral with the plunger or locked alongside the dosage chamber or plunger and with
   the chamber holding the notifier being locked then the identification of the drug and its
   quantity, dosage and concentration are all duly noted and readily viewable.
 0 [00121]      Secondly the pre-filled syringe can include a particular concentration of drug.
   Instead of having to provide a full range of different concentrations and dosages the
   pre-filled syringe can be modified by inclusion of a solute. Therefore the pre-filled
   syringe can include a chamber into which the notifier of the modified concentrations and
   details of the solute can be included in a manner similar to other embodiments. The
 5 pre-filled syringe package can include a range of notifiers separately in the package or
   connected to the syringe and able to be frangibly removed so that the relevant notifier is
   inserted into the chamber when the syringe is being prepared and whenever the
   medical user is ready to use the pre-filled syringe can read the drug details,
   concentration and dosage details and know exactly what is being administered by this
 0 syringe.
   [00122]      Method of Use
   [00123]      A method of identifying an accurate dosage of medicine in a dosage chamber
   of a syringe including the steps of:
   a)     providing an accurate dosage of a detailed single dosage medicine for insertion
25 into a dosage chamber of a syringe;
   b)     identifying the accurate dosage of medicine in the dosage chamber by retaining a
   notifier of the accurate dosage;
   c)     securing the notifier with the syringe
   wherein the accurate dosage of medicine in a dosage chamber of a syringe is shown by
30 the details on the notifier when secured with the syringe and allowing usage of the
   syringe to dispense the accurate dosage.

                                                 24
   [00124]      However as shown in more detail in Figures 19 and illustrated in Figures 19
   to 24 there are the five steps of the method 300 of identifying an accurate dosage of
   medicine in a dosage chamber of a syringe including:
          i)    Step 1 of 310 in which the drug is inserted into the syringe or has been pre
 5              filled into the syringe.
          ii) Step 2 of 320 in which Identify drug in syringe by use of information on
                ampoule or by tag
          iii) Step 3 of 330 in which Insert solute into syringe to obtain required
                concentration of drug. This step can be optional if full concentration of drug
 0              is required.
           iv) Step 4 of 340 in which Identify solute and concentration of drug and retain
               information in tamperproof manner; and
          v) Step 5 of 350 in which Review identification details of drug and solute and if
               correct use syringe.
 5 [00125]      The step of providing an accurate dosage of a detailed single dosage
   medicine includes providing the medicine in a frangible medicine container for insertion
   into a dosage chamber of a syringe and the frangible medicine container includes
   detailed information of the medicine.       Usually the frangible medicine container is an
   ampoule and the step 2 of identifying an accurate dosage of medicine in the dosage
 0 chamber is by retaining the medicine container after being used in a receiving chamber
   on the syringe. Therefore as shown in Figure 20 the drug is inserted into the syringe or
   has been pre-filled into the syringe.
   [00126]      However identifying the accurate dosage of medicine in the dosage chamber
   is by retaining at least one notifier matching the accurate dosage in a receiving chamber
25 on the syringe. Therefore in Figure 20 this is achieved by retaining the used ampoule in
   the receiving chamber.         If the dosage chamber is prefilled at manufacture then the
   information needs to be transferred to be unequivocally connected with the syringe. A
   tag having those details could be included in the packaging or pre-inserted in the
   receiving chamber of the drug pre-filled syringe.

                                                  25
   [00127]      The identifying of the accurate dosage of medicine in the dosage chamber is
   also by retaining at least one notifier identifying the solute in the dosage chamber by an
   identifier. Therefore in step 3 the solute is introduced into the
   [00128]      Therefore the step 4 of the method is identifying of the accurate dosage of
 5 medicine in the dosage chamber by retaining two notifiers, one identifying the medicine
   and one identifying the solute in the dosage chamber by an identifier wherein the
   accurate dosage of medicine in a dosage chamber of a syringe is shown by the details
   on the single dosage medicine and the identifier on the solute.
   [00129]      However an important point is that when a medical user wishes to undertake
 0 Step 5 they wish to know that there is no error or tampering since the earlier steps were
   undertaken. Therefore the identifying of the accurate dosage of medicine in the dosage
   chamber by retaining at least one notifier identifying the solute in the dosage chamber
   by an identifier in a receiving chamber and securing the at least one notifier within the
   chamber. This lid to the chamber is tamperproof and not openable after insertion of the
 5 notifiers.
   [00130]      It can be seen that the invention can be provided in a number of ways to
   provide the substantial benefits and the invention is not limited to the examples.
   Interpretation
 0 Embodiments:
   [00131]      Reference throughout this specification to "one embodiment" or "an
   embodiment" means that a particular feature, structure or characteristic described in
   connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment of the present
   invention.      Thus, appearances of the phrases "in one embodiment" or "in an
25 embodiment" in various places throughout this specification are not necessarily all
   referring to the same embodiment, but may.            Furthermore, the particular features,
   structures or characteristics may be combined in any suitable manner, as would be
   apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art from this disclosure, in one or more
   embodiments.
30 [00132]      Similarly it should be appreciated that in the above description of example
   embodiments of the invention, various features of the invention are sometimes grouped

                                                   26
   together in a single embodiment, figure, or description thereof for the purpose of
   streamlining the disclosure and aiding in the understanding of one or more of the
   various inventive aspects. This method of disclosure, however, is not to be interpreted
   as reflecting an intention that the claimed invention requires more features than are
 5 expressly recited in each claim.          Rather, as the following claims reflect, inventive
   aspects lie in less than all features of a single foregoing disclosed embodiment. Thus,
   the claims following the Detailed Description of Specific Embodiments are hereby
   expressly incorporated into this Detailed Description of Specific Embodiments, with
   each claim standing on its own as a separate embodiment of this invention.
 0 [00133]      Furthermore, while some embodiments described herein include some but
   not other features included in other embodiments, combinations of features of different
   embodiments are meant to be within the scope of the invention, and form different
   embodiments, as would be understood by those in the art. For example, in the following
   claims, any of the claimed embodiments can be used in any combination.
 5 Different Instances of Objects
   [00134]      As used herein, unless otherwise specified the use of the ordinal adjectives
   "first", "second", "third", etc., to describe a common object, merely indicate that different
   instances of like objects are being referred to, and are not intended to imply that the
   objects so described must be in a given sequence, either temporally, spatially, in
 0 ranking, or in any other manner.
   Specific Details
   [00135]      In the description provided herein, numerous specific details are set forth.
   However, it is understood that embodiments of the invention may be practiced without
   these specific details.        In other instances, well-known methods, structures and
25 techniques have not been shown in detail in order not to obscure an understanding of
   this description.
   Terminology
   [00136]      In describing the preferred embodiment of the invention illustrated in the
   drawings, specific terminology will be resorted to for the sake of clarity. However, the
30 invention is not intended to be limited to the specific terms so selected, and it is to be
   understood that each specific term includes all technical equivalents which operate in a

                                                27
   similar manner to accomplish a similar technical purpose. Terms such as "forward",
   "rearward", "radially", "peripherally", "upwardly", "downwardly", and the like are used as
   words of convenience to provide reference points and are not to be construed as
   limiting terms.
 5 Comprising and Including
   [00137]     In the claims which follow and in the preceding description of the invention,
   except where the context requires otherwise due to express language or necessary
   implication, the word "comprise" or variations such as "comprises" or "comprising" are
   used in an inclusive sense, i.e. to specify the presence of the stated features but not to
 0 preclude the presence or addition of further features in various embodiments of the
   invention.
   [00138]     Any one of the terms: including or which includes or that includes as used
   herein is also an open term that also means including at least the elements/features that
   follow the term, but not excluding others. Thus, including is synonymous with and
 5 means comprising.
   Scope of Invention
   [00139]     Thus, while there has been described what are believed to be the preferred
   embodiments of the invention, those skilled in the art will recognize that other and
   further modifications may be made thereto without departing from the spirit of the
 0 invention, and it is intended to claim all such changes and modifications as fall within
   the scope of the invention.       For example, any formulas given above are merely
   representative of procedures that may be used. Functionality may be added or deleted
   from the block diagrams and operations may be interchanged among functional blocks.
   Steps may be added or deleted to methods described within the scope of the present
25 invention.
   [00140]     Although the invention has been described with reference to specific
   examples, it will be appreciated by those skilled in the art that the invention may be
   embodied in many other forms.

                                               28
  Industrial Applicability
  [00141]     It is apparent from the above, that the arrangements described are applicable
  to the syringe usage industries including medical centres such as hospitals, doctor's
5 surgeries but a particularly important industry is the medical emergency industry
  including mobile medical treatment units, ambulances, mobile military units, etc..
  However it is also important in domestic, schools and commercial situations where
  disposable use occurs or minimal trained medical users require an effective and
  efficient and safe syringe usage.
0

                                                29
   THE CLAIMS DEFINING THE INVENTION ARE AS FOLLOWS:
   1.     A medicine identification assembly, including:
           a syringe plunger for drawing a medicine from a medicine container into the
 5 dosage chamber of a syringe, the syringe plunger including a verification chamber to
   receive the medicine container after said drawing;
           wherein the verification chamber includes a trapping mechanism to trap the
   medicine container within the verification chamber; wherein the verification chamber is
   configured to allow visual inspection of the medicine container trapped within the
 0 verification chamber so that the medicine that was drawn from the medicine container
   into the dosage chamber can be securely identified by visual inspection of an identifier
   of the medicine container trapped within the verification chamber.
   2.     A medicine identification assembly, including:
 5         a verification chamber to receive a medicine container from which a medicine
   was drawn into the dosage chamber of a syringe, the verification chamber and the
   engagement means being integrally formed; and
           a tamperproof locking mechanism operable to prevent removal of the medicine
   container from the verification chamber; wherein the verification chamber is configured
 0 to allow visual inspection of the medicine container locked within the verification
   chamber so that the medicine that was drawn from the medicine container into the
   dosage chamber attached to the verification chamber can be securely identified by
   visual inspection of an identifier of the medicine container locked within the verification
   chamber.
25
   3.     An assembly according to claim 2, wherein the engagement means is configured
   to prevent removal of the assembly from the dosage chamber or plunger of the syringe.
   4.     An assembly according to claim 3, wherein the engagement means includes a
30 sawtooth protruding clip or sawtooth protrusions into a receiving socket to prevent
   removal of the assembly from the dosage chamber or plunger of the syringe.

                                             30
  5.    An assembly according to any one of claims 2 to 4, wherein the engagement
  means includes a pair of resilient arms having respective curved inner surfaces
  configured to engage respective portions of a correspondingly curved outer surface of
  the dosage chamber of the syringe.
5
  6.    An assembly according to any one of claims 2 to 4, wherein the engagement
  means includes a pair of resilient members defining a receiving slot therebetween
  configured to receive and engage a portion of the plunger of the syringe.
0 7.    An assembly according to any one of claims 1 to 6, wherein the medicine
  container is of a type that has a frangible seal that is broken to access the medicine
  stored therein, and the verification chamber acts as a sharps container to protect a user
  of the syringe from a broken seal of the medicine container locked within the verification
  chamber.
5
  8.    An assembly according to claim 7, wherein the medicine container is an ampoule.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
