Abstract
A controller for controlling operation of a plurality of loads via a plurality of channels
connected to the loads, the controller including for each channel: a fuse holder for
connecting a fuse between the load and a power source; and a monitoring circuit
connected to the fuse holder, the monitoring circuit including: at least one switch
activated by a change in status of the fuse in the fuse holder; and an indicator means
for indicating the status of the fuse according to a state of the at least one switch.

           2/2
      w Pa
        U0
                  Lm
  coo
L--- --- --o
             Fiur   H

                                                1
                             A controller with fuse monitoring
Technical Field
[0001]       The present invention relates to a controller for controlling operation of a
plurality of loads in a vehicle or a towed vehicle via a plurality of channels connected
to the loads, the controller including, for each channel, a monitoring circuit for
monitoring a status of a fuse protecting the load. In particular, but not exclusively, the
monitoring circuit includes an LED for indicating the status of the fuse.
Background of Invention
[0002]       Modern vehicles generally have a power distribution system including one
or more Electronic Control Units (ECUs) for controlling electrical systems, including
vehicle accessories in the form of electrical loads, of a vehicle. Modern towed
vehicles and recreational vehicles, such as camper trailers and caravans, may have
many installed accessories, such as a fridge, water pump, air compressor, cooking
facilities etc. in the form of electrical loads. These electrical loads are connected to a
power source, such as a battery or a charger, and are typically protected from voltage
surges etc. by fuses.
[0003]       Fuses open when a short circuit occurs or there is overloading or device
failure, thus removing the power supply from the load, protecting the load. Existing
caravan and camper fuse systems usually provide a simple mechanical fuse
connector solution with either a single main power feed to a distribution box (1-to
many), or a distribution busbar with individual circuits being wired to a fuse box
(many-to-many). The many-to-many solution is inherently dangerous as there may
be unfused/inadequate fusing on the wire between the busbar/distribution point and
the many-to-many fuse box.
[0004]       A vehicle fuse box typically includes a number of fuse holders, blocks or
clips holding a fuse for each load of the vehicle. If a fuse is blown, it may not be
readily apparent which fuse requires replacing. The fuses may need to be individually
inspected to determine which one has open-circuited.

                                              2
Summary of Invention
[0005]       According to one aspect, the present invention provides a controller
adapted to be mounted in a vehicle or a towed vehicle and adapted to be connected
to a power source, the controller for controlling operation of a plurality of loads via a
plurality of channels connected to the loads, the controller including for each channel:
a fuse holder for connecting a fuse between the load and the power source; and a
monitoring circuit connected to the fuse holder for monitoring a status of the fuse
protecting the load, the monitoring circuit including: at least one switch activated by a
change in status of the fuse in the fuse holder; and an indicator means for indicating
the status of the fuse according to a state of the at least one switch.
[0006]       Preferably, the controller provides an input for a main power feed for
multiplexing into a plurality of channels, for example ten channels, each channel
having its own fuse holder and inbuilt solid state or mechanical switch. The controller
in this embodiment includes include a fuse holder, a monitoring circuit and an LED
indicator for each channel, to indicate the status of the fuse connected to that
channel. The LED paired with a fuse holder may illuminate if the fuse in that fuse
holder is blown, based on the state of the monitoring circuit.
[0007]       The monitoring circuit, by changing state in response to a change in status
of the fuse, enables the blowing of a fuse to be immediately detected and indicated by
the indicator means. This may allow an operator to quickly identify that a fuse has
blown, and pinpoint which fuse has blown. That is, the monitoring circuit determines
the status of the fuse by the state of the at least one switch as: fuse not present or
fuse present and blown (i.e. creating an open circuit); and fuse present and fuse not
blown (i.e. creating a closed circuit). Thus, the indicator means may indicate the
presence/no presence or blown/unblown status of the fuse. As mentioned, the
indicator means for indicating the status of the fuse is a light-emitting diode (LED). In
this way, the status of all of the fuses connected to loads of the vehicle may be readily
apparent via the LED. That is, in use, the LED turns ON if the fuse is blown or if the
fuse is removed from the fuse holder so that a user wishing to change a blown fuse
can readily locate the blown fuse in the fuse box.

                                              3
[0008]      The fuse holder may be a blade fuse holder adapted to hold blade fuses,
such as ATC/ATO blade fuses or other types of blade fuses used in automobiles.
Alternatively, the fuse holder may be adapted to hold other types of fuses, as desired
to protect the electrical loads of the vehicle. Preferably, the vehicle or towed vehicle
may be a caravan or camper trailer and the electrical load may be an accessory of the
vehicle, such as a light, fridge, water pump, cook top, air compressor etc. The power
source may be a battery, charger or any other type of power source, for example
connected to the fuse holder via a main power bus bar.
[0009]      The at least one switch of the monitoring circuit may be an inbuilt solid
state (e.g. transistor) switch or a mechanical (relay) switch. In an embodiment, the at
least one switch includes a transistor Q2 connected to the fuse holder and a transistor
Q1 connected to the transistor Q2, such that the transistor Q2 turns the transistor Q1
ON if the fuse is not present in the fuse holder or is blown, and the transistor Q2 turns
the transistor Q1 OFF if the fuse is present in the fuse holder. The transistor Q1 may
be an N-channel MOSFET (or an NPN transistor with other circuit modifications to set
thresholds, etc.), with the gate of the MOSFET connected to the collector of the
transistor Q2. The transistor Q2 may be an NPN transistor (or a MOSFET in an
alternate embodiment). In the preferred embodiment, the status of the fuse is
indicated according to a state of the gate of the transistor Q1. If the gate is LOW, this
indicates that the fuse is present. If the gate is HIGH, this indicates that the fuse is
not present or is blown.
[0010]      In the embodiment, Q2 is selected as an NPN transistor as a MOSFET
would be more susceptible to transient (automotive pulses and ESD) events causing
damage. Q1 is selected as a MOSFET as it is easier to operate a MOSFET in a
digital ON/OFF application than an NPN/PNP.
[0011]      As mentioned, the indicator means may include a light-emitting diode
(LED). In this embodiment, the LED is connected to the transistor Q1 such that the
LED is turned ON when the transistor Q1 is ON (gate is HIGH), and the LED is turned
OFF when the transistor Q1 is OFF (gate is LOW).
[0012]      The indicator means may alternatively or additionally include a display in
connection with the monitoring circuit (and thereby able to detect the state of the

                                             4
monitoring circuit e.g. by detecting the state of the gate of transistor Q1). The display
may be a user interface, touch screen or other display mounted in the vehicle or
towed vehicle. The display may be connected to the controller via a Controller Area
Network (CAN bus), which is a vehicle bus that enables controllers and devices to
communicate with each other without a host computer. For example, the status of
each fuse may be transmitted on the CAN bus via multiple status bytes that include
individual fuse status information.
[0013]      Further, the display may include a graphical representation of the load in
the form of an icon indicative of the load and status of the fuse protecting the load.
The display may alternatively be a display on a mobile device, such as a smartphone,
tablet or laptop connected to the user interface via a wireless connection such as
Bluetooth, Wi-Fi or any other suitable communication means and may also display a
graphical representation of the load and corresponding fuse status by way of software
installed on the mobile device. Alternatively, the mobile device may connect to the
controller directly via a wireless connection.
[0014]      Further, in an embodiment, the controller may incorporate features of a
fuse box and a control box in one dedicated unit. It may, for example, be installed on
a vehicle or towed vehicle by replacing the existing fuse box on the vehicle. The
controller may also enable a user to control operation of the loads, for example via
graphical representations of the loads on the display.
[0015]      In an embodiment, the controller is further adapted to control operation of
the LED for each channel, overriding the detection circuit. For example, the LED may
be forced OFF by the controller if that channel is not being used or forced OFF if the
system is put into sleep mode (in order to save power).
Brief Description of Drawings
[0016]      A preferred embodiment of the present invention will now be described with
reference to the accompanying drawings wherein:
[0017]      Figure 1 is a representation of a power distribution system for controlling
operation of loads of a vehicle or a towed vehicle according to an embodiment of the
present invention; and

                                                5
[0018]      Figure 2 is a circuit diagram showing a monitoring circuit and indicator
means according to an embodiment of the invention.
Detailed Description
[0019]      Figure 1 shows an embodiment of a power distribution system 10 for
controlling operation of loads of a vehicle such as a recreation vehicle or a towed
vehicle such as a caravan (not shown). In the embodiment, the power distribution
system 10 is for a towed vehicle, such as a caravan, and the loads shown in the
Figure include some of the typical caravan accessories of: an awning light 11, fridge
13 and a water pump 5. Other typical loads of a caravan include air compressors,
cooking facilities, etc., but these are not shown to simplify the representation.
[0020]      The system 10 includes a user interface 12 adapted to be mounted in the
towed vehicle. In the embodiment, a user interacts with the user interface 12 via user
switches to switch loads of the towed vehicle ON and OFF. For example, the user
interface 12 displays graphical representations, such as icons, of the loads adjacent
buttons on the user interface 12 that are configured to implement user switches to
control these loads. In an embodiment, the graphical representations further include
an indication of the status of a fuse connected to each load according to operation of
a monitoring circuit 34 that will be described in more detail below.
[0021]      In the embodiment, the user interface 12 has six dedicated buttons for
controlling six different displayed loads on page 1. If configured, the user can scroll to
a second displayed page of different loads and control these loads using the six
buttons.
[0022]      In addition, or in the alternative, the user interacts with a wireless user
interface 32, which connects to the user interface 12 via Bluetooth or Wi-Fi. In this
embodiment, the wireless user interface 32 is a touch screen (e.g. smartphone) and
the user interacts via graphical representations of the loads on the touch screen
display to control operation of the loads. As described above, the graphical
representations of the loads may also include an indication of the status of a fuse
connected to the load, according to operation of a monitoring circuit 34.

                                             6
[0023]      The power distribution system 10 includes a controller 14 adapted to be
configured to control operation of the loads via a plurality of channels 16 connected to
the loads. In Figure 1, the controller 14 is mounted in the towed vehicle and the
channels 16 are wired between each of the loads and the controller 14. Specifically,
the awning light 11, fridge 13, and water pump 15 are shown as being connected via
separate channels 16 to the controller 14.
[0024]      The controller 14 includes a memory 18 adapted to store configuration
instructions to control operation of the loads via the channels 16, and a processor 20
adapted to determine a state command to control operation of the loads based on the
configuration instructions stored in the memory 18 and dynamic inputs relating to the
loads. These dynamic inputs are received by the processor 20 during use of the
power distribution system 10 from the user interface 12 and the towing vehicle. The
dynamic inputs include in its simplest form load user switch ON and load user switch
OFF. The dynamic inputs may also include trigger signals from the towing vehicle
ignition 28 and or from any alternate trigger signal 30 such as the towing vehicle
braking signal.
[0025]      To control the loads of the towed vehicle, the processor 20 implements
software stored on the memory 18 to determine the state commands for one or more
loads and output these state commands to the selected loads via the respective
channels 16. As mentioned, the state commands include ON and OFF commands to
switch the connected loads ON and OFF.
[0026]      The channels 16 also connect each of the loads to a power source such as
a battery 24 or a charger 26, and include at least one fuse 22 to protect the connected
loads from voltage surges, etc. The controller 14 includes a fuse box containing
these fuses 22 for each of the connected loads, and the power distribution system 10
can be installed by an installer on multiple makes and models of towed vehicles. For
example, the controller 14 can be installed on a towed vehicle by replacing the
existing fuse box on the towed vehicle.
[0027]      For each channel 16, the controller 14 includes a fuse holder 34 for
connecting a fuse 22, such as an ATO/ATC blade fuse, to a load 11, 13 or 15 and the

                                            7
power source 24, 26, and a monitoring circuit 36 connected to the fuse holder 34 for
monitoring a status of the fuse 22 protecting the load 11, 13 or 15.
[0028]      The monitoring circuit 36 is shown in more detail in Figure 2 and includes
at least one switch 38 which is activated by a change in status of the fuse 22 in the
fuse holder 34. The monitoring circuit 36 further includes an indicator means in the
form of an LED 40 for indicating the status of the fuse 22 according to a state of the at
least one switch 38.
[0029]      As mentioned, the status of the fuse 22 can also be displayed on the user
interface 12. In this embodiment, the user interface 12 is connected to the controller
14 via a communication bus (for example a Controller Area Network bus) to send and
receive information regarding the loads and the status of the fuses 22. For example,
the communication bus may communicate status of the loads and the respective
connected fuses to be displayed on the user interface 12 or some other display
mounted in the towing or towed vehicle. The status of the loads and the fuses could
also be displayed on the wireless user interface 32 if it is connected wirelessly to the
user interface 12.
[0030]      In the embodiment of the circuit diagram of the monitoring circuit 36 shown
in Figure 2, a paired LED (Dl) 40 indicates the status of one fuse 22 according to a
state of the at least one switch 38. The at least one switch 38 is a circuit including a
transistor Q2 connected to the fuse holder (not shown) via the "FUSE CONNECT"
and a transistor Q1 connected to the transistor Q2. The upper side of the fuse in the
fuse holder connects to a main power bus bar (PCB), and the lower side of the fuse
connects to the high side of the transistors Q1, Q2, and the "FUSE CONNECT" 42.
[0031]      In this embodiment, the transistor Q1 is a N-channel MOSFET (type
BSS138N). The gate of the MOSFET is connected to the collector of the transistor
Q2, which is a NPN transistor (series BC846).
[0032]      The transistors Q1 and Q2 are arranged such that if the fuse 22 is present,
Q2 is turned ON which pulls the gate of Q1 LOW hence turning Q1 OFF and hence
the LED 40 is OFF. If the fuse is not present, transistor Q2 is turned OFF which pulls
the gate of Q1 HIGH hence turning Q1 ON and hence the LED 40 is ON.

                                                8
[0033]       "FUSE DETECT" is in normal operation an input to say a microcontroller
which reads back the state of the Q1 gate and hence the state of D1 (inverted).
However in cases mentioned above, "FUSE DETECT" could be a microcontroller
output which then disregards the state of Q2 and can force Q1 and hence D1
ON/OFF at will
[0034]       A reference herein to a patent document or other matter which is given as
prior art is not to be taken as an admission that that document or matter was known
or that the information it contains was part of the common general knowledge as at
the priority date of any of the disclosure or claims herein. Such discussion of prior art
in this specification is included to explain the context of the present invention in terms
of the inventor's knowledge and experience.
[0035]       Finally, it is to be understood that various alterations, modifications and/or
additions may be introduced into the constructions and arrangements of parts
previously described without departing from the ambit of the invention.

                                              9
Claims
1.     A controller adapted to be mounted in a vehicle or a towed vehicle and
adapted to be connected to a power source, the controller for controlling operation of
a plurality of loads via a plurality of channels connected to the loads, the controller
including for each channel:
       a fuse holder for connecting a fuse between the load and the power source;
and
       a monitoring circuit connected to the fuse holder for monitoring a status of the
fuse protecting the load, the detection circuit including:
                at least one switch activated by a change in status of the fuse in the
       fuse holder; and
                an indicator means for indicating the status of the fuse according to a
       state of the at least one switch.
2.     A controller as claimed in claim 1, wherein the at least one switch includes a
transistor Q2 connected to the fuse holder and a transistor Q1 connected to the
transistor Q2, such that the transistor Q2 turns the transistor Q1 ON if the fuse is not
present in the fuse holder or is blown, and the transistor Q2 turns the transistor Q1
OFF if the fuse is present in the fuse holder.
3.     A controller as claimed in claim 2, wherein the status of the fuse is indicated by
the indicator means according to a state of the gate of the transistor Q1.
4.     A controller as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 3, wherein the indicator
means includes a light-emitting diode (LED).
5.     A controller as claimed in claim 4, wherein the controller is further adapted to
control operation of the LED for each channel, overriding the detection circuit.

              10
                              Memory    Processor
                                                      22    34
                        14        18            20          22             22
                                               36
                                                                 36             36
                                                     16    16          16
         32
                                               11
                                                                                          <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706> <U+271D>
                                  28
1/2                                                                   15
                                   30
                   12
                                                                                     24
                                          13
                                                                26
      <removed-date>            <removed-apn>

                       <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
        38
<U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706>                                             2/2
             40
                  36

