A METHOD OF, AND A SYSTEM FOR, CONTROLLING A DRILLING OPERATION
                                          ABSTRACT
          A system 10 for controlling a drilling operation by a drill rig 12 includes a receiver
16 for receiving sensed data related to the drilling operation. A processor 18 is in
communication with the receiver 16, the processor 18 processing the sensed data to estimate
at least one geological property of interest of a zone 20 in which the drill rig 12 is active.
The processor 18 is configured to operate as a decision engine 22 to optimise the drilling
operation automatically by changing at least one drilling related parameter during the drilling
operation based on the at least one geological property of interest.

                  1/3
                   48       46
                             38
                            36
                                12         10
           28
                  4 2
    60 C)C40
              606                      \34    32
                      Eia~A                         14
                            000000             E~~]
              Fi8 21
440                                00
                                 000034

                                                   1
A METHOD OF, AND A SYSTEM FOR, CONTROLLING A DRILLING OPERATION
Cross-Reference to Related Applications
[0001]    The present application claims priority from Australian Provisional Patent
Application No. 2013901627 filed on 8 May 2013, International Patent Application
No. PCT/AU2014/000502 titled "A method of, and a system for, controlling a drilling
operation" and filed 7 May 2014 in the name of Technological Resources Pty Ltd, and
Australian Patent Application No. 2014262374 titled "A method of, and a system for,
controlling a drilling operation" and filed on 7 May 2014 in the name of Technological
Resources Pty Ltd, the entire contents of each of which are incorporated herein by reference.
Technical Field
[0002]    This disclosure relates, generally, to controlling a drill rig and, more particularly, to a
method of, and a system for, controlling a drilling operation. The disclosure has particular,
but not necessarily exclusive, application in controlling a drill rig for drilling blast holes on a
bench in an open cut mine. It will, however, be appreciated that the disclosure could apply to
the drilling of exploration holes or to the drilling of an array of holes in a mine face in
underground mines.
Background
[0003]    At present, automated drill rigs are used whether for autonomously drilling blast
holes in a drill bench of an open cut mine or in a mine face of underground mines. However,
operator oversight is required to monitor the state of drilling of the drill rig to ensure that the
measurement while drilling (MWD) data remains within specification. Reasons for the MWD
data falling outside specification include a worn drill bit, an incorrect drill bit for the
geological conditions or an incorrect drill bit for the required mode of drilling for the
geological conditions.
[0004]     Should the operator determine that the MWD data is outside specification, the
operator needs to determine if it is preferable to change the drill bit to provide improved
efficiency or to continue with the drilling operation with the current drill bit albeit with the
MWD data outside specification. The reason for this is that changing a drill bit is a relatively

                                                     2
time consuming process and any benefit that may be gained from changing the drill bit may be
outweighed by the time taken to do so.
Summary
[0005]    In one aspect, there is provided a method of controlling a drilling operation by a drill
rig, the method including
           sensing data related to the drilling operation;
          processing the sensed data to estimate at least one geological property of interest of a
zone in which the drill rig is active; and
          based on the at least one geological property of interest, automatically optimising the
drilling operation by changing at least one drilling related parameter during the drilling
operation.
[0006]    In this specification, the term "drilling related parameter" is to be understood, unless
the context clearly indicates otherwise, as being a parameter other than those mechanical drill
data of the drill rig that provide the sensed data and the "drilling related parameter" includes at
least one of a drill bit of a drill string of the drill rig and a drill model for the area to be drilled
by the drill rig. Further, the term "automatically" is to be understood, unless the context
clearly indicates otherwise, as being a system decision rather than an operator decision.
[0007]    The method may include selecting the data sensed from the group consisting of:
mechanical drill data (such as rotation speed, rotation direction, pull down speed, pull down
pressure, pull up speed, depth sensor, air pressure, water fluid flow rate, navigation position,
rotation pressure, bit pressure, or the like), geophysical data, geochemical data, and any
combination of the foregoing.
[0008]    The method may include providing the sensed data, via a communications link, to a
processor for processing the sensed data to estimate the at least one geological property of
interest, the at least one geological property of interest including strata boundaries and metrics
related to substrate hardness. The processor may be mounted on the drill rig or, instead, the
processor may be located remotely.

                                                  3
[0009] The method may include optimising the drilling operation in respect of at least one
specified criterion. The method may include selecting the at least one specified criterion from
the group consisting of: maximising rate of penetration of the drill bit or minimising time
taken to drill a hole, maximising bit life, maximising the rate of drilling the zone by changing
an order in which holes of a drill pattern for the zone are to be drilled, and any of combination
of the foregoing.
[0010]     The method may include optimising the drilling operation by modifying the operation
of the drill rig directly based on the data sensed. In addition, or instead, the method may
include optimising the drilling operation by updating a model of the drilling operation based
on the data sensed and controlling the drill rig using the updated model.
[0011] Where the at least one drilling related parameter to be changed includes changing the
drill bit of the drill rig, the method may include factoring in the time taken to change the drill
bit in determining whether or not such an action optimises the drilling operation.
[0012]     The method may include changing the drill bit in dependence on a mode of drilling of
the drill rig, for example, rotary or percussive drilling, selected to optimise the drilling
operation.
[0013]     In a second aspect, there is provided a system for controlling a drilling operation by a
drill rig, the system including
           a receiver for receiving sensed data related to the drilling operation;
           a processor in communication with the receiver, the processor processing the sensed
data to estimate at least one geological property of interest of a zone in which the drill rig is
active; and
           wherein the processor is configured to operate as a decision engine to optimise the
drilling operation automatically by changing at least one drilling related parameter during the
drilling operation based on the at least one geological property of interest.
[0014] The sensed data may be selected from the group consisting of: mechanical drill data,
geophysical data, geochemical data, and any combination of the foregoing.

                                                  4
[0015]     The system may include a communications link for providing the sensed data from
the receiver to the processor.
[0016]     The at least one geological property of interest may include strata boundaries and
metrics related to substrate hardness.
[0017]     The processor, operating as the decision engine, may be configured to optimise the
drilling operation for at least one specified criterion. The at least one specified criterion may
be selected from the group consisting of: maximising rate of penetration of the drill bit or
minimising time taken to drill a drill hole, maximising bit life, maximising the rate of drilling
the zone by changing an order in which holes of a drill pattern for the zone are to be drilled,
and any of combination of the foregoing.
[0018]     The processor may be configured, where the at least one drilling related parameter to
be changed includes changing the drill bit of the drill rig, to factor in the time taken to change
the drill bit in determining whether or not such an action optimises the drilling operation.
[0019]     The disclosure extends to software that, when installed on a computer, causes the
computer to perform the method as described above.
Brief Description of Drawings
[0020]     Embodiments of the disclosure are now described by way of example with reference
to the accompanying drawings in which:
[0021]     Fig. 1 shows a schematic representation of a drill rig and a system for controlling a
drilling operation carried out by the drill rig;
[0022]     Figs. 2 - 4 show screenshots of stages in an automated bit changing operation on a
drill rig; and
[0023]     Fig. 5 shows a flow chart of an embodiment of a method of controlling a drilling
operation by a drill rig.

                                                   5
Description of Embodiments
[0024]     In Fig. 1 of the drawings, reference numeral 10 generally designates a system for
controlling a drilling operation by a drill rig 12. The system 10 includes an operating system
 14 comprising various modules. In particular, the operating system 14 comprises a receiver
 16 for receiving sensed data relating to the drill rig 12 carrying out the drilling operation. The
receiver 16 is in communication with a processor 18. The processor 18 is operative to process
the sensed data to estimate at least one geological property of interest of a zone, such as a
mine bench, 20 in which the drilling rig 12 is active.
[0025]     The operating system 14 further includes a decision engine 22, configured as a part of
the processor 18, but shown as a separate module for description purposes, to optimise the
drilling operation by automatically changing at least one drilling related parameter during the
drilling operation based on the geological property, or properties, of interest.
[0026]     The operating system 14 also includes a geological model of the bench 20 to be
drilled which is stored in a database 24 and with which the processor 18 is in communication.
[0027]     The modules 16, 18 and 22 of the operating system 14 are implemented in software
and can either form part of a controller 26 of the drill rig 12 or may be arranged remotely from
the drill rig 12 communicating with the drill rig 12 via a communications link 28, typically a
wireless communications link.
[0028]     While the system 10 has been developed particularly for use in controlling a drill rig
 12 operative on a bench 20 of an open cut mine to drill a drill pattern 30 of blast holes 32 in
the bench 20, those skilled in the art will readily appreciate that the system 10 could be used in
other applications as well. Those other applications include, for example, drilling of sample
or exploration holes in the bench 20, drilling an array of blast holes in a mine face in an
underground mine, or the like. For ease of explanation, the disclosure will be described with
reference to its application to the drilling of blast holes 32 in the bench 20.
[0029]     The drill rig 12 includes a platform 34 which supports a drill mast 36. The drill mast
36 carries a drill string 38, an operatively lower end of which includes a replaceable drill bit
40. The drill mast 36 is pivotally arranged about a pivot point 42 on the platform 34 to pivot

                                                    6
to the position shown, for example, in Figs. 2-4 of the drawings to enable access to be gained
to the drill bit 40 for maintenance and/or replacement purposes. The drill rig 12 further
includes an auto bit changer module 44 carried by the platform 34 of the drill rig 12.
[0030] Further, the drill rig 12 includes a sensor pack, indicated schematically at 46 in the
drawings, which provides sensed data relating to the status of various mechanical drilling
parameters known as Measurement While Drilling (MWD) data and provides the sensed
MWD data to the receiver 16. The MWD data include: rotation speed of the drill bit 40,
rotation direction of the drill bit 40, pull down speed, pull down pressure, pull up speed, depth,
air pressure, water fluid flow rate, rotation pressure, bit pressure, or the like.
[0031] In addition, the drill rig 12 has a position determining sensor 48, such as a GPS unit,
for monitoring and locating the position of the drill rig 12 on the bench 20. The position
determining sensor 48 is, in an example, a high precision GPS (HPGPS) unit.
[0032]    The auto bit changer module 44 is shown schematically in Fig. 1 of the drawings to
be standing proud of the platform 34. However, this has been illustrated in this way purely for
description purposes. In practice, the auto bit changer module 44 is housed within the
platform 34 as shown more clearly in Figs. 2-4 of the drawings. The auto bit changer module
44 includes a cover member 46 (Figs. 3 and 4) covering a cradle 48. The cradle 48 comprises
a plurality of receptacles 50, in each of which a drill bit 40 is receivable.
[0033] In the illustrated embodiment, only two drill bits 40.1 and 40.2 (Fig. 4) are shown. It
will be appreciated that, if necessary, a greater number of drill bits 40 are able to be housed in
the cradle 48.
[0034] The cradle 48 is pivotally displaceable on the platform 34 to pivot into the position
shown in Figs. 3 and 4 of the drawings to align one of the receptacles 50 with the drill string
38 of the drill rig 12 when the mast 36 has been pivoted to expose the drill bit 40. In this
orientation, the drill bit 40 at the end of the drill string 38 can be received in that receptacle 50
in register with the drill bit 40 at the end of the drill string 38. An upstream end of each
receptacle 50 has a pair of opposed jaws 52. The jaws 52 engage opposed flats 54, one of
which is shown in Fig. 3 of the drawings, to restrain the drill bit 40, when received in its

                                                    7
receptacle 50, against rotation. By counter rotation of the drill string 38, the drill bit 40 is
disconnected from the drill string 38.
[0035]    The cradle 48 is displaceable laterally relative to the platform in the direction of
arrows 56. Thus, referring to Fig. 4 of the drawings, once the drill bit 40.1 has been
disconnected from the drill string 38, the cradle 48 is displaced laterally relative to the drill
string 38 so that a new drill bit 40.2 to be connected to the drill string 38 is brought into
alignment with the end of the drill string 38. Rotation of the drill string 38 relative to the drill
bit 40.2 connects the drill bit 40.2 to the drill string 38 for subsequent use.
[0036]    The cradle 48 carries either a plurality of drill bits 40 of the same type and/or a
plurality of different types of drill bits 40. In the former case, when one drill bit 40 becomes
worn, the worn drill bit can be replaced with a new drill bit to improve drilling efficiency. In
the latter case, the different types of drill bits cater for strata of different hardness to be drilled
in the bench 20 and/or to cater for different drilling modes, such as, for example, rotary
drilling versus percussive drilling. For example, the drill bit 40.1 may be suited for rotary
drilling operations with the drill bit 40.2 being used for percussive drilling operations.
[0037]    The auto bit changer module 44 is configured to operate automatically (as defined)
under control of the controller 26 of the drill rig 12.
[0038]    The platform 34 is supported on a pair of spaced tracks 58, one of which is shown in
Fig. 1 of the drawings. A jack 60 is arranged at each end of each track 58, the jacks 60
depending from the platform 34. In use, the jacks 60 are lowered relative to the platform 34
when a drilling operation is to be effected to raise the tracks 58 off a surface of the bench 30.
[0039]    The operating system 14 of the system 10 includes a user interface 62. The user
interface 62 comprises a display 64 on which the bench 20 and the position of the drill rig 12
on the bench 20 is displayed. The user interface 62 also includes various inputting devices
such as a keyboard 66, other pointing devices (not shown) and/or touch screen facilities on the
display 64. The user interface 62 receives input from the processor 18 of the operating system
14 as well as, if necessary, from an operator of the operating system 14.

                                                  8
[0040] Referring more particularly to Fig. 5 of the drawings, a method of controlling
operation of the drill rig 12 is now described in greater detail.
[0041] As shown at step 68, the sensor pack 46 of the drill rig 12 senses the MWD data
which, together with the position information sensed by the sensor 48, are made available to
the processor 18 via the receiver 16. In addition, where the drill rig 12 is equipped with
suitable sensors (not shown), geophysical data and geochemical data are also sensed by the
sensor pack 46 with the geophysical data and geochemical data being made available to the
processor 18 via the receiver 16.
[0042]     Once the processor 18 has received the sensed data from the receiver 16, the
processor 18 processes the received data to estimate geological properties of interest as shown
at step 70 in Fig. 5 of the drawings. The geological properties of interest include boundaries,
more particularly, geological boundaries between strata in the substrate of the bench 20 and
metrics proportional to hardness of the substrate being drilled by the drill rig 12.
[0043]    Based on the processed data and the estimated geological properties of interest, the
decision engine 22 of the processor 18 then determines whether or not the drilling operation
being carried out by the drill rig 12 is able to be optimised by changing at least one drilling
related parameter during the drilling operation as shown at step 72 in Fig. 5 of the drawings.
The decision engine 22 considers changing at least one of two parameters in determining
whether or not the drilling operation is able to be optimised. The first parameter is changing
the drill bit 40 and whether or not doing so would optimise the drilling operation and the
second parameter which is considered by the decision engine 22 is an order in which the blast
holes 32 of the drill pattern 30 are drilled and, whether or not changing the order of drilling
the blast holes, based on the geological properties of interest which have been estimated by
the processor 18, would optimise the drilling operation.
[0044] As will be appreciated, it is a time consuming operation to change the drill bit 40,
whether automatically or manually, since the drill string 38 must be raised out of the hole
being drilled, the mast 36 pivoted to the position shown in Figs. 2-4 of the drawings, the auto
bit changer module 44 activated and the drill bit 40 replaced. Hence, as shown at step 74 in
Fig. 5 of the drawings, the decision engine 22 factors into its decision the time taken to change

                                                   9
the drill bit on the drill rig 12 in determining whether or not the drilling operation can be
optimised.
[0045] If a determination is made that a more efficient drilling operation can be effected by
way of changing the drill bit 40, the operating system 14 instructs the controller 26 to change
the drill bit 40 as shown at step 76 in Fig. 5 of the drawings. This is an entirely automatic
operation without operator intervention.
[0046]     Once the drill bit 40 has been changed as shown at step 76 or a decision has been
made by the decision engine 22 to continue with the drilling operation without replacing the
drill bit 40, the drilling operation continues as shown at step 78 and, once the entire drill
pattern 30 has been drilled in the bench 20, the drilling operation ends as shown at step 80.
[0047] The system 10 optimises drilling by the drill rig 12 to maximise a metric or metrics
of interest as described above. In one embodiment, the system 10 optimises the drilling
operation to maximise a rate of penetration of the drill bit 40 through the substrate of the
bench 20 or, in other words, to minimise the time taken to drill a blast hole 32 in the bench 20.
This is done by automatically selecting the most appropriate drill bit 40 for the geological
properties of interest of the bench 20 as well as the drilling mode which is optimal for that
geology. As indicated above, the geological properties of interest are determined by the
MWD data, measured by the sensor pack 46 of the drill rig 12.
[0048] The MWD data are used directly in controlling the drill rig 12 via the processor 18.
Instead, the MWD data are loaded into the model contained in the database 24 and the model
is updated with the MWD data to be used by the processor 18 in controlling operation of the
drill rig 12, as indicated at 82 in Fig. 5 of the drawings. As indicated above, one of the
considerations in determining whether or not to change the drill bit 40 is factoring in the time
taken automatically to perform any change of drill bit.
[0049] In another embodiment, the system 10 is operative to optimise the drilling mode and
bit selection based on the MWD data from the sensor pack 46 and /or data in the model in the
database 24, optionally suitably updated with the MWD data, to maximise drill bit life.

                                                   10
[0050]    In a further embodiment, the system 10 is configured to optimise the drilling
operation by changing the order in which the holes 32 of the drill pattern 30 are to be drilled in
the bench 20 and burden based on the MWD data from the sensor pack 46 or the model
contained in the database 24, optionally suitably updated with the MWD data from the sensor
pack 46. This is shown at step 84 in Fig. 5 of the drawings. As an example, the processor 18
may determine that, as a result of the updated model, it would be more efficient to drill all
holes in softer strata rather than harder strata first, or vice versa, rather than alternating
between hard and soft strata with the associated required bit changes. Conversely, the
processor 18 may determine that the time taken to change bits may be less than the time taken
to tram sequentially to all hole locations in harder or softer strata, as the case may be, and may
alter the drilling operation accordingly.
[0051]    If the processor 18 determines that the hole order should be altered this is done by
reprogramming a tramming program of the drill rig 12 as shown at step 86 following which
the drilling operation continues as previously described and as shown at step 78.
[0052]    In still a further embodiment, the system 10 is configured to optimise the drilling
operation carried out by the drill rig 12 by a combination of changes, i.e., changing drill bit,
drill mode and hole order to optimise drilling of the bench 20.
[0053]    At present, a hole pattern 30 is drilled in the bench 20 using an automated drill rig
with or without an auto bit changing module. However, an operator is still required to
determine whether or not a drill bit should be changed in order to optimise the drilling
operation based on MWD data received. Thus, operator intervention is still required.
However, with the provision of the system 10, the need for operator intervention is obviated
and the decision to change at least one drilling related parameter such as changing a drill bit
and/or hole order of the pattern, is effected automatically resulting in improved drilling
efficiencies and optimisation of the drilling operation.
[0054]    It will also be appreciated that updating the model with the MWD data results in a
more accurate geological model which has benefits in the subsequent charging of the blast
holes with the required recipe of explosives. In other words, it enables the desired blast
pattern to be achieved to be assessed more accurately and given effect to.

                                                 11
[0055]    It will be appreciated by persons skilled in the art that numerous variations and/or
modifications may be made to the above-described embodiments, without departing from the
broad general scope of the present disclosure. The present embodiments are, therefore, to be
considered in all respects as illustrative and not restrictive.
FurtherEmbodiments
[0056]    One embodiment provides a method of controlling a drilling operation by a drill rig,
the method including:-sensing data related to the drilling operation;
          processing the sensed data to estimate at least one geological property of interest of a
zone in which the drill rig is active; and
          based on the at least one geological property of interest, automatically optimising the
drilling operation by changing at least one drilling related parameter during the drilling
operation.
[0057]    In one arrangement, the method includes selecting the data sensed from the group
consisting of: mechanical drill data, geophysical data, geochemical data, and any combination
of the foregoing.
[0058]    In one arrangement, the method includes providing the sensed data, via a
communications link, to a processor for processing the sensed data to estimate the at least one
geological property of interest, the at least one geological property of interest including
boundaries and metrics related to substrate hardness.
[0059]    In one arrangement, the method includes optimising the drilling operation in respect
of at least one specified criterion.
[0060]    In one arrangement, the method includes selecting the at least one specified criterion
from the group consisting of: maximising rate of penetration of the drill bit or minimising time
taken to drill a hole, maximising bit life, maximising the rate of drilling the zone by changing
an order in which holes of a drill pattern for the zone are to be drilled, and any of combination
of the foregoing.
[0061]    In one arrangement, the method includes optimising the drilling operation by
modifying the operation of the drill rig directly based on the data sensed.

                                                  12
[0062]    In one arrangement, the method includes optimising the drilling operation by
updating a model of the drilling operation based on the data sensed and controlling the drill rig
using the updated model.
[0063]    In one arrangement, the at least one drilling related parameter to be changed includes
changing the drill bit of the drill rig, the method includes factoring in the time taken to change
the drill bit in determining whether or not such an action optimises the drilling operation.
[0064]    In one arrangement, the method includes changing the drill bit in dependence on a
mode of drilling of the drill rig selected to optimise the drilling operation.
[0065]    Another embodiment provides a system for controlling a drilling operation by a drill
rig, the system including:
           a receiver for receiving sensed data related to the drilling operation;
           a processor in communication with the receiver, the processor processing the sensed
data to estimate at least one geological property of interest of a zone in which the drill rig is
active; and
           wherein the processor is configured to operate as a decision engine to optimise the
drilling operation automatically by changing at least one drilling related parameter during the
drilling operation based on the at least one geological property of interest.
[0066]    In one arrangement, the sensed data is selected from the group consisting of:
mechanical drill data, geophysical data, geochemical data, and any combination of the
foregoing.
[0067]    In one arrangement, the system includes a communications link for providing the
sensed data from the receiver to the processor.
[0068]    In one arrangement, the at least one geological property of interest includes strata
boundaries and metrics related to substrate hardness.
[0069]    In one arrangement, the processor, operating as the decision engine, is configured to
optimise the drilling operation for at least one specified criterion.

                                                 13
[0070] In one arrangement, the at least one specified criterion is selected from the group
consisting of: maximising rate of penetration of the drill bit or minimising time taken to drill a
hole, maximising bit life, maximising the rate of drilling the zone by changing an order in
which holes of a drill pattern for the zone are to be drilled, and any of combination of the
foregoing.
[0071] In one arrangement, the processor is configured, where the at least one drilling
related parameter to be changed includes changing the drill bit of the drill rig, to factor in the
time taken to change the drill bit in determining whether or not such an action optimises the
drilling operation.
[0072]    In one arrangement, software that, when installed on a computer, causes the computer
to perform the system described above.

                                                  14
The claims defining the invention are as follows:
1.      A method of controlling a drilling operation by a drill rig, the method including:
        sensing data related to the drilling operation;
        processing the sensed data to estimate at least one geological property of interest of a
zone in which the drill rig is active; and
        based on the at least one geological property of interest, automatically optimising the
drilling operation by changing at least one drilling related parameter during the drilling
operation.
2.      The method of claim 1 which includes selecting the data sensed from the group
consisting of: mechanical drill data, geophysical data, geochemical data, and any combination
of the foregoing.
3.      The method of claim 1 or claim 2 which includes providing the sensed data, via a
communications link, to a processor for processing the sensed data to estimate the at least one
geological property of interest, the at least one geological property of interest including
boundaries and metrics related to substrate hardness.
4.      The method of any one of the preceding claims which includes optimising the drilling
operation in respect of at least one specified criterion.
5.      The method of claim 4 which includes selecting the at least one specified criterion
from the group consisting of: maximising rate of penetration of the drill bit or minimising time
taken to drill a hole, maximising bit life, maximising the rate of drilling the zone by changing
an order in which holes of a drill pattern for the zone are to be drilled, and any of combination
of the foregoing.
6.      The method of any one of the preceding claims which includes optimising the drilling
operation by modifying the operation of the drill rig directly based on the data sensed.
7.      The method of any one of the preceding claims which includes optimising the drilling
operation by updating a model of the drilling operation based on the data sensed and
controlling the drill rig using the updated model.

                                                   15
8.       The method of any one of the preceding claims in which, where the at least one drilling
related parameter to be changed includes changing the drill bit of the drill rig, the method
includes factoring in the time taken to change the drill bit in determining whether or not such
an action optimises the drilling operation.
9.       The method of claim 8 which includes changing the drill bit in dependence on a mode
of drilling of the drill rig selected to optimise the drilling operation.
10.      A system for controlling a drilling operation by a drill rig, the system including:
         a receiver for receiving sensed data related to the drilling operation;
         a processor in communication with the receiver, the processor processing the sensed
data to estimate at least one geological property of interest of a zone in which the drill rig is
active; and
         wherein the processor is configured to operate as a decision engine to optimise the
drilling operation automatically by changing at least one drilling related parameter during the
drilling operation based on the at least one geological property of interest.
11.      The system of claim 10 in which the sensed data is selected from the group consisting
of: mechanical drill data, geophysical data, geochemical data, and any combination of the
foregoing.
12.      The system of claim 10 or claim 11 which includes a communications link for
providing the sensed data from the receiver to the processor.
13.      The system of any one of claims 10 to 12 in which the at least one geological property
of interest includes strata boundaries and metrics related to substrate hardness.
14.      The system of any one of claims 10 to 13 in which the processor, operating as the
decision engine, is configured to optimise the drilling operation for at least one specified
criterion.
15.      The system of claim 14 in which the at least one specified criterion is selected from the
group consisting of: maximising rate of penetration of the drill bit or minimising time taken to
drill a hole, maximising bit life, maximising the rate of drilling the zone by changing an order

                                                  16
in which holes of a drill pattern for the zone are to be drilled, and any of combination of the
foregoing.
16.      The system of any one of claims 10 to 15 in which the processor is configured, where
the at least one drilling related parameter to be changed includes changing the drill bit of the
drill rig, to factor in the time taken to change the drill bit in determining whether or not such
an action optimises the drilling operation.
17.      Software that, when installed on a computer, causes the computer to perform the
method of any one of claims 1 to 9.
                            Technological Resources Pty Ltd
                                 By Patent Attorneys for the Applicant
                                      ©KCOTTERS
                                   Patent & Trade Mark Attorneys

<removed-date>
                           1/3
                                                              (   10
<removed-apn>
                                                              32
                                                                       30
              16   18     22          6, V V V LP
                                      0
                                      0
                                          0 0 0 0 0
                                          0 0 0
                                                      0 0 0
                                                      0 0 0
                                                                             28
                                      0   000QQ       00 0
                                      0   0 0         0 0 0
                                                                        20
                   24            64                               4--r— 62
                                 12
                                                                        66
                        Fig. 1                                          '14
                        Fia. 2

       <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
Fig.                         2/3
3

<removed-date>
                                                         3/3
                                                   Start
                                                    4r
                                         Sense data relating to            68
                                           drilling procedure
<removed-apn>
                8?
                  1                         Process data to                70
                      1                   estimate geological
              r    1      – ---+ — —
              I Update geological 1
                                          properties of interest
              Imodel of area being I                 ,,
                     drilled _ — I           Optimise drilling   _________.-72
               __ _
                           ____ _ _      operation to maximise
                                       ~~
                                          at least one specified
                                                 criterion
                             74                                                          76
                                                Improved
                                             optimisation by
                                                                                       /
                                                                           Change drill bit
                                              changing drill
                                                   bit
                             84                                                          86
                                                 Improved
                                        optimisation by changing                 Change hole
                                       order of holes to be drilled                 order
                                              in drill pattern
                             78
                                             Continue with
                                            drilling operation
                                                                      80
                                                   End
                                                   Fig. 5

