                                                18
                                            Abstract
                              (To be accompanied by Figure 4)
  A spray head (100) has an inlet (4) in fluid communication with a plurality of nozzles (15).
5 The nozzles (15) are adapted to produce, in use, a jet of fluid (16) which is directed toward a
  respective impingement surface portion (22). The jet of fluid (16) impacts on the respective
  impingement surface portion (22) and breaks into a stream of droplets 23. The stream of
  droplets (23) has an elongate transverse cross-section.

                     2/11
               A7          11 12
 10       A/13                   5          2 3
 6                               54
22
                                     Fig. 3
    12 12   14    12      11
             10
             15
             20                     Fig. 4

                                                       1
                                              SHOWER HEAD
   The present invention relates to spray heads for producing a spray of fluid and may have
   particular application to a shower head.
 5
   Background to the Invention
   Shower heads of the prior art are typically provided with a plurality of apertures from which a
   stream of water issues. A problem with such shower heads of the prior art is that they often do
10 not provide a satisfactory spray when used at low flow rates.
   The applicant has discovered that many users prefer the sensation of much smaller droplets of
   water than are created by the shower heads of the prior art. The applicant's International
   Publication No. W02004/101163 describes a shower head which has groups of two or more
15 nozzles which are arranged such that jets of water issuing from the nozzles collide and break
   into smaller droplets. This arrangement works well, and is particularly advantageous when used
   at low flow rates.
   Another method used by the prior art to create smaller droplets is to direct the stream of water
20 from each nozzle onto a surface of the shower head so that it breaks up into relatively small
   droplets. However, a problem with many prior art shower heads of this type is that they either
   provide a spray pattern which is too small, or one which has a central area which has little or no
   coverage.
25 Object
    It is an object of the present invention to provide a spray head and/or a showerhead which will
   overcome or ameliorate problems with such spray heads/showerheads at present, or which will
   at least provide a useful choice.
30
   Brief Summary of the Invention
   According to one aspect of the present invention there is provided a spray head comprising an
   inlet in fluid communication with a plurality of nozzles, each nozzle adapted to produce, in use, a
   jet of fluid which is directed toward a respective impingement surface portion, wherein each jet

                                                       2
   of fluid impacts on the respective impingement surface portion and breaks into a stream of
   droplets, each stream of droplets having an elongate transverse cross-section.
   Preferably the angle between the jet of fluid and the respective impingement surface portion is
 5 between 10 degrees and 40 degrees.
   Preferably the jet of fluid impacts on the impingement surface portion between 1mm and 14mm
   from an edge of the impingement surface portion.
10 Preferably each stream of droplets travels through an aperture in the spray head.
   Preferably the streams of droplets are substantially unimpeded by the aperture.
   Preferably the aperture comprises a slot.
15
   Preferably the aperture has a width of substantially 3mm or less.
   Preferably the elongate transverse cross section of each stream of droplets has a longitudinal
   axis, and the longitudinal axes of at least two of the streams of droplets are substantially parallel
20 to each other.
   Preferably the longitudinal axes of each said stream of droplets are substantially parallel.
   Preferably each said stream of droplets has a geometric centreline, and the geometric
25 centrelines of at least two of the streams of droplets are substantially parallel to each other.
   Preferably each said stream of droplets has a geometric centreline, and the geometric
   centrelines of at least two of the streams of droplets are substantially divergent.
30 Preferably a plurality of said impingement surface portions form part of a single impingement
   surface.
   Preferably each said impingement surface portion is part of a single impingement surface.
35 Preferably the spray head comprises a first set of a plurality of nozzles and a second set of a
   plurality of nozzles, each nozzle in the first set of nozzles directed towards a respective first
   impingement surface portion and each nozzle in the second set of nozzles directed towards a
   respective second impingement surface portion, wherein, in use, jets of fluid issuing from the

                                                        3
   nozzles impact on the respective impingement surface portions and break into a stream of
   droplets, wherein the nozzles and impingement surface portions are configured such that the
   geometric centrelines of the streams of droplets from the first impingement surface portions
   converge, and the geometric centrelines of the streams of droplets from the second
 5 impingement surface portions are non-convergent.
   Preferably the geometric centrelines of the streams of droplets from the second impingement
   surface portions are substantially parallel.
10 Preferably the geometric centrelines of the streams of droplets from the second impingement
   surface portions are substantially divergent.
   Preferably the geometric centrelines of the streams of droplets from the second impingement
   surface portions are substantially parallel, and the spray head comprises a third set of a plurality
15 of nozzles, each nozzle in the third set of nozzles directed towards a respective third
   impingement surface portion, wherein, in use, jets of fluid issuing from the third set of nozzles
   impact on the respective impingement surface portions and break into a stream of droplets,
   wherein the third set of nozzles and impingement surface portions are configured such that the
   geometric centrelines of the streams of droplets are substantially divergent.
20
   Preferably the nozzles are arranged along a notional curved line, the nozzles arranged such
   that a jet of fluid issuing, in use, from at least some of said nozzles has a direction which
   includes a component which is substantially tangential to the notional curved line.
25
   Preferably the nozzles are arranged along a notional curved line, and wherein the elongate
   transverse cross section of each stream of droplets has a longitudinal axis, and the longitudinal
   axis of each stream of droplets is non-tangential to the notional curved line.
30 Preferably the notional curved line is substantially elliptical or semi-elliptical.
   Preferably the notional curved line is substantially circular or semi-circular.
   Preferably the notional curved line is a simple closed curve.
35
   Preferably the spray head comprises an outer housing having an annular portion and a handle
   portion.

                                                      4
   Preferably the spray head comprises an annular body engaged with the annular portion of the
   housing, wherein the nozzles are defined by apertures in the annular body.
   Preferably the spray head comprises an impingement surface member engaged with the
 5 annular housing.
   Preferably the slot is defined in part by the annular body.
   According to a second aspect of the present invention there is provided a spray head
10 comprising a plurality of spray stream generating formations arranged along a notional curved
   line, each spray stream generating formation adapted to produce a stream of droplets in use,
   each stream of droplets having an elongate transverse cross-section which has a longitudinal
   axis, wherein the longitudinal axis of each said stream of droplets is non-tangential to the
   notional curved line.
15
   According to a third aspect of the present invention there is provided a spray head comprising a
   plurality of spray stream generating formations arranged along a notional curved line, each
   spray stream generating formation adapted to produce a stream of droplets in use, each stream
   of droplets having a geometric centreline and an elongate transverse cross-section, wherein a
20 first portion of the spray streams have convergent geometric centrelines and a second portion of
   the spray streams have non-convergent geometric centrelines.
   According to a fourth aspect of the present invention there is provided a spray head comprising
   a plurality of nozzles, each nozzle adapted to produce, in use, a jet of fluid which is directed
25 toward a respective impingement surface portion, wherein each jet of fluid impacts on the
   impingement surface portion and breaks into a stream of droplets.
   According to a further aspect of the present invention there is provided a shower head
   substantially as herein described with reference to any one or more of the accompanying
30 figures.
   The invention may also be said broadly to consist in the parts, elements and features referred to
   or indicated in the specification of the application, individually or collectively, in any or all
   combinations of two or more of said parts, elements or features, and where specific integers are
35 mentioned herein which have known equivalents in the art to which the invention relates, such
   known equivalents are deemed to be incorporated herein as if individually set forth.

                                                   5
   Brief Description of the Figures
   Figure 1      is a perspective view of a shower head according to one embodiment of the
 5               invention.
   Figure 2      is an exploded perspective view of the shower head of Figure 1.
   Figure 3      is a side view of the shower head of Figure 1 with a section of the housing
                 removed to show the annular body.
   Figure 4      is an enlarged view of section A of Figure 3, with the shower head in use.
10 Figure 5       is a schematic view of a stream of droplets from an impingement surface portion.
   Figure 6a     is a diagrammatic front view of the annular portion of the shower head showing
                 droplet streams issuing from one embodiment of the present invention.
   Figure 6b     is a diagrammatic side view of the embodiment shown in Figure 6a showing the
                 geometric centres of the streams of droplets generated.
15 Figure 7a     is a diagrammatic front view of the annular portion of the shower head of another
                 embodiment of the present invention, showing the droplet streams issuing from
                 one impingement surface portion, the other droplets streams having been omitted
                 for clarity.
   Figure 7b     is a diagrammatic side view of the embodiment shown in Figure 7b showing the
20               stream of droplets.
   Figure 8a     is a diagrammatic perspective view of an alternative version of the embodiment
                 shown in Figure 7a and 7b, with the droplet streams represented
                 diagrammatically as flat "fans".
   Figure 8b     is a diagrammatic front view of the version shown in Figure 8a.
25 Figure 9      is a diagrammatic perspective view of a further embodiment of the invention, with
                 the droplet streams represented diagrammatically as flat "fans".
   Figure 10     is a diagrammatic perspective view of another embodiment of the invention, with
                 the droplet streams represented diagrammatically as flat "fans".
   Figure 11     is a diagrammatic perspective view of a still further embodiment of the invention,
30               with the droplet streams represented diagrammatically as flat "fans".

                                                       6
   Figure 12        is a top perspective view of an alternative embodiment of the shower head shown
                    in Figures 1 to 4.
   Figure 13        is a perspective view from beneath of the shower head shown in Figure 12.
   Figure 14        is an exploded perspective view of the shower head shown in Figure 12.
 5 Figure 15        is a cross-section side view of the shower head shown in Figure 12.
   Figure 16a       is a diagrammatic perspective view of a jet of water directed at an impingement
                    surface portion having a concave profile.
   Figure 16b       is a diagrammatic perspective view of a jet of water directed at an impingement
                    surface portion having a convex profile.
10 Figure 16c       is a diagrammatic perspective view of a jet of water directed at an impingement
                    surface portion having an undulating profile.
   Figure 17        is a diagrammatic longitudinal cross-section view of a curved impingement
                    surface portion.
   Figure 18        is a further enlarged view of the area A of Figure 4.
15 Best Modes for Performing the Invention
   Referring first to Figures 1, 2, 3 and 4, a spray head which is adapted for use as a shower head
   according to one embodiment of the present invention is generally referenced by arrow 100. In
   the embodiment shown the shower head comprises an outer housing 1. The housing 1 has a
20 handle portion 2 provided which defines an internal conduit 3. The conduit 3 has an inlet 4 and
   an outlet 5.
   The housing has an annular portion 6 inside which an annular body 7 is engaged. The radially
   outer surface 9 of the body 7 is provided with an annular groove 10. Sealing means, typically
25 O-ring seals 11, may be provided on either side of the annular groove 10. Alternatively the
   annular body may be fixed to the housing in a watertight manner through the use of a suitable
   adhesive or welding technique.
   A plurality of apertures 12 extend from a wall 13 of the annular groove 10 to a radially extending
30 wall 14 of the annular body 7. The apertures 12 define nozzles 15 (best seen in Figure 4) for
   creating jets of fluid 16 when the annular groove 10 is supplied with pressurised fluid.

                                                       7
    In a preferred embodiment a spray head which has been optimised to provide a 9 litre/minute
   total flow rate may be provided with between 10 and 20 apertures 12, more preferably around
    15 apertures. The apertures 12 have a diameter between 0.8mm and 2mm if circular, although
   other dimensions providing substantially the same cross-sectional area may be used if non
 5 circular apertures are used. In some embodiments the apertures may be elongate slits, for
   example curved elongate slits. Spray heads which are designed to provide greater overall flow
   rates may have an increased number of apertures 12. However, if the total cross-section of the
   apertures 12 is too large and the velocity of the water flowing through the apertures 12 is too
   low then the resulting spray may be less pleasant for the user.
10
   Referring next to Figures 2, 3, 4 and 5, each nozzle 15 is shaped and dimensioned to direct a
   jet of fluid 16 onto a portion of an impingement surface 20 provided by a radially inner surface
   21 of the annular portion 6 of the housing 1. The configuration of the impingement surface
   portion 22 which the jet of fluid 16 impinges on is such as to cause the jet to radiate outward, to
15 flow to the trailing edge of the surface and to break into a stream of droplets 23. The stream of
   droplets is preferably relatively wide relative to its thickness, and in preferred embodiment
   appears as a substantially flat "fan" of water droplets.
   The jet of fluid 16 typically impinges on the surface portion 22 at an angle of between around
20  10*- 40* most preferably around 25*. Lower angles provide a narrower, more forceful spray
   with larger droplets, and higher angles provide a wider, softer, less controllable spray with
   smaller droplets.
   The jet of fluid 16 preferably impinges on the surface portions between 1mm and 14mm from
25 the lower or trailing edge 19 of the surface, most preferably around 2mm. It is preferred that the
   jet impinge close to the edge of the surface so as to reduce the amount of energy the water flow
   loses to friction as it flows over the surface portion. As is described further below, the
   impingement surface portion 22 may be substantially flat, or may be curved along one or two
   axes.
30
   As is best seen in Figure 5, the stream of droplets 23 from each impingement surface portion
   typically has an elongate transverse cross section 24, for example an elongate ellipse. The
   elongate cross-section 24 has a longitudinal axis 25 which is parallel to the "plane" of the stream
   of droplets. The stream of droplets 23 also has a geometric centreline 26, as shown.
35

                                                      8
   As is described further below, the configuration of nozzle 15 and its associated impingement
   surface portion 22 may be varied to in order to vary the angle of the geometric centreline 26 of
   the stream of droplets 23, the width of the stream of droplets 23 and the orientation of the
   longitudinal axis 25.
 5
   Those skilled in the art will appreciate that orientation of the longitudinal axis 25 of each stream
   of droplets is a function of both the orientation of the jet of water created by the respective
   nozzle 15, and the orientation of the respective impingement surface portion 22. A number of
   different combinations of water jet orientation and impingement surface portion orientation may
10 be used to create a stream of droplets having substantially the same geometric centreline
   orientation and/or longitudinal axis orientation. However, the stream of droplets produced is
   preferably substantially coplanar with the portion of the impingement surface which is adjacent
   the trailing edge of the impingement surface portion. That is, the spray does not rebound off the
   surface portion to any great extent, but rather flows along it to the trailing edge.
15
   Referring next to Figures 6a and 6b, in one embodiment the shower head 100 is provided with a
   first group of nozzles (not shown) and respective impingement surface portions 22a which are
   configured to create streams of droplets 23a which have diverging geometric centres 26a.
20 A second group of nozzles (not shown) and respective impingement surface portions (not
   shown) are configured to create streams of droplets 23b which have substantially parallel
   geometric centrelines 26b.
   A third group of nozzles (not shown) and respective impingement surface portions 22c are
25 configured to create streams of droplets 23c which have substantially converging geometric
   centrelines 26c.
   In this way the overall spray pattern created by the shower head does not have an area in the
   centre which is substantially not covered, even in embodiments where the shower head has a
30 substantially annular shape, as shown in Figures 1-8.
   As is explained above, a number of different combinations of water jet orientation and
   impingement surface portion orientation may be used to create a stream of droplets having
   substantially the same geometric centreline orientation and/or longitudinal axis orientation.

                                                      9
   Correspondingly, variations in the orientation of the geometric centreline may be created by
   varying the orientation of the water jet, the impingement surface portion, or both.
    In some versions of the embodiment shown in Figures 6a and 6b the angle of the jets created
 5 by the nozzles in each group of nozzles may be substantially rotationally symmetrical around
   the centreline of the annular shower head, with the diverging, parallel and converging
   characteristics of the different streams of droplets 23a, 23b, 23c being created by differing
   orientations of the respective impingement surface portions 22a, 22c.
10  In other versions the various impingement surface portions may be rotationally symmetrical
   about the centreline of the annular shower head, with the variations in the spray pattern
   produced being a result of differences in the orientation of the water jets. In some embodiments
   some or all of the respective impingement surface portions may be parts of a single
   substantially continuous impingement surface.
15
    In another embodiment of the invention, shown in Figures 7a and 7b, the orientation of the
   geometric centreline 26 of each stream of droplets 23 may be substantially rotationally
   symmetrical about the centre of the annular shower head. However, the orientation of the
   impingement surface portions 22 (obscured behind narrow apertures in the face of the spray
20 head) may be non-parallel to a tangent T to a notional curve C on which the impingement
   surface portions 22 lie. This orientation of the impingement surface portions means that the
   longitudinal axis 25 of each droplet stream 23 is also non-tangential to the curve C. In this way
   at least part of each stream of droplets 23 is directed towards a centre of the notional curve.
25
   Figures 8a and 8b show another example of an embodiment which is similar to that described
   above with reference to Figures 7a and 7b. In Figures 8a and 8b the droplet streams are shown
   diagrammatically as two dimensional sprays or "fans" of water, although those skilled in the art
   will appreciate that the droplet stream will in practice have a thickness, albeit a thickness which
30 is much smaller than the width dimension.
    In the embodiment shown in Figures 8a and 8b the longitudinal axis 25 of each stream 23 is
   parallel to a tangent of the curve on which the nozzles lie. The streams are directed so that the
   geometric centreline of each stream of droplets has a direction component in the tangential
35 direction, and a direction component toward the centre of the circular housing (that is, the centre

                                                     10
   of the droplet stream is directed slightly inward and sideways), as best seen in Figure 8b. In this
   way, one side of each stream of droplets is directed towards the interior of the overall spray
   pattern created. In this embodiment the impingement surface portions (not shown) are
   substantially tangential to the notional curve C, with the trailing edge of the surface portions
 5 angled slightly inward in order to impart the inward direction component to droplet stream. The
   nozzles (not shown) are configured to create jets of fluid which have a directional component
   which is tangential to the notional curve.
   Referring next to Figure 9, an alternative embodiment of a showerhead according to the present
10 invention is generally referenced by arrow 200.
   The shower head 200 has an elongate body 30. A plurality of nozzles are provided (not shown).
   The nozzles are arranged in a substantially collinear pattern.
15 The nozzles direct jets of water towards respective impingement surfaces 22, in order to create
   streams of droplets 23. As with the embodiments described above, the streams of droplets 23
   have elongate cross-sections.
   In the embodiment shown, the longitudinal axes 25 of the elongate cross-sections of the
20 streams of droplets 23 are substantially parallel with each other, although in alternative
   embodiments they may be non-parallel. The elongate axes 25 are substantially orthogonal to a
   notional line on which the water nozzles are arranged.
   The streams of droplets 23 also have geometric centrelines 26 which in the embodiment shown
25 in Figure 9 are also substantially parallel.
   Referring next to Figure 10, a variation of the embodiment shown in Figure 9 is generally
   referenced by arrow 201. This embodiment varies from the embodiment shown in Figure 9 in
   that the geometric centrelines 26 of the streams of droplets are divergent rather than parallel.
30
   Referring next to Figure 11, a variation of the embodiment shown in Figure 10 is generally
   referenced by arrow 202. In this embodiment the longitudinal axes 25 are rotated 90 degrees
   so that the "planes" of the droplet streams are substantially parallel to the notional line on which
   the nozzles lie. The geometric centrelines 26 are also divergent, as they are in the embodiment
35 shown in Figure 10.

                                                     11
   Referring next to Figures 12-15, a variation of the embodiment shown in Figures 1-4 is generally
   referenced by arrow 300. In this embodiment, a conduit member 27 is provided within the
   handle portion 2. The conduit member 27 is provided with an inlet 4 and an outlet 5. The outlet
 5 5 is sealed to an inlet 28 in the annular body 29. In this embodiment the annular body 29
   comprises a main annular body 30 and a cap 31. The main annular body 30 has an internal
   conduit 32 which connects the inlet 28 with the nozzles 15. In contrast to the embodiments
   shown in Figures 1-4, the outer housing 1 is not subject to water pressure, and so be made of
   less strong material that the annular body 29 and the conduit member 27. In one embodiment
10 the outer housing 1 may be made of ABS plastic. The annular body 29 and the conduit member
   27 are preferably made from a suitable polyester polymer or a PPO/PS blend.
    In the embodiment shown in Figures 12-15 the impingement surface portions 22 may be
   provided on a separate impingement surface member 33. This may allow the impingement
15 surface member 33 to be manufactured from a different material to the outer housing 1 and/or
   the annular member 29. For example, in one embodiment the impingement surface member 33
   may be manufactured from a material which is substantially hydrophobic, for example PTFE.
   This may assist in preventing large droplets from agglomerating. In another embodiment the
   impingement surface member 33 may be manufactured from an elastomeric material such as
20 silicone or a thermoplastic elastomer, which will deform slightly under the pressure of the water
   jets. This deformation may assist in reducing limescale buildup on the impingement surface
   portions.
   Referring next to Figures 16a-16c, the applicant has found that in some embodiments it is
25 advantageous for the impingement surface portion to be curved in the longitudinal and/or
   transverse directions. The impingement surface portion 22 may be substantially concave in
   transverse cross-section, as shown in Figure 16a, convex in transverse cross-section, as shown
   in Figure 16b, or may have an undulating transverse cross-section, as shown in Figure 16c. In
   each case, the transverse cross-section of the stream of droplets 23 produced has a shape
30 substantially corresponding to the contour of the impingement surface portion. Impingement
   surface portions 22 having the profile shown in Figures 16a-16c may be used in any of the
   embodiments described above. In some embodiments a combination of curved and
   substantially flat impingement surface portions may be used. In other embodiments just one
   type of curved profile may be used, while in still further embodiments a mixture of curved
35 profiles may be used.

                                                      12
   Referring next to Figure 17, in some embodiments the overall thickness of the member 33
   providing the impingement surface portion 22 may be reduced by shaping the member 33 such
   that the impingement surface portion 22 is curved when viewed in longitudinal cross-section. In
 5 a preferred embodiment a shower head may be provided with a plurality of impingement surface
   portions of this general shape, with angle A (the angle of the lower or trailing surface of the
   impingement surface 22) being varied between respective impingement surfaces to provide a
   required spray pattern, but angle B (the angle between the impinging water jet and the upper
   portion of the impingement surface 22) being substantially constant.
10
   Referring next to Figures 13 and 18 in particular, in preferred embodiments the stream of
   droplets travels through an aperture in the shower head. The aperture is preferably no more
   than 3mm wide, more preferably less than 1mm. In the embodiment shown the aperture is an
   annular slot 34 which is provided between the impingement surface portion 22 and an adjacent
15 surface 35 of the annular member 29. The width W of the slot 34 is preferably less than 3mm
   wide when measured in a direction which is orthogonal to the plane of the impingement surface
   portion (in this instance the radial direction). By keeping the width of the slot as narrow as
   possible without impeding the spray pattern formed by the impingement surface 22, any
   droplets which accumulate on the interior surfaces around the impingement surface portion 22
20 are re-absorbed into the main spray pattern rather than falling from the showerhead as a
   discrete droplet or "drip". In preferred embodiments the adjacent surface 35 may be defined by
   an annular skirt portion 36 which is part of the annular member 29.
   Those skilled in the art will appreciate that although the invention has been described with
25 reference to a hand-held showerhead, other embodiments of the spray head are also possible,
   for example fixed or "drencher" type embodiments.
   Unless the context clearly requires otherwise, throughout the description and the claims, the
   words "comprise", "comprising", and the like, are to be construed in an inclusive sense as
30 opposed to an exclusive or exhaustive sense, that is to say, in the sense of "including, but not
   limited to".
   Where in the foregoing description, reference has been made to specific components or
   integers of the invention having known equivalents, then such equivalents are herein
35 incorporated as if individually set forth.

                                                  13
  Although this invention has been described by way of example and with reference to possible
  embodiments thereof, it is to be understood that modifications or improvements may be made
  thereto without departing from the scope of the appended claims.
5

                                                     14
   Claims
       1. A spray head comprising an inlet in fluid communication with a plurality of nozzles, each
           nozzle adapted to produce, in use, a jet of fluid which is directed toward a respective
 5         impingement surface portion, wherein each jet of fluid impacts on the respective
           impingement surface portion and breaks into a stream of droplets, each stream of
           droplets having an elongate transverse cross-section.
       2.  The spray head of claim 1 wherein the angle between the jet of fluid and the respective
10         impingement surface portion is between 10 degrees and 40 degrees.
       3. The spray head of claim 1 or 2 wherein the jet of fluid impacts on the impingement
           surface portion between 1mm and 14mm from an edge of the impingement surface
           portion.
15
       4. The spray head of claim 1, 2 or 3 wherein each stream of droplets travels through an
           aperture in the spray head.
       5. The spray head of claim 4 wherein the streams of droplets are substantially unimpeded
20         by the aperture.
       6. The spray head of claim 4 or 5 wherein the aperture comprises a slot.
       7. The spray head of claim 4, 5 or 6 wherein the aperture has a width of substantially 3mm
25         or less.
       8. The spray head of any one of claim 1 to 7 wherein the elongate transverse cross section
           of each stream of droplets has a longitudinal axis, and the longitudinal axes of at least
           two of the streams of droplets are substantially parallel to each other.
30
       9. The spray head of claim 8 wherein the longitudinal axes of each said stream of droplets
           are substantially parallel.
       10. The spray head of any one of the preceding claims wherein each said stream of droplets
35         has a geometric centreline, and the geometric centres of at least two of the streams of
           droplets are substantially parallel to each other.

                                                  15
   11. The spray head of claim 9 wherein each said stream of droplets has a geometric
       centreline, and the geometric centrelines of at least two of the streams of droplets are
       substantially divergent.
 5 12. The spray head of any one of claims 1 to 7 wherein a plurality of said impingement
       surface portions form part of a single impingement surface.
   13. The spray head of claim 12 wherein each said impingement surface portion is part of a
       single impingement surface.
10
   14. The spray head of any one of claims 1 to 7 comprising a first set of a plurality of nozzles
       and a second set of a plurality of nozzles, each nozzle in the first set of nozzles directed
       towards a respective first impingement surface portion and each nozzle in the second
       set of nozzles directed towards a respective second impingement surface portion,
15     wherein, in use, jets of fluid issuing from the nozzles impact on the respective
       impingement surface portions and break into a stream of droplets, wherein the nozzles
       and impingement surface portions are configured such that the geometric centrelines of
       the streams of droplets from the first impingement surface portions converge, and the
       geometric centrelines of the streams of droplets from the second impingement surface
20     portions are non-convergent.
   15. The spray head of claim 14 wherein the geometric centrelines of the streams of droplets
       from the second impingement surface portions are substantially parallel.
25 16. The spray head of claim 14 wherein the geometric centrelines of the streams of droplets
       from the second impingement surface portions are substantially divergent.
   17. The spray head of claim 14 wherein the geometric centrelines of the streams of droplets
       from the second impingement surface portions are substantially parallel, and the spray
30     head comprises a third set of a plurality of nozzles, each nozzle in the third set of
       nozzles directed towards a respective third impingement surface portion, wherein, in
       use, jets of fluid issuing from the third set of nozzles impact on the respective
       impingement surface portions and break into a stream of droplets, wherein the third set
       of nozzles and impingement surface portions are configured such that the geometric
35     centrelines of the streams of droplets are substantially divergent.

                                                 16
   18. The spray head of any one of claims 1 to 7 wherein the nozzles are arranged along a
       notional curved line, the nozzles arranged such that a jet of fluid issuing, in use, from a
       least some of said nozzles has a direction which includes a component which is
 5     substantially tangential to the notional curved line.
   19. The spray head of any one of claims 1 to 7 wherein the nozzles are arranged along a
       notional curved line, and wherein the elongate transverse cross section of each stream
       of droplets has a longitudinal axis, and the longitudinal axis of each stream of droplets is
10     non-tangential to the notional curved line.
   20. The spray head of claim 18 or 19 wherein the notional curved line is substantially
       elliptical or semi-elliptical.
15 21. The spray head of claim 18 or 19 wherein the notional curved line is substantially circular
       or semi-circular.
   22. The spray head of claim 18 or 19 wherein the notional curved line is a simple closed
       curve.
20
   23. The spray head of any one of claims 1 to 7 or 12 to 22 comprising an outer housing
       having an annular portion and a handle portion.
   24. The spray head of claim 23 further comprising an annular body engaged with the
25     annular portion of the housing, wherein the nozzles are defined by apertures in the
       annular body.
   25. The spray head of claim 23 or 24 further comprising an impingement surface member
       engaged with the annular housing.
30
   26. The spray head of claim 24 or 25, when dependent on claim 6, wherein the slot is
       defined in part by the annular body.
   27. A spray head comprising a plurality of spray stream generating formations arranged
35     along a notional curved line, each spray stream generating formation adapted to
       produce a stream of droplets in use, each stream of droplets having an elongate
       transverse cross-section which has a longitudinal axis, wherein the longitudinal axis of
       each said stream of droplets is non-tangential to the notional curved line.

                                                  17
   28. A spray head comprising a plurality of spray stream generating formations arranged
       along a notional curved line, each spray stream generating formation adapted to
       produce a stream of droplets in use, each stream of droplets having a geometric
 5     centreline and an elongate transverse cross-section, wherein a first portion of the spray
       streams have convergent geometric centrelines and a second portion of the spray
       streams have non-convergent geometric centrelines.
   29. A spray head comprising a plurality of nozzles, each nozzle adapted to produce, in use,
10     a jet of fluid which is directed toward a respective impingement surface portion, wherein
       each jet of fluid impacts on the impingement surface portion and breaks into a stream of
       droplets.
   30. A shower head substantially as herein described with reference to any one or more of
15     the accompanying figures.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
