Abstract
The invention relates to a biopsy device comprising a needle extending
longitudinally from a proximal end to a distal end and including a channel
extending there through and a method by which the device is used. At least one
section (6) of the needle (3) is provided with a curved shape, so that tissues that
normally would be out or reach of conventional needles can be targeted.
Fig. 1

                     116
    (N
       Ij
 Co
                                    0       o
              cc                     -         C)
          - -  - -    -   - -   - - -     -   Urn
cc
                   S
                     S
                        S       \
                             N'
                                           cc
                                       N-

                  Medical device comprising a curved needle
   Technical field of the invention
 5         This application is divided from Australian Patent Application No
   2013331973, and relates generally to a medical device used in interventional
   radiology. Specifically, the invention relates to a medical device comprising a
   hollow needle extending longitudinally from a proximal end to a distal end and
   wherein the distal end of the hollow needle is formed as a cutting tip.
10
   Background of the invention
           The following discussion of the background art is intended to facilitate an
   understanding of the present invention only. The discussion is not an
15 acknowledgement or admission that any of the material referred to is or was
   part of the common general knowledge as at the priority date of the application.
           Interventional radiology is a medical sub-specialty of radiology. It is a
   minimally-invasive image-guided procedure. It has been known to diagnose and
   treat diseases in almost every organ of the human or animal body. Today many
20 medical conditions, for which conventional surgery would have been used in the
   past centuries, may be treated by interventional radiology. An interventional
   radiologist uses, inter alia, X-ray devices, computed tomography devices (CT),
   magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) devices, and ultrasonic imaging devices in
   order to obtain images of a human or animal body. As a consequence of these
25 images, the interventional radiologist is able to navigate an interventional
   instrument throughout the body to a targeted organ or other part of the human
   or animal. Flexible catheters are inserted through a small nick in the skin and
   thus may be guided through a patient's network of arteries or veins. Where
   tissues of organs are not within reach of a catheter, a biopsy device comprising
30 a rigid hollow needle is used to penetrate from the outside of the patient's body
   in a direct way to the target. Special instruments may be guided through the
   hollow needle to extract samples of the tissue, inject fluids, or slide
                                           -1-

   radiofrequency ablation instruments to the target, for example, to destroy
   cancerous tissue locally in the targeted zone.
           From US Patent No 5,749,889 a surgical access device for endoscopic
   surgeries comprising biopsies or other surgical cutting procedures is described,
 5 which comprises a substantially rigid channel extending to a curved distal end
   of the device. When a semi-rigid endoscope is inserted into the channel for
   viewing of the interior of the patient's body, the curves and bends direct the
   visualization area of the endoscope to preferentially view anatomical structures
   not on the axis of the insertion point in the body. In contrast to a hollow needle
10 the known insertion device does not provide a cutting tip.
           Hitherto, the conventional use of hollow needles has been restricted to
   targeted organs or other parts of the human or animal body which are within
   reach of a straight trajectory. Often the target is behind a bone or organs that
   should not be touched.         In such     cases, the target is inaccessible for
15 interventional radiology. One object of the invention is to provide a hollow
   needle that permits access to targets that are inaccessible through use of
   conventional hollow needles.
   Summary of the invention
20         In one aspect the present invention provides a medical              device
   comprising:
           - a hollow needle extending longitudinally from a proximal end to a distal
           end,
           wherein the hollow needle comprises a straight section proximate to the
25         distal end and a curved section between the straight section and the
           proximal end,
           wherein the distal end of the hollow needle has a cutting tip,
           wherein the curved section of the hollow needle has a first curvature
           point to being inserted into tissue, and
30         wherein the curved section of the hollow needle is configured to have a
           second curvature that is less than the first curvature when passing
                                             -2-

           through the tissue without having a second needle positioned within the
           hollow needle.
           In one aspect of the invention, the needle is pre-curved. As a
 5 consequence of the use of a curved needle, it is possible to effect a penetration
   via a curved penetration canal. This circumvents the obstacles which arise in
   the form of bones or other organs or elements or regions or zones of the body
   which must not be touched, such as blood vessels, the heart, the pleura, the
   trachea, the bronchi, or the esophagus, to name a few as an example.
10
           In another aspect of the invention, wherein a curvature point around
   which the at least one section of the hollow needle is curved is substantially in
   the longitudinal axial plane of the needle which extends through a culmination
   point of the cutting tip (8), and wherein in relation to the longitudinal axis of the
15 hollow needle the curvature point is on the same side as the culmination point
   of the cutting tip. This design of the needle provides a bevel of the cutting tip to
   be located on the opposite side of the curvature centre in respect to the
   longitudinal axis of the needle. The at least one bevel thus is on the convex side
   of the needle. When an appropriate force is applied to the needle the at least
20 one bevel springs of the tissue and guides the cutting tip in direction of the end
   point of the cutting tip, e.g. in direction of the virtual curvature centre. This
   configuration enables the operator to force the needle into a smaller curvature
   than that of the pre-arranged radius of the said needle.
25         In another aspect of the invention, the cutting tip is cut at an angle of at
   least 45 degrees relative to the longitudinal axis of the hollow needle. An angle
   that is at least 45 degrees enables the needle when a force on the handle,
   respectively the proximal end of the needle is applied into a single, specific
   direction to be forced into a curved trajectory. In another aspect of the invention,
30 the needle is sufficiently rigid to keep its form when penetrating through body
   tissue, and at the same time is sufficiently flexible that it can be temporarily
   forced into another form.
                                            -3-

           Preferably the material properties of the needle are chosen such that the
   needle substantially returns to its curved form after the needle has been forced
   temporarily into another form. The rigidness depends on the material properties
 5 of the needle, such as, for example, the substance of which the needle is made,
   the thickness of the needle and the thickness of the needle walls. A needle that
   is flexible enough to allow small deformations but would return to its original
   shape once the deforming forces are released, has the consequence of
   allowing the needle to be straightened whilst embedded in the body tissue by a
10 simple turn of the needle by the operator. Once the needle is turned back to its
   original angle of attack, the needle takes substantially its original curved form,
   so that it is possible to continue the penetration with a curved trajectory. By
   applying appropriate turns the needle may be forced even into a S-shaped
   trajectory.
15         In another aspect the present invention provides a method of operating a
           medical device, the method comprising the steps of:
             inserting a hollow needle into tissue, wherein:
           -        the hollow needle extends longitudinally from a proximal end to a
                    distal end,
20         -        the hollow needle comprises a straight section proximate to the
                    distal end and a curved section between the straight section and
                    the proximal end,
           -        the distal end of the hollow needle is formed as a cutting tip,
           -        the hollow needle has a first curvature prior to being inserted into
25                  the tissue, and
           -        the hollow needle is configured to have a second curvature that is
                    less than the first curvature when passing through the tissue
                    without having a tool or instrument positioned within the hollow
                    needle and
30         -        inserting the tool or instrument through the hollow needle when
                    the hollow needle is in an intended place in the tissue.
                                               -4-

   Description of the Figures
   Fig. 1A               shows a medical device with a curved needle
   Fig. 1B               shows the distal end of the needle
 5 Fig. 2A - 2C show the use of the curved needle in a treatment of the lung
   Fig. 3A - 3B show the use of the curved needle in another treatment of the lung
   Fig. 4A - 4F show the use of two curved needle in a treatment of the lung
   Detailed description of the invention
10
   The invention will now be described on the basis of the drawings. It will be
   understood that the embodiments and aspects of the invention described herein
   are only examples and do not limit the protective scope of the claims in any
   way. The invention is defined by the claims and their equivalents. It will be
15 understood that features of one aspect or embodiment of the invention can be
   combined with a feature of a different aspect or aspects and/or embodiments of
   the invention.
   Fig. 1 shows a medical device 1 for percutaneous biopsy with a handle 2 and a
20 hollow needle 3. The handle 2 facilitates manipulations by an operator of the
   needle 3 and may for example include finger grips. The needle 3 extends from a
   proximal end 4 to a distal end 5 and includes a lumen extending there through.
    It should be noted that the terms "proximal" and "distal", as used herein, are
   intended to refer to a direct toward (proximal) and away from (distal) an
25 operator of the biopsy device 1. The distal end 5 is cut at an angle a relative to
   the longitudinal axis 7 of the needle 3 forming a distal tip 8 (Fig. 1b) and a bevel
   9 (Fig. 1b) extending there around. The distal tip 8 and the bevel 9 facilitate the
   penetration of the distal end 5 into tissue.
30 At least a section 6 of the needle 3 has a curved shape around a virtual
   curvature centre C. In case the section 6 corresponds substantially to a circular
   arc the distance between the virtual curvature centre C and the needle 3
                                            -5-

   corresponds to a radius R of this circular arc and the section 6 of the needle 3
   forms a segment of the circular arc extending over a central angle E.
   Alternatively the full length of the needle may be curved. As a function of the
   dimensions of the organs and bones of the person to be treated and the task to
 5 be achieved needles may be manufactured and offered with different curvature
   radius R and centre angles 0. Accordingly also the shape of the curved section
   6 may vary. The shape could be, but is not limited to, a segment of a circle as
   described, a segment of an ellipse, a segment of a parable or a segment of a
   hyperbole. The shape may vary from any of these forms. The idea of the curved
10 section 6 of the needle 3 is to allow penetration of tissue in a curved trajectory.
   The needle may be formed of, for example, a polymer, stainless steel, alloys or
   any combination of materials that are suitable to achieve the appropriate
   rigidness of the needle. The needle is hollow, i.e. comprises a lumen through
15 which cutting devices or other devices may be applied. The term rigid has to be
   understood to express that the needle is sufficiently rigid so as to be not
   deflected by effect of impact upon the human or animal tissue, when the needle
   is injected in and pushed through the tissue. The needle will keep its curved
   form to a large extent. For some applications, the material and the dimensions
20 of the rigid needle may be chosen so that on the one hand it is able to yield
   appropriately under pressure, yet on the other hand is sufficiently flexible to
   regain at least partially its initial curvature when the pressure is released.
   Ideally the plane of the curvature is chosen such that the distal tip 8 of the
25 needle 3 substantially lies in the plane of the curvature and that the distal tip 8 is
   on the same side of the needle 3 as the curvature centre C in respect to the
   longitudinal axis 7 of the needle 3. This configuration makes it easier to force
   the needle into a curved trajectory through the body tissue.
30 In preparation of the intervention, a patient is placed under an imaging device
   (not shown) such as an X-ray device, a Computer Tomography device (CT), or
                                               -6-

   a Magnetic Resonance Imaging device (MRI). The term patient is used to
   describe a human or an animal that is treated by interventional radiology.
   Fig. 2A to 2C show the use of a curved needle 10 for a treatment of a human
 5 body. The figures 2A - 2C represent real images that are displayed to an
   operator on his or her screen. For formal requirements of patent drawings the
   colour of the real images have been inverted in Fig. 2, 3 and 4. The operator will
   see in a transversal section of the patient a vertebra 12, ribs 13, a heart 14, an
   aorta 15 and lung tissue 16. Usually lung tissue cannot be seen on an X-ray
10 device. The lung tissue 16 that is depicted on the Figures 2A - 2C has been
   made visible by applying a radiocontrast agent. Therefore only that part of the
   patient lung can be seen that is affected by the radiocontrast agent.
   Fig. 2A shows the situation when an operator positions the needle 10 at the skin
15 11 of the patient. As the needle 10 is in front or behind the plane of the X-ray,
   the needle 10 that is outside the patient's body cannot be seen on most of the
   figures. In the following, the term operator is used to describe the person who
   manipulates the medical device 1. In most cases this person would be a
   radiologist with special knowledge in intervention with needles. By pushing the
20 handle 2 of the medical device 1 the tip 8 of the needle 10 cuts through the skin
   11 and penetrates through the patient's body. The operator follows the
   advancement of the needle 10 by requesting images from the imaging device
   and watching these images on a screen. The needle 10 usually gives a clear
   image on the screen.
25
   Fig. 2B shows that the needle 10 was entered between the endothoracic fascia
   and the parietal pleural membrane. With a conventional needle, access would
   be restricted to tissue that is straight below this access point. By means of the
   curved needle 10 it is however possible to direct the needle 10 to a region that
30 would normally be out of reach (Fig. 2C).
                                            -7-

   As the distal tip 8 is on the same side of the longitudinal axis as the curvature
   centre C, the needle can be pushed in a narrower curve than the actual radius
   of the curvature. In order to achieve this goal the operator has to guide the
   needle 10 such that the convex side, e.g. the tip 8 of the needle that is opposite
 5 to the curvature centre C in respect of the longitudinal axis 7 of the needle, is
   pushed with its bevel 9 (Fig. 1B) against the body tissue. The edge of the
   needle 10 props against this counterforce and is forced into a smaller curvature.
    In this respect it has been observed that the cutting angle, i.e. the angle a
   between the longitudinal axis 7 and the plane spanned by the bevel 9 should be
10 flat, e.g. substantially 45 degree or less. A cutting angle a that is at least 45
   degrees facilitates the needle to be forced into a curved trajectory when a force
   on the handle 2, respectively the proximal end 4 of the needle 3 is applied.
   When the needle is in the intended place the operator in case the medical
15 device 1 is a biopsy needle may either insert through the handle 2 a cutting tool
   to collect a tissue sample from the targeted region. The biopsy needle may also
   be used to insert instruments for treatment. For example an electrode (not
   shown) by which the region around the needle tip is heated in order to destroy
   the tissue around the needle tip, for example by applying radio frequencies. In
20 case the medical device is an infiltration needle it may be used to inject a toxic
   substance that locally kills the cancer cells.
   Figures 3A - 3C are photos taken at different instants. In reality the patient is
   breathing and especially the patient's lung is moving. In Figure 3A the curved
25 needle has approached a cancerous nodule 19 of the lung tissue 16. Due to the
   breathing of the patient the nodule 19 is moving. The operator takes the tip of
   the needle 10 closer to the nodule 19 (Fig. 3B). By little turns of the curved
   needle 10 the operator is able to position the tip of the needle such that nodule
   19 drives itself into the tip of the needle 10 when the patient is breathing (Fig.
30 3C). With a straight needle it is only possible to retract or to push forward
   whereas the curved needle is able to turn like a key in a lock. With this kind of
                                            -8-

   movement it is significantly easier to anticipate the movement of the nodule with
   the curved needle.
   In another aspect of the invention the needle possesses sufficient rigidity to
 5 reverse back to its original curved form, even when it is forced temporarily into
   another shape. Fig. 4A - Fig. 4F show another aspect of the invention making
   use of this property of the curved needle according to the invention. A first
   needle 17 is entered between the endothoracic fascia and the parietal pleural
   membrane so that a tip of the first needle 17 is extending away from the
10 vertebra (Fig. 4B). Fig. 4C shows the insertion of a second needle 18 through
   the canal of the first needle aiming between the aorta 15 and the vertebra 12.
   Through the second needle 17 a volume of 15 ml of serum is injected. After the
   injection of the serum the second needle 18 is retracted. The serum creates a
   little volume of serum that pushes the aorta to the side, so that more space for
15 the movement of the first needle is created. The first needle 17 is then turned
   anti-clockwise by 1800 so that the curved part is now following the shape of the
   vertebra (Fig. 3D). The first needle is pushed deeper and then turned back
   clockwise by 1800 after the tip of the first needle has passed the aorta 15. Due
   to the curved section of the first needle 17, when the first needle 17 is pushed
20 further into the body tissue or organ, it follows a trajectory that aims at a target
   that usually would have been blocked by the aorta 15.
   The treatment with curved needles is especially advantageous in cases of
   mediastinum      lymphadenopathy,      abdominal     pulmonary     masses,     small
25 pulmonary nodules and intra- or retroperitoneal masses. The advantages in
   case of the pulmonary nodules has been already discussed above.
   The medical device 1 comprising the curved needle 3 has been presented in
   the course of treatment of cancer. The person skilled in the art however will
30 appreciate that this is an example only and that the curved needle may be used
   for other purposes and is not limited to treatment of cancer at all.
                                           -9-

   Alterations and Modifications to the Embodiments
   Modifications and improvements to the invention will be readily apparent to
   those skilled in the art. Such modifications and improvements are intended to
   be within the scope of this invention.
 5 Reference to positional descriptions, such as lower and upper, are to be taken
   in context of the embodiments depicted in the Figures, and are not to be taken
   as limiting the invention to the literal interpretation of the term but rather as
   would be understood by the skilled addressee.
   Throughout this specification, unless the context requires otherwise, the word
10  "comprise" or variations such as "comprises" or "comprising", will be understood
   to imply the inclusion of a stated integer or group of integers but not the
   exclusion of any other integer or group of integers.
                                          - 10 -

   CLAIMS
    1.   A medical device comprising:
         - a hollow needle extending longitudinally from a proximal end to a distal
 5       end,
         wherein the hollow needle comprises a straight section proximate to the
         distal end and a curved section between the straight section and the
         proximal end,
         wherein the distal end of the hollow needle has a cutting tip,
10       wherein the curved section of the hollow needle has a first curvature
         point to being inserted into tissue, and
         wherein the curved section of the hollow needle is configured to have a
         second curvature that is less than the first curvature when passing
         through the tissue without having a second needle positioned within the
15       hollow needle.
   2.    A medical device according to claim 1, wherein a curvature point around
         which the curved section of the hollow needle is curved is substantially in
         a longitudinal axial plane of the needle which extends through a
20       culmination point of the cutting tip, and wherein in relation to the
         longitudinal axis of the hollow needle the curvature point is on a same
         side as the culmination point of the cutting tip.
25 3.    A medical device according to claim 1, wherein a material property of the
         hollow needle is chosen such that the hollow needle substantially returns
         to the first curvature after the hollow needle temporarily has been forced
         into the second curvature.
30 4.    A medical device according to claim 1, 2 or 3 wherein a cutting angle (a)
         of the cutting tip is at least 45 degrees or less relative to the longitudinal
         axis of the hollow needle.
                                           - 11 -

   5. A medical device according to one of claims 1to 4, wherein the medical
      device is a biopsy device or an infiltration needle for percutaneous use.
 5 6. A method of operating a medical device, comprising the steps of:
        inserting a hollow needle into tissue, wherein:
      -        the hollow needle extends longitudinally from a proximal end to a
               distal end,
      -        the hollow needle comprises a straight section proximate to the
10             distal end and a curved section between the straight section and
               the proximal end,
      -        the distal end of the hollow needle is formed as a cutting tip,
      -        the hollow needle has a first curvature prior to being inserted into
               the tissue, and
15    -        the hollow needle is configured to have a second curvature that is
               less than the first curvature when passing through the tissue
               without having a tool or instrument positioned within the hollow
               needle and
      -        inserting the tool or instrument through the hollow needle when
20             the hollow needle is in an intended place in the tissue.
   7. The method of claim 6, wherein the tool or instrument comprises a
      second needle.
25 8. The method of claim 7, and further comprising:
      -        injecting a fluid through the second needle, wherein the fluid
               moves an object in the tissue to create more space for movement
               of the hollow needle; and
      -        retracting the second needle after the fluid has been injected.
30
   9. The method of claim 8, further comprising:
      -        rotating the hollow needle after the fluid has been injected; and
                                         - 12 -

       -      pushing the hollow needle at least partially past the object after
              the hollow needle has been rotated.
   10. The method of claim 9, further comprising rotating the hollow needle
 5     back after the hollow needle is pushed at least partially past the object.
   11. The method of claim 6, further comprising
       -      reducing a radius of curvature of the hollow needle by forcing a
              bevel of the cutting tip against the tissue; and
10     -      increasing the radius of curvature after decreasing the radius of
              curvature by rotating the hollow needle.
   12. A method of operating a medical device, wherein said medical device is
       as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 5.
                                        - 13 -

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
