                                        ABSTRACT
         Systems and methods for delivering mining material to a multimodal array of
different types of sensors and classifying and sorting the mining material based on the
data collected from the multimodal array of sensors. The arrays of different sensors sense
the mining material and collect data which is subsequently used together to identify the
composition of the material and make a determination as to whether to accept or reject the
material as it passes off the terminal end of the material handling system. Diverters are
positioned at the terminal end of the material handling system and are positioned in either
an accept or reject position based on the data collected and processed to identify the
composition of the mining material.
80883-8005.WOOO/1 26924488.1                 -22-

                    4
                      >0
                              0
                                  0
                      >00
                                  0       >1
                      >0
                              0
                                             N-)
                                             U,
                       II>
         ~1~1                       I             _____
        aQ
                        I           I
                        I           I
                    ~   I
                                     _ I_  _
                                                        0
                          0
                            0
   ________________             0
Co
0
                                                0
Co
U,

           HIGH CAPACITY SEPARATION OF COARSE ORE MINERALS FROM
                                     WASTE MINERALS
CROSS REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
[0001]         This application claims the benefit under 35 U.S.C. §119(e) of U.S. Provisional
Application No. 62/027,118, filed July 21, 2014, entitled "High Capacity Separation Of
Coarse Ore Minerals From Waste Minerals", which is hereby incorporated by reference for
all purposes in its entirety.
BACKGROUND
[0002]         In the field of mineral sorting, sorting machines generally comprise a single
stage of sensor arrays controlling (via micro controller or other digital control system) a
matched array of diverters, either physical (flaps or gates) or indirect (air jets). Sensors
can be of diverse origin, including photometric (light source and detector), radiometric
(radiation detector), electromagnetic (source and detector or induced potential), or more
high-energy electromagnetic source/detectors such as x-ray source (fluorescence or
transmission) or gamma-ray source types. Diversion is typically accomplished by air jets,
although small scale mechanical diverters such as flaps or paddles are also used.
[0003]         Matched sensor/diverter arrays are typically mounted onto a substrate which
transports the material to be sorted over the sensors and on to the diverters where the
material is sorted. Suitable substrates include vibrating feeders or belt conveyors. Sorting
is typically undertaken by one or more high-efficiency machines in a single stage, or in
more sophisticated arrangements, such as rougher/scavenger, rougher/cleaner, or
rougher/cleaner/scavenger. Sorter capacity is limited by several factors, including micro
controller speed and belt or feeder width, as well as limitations in sensor and diverter size
(hence limitations in feed particle size).
80883-8005.WO00/1 26924488.1                    -1-

BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0004]         Embodiments of the present disclosure will be described and explained
through the use of the accompanying drawings in which:
[0005]         Figure 1 is a simple schematic illustration of a system and method for carrying
out sensing, classification, and sorting of material in accordance with various embodiments
described herein;
[0006]         Figure 1a is a simplified top view of the sensor array/material transport system
configuration in accordance with various embodiments described herein;
[0007]         Figure 2 is a perspective view of an apparatus for sensing, classifying, and
sorting material in accordance with various embodiments described herein;
[0008]         Figures 3a and 3b are perspective views of the diverter array suitable for use
in the sensing, classifying, and sorting system in accordance with various embodiments
described herein;
[0009]         Figures 4a and 4b are simplified perspective views of angled diverter bars
positioned below and above, respectively, the terminal end of a material transport system
in accordance with various embodiments described herein;
[0010]         Figure 4c and 4d are simplified perspective views of linear diverter bars
positioned below and above, respectively, the terminal end of a material transport system
in accordance with various embodiments described herein;
[0011]         Figures 5a and 5b are simplified schematic views of a sensor/diverter
configuration for small and large scale material, respectively, in accordance with various
embodiments described herein;
[0012]         Figure 6 is a block diagram of a basic and suitable computer that may employ
aspects of the various embodiments described herein;
[0013]         Figure 7 is a block diagram illustrating a suitable system in which aspects of
the various embodiments described herein may operate in a networked computer
environment; and
80883-8005.WO00/1 26924488.1                    -2-

[0014]         Figures 8a and 8b are respective simple schematic illustrations of a previously
known conveyor and diverter system and a conveyor and diverter system in accordance
with various embodiments described herein.
[0015]         The drawings have not necessarily been drawn to scale. For example, the
dimensions of some of the elements of the figures may be expanded or reduced to help
improve the understanding of the embodiments of the present application. Similarly, some
components and/or operations may be separated into different blocks or combined into a
single block for the purposes of discussion of some of the embodiments of the present
application.      Moreover, while the disclosure is amenable to various modification and
alternative forms, specific embodiments have been show by way of example in the
drawings and are described in detail below. The intention, however, is not to limit the
disclosure to the particular embodiments described.         On the contrary, the disclosure is
intended to cover all modifications, equivalents, and alternatives falling within the scope of
the disclosure.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION
[0016]         Described herein are systems and methods wherein material is delivered to a
multimodal array of different types of sensors by a material handling system, such as a
conveyor belt. The arrays of different sensors sense the material and collect data which is
subsequently used together to identify the composition of the material and make a
determination as to whether to accept or reject the material as it passes off the terminal
end of the material handling system.       Diverters are positioned at the terminal end of the
material handling system and are positioned in either an accept or reject position based on
the data collected and processed to identify the composition of the material.
[0017]         In some embodiments, the multiple arrays of different types of sensors are
aligned with the material handling system such that one sensor in each array is positioned
over a lane or channel of the material handling system (the lane or channel being
effectively parallel with the direction of transport). A single diverter can also be positioned
at the end of each channel, and the data collected from the sensors associated with each
80883-8005.WO00/1 26924488.1                    -3-

channel can be used to identify the material within the associated channel and make a
reject or accept decision for the only material within the specific channel.
[0018]         Various embodiments will now be described.           The following description
provides specific details for a thorough understanding and enabling description of these
embodiments. One skilled in the art will understand, however, that the invention may be
practiced without many of these details.        Additionally, some well-known structures or
functions may not be shown or described in detail, so as to avoid unnecessarily obscuring
the relevant description of the various embodiments.
[0019]         The terminology used in the description presented below is intended to be
interpreted in its broadest reasonable manner, even though it is being used in conjunction
with a detailed description of certain specific embodiments of the invention. Certain terms
may even be emphasized below; however, any terminology intended to be interpreted in
any restricted manner will be overtly and specifically defined as such in this Detailed
Description section.
[0020]         Referring now to Figure 1, a system 10 for sensing, classifying, and sorting
mining material generally includes a material transport system 20; a first array of sensors
100; a second array of sensors 105; sensor processing units 110, 120; analogue to digital
converters 115, 125; a signal processing system 30 including a spectral analysis stage
130, a pattern recognition stage 135, a pattern matching 140 stage, and a digital control
system comprising programmable logic controllers (PLCs) 145 and control relays 150; an
electromechanical diversion array 40 including control unit 155, PLC 160, and control
relays 165; and an array of electromechanical diverters 170.
[0021]         The material transport system 20 can generally include a system suitable for
transporting mining material in at least a first direction and which allows for the material
being transported to be sensed by sensor arrays 100, 105. Suitable material transport
systems include, but are not limited to, conveyor belts and vibrating feeders.       For the
purposes of this description, the material transport system 20 may generally be referred to
as a conveyor belt, though it should be understood that other transport systems can be
used.
80883-8005.WO00/1 26924488.1                  -4-

[0022]         With reference now to Figure 1 and Figure 1a, a first array of first sensors 100
and a second array of second sensors 105 are positioned over the conveyor belt 20 such
that each array 100, 105 generally extends across the width of the conveyor belt 20. While
shown positioned over the conveyor belt 20, the sensors 100, 105 can be positioned in any
location where sensing of the material can be carried out, including under the conveyor
belt 20.      In some embodiments, the sensor arrays 100, 105 are aligned generally
perpendicular to the direction of transport, though variations from perpendicular can be
used provided that the arrays extend across the entire width of the conveyor belt 20. For
example, if a greater distance between sensors in a given array is required (e.g., to avoid
interference among sensors), then the array of sensors can be aligned at a greater angle
with respect to the multiple, parallel channels.
[0023]          In some embodiments, the first array 100 includes sensors that are all the
same type of sensor, and the second array 105 includes sensors that are all the same type
of sensor, but the sensors of the first array 100 are of a different type from the sensors in
the second array 105 (and therefor produce a different type of signal from the first array of
sensors). Any type of sensor that is suitable for sensing mining material can be used
within each array 100, 105.      In some embodiments, the first array of sensors 100 are
electromagnetic field sensors and the second array of sensors 105 are source/detector
type sensors, while in some embodiments, the reverse is true. Suitable sensors that can
be used within each array 100, 105 include, but are not limited to, photometric, radiometric,
and electromagnetic sensors.
[0024]          In some embodiments, the first array of first sensors 100 includes the same
number of sensors as in the second array of second sensors 105. Any number of sensors
within each array can be used, so long as an equal number of sensors is used in each
array. Additionally, as shown in Figure la, the first array 100 and second array 105 may
be aligned such that a sensor from the first array is aligned with a sensor in the second
array along a line that is generally in parallel with the direction of transport.          This
configuration generally forms channels a, b, c, d, e on the conveyor belt 20, wherein the
material in each channel a, b, c, d, e is sensed by an aligned first sensor and second
80883-8005.WOOO/1 26924488.1                   -5-

sensor positioned over the channel. This configuration allows for classification of mining
material by channel and more specific sorting of material as discussed further below.
[0025]          Each array 100, 105 includes a signal processing system 110, 120 having an
analogue to digital signal converter 115, 125 for converting analogue signals produced by
the sensors when measuring the mining material to digital signals. Any suitable analogue
to digital signal converter can be used in the signal processing system.
[0026]         The digital signals produced by the analogue to digital signal converter 115,
125 are subsequently transmitted to the signal processing system 30 including a spectral
analysis stage 130, a pattern recognition stage 135, and a pattern matching 140 stage.
The signal processing system 30 is generally used for performing data analysis to identify
the composition of the mining material.           The spectral analysis stage 130, pattern
recognition stage 135, and pattern matching 140 stage can all be implemented on a high
performance parallel processing type computational substrate.
[0027]         The spectral analysis stage can generally include performing Fourier Analysis
on the digital data received from the analogue to digital converter 115, 125.         Fourier
Analysis can generally include using a field programmable gate array to generate spectral
data of amplitude/frequency or amplitude/wavelength format via Fast Fourier Transform
(FFT) implemented on the field programmable gate array.
[0028]         The arbitrary power spectra generated in the Fourier Analysis is subsequently
compared to previously determined and known spectra in the pattern matching stage 140.
Known spectra data may be stored in a database accessed by the signal processing
system 30. A pattern matching algorithm is generally used to perform the matching stage.
The pattern matching algorithm works to recognize generated arbitrary power spectra that
match the spectra of desired material based on the predetermined and known spectra of
the desired material.
[0029]         As noted previously, the first array of first sensors generally includes first
sensors of a first type and the second array of second sensors generally includes second
sensors of a second type different from the first type.       As a result, the first sensors
generally produce a first data signal and the second sensors produce a second, different
80883-8005.WOOO/1 26924488.1                  -6-

data signal (e.g., a first magnetometer sensor and a second x-ray sensor). The signal
processing equipment can then use the different types of data signals to improve the
certainty of the material identification. Using the two or more different types of data signals
to improve identification can be carried out in any suitable manner. In some embodiments,
the signal processing equipment makes a first material identification using first signals
(typically having a first confidence level or threshold) and a second material identification
using the second signals (typically having a second confidence level/threshold).
[0030]         The two identifications (and associated confidence levels/thresholds) can then
be used together to make a final identification determination using various types of
identification algorithms designed to combine separate identifications made on separate
data. Because two separate identifications are made using different types of data signals,
the certainty of final material identification based on the two separate identifications is
typically improved. In other embodiments, the first data signals and second data signals
are processed together to make a single identification using identification algorithms
designed to use multiple sets of raw data to generate a single identification.          In such
embodiments, the confidence level of the identification is typically improved due to the use
of two or more different types of data collected on the material.
[0031]         The system may employ various identification and analysis approaches with
corresponding algorithms (including machine learning algorithms that operate on spectral
data produced by the sensors). One approach involves simple correlation between sensor
output for each of the two different sensors, and prior sensor readings of known samples.
Other approaches can employ more complex relationships between signals output from
the two different sensors and a database of data developed from prior experimentations.
Moreover, the system may employ synthetic data with probabilistic reasoning and machine
learning approaches for further accuracy.
[0032]         When a match between spectra is made (or not made, or not sufficiently
made), a reject or accept decision can be generated and transmitted forward in the
system, with the decision ultimately resulting in a diverter in a diverter array 170 being
moved to an accept or reject position. In some embodiments, the reject or accept decision
is carried forward initially using PLCs 145 and control relays 150 that are coupled to an
80883-8005.WO00/1 26924488.1                   -7-

electromechanical diversion array comprising control unit 155 with PLC 160 and control
relays 165 connected via electrical connection to the array of diverters 170. The accept or
reject decision received by the PLC 160 results in the control relays 165 activating or not
activating the individual diverters in the diverter array 170.
[0033]          In some embodiments, the number of diverters in the diverter array 170 is
equal to the number of first sensors in the first array 100 and the number of sensors in the
second array 105. Put another way, a diverter is provided at the end of each channel a, b,
c, d, e, so that individual accept or reject decision can be made on a per channel basis.
The data analysis is carried out such that the data collected by a pair of first and second
sensors within the same array results in an accept or reject decision being transmitted to
the diverter that is part of the same channel. The data analysis is also carried out with a
time component that takes into account the speed of the material transport system so that
when material within a channel changes from, for example, desirable to undesirable and
back to desirable, the diverter within that channel can be moved from an accept to reject
for only the period of time during which the undesirable material in the channel is passing
over the terminal end of the material transport system.
[0034]         Any type of diverters can be used in the diverter array 170.           In some
embodiments, the individual diverters are angular paddle type diverters, while in other
embodiments, the diverters are of a linear type.          Regardless of shape or type, each
diverter may be composed of an electro-servotube linear actuator with a diverter plate
either fixed or pin mounted.
[0035]         The diverter array 170 can be mounted above a diverter chute comprising
combined 'accept' 190 and 'reject' 195 diverter chutes. Material diverted by the diverter
array 170 to an 'accept' 190 or 'reject' 195 chute are guided by suitably designed chutes to
a product conveyance or waste conveyance.
[0036]         As can be seen in Figure 1, an additional third array of sensors and a third set
of sensor processing unit and analogue to digital converter is provided, such as
downstream of the second array of second sensors.            It should be appreciated that any
number of sensor arrays and associated sensor processing unit and analogue digital
80883-8005.WOOO/1 26924488.1                    -8-

converter can be used in the system 10. Each additional array of sensors provided will
generally be similar or identical to the arrangement of the first array of first sensors and
second array of second sensors (e.g., aligned generally perpendicular to the direction of
transport, one sensor per channel, etc.). In some embodiments, the sensors in additional
sensor arrays will be a type of sensor that is different from the type of sensor used in the
first and second sensor arrays to provide an additional manner of analyzing the mineral
material. In some embodiments, the sensors in additional arrays may be the same as the
sensor type used in the first or second sensor array.
[0037]         While not shown in Figure 1, the system can further include a conveying
system used to deliver mineral material to the material transport system 20.               The
conveying system can provide mineral material in controlled fashion suitable for sensing
and sorting the material.
[0038]         The system described herein can operate in bulk, semi-bulk, or particle
diversion mode, depending on the separation outcome desired by the operator.               The
system may also operate in real time (e.g., less than 2ms for measurement and response)
to ensure accurate sorting of material.       At a minimum, the system should be able to
conduct the data analysis and send an accept or reject instruction to the appropriate
diverter in the time it takes for the material to pass the last sensor array and arrive at the
terminal end of the conveyor 20.
[0039]         With reference to Figure 2, another view of the system 10 is provided. The
system 10 includes sensor arrays 200, 210 for sensing mineral material and generating
signals regarding the same, signal processing equipment 220 for processing the signals
and identifying the mineral material, diverter array control 230 for receiving accept or reject
instructions and repositioning the diverters based on the same, and diverter array 240. The
system 10 is further shown with a material handling system 250 (which may include, e.g., a
speed controlled material belt, a feed chute 260 used to distribute mineral material on to
the material handling system 250, and diversion chutes 280 for receiving accepted or
rejected material.
80883-8005.WOOO/1 26924488.1                   -9-

[0040]         With reference to Figures 3a and 3b, a detailed diverter array according to
some embodiments is shown. The diverter array includes angular diverter paddles 300
(which in other embodiments may be linear diverter paddles) coupled in pin jointed fashion
to electro-servotube actuators 310 flexibly mounted within a metal chassis 320, and control
relays 330 connected to PLC 340.
[0041]          Figures 4a-4d illustrate a diversity of mounting arrangements of the diverter
array that can be used in the systems described herein. In Figure 4a, the diverter paddles
410 are angular type diverters mounted below the terminal end 400 of the conveyor 420.
As shown by the arrow, material flows over the diverters 410 as it falls off the terminal end
400 of the conveyor 420. The diverters 410 generally actuate upwards in an arc motion
when moving from an accept position to a reject position.
[0042]          In Figure 4b, the diverter paddles 440 are angular type diverters mounted
above the terminal end 400 of the conveyor 420. As shown by the arrow, material flows
under the diverters 440 as it falls off the terminal end 400 of the conveyor 420.          The
diverters 410 generally actuate downwards in an arc motion when moving from an accept
position to a reject position.
[0043]          In Figure 4c, the diverter paddles 460 are linear type diverters mounted below
the terminal end 400 of the conveyor 420. As shown by the arrow, material flows over the
diverters 460 as it falls off the terminal end 400 of the conveyor 420. The diverters 460
generally actuate upwards in a linear motion (similar to a dot-matrix printer head) to a
reject position.
[0044]          In Figure 4d, the diverter paddles 480 are linear type diverters mounted above
the terminal end 400 of the conveyor 420. As shown by the arrow, material flows under
the diverters 480 as it falls off the terminal end 400 of the conveyor 420. The diverters 480
generally actuate downwards in a linear motion (similar to a dot-matrix printer head) to a
reject position.
[0045]         The systems described herein are fully scalable. As shown in Figures 5a and
5b, the size of the sensors 500, 530 and diverters 510, 540 can be scaled up or down
based on the size of the material being classified and sorted.        In Figure 5a, the material
80883-8005.WOOO/1 26924488.1                     -10-

520 has a size in the range of from 1 to 10 cm, and therefore the sensor 500 and diverter
510 are scaled down to centimeter scale appropriately. In Figure 5b, the material 550 has
a size in the range of from 10 to 100 cm, and therefore the sensor 530 and diverter 540 is
scaled up to meter scale appropriately.
[0046]         With reference now to Figures 8a and 8b, an advantage of various
embodiments is illustrated. Figure 8a illustrate a conveyor and diverter system, wherein
mineral material 710 is conveyed to a high speed conveyor 700 via a slow speed conveyor
705. The slow speed conveyor 705 is needed in order to distribute the material 710 on the
high speed conveyor 700 in a manner that is required in order for classification and sorting
take place.       Specifically, the mining material 710 is distributed onto the high speed
conveyor 700 in a mono-layer (i.e., no material on top of other material) and such that
material 710 is separated from other material 710 and are arranged non co-linearly (i.e.,
only one particle present on any given cross section of the conveyor).            The mineral
material 710 travelling in a mono-layer is presented to a sensor 715, from which
individually sensed particles are conveyed to the diverter array 730 where they are
typically diverted one particle at a time by one diverter element.
[0047]          In contrast and according to various embodiments described herein, Figure 7b
illustrates how the sensing and sorting of mining material can be carried out more quickly
and at higher volumes. The mining material 750 is conveyed via a regular speed conveyor
740 and without need for a slow speed conveyor distributing the mining material in a
special fashion.       Instead, the mining material 750 is heaped or arranged arbitrarily such
that individual particles may be touching and/or piled on top of one another.         Arbitrary
arrangements of particles are presented to a sensor array 715, from which sensed
particles are conveyed to the diverter array 730 where they are typically diverted multiple
particles at a time by possibly multiple diverter elements.
[0048]          Figure 6 and the following discussion provide a brief, general description of a
suitable computing environment in which aspects of the disclosed system can be
implemented. Although not required, aspects and embodiments of the disclosed system
will be described in the general context of computer-executable instructions, such as
routines executed by a general-purpose computer, e.g., a server or personal computer.
80883-8005.WOOO/1 26924488.1                    -11-

Those skilled in the relevant art will appreciate that the various embodiments can be
practiced with other computer system configurations, including Internet appliances, hand
held devices, wearable computers, cellular or mobile phones, multi-processor systems,
microprocessor-based or programmable consumer electronics, set-top boxes, network
PCs, mini-computers, mainframe computers and the like. The embodiments described
herein can be embodied in a special purpose computer or data processor that is
specifically programmed, configured or constructed to perform one or more of the
computer-executable instructions explained in detail below. Indeed, the term "computer"
(and like terms), as used generally herein, refers to any of the above devices, as well as
any data processor or any device capable of communicating with a network, including
consumer electronic goods such as game devices, cameras, or other electronic devices
having a processor and other components, e.g., network communication circuitry.
[0049]         The embodiments described herein can also be practiced in distributed
computing environments, where tasks or modules are performed by remote processing
devices, which are linked through a communications network, such as a Local Area
Network ("LAN"), Wide Area Network ("WAN") or the Internet. In a distributed computing
environment, program modules or sub-routines may be located in both local and remote
memory storage devices.        Aspects of the system described below may be stored or
distributed on computer-readable media, including magnetic and optically readable and
removable computer discs, stored as in chips (e.g., EEPROM or flash memory chips).
Alternatively, aspects of the system disclosed herein may be distributed electronically over
the Internet or over other networks (including wireless networks).     Those skilled in the
relevant art will recognize that portions of the embodiments described herein may reside
on a server computer, while corresponding portions reside on a client computer.         Data
structures and transmission of data particular to aspects of the system described herein
are also encompassed within the scope of this application.
[0050]          Referring to Figure 6, one embodiment of the system described herein
employs a computer 1000, such as a personal computer or workstation, having one or
more processors 1010 coupled to one or more user input devices 1020 and data storage
devices 1040.        The computer is also coupled to at least one output device such as a
80883-8005.WOOO/1 26924488.1                  -12-

display device 1060 and one or more optional additional output devices 1080 (e.g., printer,
plotter, speakers, tactile or olfactory output devices, etc.). The computer may be coupled
to external computers, such as via an optional network connection 1100, a wireless
transceiver 1120, or both.
[0051]         The input devices 1020 may include a keyboard and/or a pointing device such
as a mouse. Other input devices are possible such as a microphone, joystick, pen, game
pad, scanner, digital camera, video camera, and the like. The data storage devices 1040
may include any type of computer-readable media that can store data accessible by the
computer 1000, such as magnetic hard and floppy disk drives, optical disk drives,
magnetic cassettes, tape drives, flash memory cards, digital video disks (DVDs), Bernoulli
cartridges, RAMs, ROMs, smart cards, etc. Indeed, any medium for storing or transmitting
computer-readable instructions and data may be employed, including a connection port to
or node on a network such as a local area network (LAN), wide area network (WAN) or the
Internet (not shown in Figure 6).
[0052]         Aspects of the system described herein may be practiced in a variety of other
computing environments.        For example, referring to Figure 7, a distributed computing
environment with a web interface includes one or more user computers 2020 in a system
2000 are shown, each of which includes a browser program module 2040 that permits the
computer to access and exchange data with the Internet 2060, including web sites within
the World Wide Web portion of the Internet. The user computers may be substantially
similar to the computer described above with respect to Figure 6.      User computers may
include other program modules such as an operating system, one or more application
programs (e.g., word processing or spread sheet applications), and the like. The
computers may be general-purpose devices that can be programmed to run various types
of applications, or they may be single-purpose devices optimized or limited to a particular
function or class of functions.     More importantly, while shown with web browsers, any
application program for providing a graphical user interface to users may be employed, as
described in detail below; the use of a web browser and web interface are only used as a
familiar example here.
80883-8005.WO00/1 26924488.1                   -13-

[0053]         At least one server computer 2080, coupled to the Internet or World Wide Web
("Web") 2060, performs much or all of the functions for receiving, routing and storing of
electronic messages, such as web pages, audio signals, and electronic images. While the
Internet is shown, a private network, such as an intranet may indeed be preferred in some
applications. The network may have a client-server architecture, in which a computer is
dedicated to serving other client computers, or it may have other architectures such as a
peer-to-peer, in which one or more computers serve simultaneously as servers and clients.
A database 2100 or databases, coupled to the server computer(s), stores much of the web
pages and content exchanged between the user computers.              The server computer(s),
including the database(s), may employ security measures to inhibit malicious attacks on
the system, and to preserve integrity of the messages and data stored therein (e.g.,
firewall systems, secure socket layers (SSL), password protection schemes, encryption,
and the like).
[0054]         The server computer 2080 may include a server engine 2120, a web page
management component 2140, a content management component 2160 and a database
management component 2180.              The server engine performs basic processing and
operating system level tasks. The web page management component handles creation
and display or routing of web pages. Users may access the server computer by means of
a URL associated therewith. The content management component handles most of the
functions in the embodiments described herein. The database management component
includes storage and retrieval tasks with respect to the database, queries to the database,
and storage of data.
[0055]          In general, the detailed description of embodiments of the invention is not
intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise form disclosed above.
While specific embodiments of, and examples for, the invention are described above for
illustrative purposes, various equivalent modifications are possible within the scope of the
invention, as those skilled in the relevant art will recognize. For example, while processes
or blocks are presented in a given order, alternative embodiments may perform routines
having steps, or employ systems having blocks, in a different order, and some processes
or blocks may be deleted, moved, added, subdivided, combined, and/or modified. Each of
80883-8005.WOOO/1 26924488.1                   -14-

these processes or blocks may be implemented in a variety of different ways. Also, while
processes or blocks are at times shown as being performed in series, these processes or
blocks may instead be performed in parallel, or may be performed at different times.
[0056]         Aspects of the invention may be stored or distributed on computer-readable
media, including magnetically or optically readable computer discs, hard-wired or
preprogrammed chips (e.g., EEPROM semiconductor chips), nanotechnology memory,
biological memory, or other data storage media.         Alternatively, computer implemented
instructions, data structures, screen displays, and other data under aspects of the
invention may be distributed over the Internet or over other networks (including wireless
networks), on a propagated signal on a propagation medium (e.g., an electromagnetic
wave(s), a sound wave, etc.) over a period of time, or they may be provided on any analog
or digital network (packet switched, circuit switched, or other scheme). Those skilled in the
relevant art will recognize that portions of the invention reside on a server computer, while
corresponding portions reside on a client computer such as a mobile or portable device,
and thus, while certain hardware platforms are described herein, aspects of the invention
are equally applicable to nodes on a network.
[0057]         The teachings of the invention provided herein can be applied to other
systems, not necessarily the system described herein. The elements and acts of the
various embodiments described herein can be combined to provide further embodiments.
[0058]         Any patents, applications and other references, including any that may be
listed in accompanying filing papers, are incorporated herein by reference. Aspects of the
invention can be modified, if necessary, to employ the systems, functions, and concepts of
the various references described above to provide yet further embodiments of the
invention.
[0059]         These and other changes can be made to the invention in light of the above
Detailed Description.        While the above description details certain embodiments of the
invention and describes the best mode contemplated, no matter how detailed the above
appears in text, the invention can be practiced in many ways. Details of the invention may
vary considerably in its implementation details, while still being encompassed by the
80883-8005.WOOO/1 26924488.1                   -15-

invention disclosed herein. As noted above, particular terminology used when describing
certain features or aspects of the invention should not be taken to imply that the
terminology is being redefined herein to be restricted to any specific characteristics,
features, or aspects of the invention with which that terminology is associated. In general,
the terms used in the following claims should not be construed to limit the invention to the
specific embodiments disclosed in the specification, unless the above Detailed Description
section explicitly defines such terms.     Accordingly, the actual scope of the invention
encompasses not only the disclosed embodiments, but also all equivalent ways of
practicing or implementing the invention.
80883-8005.WOOO/1 26924488.1                 -16-

                                                  CLAIMS
I/We claim:
1.       A system for sorting mineral material, the system comprising:
         a material transport system configured to transport mineral material in a first
                 direction;
         a first array of first sensors aligned approximately transverse to the first direction,
                 wherein:
                 the first sensors generate first data signals;
         a second array of second sensors positioned downstream of the first array of first
                 sensors in the first direction and aligned approximately transverse to the first
                 direction, wherein:
                 the number of second sensors in the second array is equal to the number of
                          first sensors in the first array; and
                 the second sensors generate second data signals that are different from the
                          first data signals; and
         an array of diverters positioned at a terminal end of the material transport system,
                 wherein:
                 the number of diverters is equal to the number of second sensors in the
                          second array; and
                 each diverter is aligned with a first sensor in the first array and a second
                          sensor in the second array in a direction generally parallel to the first
                          direction to thereby divide the material transport system into a plurality
                          of sorting channels; and
80883-8005.WOOO/1 26924488.1                         -17-

                 a signal processing system configured to receive and process the first and
                          second data signals from the first sensors in the first array and the
                          second sensors in the second array, respectively, and direct each of
                          the diverters to a reject or accept position based on the signals
                           received and processed.
2.       The system of claim 1, wherein signals from the first sensor and the second sensor
in each sorting channel are used by the signal processing system to direct the diverter in
the same sorting channel as the first sensor and the second sensor to a reject or accept
position.
3.       The system of claim 1, wherein the first sensors in the first array are a different type
of sensor from the second sensors in the second array.
4.       The system of claim 1, wherein the signal processing system comprises:
         a first analogue to digital signal conversion stage for the first array;
         a second analogue to digital signal conversion stage for the second array;
         a spectral analysis stage;
         a pattern recognition stage; and
         a pattern matching stage.
5.       The system of claim 1, wherein the diverters comprise angular diverter paddles
positioned below the terminal end of the material transport system.
6.       The system of claim 1, wherein the diverters comprise angular diverter paddles
positioned above the terminal end of the material transport system.
80883-8005.WOOO/1 26924488.1                        -18-

7.       The system of claim 1, wherein the diverters comprise linear diverter paddles
positioned below the terminal end of the material transport system.
8.       The system of claim 1, wherein the diverters comprise linear diverter paddles
positioned above the terminal end of the material transport system.
9.       The system of claim 1, wherein the first sensors in the first array are field-type
sensors and the second sensors in the second array are source-detector type sensors.
10.      The system of claim 1, wherein the first sensors in the first array are field-type
sensors.
11.      The system of claim 1, wherein the signal processing system receives and
processes signals and directs diverters to accept or reject in less than 2 ms.
12.      A method of sorting mineral material comprising:
          passing mineral material by a first array of first sensors and collecting first signals,
                 wherein each first sensor in the first array is positioned over a different
                  material transport channel;
          passing mineral material by a second array of second sensors positioned
                 downstream of the first array of first sensors and collecting second signals,
                 wherein each second sensor in the second array is positioned over a
                 different material transport channel;
          processing the first signals and the second signals to identify a composition of the
                  mineral material within each material transport channel; and
80883-8005.WOOO/1 26924488.1                     -19-

         diverting the mineral material to an accept stream or a reject stream based on the
                  identified composition of the mineral material within each material transport
                 channel.
13.      The method of claim 12, wherein the first sensors in the first array are a different
type of sensor from the second sensors in the second array.
14.      The method of claim 12, wherein the first sensors are field-type sensors and the
second sensors are source/detector type sensors.
15.      The method of claim 12, wherein processing the first signals and the second signals
comprises:
         combining the first signals from the first sensors and converting the first signals to a
                 first digital signal;
         combining the second signals from the second sensors and converting the second
                 signals to a second digital signal;
          performing spectral analysis on the first digital signal and the second digital signal;
          performing pattern recognition on the results of the spectral analysis; and
          performing pattern matching on the results of the pattern recognition to thereby
                  identify a composition of the mineral material.
16.      The method of claim 12, further comprising:
          passing mineral material by a third array of third sensors positioned downstream of
                 the second array of second sensors and collecting third signals, wherein
                 each third sensor in the third array is positioned over a different material
                 transport channel; and
80883-8005.WOOO/1 26924488.1                     -20-

          processing the third signals with the first signals and the second signals to identify a
                 composition of the mineral material within each material transport channel.
17.      A data signal processing component of a mineral classifying and sorting system
comprising a conveyor belt having multiple channels aligned generally in parallel with a
direction of transport of the conveyor belt, a first array of first sensors wherein each first
sensor is aligned with a channel and generates a first signal, a second array of second
sensors wherein each second sensor is aligned with a channel and generates a second
signal, and an array of diverters wherein each diverter is aligned with a channel, the data
signal processing component configured to:
          receive the first signals and second signals from the first array of first sensors and
                 the second array of second sensors, respectively;
          process the first signals and second signals to identify the composition of mineral
                  material within each channel; and
         transmit a reject or accept signal to the diverters in the array of diverters based on
                 the composition of the mineral material within each channel.
18.      The data signal processing component of claim 17, wherein the first signal is
different from the second signal.
19.      The data signal processing component of claim 17, wherein processing the first and
second signals comprises using Fourier Analysis.
20.      The data signal processing component of claim 17, wherein transmitting a reject or
accept signal to the diverters results in the diverters positioning to either an accept position
or a reject position.
80883-8005.WOOO/1 26924488.1                     -21-

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
