                                           ABSTRACT
        Implementations directed to identifying variables affecting a cost of healthcare include
actions of receiving data from a plurality of data sources, the data relating to cost of providing
healthcare, providing a data model based on the data, processing the data model using non
parametric analysis to provide a non-parametric result, the non-parametric result including a
first and second variable, automatically processing the data model to correlate at least the
first variable of the non-parametric result to the second variable of the non-parametric result
to provide a correlation result, processing the correlation result using parametric analysis to
provide a parametric result including at least one variable that affects the cost more than one
or more other variables of a plurality of variables of the data model, and providing at least
one data visualization for display, the at least one data visualization providing at least one
graphical representation of the parametric result.

           1/6
                        (..
                 ...............
    C40
                 z.
        ...........
eC4
  ZZ4
 e~C4
             /14
         x-a

                                               1
                COST OF HEALTHCARE ANALYTICS PLATFORM
BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
[0001]     Data analytics can be used to provide insights into factors influencing outcomes.
In an example context, healthcare, it can be difficult to determine factors influencing, for
example, cost of healthcare. For example, insurance companies paying healthcare claims
may need to understand factors influencing changes (e.g., increases) in a time- and
technology-efficient manner. In this example context, data analysis is performed in disparate
systems using at least partially manual processes. This results in inefficiencies in both time
and any underlying technology used to perform the analyses. For example, a technical
challenge includes processing data that is in disparate data formats (e.g., data provided from
the disparate data sources is in disparate formats).

                                                 2
SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
[0002]      Implementations of the present disclosure are generally directed to identifying one
or more variables affecting a cost of healthcare. More particularly, implementations of the
present disclosure are directed to providing time and technology-efficient data analysis
identifying one or more variables affecting a cost of healthcare.
[0003]      In one aspect, the present invention provides a computer-implemented method
for identifying one or more variables affecting a cost of healthcare, the method being
executed by one or more processors and including receiving, by the one or more processors,
data from a plurality of data sources, the data relating to cost of providing healthcare,
providing, by the one or more processors, a data model based on the data, automatically, by
the one or more processors, processing the data model using non-parametric analysis to
provide a non-parametric analysis result, the non-parametric analysis result including a first
variable, and a second variable, automatically, by the one or more processors, processing
the data model to correlate at least the first variable of the non-parametric analysis result to
the second variable of the non-parametric analysis result to provide a correlation result,
automatically, by the one or more processors, processing the correlation result using
parametric analysis to provide a parametric analysis result, the parametric analysis result
including at least one variable that affects the cost of healthcare more than one or more other
variables of a plurality of variables of the data model, and providing, by the one or more
processors, at least one data visualization for display, the at least one data visualization
providing at least one graphical representation of the parametric analysis result.
[0004]      In another aspect, the present invention provides one or more non-transitory
computer-readable storage media coupled to one or more processors and having
instructions stored thereon which, when executed by the one or more processors, cause the
one or more processors to perform operations for identifying one or more variables affecting
a cost of healthcare, the operations including receiving, by the one or more processors, data
from a plurality of data sources, the data relating to cost of providing healthcare, providing,
by the one or more processors, a data model based on the data, automatically, by the one
or more processors, processing the data model using non-parametric analysis to provide a
non-parametric analysis result, the non-parametric analysis result including a first variable,

                                                 3
and a second variable, automatically, by the one or more processors, processing the data
model to correlate at least the first variable of the non-parametric analysis result to the
second variable of the non-parametric analysis result to provide a correlation result,
automatically, by the one or more processors, processing the correlation result using
parametric analysis to provide a parametric analysis result, the parametric analysis result
including at least one variable that affects the cost of healthcare more than one or more other
variables of a plurality of variables of the data model, and providing, by the one or more
processors, at least one data visualization for display, the at least one data visualization
providing at least one graphical representation of the parametric analysis result.
[0005]      In yet another aspect, the present invention provides a system, including one or
more processors, and a computer-readable storage device coupled to the one or more
processors and having instructions stored thereon which, when executed by the one or more
processors, cause the one or more processors to perform operations for identifying one or
more variables affecting a cost of healthcare, the operations including receiving, by the one
or more processors, data from a plurality of data sources, the data relating to cost of providing
healthcare, providing, by the one or more processors, a data model based on the data,
automatically, by the one or more processors, processing the data model using non
parametric analysis to provide a non-parametric analysis result, the non-parametric analysis
result including a first variable, and a second variable, automatically, by the one or more
processors, processing the data model to correlate at least the first variable of the non
parametric analysis result to the second variable of the non-parametric analysis result to
provide a correlation result, automatically, by the one or more processors, processing the
correlation result using parametric analysis to provide a parametric analysis result, the
parametric analysis result including at least one variable that affects the cost of healthcare
more than one or more other variables of a plurality of variables of the data model, and
providing, by the one or more processors, at least one data visualization for display, the at
least one data visualization providing at least one graphical representation of the parametric
analysis result.
[0006]      These and other implementations can each optionally include one or more of the
following features: actions further include providing an initial data model based on the data

                                                 4
received from the plurality of data sources, and selectively deleting one or more data records
from the initial data model to provide the data model; the non-parametric analysis result
includes a sub-set of variables of the plurality of variables, each variable in the non
parametric analysis result having a respective score that exceeds a threshold score; the
respective score includes a p-value; the correlation result includes a plurality of sets of
variables, each set of variables in the correlation result having a respective score indicating
a strength of correlation between variables in the set of variables that exceeds a threshold
score; the data model includes a plurality of tables that are populated with a plurality of data
values for each variable of the plurality of variables; and actions further include storing each
of the non-parametric analysis result, the correlation result, and the parametric analysis
result in a database, and providing one or more data visualizations for each of the non
parametric analysis result, and the correlation result.
[0007]        Implementations of the present disclosure provide one or more of the following
example advantages. In some examples, implementations of the present disclosure
accommodate various data by applying analytical processes that identify significant costs in
the   healthcare     context   more   rapidly  and    accurately  than    previously   available.
Implementations of the present disclosure also provide adaptation to disparate data sources
storing data in different formats. Further, implementations provide a common data model to
capture the inherent relationships among the data elements, the data model being optimized
for information extraction and data analysis. Implementations also provide optimized
routines/scripts for loading and analyzing data, and validated analysis procedures/processes
to derive desired information in an efficient and timely manner.
[0008]    It is appreciated that methods in accordance with the present disclosure can include
any combination of the aspects and features described herein. That is, methods in
accordance with the present disclosure are not limited to the combinations of aspects and
features specifically described herein, but also include any combination of the aspects and
features provided.
[0009] The details of one or more implementations of the present disclosure are set forth
in the accompanying drawings and the description below. Other features of the present
disclosure will be apparent from the description and drawings, and from the claims.

                                           5
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0010]    FIG.    1 depicts an example     high-level  architecture in  accordance with
implementations of the present disclosure.
[0011]    FIG.   2 depicts an example data analytics platform in accordance with
implementations of the present disclosure.
[0012]    FIGs. 3A-3F depict example visualizations in accordance with implementations of
the present disclosure.
[0013]    FIG. 4 depicts an example process that can be executed in implementations of
the present disclosure.

                                                6
DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE EMBODIMENT(S) OF THE IVENTION
[0014]      Implementations of the present disclosure are generally directed to a computer
implemented platform that enables users to identify challenges with costs in the managed
healthcare context. More particularly, the computer-implemented platform of the present
disclosure combines high-power computing, which provides relatively faster processing,
analytical modeling, and data visualization to address challenges in the managed healthcare
context. As described in further detail herein, implementations of the present disclosure can
include actions of receiving data from a plurality of data sources, the data relating to cost of
providing healthcare, providing a data model based on the data, automatically processing
the data model using non-parametric analysis to provide a non-parametric analysis result,
the non-parametric analysis result including a first variable, and a second variable,
automatically processing the data model to correlate at least the first variable of the non
parametric analysis result to the second variable of the non-parametric analysis result to
provide a correlation result, automatically processing the correlation result using parametric
analysis to provide a parametric analysis result, the parametric result including at least one
variable that affects the cost of healthcare more than one or more other variables of a plurality
of variables of the data model, and providing at least one data visualization for display, the
at least one data visualization providing at least one graphical representation of the
parametric analysis result.
[0015]      In general, and as described in detail herein, implementations of the present
disclosure leverage data models and analytical processes to provide data insights, and
identify root causes of increased cost in the healthcare context. More particularly,
implementations of the present disclosure enable data from disparate data sources, and/or
in disparate data formats to be ingested and merged, and used to populate a data model
that is processed in accordance with the data analysis techniques of the present disclosure
to identify one or more variables affecting changes to cost of healthcare.
[0016]      FIG. 1 depicts an example system 100 that can execute implementations of the
present disclosure. The example system 100 includes computing devices 102, 104, a back
end system 108, and a network 110. In some examples, the network 110 includes a local
area network (LAN), wide area network (WAN), the Internet, or a combination thereof, and

                                                7
connects web sites, devices (e.g., the computing device 102, 104), and back-end systems
(e.g., the back-end system 108). In some examples, the network 110 can be accessed over
a wired and/or a wireless communications link. For example, mobile computing devices,
such as smartphones can utilize a cellular network to access the network 110.
[0017]      In the depicted example, the back-end system 108 includes at least one server
system 112, and data store 114 (e.g., database and knowledge graph structure). In some
examples, the at least one server system 112 hosts one or more computer-implemented
services that users can interact with using computing devices. For example, the server
system 112 can host a computer-implemented data analytics service for providing analytical
processes to for data insights, and identifying root causes of increased cost in the healthcare
context in accordance with implementations of the present disclosure.
[0018]      In some examples, the computing devices 102, 104 can each include any
appropriate type of computing device such as a desktop computer, a laptop computer, a
handheld computer, a tablet computer, a personal digital assistant (PDA), a cellular
telephone, a network appliance, a camera, a smart phone, an enhanced general packet radio
service (EGPRS) mobile phone, a media player, a navigation device, an email device, a
game console, or an appropriate combination of any two or more of these devices or other
data processing devices.
[0019]      In the depicted example, the computing devices 102, 104 are used by users 120,
122, respectively. In accordance with the example context, the users 120, 122 can include
analysts that use the computing devices 102, 104 to interact with the computer-implemented
data analytics service hosted in the back-end system 108. In some examples, and as
described in further detail herein, data from disparate data sources, and/or in disparate data
formats are processed through the data analytics service to provide one or more data
visualizations to the users 120, 122, displayed on the computing devices 102, 104.
[0020]      FIG. 2 depicts an example data analytics platform 200 in accordance with
implementations of the present disclosure. In some examples, the data analytics platform
200 can be hosted by one or more server systems 112 of FIG. 1. In the depicted example,
the example data analytics platform 200 includes a data ingestion module 202, a model load

                                                8
module 204, a data preparation module 206, a data analytics module 208, and a visualization
module 210. In the depicted example, the data analytics module 208 includes a non
parametric analysis module 212, a correlation module 214, and a parametric analysis module
216. In some examples, each module can be provided as one or more computer-executable
programs executed using one or more computing devices. In some examples, the modules
can be included in a single computer-executable program executed using one or more
computing devices.
[0021]      In accordance with implementations of the present disclosure, the data analytics
platform 200 receives data from a plurality of data sources 218, 220, 222. In some examples,
the data sources 218, 220, 222 provide data in disparate formats with respect to one another.
In the example healthcare context, data provided from the data sources 218, 220, 222 can
include data that is associated with healthcare costs. For example, the data sources 218,
220, 222 can include, without limitation, a claims database (e.g., storing data associated with
claims submitted to an insurance company), a provider database (e.g., storing data
associated with healthcare providers, such as doctors, hospitals, clinics), an auditing
database (e.g., storing data associated with audits of claims), and a member database (e.g.,
storing data associated with in-network members and out-of-network members).
[0022]      In some implementations, the data ingestion module 202 receives the data from
the data source 218, 220, 222. In some examples, the data ingestion module 202 compares
data sets from respective data sources, and connects data associated with the same entity.
For example, an entity can include a healthcare provider, and data associated with the
healthcare provider can be received from a claims database (e.g., claims submitted to an
insurance company by the health provider), a provider database (e.g., unique identifier
assigned to the healthcare provider by the insurance company, a unique identifier assigned
to the healthcare provider by a third-party (National Provider Identifier (NPI), tax identification
number (TIN)), billing address, etc.), an auditing database (e.g., date, reason, amount, etc.,
of adjustment for adjusted claims), and a member database (e.g., contract information for in
network provider). In some examples, the data is provided in respective data sets from the
data sources 218, 220, 222, and one or more pointers are provided to indicate relationships
between data across the data sets. For example, a provider data set can include data

                                                9
associated with respective healthcare providers (e.g., unique identifiers, billing addresses,
etc.), and, for a particular provider, one or more pointers can point to data in another data
set (e.g., claims data set) that correspond to the particular provider.
[0023]       In some examples, a pointer is provided based on analyzing data across data sets
to determine that data across multiple data sets correspond to the same provider. For
example, a provider data set can indicate, by way of example, that Dr. Jones is a healthcare
provider, and is assigned the NPI 0123456789, and the TIN 99-1234567, and has a billing
address of 1234 Main St., Anytown, USA 12345. A claim data set can include data
associated with a plurality of claims (e.g., hundreds, thousands of claims), and, for each
claim, the claim data set can include the NIP, TIN, and billing address of the provider that
submitted the claim, a unique claim identifier (claim ID), and data associated with the claim
(e.g., date, amount, code(s) (Current Procedural Terminology (CPT) codes). An audit data
set can include data associated with audits to claims (e.g., claim ID, date, adjustment).
[0024]       In some examples, for each provider in the provider data set, other data sets are
reviewed to provide pointers to associated data. For example, the claim data set can be
reviewed based on the NPI, the TIN, and/or the billing address (e.g., zip code) of a provider
to identify claims that are associated with the particular provider (e.g., claims submitted by
the provider). In some examples, if two or more of the NPI, the TIN, and the billing address
(e.g., zip code) of a provider correspond to a respective two or more of the NPI, the TIN, and
the billing address (e.g., zip code) of a claim, a pointer is provided to indicate that the claim
is associated with the provider. In some examples, the audit data set can be reviewed based
on claim ID, date, amount, and/or code(s) to identify adjusted claims that correspond to
original (source) claims. For example, if the claim ID, and one or more of date, amount,
and/or code(s) corresponds to a claim ID and respective one or more of date, amount, and/or
code(s) of an adjustment, a pointer is provided to indicate that the claim is associated with
the adjustment. In this manner, multiple pointers can be provided linking a provider to claims,
adjustments, and the like.
[0025]       In some implementations, the model load module 204 populates an initial data
model based on the data received from the data sources 218, 220, 222, and the pointers. In
some examples, the initial data model is provided as a data structure (e.g., set of tables,

                                               10
each table having respective fields corresponding to attributes). In some examples, the data
model models a generic claim process and relationships among the elements in the claim
process. In some examples, the data model is not provider or payer specific, and captures
information necessary for processing such data and make the processing more flexible, easy
to use and provide a basis for subsequent analysis.
[0026]       For example, the initial data model can include attributes such as claim ID, main
claim, alternate claim, amount, date, claim adjustments, etc. In general, the initial data model
includes attributes for the respective data received from the data sources 218, 220, 222. In
some examples, one or more scripts are executed to load data into the initial data model
based on the pointers. For example, for a particular provider, data from the provider data set
can be loaded into the initial data model (e.g., fields of a respective table of the data model
being populated with the respective data values), and data from the claims data set and/or
audit data set pointed to by pointers can be loaded for the respective provider.
[0027]      In some implementations, the data preparation module 206 processes the
populated initial data model to prepare the data for analysis in the analytics module 208. For
example, the data preparation module 206 processes the initial data model to provide a data
model (modified data model). In some examples, data preparation includes checking quality
of data, and ensuring data fields are populated. In some examples, a record can include
multiple data fields (e.g., a claim record including claim ID field, date field, code(s) field,
amount field). In some examples, if one or more fields of a record is absent a data value, the
record is removed from the initial data model. For example, if a record of a claim is absent
the claim ID, the record is removed from the initial data model. In this manner, only complete
records are included in the data model. In some examples, data values are reviewed to
ensure that the data value corresponds to an expected value. For example, a particular field
of a record may require a string value having a particular format (e.g., claim ID), but it is
determined that the field includes an integer value, and/or does not conform to the particular
format. Consequently, the record is removed from the initial data model. In this manner, the
accuracy of records remaining in the data model is improved.
[0028]      In some implementations, the cost of healthcare can be determined based on the
following example relationship:

                                                  11
                                       Ad = A * B * C * D * E
where:
            A indicates change in membership (e.g., customers) and is provided as Am;
            B and C represent utilization, B indicating % change in members with claims and
is provided as A (     , and C indicating change in member utilization and is provided as A
            D and E represent cost, D indicating change in claim paid/denial rate and is
provided as A E , and E indicating change in amount paid per claim and is provided as
            m is the total number of members;
            u is members with claims;
            p is a count of paid claims;
            d is total paid (e.g., in US dollars); and
            c is the count of all claims.
[0029]      In accordance with implementations of the present disclosure, the data analytics
module 208 processes the data model to identify variables (e.g., of the above, example
relationship) influencing changes in cost of healthcare. In general, and as described in further
detail herein, the data model is processed to identify variables causing changes (e.g.,
increase) in healthcare costs.
[0030]      In some implementations, the non-parametric analysis module 212 processes the
data model to provide a non-parametric analysis result. In some examples, the non
parametric analysis result is a data set indicating one or more variables (factors) that likely
affect the cost of healthcare. In general, the non-parametric analysis result provides a sub
set of variables (factors) that can be focused on in subsequent stages of data analytics from
a set of variables. For example, the data model can provide data values for twenty variables
associated with cost of healthcare. Processing all twenty variables across all values for each

                                               12
variable can be time and resource intensive (e.g., significant technical resources
(processors, memory, bandwidth) may be required to perform data analytics on all variables).
In accordance with implementations of the present disclosure, the non-parametric analysis
provides a sub-set of variables (e.g., ten of the twenty variables), which can be used as the
starting point for subsequent data analysis stages. In this manner, the resources required to
perform the subsequent data analytics can be reduced (e.g., less processors, memory,
bandwidth than without the non-parametric analysis).
[0031]      In some implementations, non-parametric analysis is based on unknown
distributions of the data records, and values of the variables across the records. Non
parametric analysis generally refers to a class of statistical analyses that do not rely on
assumptions about the shape or form of the probability distribution from which the data were
drawn. In some implementations, the non-parametric analysis uses Markov Chain Monte
Carlo (MCMC) simulation, which enables analysis to be performed without making specific
assumptions about the underlying distribution, and is adaptive to many different situations in
which analysis is needed.
[0032]      In some examples, during non-parametric analysis, individual variables are
reviewed based on a variable's values across the data records, and a respective score is
determined. An example score can include a p-value. In some examples, a p-value is the
probability of obtaining a value equal to or greater than the value observed. In some
examples, a p-value is used to determine whether results are within a normal range of values
for events being observed. For example, if a p-value of a variable is above a predetermined
threshold it can be determined that the variable, to which the p-value corresponds, has a
meaningful effect on the results (e.g., change in healthcare cost). In accordance with
implementations of the present disclosure, a set of scores is determined using non
parametric analysis, each score in the set of scores corresponding to a respective variable.
Each score (e.g., p-value) is compared to a threshold score, and if the score exceeds the
threshold score, the respective variable is included in the sub-set of variables.
[0033]       In accordance with implementations of the present disclosure, the non
parametric analysis results (e.g., sub-set of variables) is provided to the correlation module
214, which processes the non-parametric analysis results to provide a correlation result. In

                                                  13
some examples, the correlation result is provided as a sub-set of variables that correlate to
one another. For example, the correlation analysis begins with the sub-set of variables
provided from the non-parametric analysis (e.g., ten of the twenty variables), and determines
a measure of correlation (correlation value) between a variable and on or more other
variables. Example correlation values include, without limitation, the correlation coefficient
(Pearson's), and rank correlation coefficient (Spearman's, Kendall's). In some examples, the
correlation value can be provided as a p-value for particular combinations of variables.
[0034]        In some implementations, the one or more other variables include variables
provided in the sub-set of variables (e.g., ten of the twenty variables), and variables in the
original set of variables (e.g., all twenty variables (Vi, ... , V20)). For example, the sub-set of
variables can include V1, V5, V8, V10, V12, V14, V15, V17, V19, V20. The correlation analysis can
be performed to provide correlation values between V1 and each of V2, ... V20, V5 and each
of V1, ... V4 and V6, ... V20, V8 and each of V1, ... V7 and V9, ... V20, and so on. In some
examples, the correlation analysis can be performed to provide correlation values between
combinations of variables of the sub-set of variables, and one or more other variables in the
set of variables. For example, respective correlation values can be determined between V1
and V5, and one or more of V2,     ... V4 and V6, ... V20, V1 and V8, and one or more of V2,  ... V7
and V9,   ... V20, V1, V5, and V8, and one or more of V2, ... V4, V6, V7, and V9, ... V2o, and so
on.
[0035]        In some implementations, each correlation value is compared to a threshold
correlation value. If the correlation value exceeds a threshold correlation value, the
respective combination of variables is included in the correlation result. For example, it can
be determined that the combinations of (V1, V8, V13), (V1, V8, V16), (V1, V5, V11), among others,
each include correlation values exceeding the threshold correlation value. Consequently, at
least these combinations of variables are included in the correlation result.
[0036]        In accordance with implementations of the present disclosure, the correlation
result is provided as input to the parametric analysis module 216. In some implementations,
the parametric analysis module 216 processes the correlation result to provide a parametric
analysis result. In some examples, parametric analysis includes a sub-set of variables that
significantly affect the cost of healthcare. Parametric analysis generally refers to a class of

                                                14
statistical analyses that rely on assumptions about the shape of the distribution (e.g., normal
distribution assumed) in the underlying population, as well as assumptions about the form or
parameters (e.g., means and standard deviations) of the assumed distribution.
[0037]       In some implementations, the parametric analysis result is fed back into the
correlation analysis, or the parametric analysis. In some examples, the parametric analysis
is iteratively performed to hone in on one or more variables that have the most significant
impact in change to cost of healthcare. In some implementations, iterations are repeated a
number of times until a threshold number of samples is achieved. In some examples, the
threshold number of samples is based on a desired confidence level.
[0038]       In some implementations, the results of each of the data analysis stages (e.g.,
non-parametric analysis, correlation, parametric analysis) are stored in a database 224. In
some examples, the results of one or more of the data analysis stages are provided to the
data visualization module 210, which provides one or more data visualizations based on the
results. For example, the visualization module 210 can provide instructions to a device (e.g.,
a client-side computing device), the instructions being executable by the device to display at
least one data visualization providing at least one graphical representation based on one or
more of the results.
[0039]       FIGs. 3A-3F depict example visualizations in accordance with implementations of
the present disclosure. In general, FIGs. 3A-3F provide respective views on dimensional
analysis. For example, FIGs. 3A-3E provide bar graphs depicting effects on cost across
respective metrics (e.g., line of business, service type, group, product, network participation).
FIG. 3F provides a graphical representation of geographical distribution on members.
[0040]       FIG. 4 depicts an example process 400 that can be executed in implementations
of the present disclosure. In some examples, the example process 400 is provided using one
or more computer-executable programs executed by one or more computing devices (e.g.,
the back-end system 108 of FIG. 1). The example process 400 can be executed to provide
data analytics in accordance with implementations of the present disclosure.
[0041]       Data is received (402). For example, the data ingestion module 202 of FIG. 2
receives data from the data sources 218, 220, 222. Data is merged (404). For example, the

                                                15
data ingestion module 202 analyzes the data sets provided from the data source 218, 220,
222, and associates data with one another across data sets (e.g., provides pointers, as
described herein). A data model is loaded (406). For example, the model load module 204
retrieves an unpopulated data model from computer-readable memory, and executes one or
more scripts to populate the data model with the data received from the data sources 218,
220, 222. In some examples, the data preparation module 206 prepares the data model for
data analysis (e.g., reviews the populated data model, and selectively deletes records from
the data model, as described herein).
[0042]      Non-parametric analysis is performed (408). For example, the non-parametric
analysis module 212 receives the data model, and processes the data model using non
parametric analysis techniques to provide a non-parametric analysis result. In some
examples, the non-parametric analysis result includes a sub-set of variables of a set of
variables of the data model. Correlation analysis is performed (410). For example, the
correlation module 214 receives the non-parametric analysis result, and processes the non
parametric result using correlation techniques to provide a correlation result. In some
examples, the correlation result includes one or more sets of variable that correlate with one
another. Parametric analysis is performed (412). For example, the parametric analysis
module 216 receives the correlation result, and processes the correlation result using
parametric analysis techniques to provide a parametric analysis result. In some examples,
the parametric analysis result can be fed back to the correlation analysis, or the parametric
analysis to further hone in on one or more variables that significantly affect changes in
healthcare costs, relative to other variables in the data model.
[0043]      Data visualizations are provided (414). For example, and as described herein, the
results of each of the data analysis stages (e.g., non-parametric analysis, correlation,
parametric analysis) are stored in a database (e.g., the database 224). In some examples,
the results of one or more of the data analysis stages are provided to the data visualization
module 210, which provides one or more data visualizations based on the results. For
example, the visualization module 210 can provide instructions to a device (e.g., a client
side computing device), the instructions being executable by the device to display at least

                                                  16
one data visualization providing at least one graphical representation based on one or more
of the results.
[0044]         Implementations and all of the functional operations described in this specification
may be realized in digital electronic circuitry, or in computer software, firmware, or hardware,
including the structures disclosed in this specification and their structural equivalents, or in
combinations of one or more of them. Implementations may be realized as one or more
computer program products, i.e., one or more modules of computer program instructions
encoded on a computer readable medium for execution by, or to control the operation of,
data processing apparatus. The computer readable medium may be a machine-readable
storage device, a machine-readable storage substrate, a memory device, a composition of
matter effecting a machine-readable propagated signal, or a combination of one or more of
them. The term "computing system" encompasses all apparatus, devices, and machines for
processing data, including by way of example a programmable processor, a computer, or
multiple processors or computers. The apparatus may include, in addition to hardware, code
that creates an execution environment for the computer program in question, e.g., code that
constitutes processor firmware, a protocol stack, a database management system, an
operating system, or a combination of one or more of them. A propagated signal is an
artificially generated signal, e.g., a machine-generated electrical, optical, or electromagnetic
signal that is generated to encode information for transmission to suitable receiver
apparatus.
[0045]        A computer program (also known as a program, software, software application,
script, or code) may be written in any appropriate form of programming language, including
compiled or interpreted languages, and it may be deployed in any appropriate form, including
as a stand alone program or as a module, component, subroutine, or other unit suitable for
use in a computing environment. A computer program does not necessarily correspond to
a file in a file system. A program may be stored in a portion of a file that holds other programs
or data (e.g., one or more scripts stored in a markup language document), in a single file
dedicated to the program in question, or in multiple coordinated files (e.g., files that store one
or more modules, sub programs, or portions of code). A computer program may be deployed

                                               17
to be executed on one computer or on multiple computers that are located at one site or
distributed across multiple sites and interconnected by a communication network.
[0046]      The processes and logic flows described in this specification may be performed
by one or more programmable processors executing one or more computer programs to
perform functions by operating on input data and generating output. The processes and
logic flows may also be performed by, and apparatus may also be implemented as, special
purpose logic circuitry, e.g., an FPGA (field programmable gate array) or an ASIC
(application specific integrated circuit).
[0047]      Processors suitable for the execution of a computer program include, by way of
example, both general and special purpose microprocessors, and any one or more
processors of any appropriate kind of digital computer. Generally, a processor will receive
instructions and data from a read only memory or a random access memory or both.
Elements of a computer can include a processor for performing instructions and one or more
memory devices for storing instructions and data. Generally, a computer will also include,
or be operatively coupled to receive data from or transfer data to, or both, one or more mass
storage devices for storing data, e.g., magnetic, magneto optical disks, or optical disks.
However, a computer need not have such devices.               Moreover, a computer may be
embedded in another device, e.g., a mobile telephone, a personal digital assistant (PDA), a
mobile audio player, a Global Positioning System (GPS) receiver, to name just a few.
Computer readable media suitable for storing computer program instructions and data
include all forms of non-volatile memory, media and memory devices, including by way of
example semiconductor memory devices, e.g., EPROM, EEPROM, and flash memory
devices; magnetic disks, e.g., internal hard disks or removable disks; magneto optical disks;
and CD ROM and DVD-ROM disks. The processor and the memory may be supplemented
by, or incorporated in, special purpose logic circuitry.
[0048]      To provide for interaction with a user, implementations may be realized on a
computer having a display device, e.g., a CRT (cathode ray tube) or LCD (liquid crystal
display) monitor, for displaying information to the user and a keyboard and a pointing device,
e.g., a mouse or a trackball, by which the user may provide input to the computer. Other
kinds of devices may be used to provide for interaction with a user as well; for example,

                                               18
feedback provided to the user may be any appropriate form of sensory feedback, e.g., visual
feedback, auditory feedback, or tactile feedback; and input from the user may be received in
any appropriate form, including acoustic, speech, or tactile input.
[0049]      Implementations may be realized in a computing system that includes a back end
component, e.g., as a data server, or that includes a middleware component, e.g., an
application server, or that includes a front end component, e.g., a client computer having a
graphical user interface or a Web browser through which a user may interact with an
implementation, or any appropriate combination of one or more such back end, middleware,
or front end components. The components of the system may be interconnected by any
appropriate form or medium of digital data communication (e.g., a communication network).
Examples of communication networks include a local area network ("LAN") and a wide area
network ("WAN"), e.g., the Internet.
[0050]      The computing system may include clients and servers. A client and server are
generally remote from each other and typically interact through a communication network.
The relationship of client and server arises by virtue of computer programs running on the
respective computers and having a client-server relationship to each other.
[0051]      While this specification contains many specifics, these should not be construed
as limitations on the scope of the disclosure or of what may be claimed, but rather as
descriptions of features specific to particular implementations.    Certain features that are
described in this specification in the context of separate implementations may also be
implemented in combination in a single implementation. Conversely, various features that
are described in the context of a single implementation may also be implemented in multiple
implementations separately or in any suitable sub-combination. Moreover, although features
may be described above as acting in certain combinations and even initially claimed as such,
one or more features from a claimed combination may in some cases be excised from the
combination, and the claimed combination may be directed to a sub-combination or variation
of a sub-combination.
[0052]      Similarly, while operations are depicted in the drawings in a particular order, this
should not be understood as requiring that such operations be performed in the particular

                                                19
order shown or in sequential order, or that all illustrated operations be performed, to achieve
desirable results. In certain circumstances, multitasking and parallel processing may be
advantageous.       Moreover, the separation of various system components in the
implementations described above should not be understood as requiring such separation in
all implementations, and it should be understood that the described program components
and systems may generally be integrated together in a single software product or packaged
into multiple software products.
[0053]      A number of implementations have been described.            Nevertheless, it will be
understood that various modifications may be made without departing from the spirit and
scope of the disclosure. For example, various forms of the flows shown above may be used,
with steps re-ordered, added, or removed. Accordingly, other implementations are within
the scope of the following claims.
[0054]      Throughout this specification and the claims which follow, unless the context
requires otherwise, the word "comprise", and variations such as "comprises" and
"comprising", will be understood to mean the inclusion of a stated feature or step, or group
of features or steps, but not the exclusion of any other feature or step, or group of features
or steps.
[0055]      Any reference to prior art in this specification is not, and should not be taken as
an acknowledgment, or any suggestion that, the prior art forms part of the common general
knowledge.

                                                 20
The claims defining the invention are as follows:
1.     A computer-implemented method for identifying one or more variables affecting a cost
of healthcare, the method being executed by one or more processors and including:
        receiving, by the one or more processors, data from a plurality of data sources,
                the data relating to cost of providing healthcare;
        providing, by the one or more processors, a data model based on the data;
       automatically, by the one or more processors, processing the data model using non
parametric analysis to provide a non-parametric analysis result,
                the non-parametric analysis result including:
                       a first variable, and
                       a second variable;
       automatically, by the one or more processors, processing the data model to correlate
at least the first variable of the non-parametric analysis result to the second variable of the
non-parametric analysis result to provide a correlation result;
       automatically, by the one or more processors, processing the correlation result using
parametric analysis to provide a parametric analysis result,
                the parametric analysis result including:
                       at least one variable that affects the cost of healthcare more than one
                or more other variables of a plurality of variables of the data model; and
        providing, by the one or more processors, at least one data visualization for display,
                the at least one data visualization providing at least one graphical
        representation of the parametric analysis result.
2.     A method according to claim 1, further including:
        providing an initial data model based on the data received from the plurality of data
sources; and
       selectively deleting one or more data records from the initial data model to provide
the data model.

                                                 21
3.      A method according to either claim 1 or claim 2, wherein the non-parametric analysis
result includes a sub-set of variables of the plurality of variables, each variable in the non
parametric analysis result having a respective score that exceeds a threshold score.
4.      A method of claim 3, wherein the respective score includes a p-value.
5.      A method according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the correlation result
includes a plurality of sets of variables, each set of variables in the correlation result having
a respective score indicating a strength of correlation between variables in the set of
variables that exceeds a threshold score.
6.      A method according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the data model
includes a plurality of tables that are populated with a plurality of data values for each variable
of the plurality of variables.
7.      A method according to any one of the preceding claims, further including:
        storing each of the non-parametric analysis result, the correlation result, and the
parametric analysis result in a database; and
        providing one or more data visualizations for each of the non-parametric analysis
result, and the correlation result.
8.      One or more non-transitory computer-readable storage media coupled to one or more
processors and having instructions stored thereon which, when executed by the one or more
processors, cause the one or more processors to perform operations for identifying one or
more variables affecting a cost of healthcare, the operations including:
        receiving, by the one or more processors, data from a plurality of data sources,
                the data relating to cost of providing healthcare;
        providing, by the one or more processors, a data model based on the data;
        automatically, by the one or more processors, processing the data model using non
parametric analysis to provide a non-parametric analysis result,
                the non-parametric analysis result including:

                                                22
                       a first variable, and
                       a second variable;
       automatically, by the one or more processors, processing the data model to correlate
at least the first variable of the non-parametric analysis result to the second variable of the
non-parametric analysis result to provide a correlation result;
       automatically, by the one or more processors, processing the correlation result using
parametric analysis to provide a parametric analysis result,
                the parametric analysis result including:
                       at least one variable that affects the cost of healthcare more than one
                or more other variables of a plurality of variables of the data model; and
        providing, by the one or more processors, at least one data visualization for display,
                the at least one data visualization providing at least one graphical
        representation of the parametric analysis result.
9.     A computer-readable storage media according to claim 8, wherein operations further
include:
        providing an initial data model based on the data received from the plurality of data
sources; and
       selectively deleting one or more data records from the initial data model to provide
the data model.
10.    A computer-readable storage media according to either claim 8 or claim 9, wherein
the non-parametric analysis result includes a sub-set of variables of the plurality of variables,
each variable in the non-parametric analysis result having a respective score that exceeds
a threshold score.
11.    A computer-readable storage media according to claim 10, wherein the respective
score includes a p-value.
12.    A computer-readable storage media according to any one of claims 8 to 11, wherein
the correlation result includes a plurality of sets of variables, each set of variables in the

                                                 23
correlation result having a respective score indicating a strength of correlation between
variables in the set of variables that exceeds a threshold score.
13.     A computer-readable storage media according to any one of claims 8 to 12, wherein
the data model includes a plurality of tables that are populated with a plurality of data values
for each variable of the plurality of variables.
14.     A computer-readable storage media according to any one of claims 8 to 13, wherein
operations further include:
        storing each of the non-parametric analysis result, the correlation result, and the
parametric analysis result in a database; and
        providing one or more data visualizations for each of the non-parametric analysis
result, and the correlation result.
15.     A system, including:
        one or more processors; and
        a computer-readable storage device coupled to the one or more processors and
having instructions stored thereon which, when executed by the one or more processors,
cause the one or more processors to perform operations for identifying one or more variables
affecting a cost of healthcare, the operations including:
        receiving, by the one or more processors, data from a plurality of data sources,
                the data relating to cost of providing healthcare;
        providing, by the one or more processors, a data model based on the data;
        automatically, by the one or more processors, processing the data model using non
parametric analysis to provide a non-parametric analysis result,
                the non-parametric analysis result including:
                       a first variable, and
                       a second variable;
        automatically, by the one or more processors, processing the data model to correlate
at least the first variable of the non-parametric analysis result to the second variable of the
non-parametric analysis result to provide a correlation result;

                                                24
        automatically, by the one or more processors, processing the correlation result using
parametric analysis to provide a parametric analysis result,
               the parametric analysis result including:
                       at least one variable that affects the cost of healthcare more than one
               or more other variables of a plurality of variables of the data model; and
        providing, by the one or more processors, at least one data visualization for display,
               the at least one data visualization providing at least one graphical
        representation of the parametric analysis result.
16.     A system according to claim 15, wherein operations further include:
        providing an initial data model based on the data received from the plurality of data
sources; and
        selectively deleting one or more data records from the initial data model to provide
the data model.
17.     A system according to either claim 15 or claim 16, wherein the non-parametric
analysis result includes a sub-set of variables of the plurality of variables, each variable in
the non-parametric analysis result having a respective score that exceeds a threshold score.
18.     A system according to claim 17, wherein the respective score includes a p-value.
19.     A system according to any one of claims 15 to 18, wherein the correlation result
includes a plurality of sets of variables, each set of variables in the correlation result having
a respective score indicating a strength of correlation between variables in the set of
variables that exceeds a threshold score.
20.     A system according to any one of claims 15 to 19, wherein the data model includes a
plurality of tables that are populated with a plurality of data values for each variable of the
plurality of variables.

                    COST OF HEALTHCARE ANALYTICS PLATFORM
                               Thomas D. Perry et al.
                                  12587-0616001
<removed-date>
                                              <U+2701><U+2702>
                                  108
<removed-apn>
                        114
              100      112
                                                            FIG. 1
                                        110          <U+2720><U+271F>
                                                     <U+271E>
                                                     <U+2706><U+271D><U+260E>
                                                     <U+2704>
                            102
                                               104
                      120
                                        122

                                                  <removed-apn>                <removed-date>
218
              202           204                    206                      200
220
        Data        Model                   Data
      Ingestion     Load                 Preparation
                                                                                             COST OF HEALTHCARE ANALYTICS PLATFORM
                                                                208
                                        Data Analytics
                                                                                        <U+2701><U+2702>
                    212                                               214
                                                                                  224
                                                                                                        Thomas D. Perry et al.
                                     Non-
                                                  Correlation
                                  parametric
222                                      Parametric
                                                                                                           12587-0616001
                            216                          210
                                        Visualization
                                                                 FIG. 2

                                                <removed-apn>     <removed-date>
Entity 1   Entity 2   Entity 3   Entity 4   Entity 5
                                                             FIG. 3A
                                                                             COST OF HEALTHCARE ANALYTICS PLATFORM
                                                                       <U+2701><U+2702>
                                                                                        Thomas D. Perry et al.
                                                                                           12587-0616001
FIG. 3B

              COST OF HEALTHCARE ANALYTICS PLATFORM
                         Thomas D. Perry et al.
                            12587-0616001
<removed-date>
                                 <U+2701><U+2702>
                       FIG. 3C
<removed-apn>
                                                      FIG. 3D

              COST OF HEALTHCARE ANALYTICS PLATFORM
                         Thomas D. Perry et al.
                            12587-0616001
<removed-date>
                                     <U+2701><U+2702>
<removed-apn>
                                                      FIG. 3F
                           FIG. 3E

              COST OF HEALTHCARE ANALYTICS PLATFORM
                         Thomas D. Perry et al.
                            12587-0616001
<removed-date>
                               <U+2702><U+2701><U+2702>
              402
                          Receive data
                                                        400
              404
<removed-apn>
                           Merge data
              406
                         Load data model
              408
                          Perform non-
                       parametric analysis
              410
                        Perform correlation
                             analysis
              412
                        Perform parametric
                             analysis
              414
                              Provide
                          visualization(s)
                                               FIG. 4

