  ABSTRACT
  The present invention relates to a method and system for providing a loyalty
  program. The method includes a user providing access to a server to a plurality of
  receipts from a plurality of providers. The server processes the receipts in order to
5 generate benefits for the user.

WO 2013/057491                       PCT/GB2012/052575
                         115
               CC
                                 L1
                                 I.-
                             C:C
                         C~C
                     Co:
                             0
                 CYC

   WO 2013/057491                                                         PCT/GB2012/052575
    A METHOD AND SYSTEM FOR PROVIDING A LOYALTY PROGRAM
     Field of Invention
 5  The present invention is in the field of providing loyalty programs. Particularly,
    but not exclusively, the present invention relates to a method and system for
    providing a loyalty program across multiple providers of products and
    services, as well as the retail channels that sell those products and/or
    services.
10
     Reference to any prior art in this specification does not constitute an admission
    that such prior art forms part of the common general knowledge.
     Background
15
     A traditional loyalty program has three key characteristics: (1) a retailer of
     goods or services; (2) a unique account number for a consumer; and (3)
     association of an account number with a purchase or consumption of service.
20   For retailers, loyalty programs are typically tied to the specific retailer as a way
     to better track what purchases were made by a specific consumer.
    Accordingly, there has been little to no incentive for competing retailers to
     share information about consumers they are both trying to attract. This
    generally applies to service providers as well.
25
     Loyalty programs are predicated on the ability to identify customers to a
     specific transaction. Accordingly, the provision of a unique customer
     identification or account number is a key element of any loyalty system. In
    more sophisticated systems, customers apply for accounts providing a variety
30  of demographic and preference data about themselves or their families. The
    retailer then either generates, or assigns a pre-generated account number, to
    which the customer is then associated and tracked by the retailer's database.
    This account number is usually provided on a plastic card with either a
    magnetic strip or bar code which contains the account number. In less
 35 sophisticated systems, the customer may be completely anonymous. An
    example of such system would be a paper card (e.g. from a local coffee
    shop), with spaces to denote number of purchases.

   WO 2013/057491                                                     PCT/GB2012/052575
                                             2
     Data association typically takes place at the point of sale or service
     consumption. In the case of a supermarket, a customer produces a retailer
     provided card, for which they have applied. The card is scanned into the
 5   retailer's point of sale (POS), reading the magnetic strip or barcode as if it
     were a purchased product. At this point the customer's card number is then
     associated with items purchased. Similarly, for service providers (e.g.
     airlines), a card is produced shortly before service consumption (i.e. boarding
     the flight). In the case of an airline, an agent either swipes the customer's
10   plastic flyer card or manually enters the number into the customer's flight
     record, thus associating the flight and the customer. In less sophisticated
     systems, the service provider's paper card is marked (usually via special
     stamp or hole punch) to denote a purchase.
15   In a few instances, loyalty programs have been created that span across
     providers. One example is that of credit cards rewards which accumulate for
     purchasing goods or services with a specific card. However, credit card based
     programs are better characterized as loyalty to one service provider - the
     credit    card   company     itself. Another   example    is  that  of   Nectar
20   (http://www.nectar.com). Nectar enables collection of reward points across a
     variety          of        retailers       and        service         providers.
     (http://www.nectar.com/collect.points).   Generally, this network consists of
     retailers and service providers who offer complementary as opposed to
     competing goods and services.
25
     For product manufacturers the primary disadvantage of existing loyalty
     programs is lack of visibility of granular data. Because loyalty schemes are
     designed to be a competitive advantage in managing the retailer's business,
     product manufacturers, by definition have reduced access. Accordingly, data
30   for sales of their products, while captured at retail POS terminals, is only
     repackaged and sold back to product manufacturers in aggregate or summary
     form. The inability to access data at the individual level makes it difficult for
     product manufacturers to understand and impact consumer behaviour at an
     individual rather than at an aggregate level.

   WO 2013/057491                                                        PCT/GB2012/052575
                                                3
     Further, because existing loyalty programs relate to specific retailers, product
     manufacturers are unable to observe and influence behaviour that takes place
     across multiple retailers (i.e. an individual purchasing the same product from
 5   difference retailers, at different times, locations etc.)
     For consumers, the key disadvantages of existing loyalty programs relate to
     convenience, visibility and portability.     First, the plethora of existing loyalty
     programs requires customers to sign-up for, manage and remember to
10   register their purchases with a specific retailer.
     Because of the fragmentation in loyalty programs, the consumer never has a
     complete picture of their purchases outside of a specific retailer.
15   Additionally, existing loyalty programs are closed systems that require
     accumulated rewards to be spent within the specific retailer or service
     provider's network. This greatly limits the amount of choice consumer have in
     where to redeem their rewards.
20   It is an object of the present invention to provide a method and system for
     providing a loyalty program which overcomes the disadvantages of the prior
     art, or at least provides a useful choice.
     Summary of Invention
25
     According to a first aspect of the invention there is provided a computer
     implemented method of providing a loyalty program, including:
     a first user providing access to a server for a plurality of receipts from a
     plurality of providers; and
30   the server processing the plurality of receipts to generate a benefit for the first
     user.
     According to a further aspect of the invention there is provided a system of
     providing a loyalty program, including:

   WO 2013/057491                                                      PCT/GB2012/052575
                                                4
     a first user device configured to provide access to a server for a plurality of
     receipts from a plurality of providers; and
     a server configured to process the plurality of receipts to generate a benefit for
     the first user.
 5
     Other aspects of the invention are described within the claims.
     Brief Description of the Drawings
10   Embodiments of the invention will now be described, by way of example only,
     with reference to the accompanying drawings in which:
     Figure 1:       shows a block diagram illustrating a system in accordance with
     an embodiment of the invention;
15
     Figure 2:       shows a flowchart illustrating a method in accordance with an
     embodiment of the invention;
     Figure 3:       shows a flowchart illustrating a method for a product code
20   matching system in accordance with an embodiment of the invention;
     Figure 4:       shows a diagram illustrating ensemble clustering in accordance
     with an embodiment of the invention; and
25   Figure 5:       shows a flowchart      illustrating a method   for consumption
     calculation system in accordance with an embodiment of the invention.
     Detailed Description of Preferred Embodiments
30   The present invention provides a method and system for providing a loyalty
     program via a communications network.
     In Figure 1, a system 100 for providing a loyalty program is shown. The
     system 100 includes a server 101. The server 101 includes a communications

   WO 2013/057491                                                     PCT/GB2012/052575
                                              5
     network interface 102 for communicating with a plurality of user devices 103
     and 104 via a communications network 105. The communications network
     105 may be the Internet.
 5   The user devices 103 and 104 may be mobile devices, such as cellular mobile
     telephones or tablet computers, or computing devices, such as laptop or
     desktop computers. It will be appreciated that other devices with a processor,
     memory, user interface and communications interface may be used as a user
     device.
10
     One of the user devices 103 may interface with a capture device 106 such as
     an external/internal camera, or scanner. The interface may be an indirect
     interface, for example, with an external camera via the memory card of the
     external camera within a memory card reader. The capture device 106 may
15   be configured for capturing electronic images of physical receipts.
     The server 101 may interface with an image processing system 107 and a
     product code matching system 108. The image processing system 107 may
     be configured for converting images of receipts to electronically readable
20   versions of the receipts. The electronically readable versions of the receipts
     preferably includes product codes. The product code matching system 108
     may be configured for matching the product codes extracted from the
     electronically readable versions of the receipts to universal product codes.
     The product code matching system 108 may interface with a database 109,
25   the Internet 110, and/or a verification user device 111.
     A third party server 112 interfaced with a database 113 may also be
     connected to the communications network 105. The third party database 113
     may be configured for storing electronic receipts. The electronic receipts may
30   be in an electronically readable format, such as XML (eXtensible Mark-up
     Language) or CSV (Comma-Separated Values).
     With reference to Figure 2, a method 200 for providing a loyalty program will
     be described.

   WO 2013/057491                                                       PCT/GB2012/052575
                                              6
     A user utilising one of the user devices 103 or 104 provides access to the
     server 101 in step 201 to a plurality of receipts for purchases from a plurality
     of providers. The providers may be seller of goods and/or services such as a
 5   retailer.
     The user may provide access to the server by authorising access to a
     digitised version of the receipt in step 202. The digitised version of the receipt
     may have been generated by the provider and may be stored on a third party
10   server, such as a provider server, the user's email server, or a user's
     accounting system.
     Alternatively, the user may provide access to the server by performing the
     following steps:
15       a) using a capture device 106 to capture an image of the receipt in step
             203; and
          b) uploading the captured image to the server 101 using their user device
             103 in step 204.
20   In this case, the server 101 may further process the captured image using the
     image processing system 107 to extract information, such as product codes,
     from the captured image in step 205.
     The image processing system 107 may perform optical character recognition
25   (OCR) on the captured image to recognise the text within the image and to
     extract certain information.
     The certain information may include product codes for the purchases recorded
     on the receipt, names of the products purchased, location information,
30   provider/retailer information, and temporal information (date/time of purchase).
     Providers often utilise different product codes from one another for the same
     product. The server 101 may utilise the product code matching system 108 to

   WO 2013/057491                                                      PCT/GB2012/052575
                                              7
     map the product code to a universal product code in step 206. The product
     code matching system 108 may utilise the following steps:
     1) A semantic search is performed on the Internet 110 using the product code
     to identify a long product name;
 5   2) The paired product code and long product name are stored within a
     database;
     3) The server 101 provides an interface to facilitate human user verification
     and/or customer verification of the pairing;
     4) A semantic search is performed on a universal product code (UPC)
10   database 109 using the long product name; and
     5) The server 101 provides an interface to facilitate human user verification
     and/or customer verification of the UPC semantic search.
     For example, a customer purchases Alpha Cola from supermarket A. His
15   receipts denotes this as "AlCola 24/12oz pk E6.99". Later he buys another
     Alpha Cola from supermarket B. This receipts denotes the purchase as
     "AlpColaCh 2L E1.99". Internet searches take place for both products and a
     matching algorithm utilised by the product code matching system 108
     suggests that the first purchase is likely "Alpha Cola 24 pack of 12 ounce cans
20   E6.99" and based on matching criteria, the system 100 accepts this
     suggestion. A subsequent search using the product long form name against
     the UPC database indicates that the UPC code for this product is 123456
     789999 with a very high probability and it is accepted by the system 100. The
     search for the second product reveals two likely possibilities: 1) Alpha Cola
25   Cherry 2 liters E1.99 or 2) Alpha Cola Cherry two pack 1 litre glass bottles
     E1.99. The system 100 refers the final match to a human being for verification,
     who confirms "Alpha Cola Cherry 2 liters £1.99" as the correct product. A
     subsequent search using the product long form name against the UPC
     database indicates that the UPC code for this product is 123456 789998 with
30   a very high probability and it is accepted by the system 100.
     The server 101 may utilise the mapping to calculate total product purchases
     across a plurality of providers. The server 101 may generate a benefit based
     upon the totalled purchases in step 207. For example, the server 101 may

   WO 2013/057491                                                      PCT/GB2012/052575
                                               8
     generate a discount offer based upon a purchase threshold being reached
     within a specified time period.
     The server 101 may utilise the extracted information for a plurality of
 5   purchases for a user across a time period to generate behaviour predictions
     for the user.
     The server 101 may generate a benefit for the user based, at least in part,
     upon the behaviour predictions for that user. For example, the server 101 may
10   generate a discount for a product that the user purchased previously.
     In generating the benefit, the server 101 may utilise current information about
     the user, such as the user's current location. For example, the server 101 may
     generate a discount for a product, or a similar product, sold in particular
15   location, when the user is near that particular location.
     The server 101 may also calculate current product ownership for a user. For
     example, the server 101 may predict how much of a product is currently
     owned by the user, such as, if a user purchased a pint of milk, the server 101
20   may determine that half of the milk is left after two days.
     The server 101 may calculate current product ownership in accordance with
     one or more of the following factors: product shelf-life, multiple purchases of
     the same product over a timescale, household size of the user, unit size of the
25   product, and product substitution. For example, customer 'A' buys one two
     litre container of Happy Cow Organic 2% fresh milk. 'A' also buys a six pack
     of one litre 2% long-life milk. 'A's purchases over a five week period are as
     follows:
           - Week one:
30                o 1 one litre container of Happy Cow Organic 2% fresh milk;
                  o 1 six pack of Moo 1 litre 2% long-life milk.
           - Week two:
                  o 1 one litre container of Happy Cow Organic 2% fresh milk;
           - Week three:

   WO 2013/057491                                                     PCT/GB2012/052575
                                             9
                 o 1 one litre container of ACME Supermarket brand 2% fresh milk
         - Week four:
                 o 1 one litre container of Happy Cow Organic 2% fresh milk;
         - Week five:
 5               o 1 one litre container of ACME Supermarket brand 2% fresh milk
                 o 1 six pack of Moo one litre 2% long-life milk.
     'A' has indicated that there are three people in his household.       Using the
     customer-provided     purchase    data   points  the server    101   creates    a
10   consumption prediction algorithm for the 'Milk' category as these products are
     considered to be substitutes.       The consumption prediction algorithm is
     evaluated together with expected shelf-life of each product to estimate
     potential spoilage. This yields the probability whether 'A' needs to repurchase
     milk in week six and in what quantities.
15
     Current product ownership may be used by the server 101 in generating a
     benefit for the user. For example, if the user is running out of a product, the
     server 101 may generate a discount on that product or a similar product. The
     system 100 may suggest a location at which to buy the product. Similarly, the
20   system 100 may generate a reminder list of all products which the system 100
     estimates the user may no longer own or which need to be replenished.
     In one embodiment, the benefit provided by the server 101 is entry into a
     sweepstakes (including lotteries and prize draws) for the user. For example,
25   once the system 100 has received a user's digitized receipt, the server 101
     can conduct a sweepstakes draw based on any of the following parameters
     (individually or in combination): numbers of receipts submitted, and/or receipt
     contents (such as Date, Time stamp, Retailer name, Retailer location, Cashier
     number, Specific products, Prices         associated with    specific products,
30   Quantities associated with specific products, Total amount spent, Payment
     method used, and Retailer loyalty program point balances i.e. open balance,
     qualifying purchases, points earned, closing balance, and/or retailer E value).

   WO 2013/057491                                                      PCT/GB2012/052575
                                            10
     A sweepstakes draw may take place against digitized receipts in the system
     100 with matching criteria (as set out in the sweepstakes in effect) and
     winning receipt (and associated user) are selected using an electronic
     selection mechanism (such as a random number generator applied against
 5   receipts).
     In one embodiment, the number of entries to the sweepstakes for a user is
     defined by the number of receipts uploaded to the server 101 and the number
     of friends referred on social networking sites, and the draws are held based
10   on defined time periods, such as daily, weekly, and/or monthly.
     An example of one embodiment of the invention (referred to as Shopitize) will
     now be described:
15   1)      A consumer, John, goes to ALPHA Supermarket and does his weekly
     grocery shop;
     2)      John then goes to BRAVO Corner Market to pick up a few missing
     items;
     3)      While in that area, he goes next door to Retailer C to buy a new shirt.
20   4)      Finally on his way home he fills up his car at Petrol Station D on his
     way home.
     5)      At home, he uses a Shopitize App on his mobile device to take digital
     pictures of the receipts (ALPHA Supermarket, BRAVO Corner Market, Petrol
     Station D) and the application submits those via the Internet to the Shopitize
25   server;
     6)      The Shopitize server performs Optical Character Recognition (OCR) to
     convert the text;
     7)      The Shopitize System identifies retailer, product moniker, location,
     time, product prices, total price, discounts, coupons, taxes, loyal card used,
30   qualifying loyalty card balance, opening balance, points earned, closing
     balance from the receipt;
     8)      The Shopitize System applies an algorithm to identify & match products
     across channels from the differing monikers to the long-form of the product
     name and ultimately to the UPC;

   WO 2013/057491                                                        PCT/GB2012/052575
                                               11
     9)      John does not have a physical receipt for Retailer C, but does have an
     on-line receipt. Using a web-based or downloaded tool bar, John searches for
     and uploads the digital receipt from his email, social networking site or
     phone's text messages;
 5   10)      In addition to purchase data, the Shopitize system captures:
             a.      Geo tag and GPS data;
              b.     Physical location check-in (via apps, NFC tags, QR or other
                     machine readable codes);
             c.      Duration spent in specific locations;
10           d.      Web search history;
             e.      Social preferences (expressed like or dislike for content);
             f.      Leisure preferences, activities and or memberships;
             g.      Customer family size and associated demographics;
              h.     Post code;
15            i.     Transportation mode and or ownership; and
             j.      Serial numbers of appliances and or electronic devices;
     11)     The Shopitize System uses the captured data points and purchased
     items to analyze purchase and behavioural patterns. From this, elasticity of
     demand based on loyalty to specific product, services and retailers can be
20   calculated;
     12)      From these analyses, the Shopitize System creates the following,
     tailored to individual users:
             a.      Reports:
                     i.      Financial spending historical summary (by category, by
25                   retailer, by time frame, by location, etc.)
                     ii.     Estimated spend over a given time frame;
             b.      Reminders:
                     i.      Automated Grocery list: Tells the users what products
                     they bought last and when they need to replenish their stocks.
30            c.     Rewards
     13)     The Shoptize system stores the receipts which consumers can tag,
     search and access via a web portal
     14)      Later, when John accesses the Shopitize application he notices four
     things:

   WO 2013/057491                                                           PCT/GB2012/052575
                                               12
        a. The Home Grocery stock level prediction algorithm has automatically
        told him when he next needs to go to the grocery store and what he needs
        to buy;
         b. He has very specific offers for specific products, services and retailers
 5      that are tailored exactly to what he likes. This was the result of the
         interaction of the "Purchase behaviour prediction" algorithm;
        c. His offers differ when compared to his wife - even for the exact same
         product. This is a result of the interplay of the Loyalty Predictor and the
         Personalized Price Prediction algorithms; and
10      d. His Universal Rewards balance has been updated and he has a new
        set of offer for which he can redeem his points.
     For Brands, service providers and retailers, Shopitize enables targeted
     promotions that are tailored to the individual level while safeguarding the
15   actual identity of the consumer. The interplay of the following algorithms:
     Purchase behaviour prediction, Personalized Price Prediction, and Loyalty
     Predictor, allows targeted offers based on:
     -       Past purchase history of own products;
     -       Past purchase history of competitor products;
20   -       Past purchase history of correlated products, services, and or retailers;
     -       Likelihood of future purchase (i.e. base on consumption rate)
     -       Location
     -       Time
     -       Interplay with other behavioural variables
25   -       Weather conditions (i.e. matching past purchases with time and
     weather data);
             Price elasticity (per product, retailer, time, location, etc.)
     An exemplary product code matching system for use by an embodiment of the
30   invention will now be described with reference to Figures 3 and 4.
     This system will be referred as the Shopitize Intelligent Receipt Matching
     System (SIRMS)

   WO 2013/057491                                                     PCT/GB2012/052575
                                             13
     The system is configured to perform the following steps: in step 301 the digital
     version of receipt is acquired.
     In step 302 an ensemble cluster process is applied to the digital version of the
 5   receipt.
     The general idea of ensemble clustering is to use multiple predictors and
     combine their results instead of attempting to build one general model to
     capture all the subtleties of the data.
10
     For example, and with reference to Figure 4, to build a model that would
     separate the data in Figure 4, a hypothesis family, "H", is formed and can
     separate the data using geometric shapes such as a circle (i.e. "Hi") or a
     square (i.e. "H2"). Visually, it can be seen that neither one by itself is
15   sufficient. However, applying both (i.e. training two independent classifiers
     and merging their results- an ensemble of classifiers) provides a good
     approximation.
     The overarching principle of ensemble techniques is to make each predictor
20   as unique as possible: using a different learning algorithm (decision trees,
     svm, svd) or a different feature (random subspace method). Then, once many
     individual classifiers have been acquired, determining a mechanism to join the
     results (for example, in one simple method: each predictor votes on each
     point, then tally up the votes) and make a final prediction using the new
25   classifier.
     Step 302 of applying the ensemble clustering process includes the following
     sub-steps:
     1)      Receipt processed via 1 to X different OCR engines;
30   2)      Fuzzy Search step A: OCR Output processed via stemming algorithm
     porters stemming, soundex or double metaphone;
     3)      Fuzzy search step B: String search of the matching stemmed product
     in product database, thus the connection between receipt and database
     formed.

   WO 2013/057491                                                      PCT/GB2012/052575
                                             14
     4)      The algorithms output compared on Pareto front in such way if the
     combination of one OCR engine and stemming algorithm produce results,
     better then another, in terms of large number of items matched in database, it
     will have higher rank, hence the more number of items from this algorithms
 5   pair will be added to the connection database and this algorithm's pair will
     have higher vote for its own matched items
     The ensemble cluster process is not limited to the techniques described
     above, and may also include:
10   -       Pattern matching using Support Version Machine classifiers, where
     image will be directly matched to the product, without the transforming image
     to text
     -       Decision trees, Random Forest to match product categories
     -       Fuzzy k-means and c-means clustering
15   -       Evolutionary algorithms
     In application, each of these techniques can be used sequentially or in parallel
     in contributing to the complete solution. Further, user's feedback can be
     incorporated into the clustering algorithms which allow such incorporation
20   such as Evolutionary clustering algorithms, random forests etc.
     In step 303 the digitized output of receipt contents are created.
     In step 304 the product descriptors are matched against a Shopitize product
25   database.
     In step 305 is performed assignment and association probabilistic matching
     between specific algorithms and products.
30   In step 306, the associated probability is augmented via Shopitize or user
     verification.
     An exemplary consumption prediction algorithm for use by an embodiment of
     the invention will now be described with reference to Figure 5.

   WO 2013/057491                                                    PCT/GB2012/052575
                                               15
     The    consumption       prediction algorithm will be referred   as Shopitize
     Consumption Prediction Algorithm (SCPA)
 5   The SCPA includes step 501 of applying an ensemble cluster process on user
     consumption data.
     The ensemble cluster process used in step 501 may include the following
     factors:
10   o       Consideration of all parameters that may be included on a receipt,
     including, but not limited to:
     -       Retailer
     -       Retailer address (including post code)
     -       Retailer phone number
15   -       Retailer website
     -       Individual products
     -       Quantities associated with such products
     -       Prices associated with such products
     -       Discounts associated with such products;
20   -       Total amount spent
     -       Total discounts
     -       Initial loyalty scheme point balance
     -       Additional loyalty points earned
     -       New total loyalty point balance
25   -       Store number
     -       Time of transaction
     -       Payment method
     -       Payment details
     -       Cashier name or number
30   o       Historical weighting of consumer purchase history (vote, representing
     the performance evaluation of the previous predictive algorithm output)
     o       User generated feedback
     o       User information available in open sources including but not limited to
     social networks

   WO 2013/057491                                                      PCT/GB2012/052575
                                              16
     In step 502 an ensemble cluster process is applied on external factors.
     The ensemble cluster process used in step 502 may include any combination
 5   of the following factors:
     o       Seasonality of product sales or availability cycle
     o       Historic weather patterns
     o       Predicted weather pattern
     o       Historic events (news, sports, entertainment, etc.)
10   o       Future events (news, sports, entertainment, etc.)
     o       News and news feeds
     o       Historic economic data (GDP, consumption purchase index (CPI),
     employment/unemployment         data, housing starts, manufacturing      output,
     purchasing managers index,         interest rates, exchange rates, commodity
15   prices, consumer confidence index)
     o       Future economic predictions (GDP, consumption purchase index (CPI),
     employment/unemployment         data, housing starts, manufacturing      output,
     purchasing managers index,         interest rates, exchange rates, commodity
     prices, consumer confidence index)
20
     The ensemble cluster is not limited to the techniques described above, and
     may also include:
     -       Pattern matching using Support Version Machine classifiers, where
25   image will be directly matched to the product, without the transforming image
     to text
     -       Decision trees, Random Forest to match product categories
     -       Fuzzy k-means and c-means clustering
     -       Evolutionary algorithms
30
     In application, each of these techniques can be used sequentially or in parallel
     in contributing to the complete solution.      Further, user's feedback can be
     incorporating into the clustering algorithms which allow such incorporation as:
     o       Evolutionary clustering algorithms,

   WO 2013/057491                                                     PCT/GB2012/052575
                                               17
     o        random forests,
     o       Cross-validation,
     o       Kalman filter or variations of KF such as Uncentered Kalman Filter, The
     extended Kalman filter (EKF)
 5   o       K-Nearest neighbours (KNN)
     o       Weighted KNN
     o       Inverse function
     o       Subtraction Function
     o       Gaussian Function
10   o       Evolutionary algorithms such as Multi-Objective, Probabilistic Selection
     Evolutionary Algorithms
     In step 503, probabilistic predictive purchase behaviour is generated for
     specific products. These generated behaviours indicate the likelihood of an
15   individual to buy:
     o       A specific quantity
     o       Of a specific product
     o       In a specific context, including, but not limited to:
     -       Location
20   -       Time period
     -       Weather conditions
     -       Economic environment
     -       Events
25   It will be appreciated that the present invention may be implemented as
     software executing on computer hardware or within hardware itself.
     Potential advantages of some embodiments of the present invention is that it
     tracks loyalty at the individual consumer level without requiring multiple sign
30   ups or a physical card to be used in a retailer or at POS; enables customer
     purchases to be viewed in aggregate, irrespective of the retailer or service
     provider; analyses customer behaviour holistically across channels (i.e. retail
     channels); and increases consumer choice by enabling rewards to be
     redeemed outside of a specific retailer's scheme.

   WO 2013/057491                                                       PCT/GB2012/052575
                                              18
     While the present invention has been illustrated by the description of the
     embodiments thereof, and while the embodiments have been described in
     considerable detail, it is not the intention of the applicant to restrict or in any
 5   way limit the scope of the appended claims to such detail. Additional
     advantages and modifications will readily appear to those skilled in the art.
     Therefore, the invention in its broader aspects is not limited to the specific
     details, representative apparatus and method, and illustrative examples
     shown and described. Accordingly, departures may be made from such
10   details without departure from the spirit or scope of applicant's general
     inventive concept.

                                           19
Claims
 1.  A computer-implemented           method of providing a loyalty program,
      including:
             a first user providing access to a server for a plurality of receipts
             from a plurality of providers; and
             the server processing the plurality of receipts to generate a benefit
             for the first user.
2.   A method as claimed in claim 1 wherein the server processes the
     receipts to determine a sweepstake winner in accordance with a
     sweepstake selection process.
3.   A method as claimed in claim 2 wherein the sweepstake selection
     process includes matching criteria associated with the receipt contents.
4.   A method as claimed in any one of the preceding claims wherein the
     server processes the receipts to extract specific product information.
5.   A method as claimed in claim 4 wherein the specific product information
     is mapped to a universal product code.
6.  A method as claimed in claim 5 wherein the specific product information
     is mapped to a universal product code in accordance with the following
     steps:
       i)   semantic search is performed on the Internet using the specific
            product information to identify expanded product information;
       ii) the paired specific product information and expanded product
            information are stored within a database;
       iii) a system facilitates human user verification and/or customer
            verification of the pairing; and
       iv) semantic search is performed on a universal product code
            database using the expanded product information.

                                       20
 7.  A method as claimed in any one of claims 5 to 6 wherein the server
     generates the benefit based upon a totalling of products within the
     universal product code.
 8.  A method as claimed in any one of the preceding claims wherein the
     server processes the receipts to extract information of one or more
     selected from the set of product purchased, time of day of purchase,
     date of purchase, and location of purchase.
9.   A method as claimed in claim 8 the method further including the step of
     the server further processing the extracted information to predict user
     behaviour.
10.  A method as claimed in any one of claims 8 to 9 the server processing
     the extracted information to predict user behaviour by the server
     analysing the extracted information in accordance with one or more
    features selected from the set of product selection, retailer selection,
     location selection, category selection, and temporal selection; wherein
    the server generates the benefit in accordance with predicted user
    behaviour.
11. A method as claimed in any one of the preceding claims wherein the
    benefit is a targeted offer.
12. A method as claimed in any one of claims 8 to 10 the method further
    including the step of the server further processing the extracted
    information to determine product ownership by the user.
13. A method as claimed in any one of the preceding claims the method
    further including the step of the server processing the product ownership
    of the user in accordance with a plurality of factors to estimate product
    ownership at any specified time.

                                           21
 14. A method as claimed in any one of the preceding claims wherein the
      plurality of factors includes one or more selected from the set of product
     shelf-life, multiple purchases of the same product over a timescale,
     household size of the user, unit size of the product, and product
     substitution.
 15. A method as claimed in any one of the preceding claims wherein at least
     one of the plurality of receipts are digitally captured by the user, and the
     server processing the at least one receipt in accordance with the
     following steps:
        i) performing optical character recognition on the scanned receipt to
            extract data;
        ii) processing the data to extract product codes for at least one
            purchase recorded on the receipt;
       iii) mapping the extracted product codes to a universal product code;
            and
       iv) collating the universal product codes for a user to determine the
            extent of the benefit to be provided to the user.
16.    A system of providing a loyalty program, including:
               a first user device configured to provide access to a server for a
               plurality of receipts from a plurality of providers; and
               a server configured to process the plurality of receipts to
               generate a benefit for the first user.
17.   A system as claimed in claim 16 wherein the first user device is
       interfaced to a capture device configured to capture an image of at
       least one of the plurality of receipts.
18.   A system as claimed in any one of claims 16 to 17 further including one
      or more selected from the set of a third party server configured to
      provide access to at least of the plurality of receipts to the server when
      authorised by the first user device and an image processing system

                                       22
     configured to extract product code information from captured images of
     receipts.
19. A system as claimed in any one of claims 16 to 18 further including a
    product code matching system configured to match product codes
    within the plurality of receipts to a universal product code, and wherein
    the server is configured to generate the benefit based upon the
    matched universal product codes.
20. Computer program product configured to perform the method of any
    one of claims 1 to 15.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
