                                              ABSTRACT
   An automatic drilling fluid property analyzer including a housing having an inlet and an outlet;
   at least one valve disposed proximate the inlet and configured to open and close to provide a
 5 sample of fluid into the housing; an electronic control module configured to send a signal to the
   at least one valve; a probe assembly operatively coupled to the electronic control module, the
   probe assembly including an electrode probe having two electrodes and a probe gap
   therebetween; a viscometer sleeve disposed in the housing; a bob disposed in the sleeve,
   wherein an annulus is formed between the viscometer sleeve and the bob, and wherein at
10 least one of the viscometer sleeve and the bob is configured to rotate, a motor operatively
   coupled to at least one of the viscometer sleeve and the bob; and a torque measuring device
   operatively coupled to the viscometer sleeve and the bob.

          1/29
2ti.~e 14      ...................
                                     I
                 FIG.              I

                                                       - 1
                                 AUTOMATED DRILLING FLUID ANALYZER
                                              Related Application
   This application is a divisional application of Australian application no. <removed-apn> which in
 5 turn is a divisional application of Australian application no. 2011215835. The disclosures of
   each of these applications are incorporated herein by reference.
                                       BACKGROUND OF INVENTION
10                                           Field of the Invention
             Embodiments disclosed herein relate to an automated meter to measure the electrical
   stability of drilling fluids. More specifically, embodiments disclosed herein relate to a drilling
   fluid analyzer for determining viscosity, gel strength, and or electric stability. More specifically
   still, embodiments disclosed herein relate to methods and systems for determining viscosity,
15 gel strength, and or electric stability of drilling fluids that include automation and remote
   control.
                                                Background Art
             When drilling oil and/or gas wells, oil-based drilling fluids are often used to cool the drill
20 bit, remove rock chips, and control subsurface fluids. Various properties of this fluid can be
   measured to compute useful results. For example, the electrical stability of drilling fluid is a
   property that is typically measured using an electrical stability (ES) test. The ES test is typically
   a manual test that is performed by a mud engineer or an equivalent technician.
   Conventionally, when performing an ES test, a probe that includes circular flat electrodes of
25 diameter 1/8 inch, spaced 1/16 inch between faces, is inserted into the drilling fluid. Drilling
   fluid, which contains nonaqueous fluid, water (or other polar liquid), clays, and other materials,
   fills the gap between the two electrodes of the test probe. Wires run from the probe to a signal
   generator and measurement meter, which ramps the voltage between the electrodes until
   components of the fluid align to form a short-circuiting bridge. When the short circuit occurs,
30 the current between the electrodes immediately spikes. Specifically, an AC voltage of 340 Hz
   is ramped at 150 V s-1 until a peak current (approximately 61 pA) occurs. At this stage, the
   peak voltage, known as the breakdown voltage           (VBD) is captured by the meter. 61 pA is the
   current at which the breakdown voltage occurs for the above-described geometry of the probe.
   The breakdown voltage is the voltage at which the drilling fluid's electrical properties become
35 electric field-dependent and is the voltage at which the electrical conductivity of the drilling fluid
   becomes non- ohmic. Thus, the breakdown voltage is related to the emulsion stability and is
   then used to compute the emulsion stability and other properties of the drilling fluid.

                                                      -2
   Typically, to measure the electrical stability of drilling fluid using the above manual probe
   method, the drilling fluid and associated fluid is kept static, as movement and shifts in the
   fluids of the drilling fluid may cause the measurements taken by the electrodes and recorded
   by the meter to be skewed. In addition, when using the manual probe method described
 5 above, the electrodes and the gap between electrodes of the probe are manually cleaned after
   each measurement sampling.
   In addition to measuring electrical stability, drilling rig operators may perform tests to
   determine viscosity. Typically, such measurements were performed with instruments such as a
10 Marsh funnel viscometer. Marsh funnels are manually operated measurement devices that
   provide a drilling operator a general idea as to the viscosity of a particular fluid. In use, the
   funnel is held vertically and the end tube closed by covering the outlet with a finger. Fluid to be
   measured is then poured into the funnel until the fluid reaches a line indicating about 1.5 litres.
   To take the measurement, the finger is removed from the outlet and a stopclock is started. The
15 fluid exits the funnel and the time to remove one quart of fluid from the funnel is recorded. With
   a known volume and a discharge time, the viscosity may be calculated.
   While such measurement techniques give operators a general idea as to the viscosity, due to
   the manual implementation, the results may not always be accurate. Additionally, the viscosity
20 of the fluid downhole is not truly known, because the fluid cannot be heated or measured
   under pressure.
   In addition to electrical stability and viscosity, the gel strength of the fluid can also be
   determined. Gel strength is the measure of a fluid's ability to hold particles in suspension, and
25 the gel strength is measure using a concentric cylinder viscometer. Gel strength is also
   measured manually and the results analyzed when adjusting the properties of the drilling fluid.
   Accordingly, there exists a need for an automated method for measuring the electrical stability,
   viscosity, and/or gel strength of drilling fluid. Additionally, there exists a need for improved
30 methods for sampling drilling fluid for appropriate measurements and cleaning of the
   electrodes of the probe used to measure the breakdown voltage of the drilling fluid.
                                         SUMMARY OF INVENTION
35 In one aspect, the embodiments disclosed herein relate to an automated electrical stability
   meter for measuring electrical stability of a sample of fluid, the meter including a housing
   having an inlet and an outlet; at least one valve disposed proximate the inlet and configured to
   open and close to provide a sample of fluid into the housing; an electronic control module

                                                      -3
   configured to send a signal to the at least one valve; and a probe assembly operatively
   coupled to the electronic control module, the probe assembly including an electrode probe
   having two electrodes and a probe gap therebetween.
 5 In another aspect, embodiments disclosed herein relate to an automated viscometer including
   a housing having an inlet and an outlet; a viscometer sleeve disposed in the housing; a bob
   disposed in the sleeve, wherein an annulus is formed between the viscometer sleeve and the
   bob, and wherein at least one of the viscometer sleeve and the bob is configured to rotate, a
   motor operatively coupled to at least one of the viscometer sleeve and the bob; and a torque
10 measuring device operatively coupled to the viscometer sleeve and the bob.
   In another aspect, embodiments disclosed herein relate to an automatic drilling fluid property
   analyzer including a housing having an inlet and an outlet; at least one solenoid valve
   disposed proximate the inlet and configured to open and close to- provide a sample of fluid
15 into the housing; an electronic control module configured to send a signal to the at least one
   solenoid valve; a probe assembly operatively coupled to the electronic control module, the
   probe assembly including an electrode probe having two electrodes and a probe gap
   therebetween; a viscometer sleeve disposed in the housing; a bob disposed in the sleeve,
   wherein an annulus is formed between the viscometer sleeve and the bob, and wherein at
20 least one of the viscometer sleeve and the bob is configured to rotate, a motor operatively
   coupled to at least one of the viscometer sleeve and the bob; and a torque measuring device
   operatively coupled to the viscometer sleeve and the bob.
   In another aspect, embodiments disclosed herein relate to computer-assisted method for
25 automated drilling fluid property analysis, the method including a software application
   executing on a processer, the software application including instructions for transferring a
   drilling fluid from an active fluid system; filling a sample cell with the drilling fluid; directing the
   fluid through an electric probe, wherein the electric probe comprises a probe gap between two
   electrodes; applying a voltage across the probe gap; determining an electric stability of the
30 drilling fluid based at least in part on the applied voltage; transferring the drilling fluid from the
   sample cell to the active fluid system; and cleaning the sample cell.
   In another aspect, embodiments disclosed herein relate to A computer-assisted method for
   automated drilling fluid property analysis, the method including a software application
35 executing on a processer, the software application including instructions for transferring a
   drilling fluid from an active fluid system; filling a sample cell with the drilling fluid; directing the
   drilling fluid in the sample cell into an annulus between a sleeve and a bob of a viscometer;
   rotating at least one of the sleeve and the bob; determining at least one of a viscosity and a

                                                       -4
   gel strength of the drilling fluid based on the rotation of the at least one of the sleeve and the
   bob; transferring the drilling fluid from the sample cell to the active fluid system; and cleaning
   the sample cell.
 5 In another aspect, embodiments disclosed herein relate to computer-assisted method for
   controlling an automatic drilling fluid property analyzer, the method including a software
   application executing on a processer, the software application including instructions for
   sending a control signal from a remote location to the drilling fluid property analyzer at a
   drilling location; verifying the control signal was received by the drilling fluid analyzer; receiving
io data from the drilling fluid analyzer; processing the data received from the drilling fluid
   analyzer; and determining at least one of a viscosity, gel strength, and electrical stability of a
   drilling fluid in the drilling fluid property analyzer.
   Other aspects and advantages of the invention will be apparent from the following description
15 and the appended claims.
                                     BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF DRAWINGS
   In order that the invention may be more clearly ascertained, embodiments will now be
20 described, by way of example, with reference to the accompanying drawing, in which:
   Figure 1 is a schematic of a general automated fluid analyzer in accordance with embodiments
   disclosed herein.
   Figure 2 is a partial perspective view of an automated electrical stability meter in accordance
   with embodiments disclosed herein.
25 Figure 2B shows a top view of an automated electrical stability meter in accordance with
   embodiments disclosed herein.
   Figure 3 is a process and instrumentation diagram of an automated electrical stability meter in
   accordance with embodiments disclosed herein.
   Figures 3A and 3B are cross-sectional views of a check valve according to embodiments of
30 the present disclosure.
   Figure 3C is an exploded view of a check valve according to embodiments of the present
   disclosure.
   Figure 4 is a perspective view of a shell housing of an electrical stability meter in accordance
   with embodiments disclosed herein.
35 Figure 5 is a partial perspective view of an automatic drilling fluid property analyzer in
   accordance with embodiments disclosed herein.
   Figures 6A and 6B are perspective and cross-sectional views, respectively, of an automated
   viscometer in accordance with embodiments disclosed herein.

                                                      -5
   Figures 7 A-7C are partial perspective views of an automatic drilling fluid property analyzer in
   accordance with embodiments disclosed herein.
   Figures 8-21 are graphical displays according to embodiments of the present disclosure.
   Figure 22 is a flow chart of a process for analyzing drilling fluids according to embodiments of
 5 the present disclosure.
   Figure 23 is a schematic representation of a computer system according to embodiments of
   the present disclosure.
   Figure 24 is a schematic representation of an XRF fluid analyzer according to embodiments of
   the present disclosure.
10 Figures 25A-C are cross-sectional views of a test chamber of the XRF analyzer according to
   embodiments of the present disclosure.
   Figures 26A-C are cross-sectional views of a test chamber of the XRF analyzer according to
   embodiments of the present disclosure.
   Figure 27 is a process and instrumentation diagram of a combination analyser in accordance
15 with embodiments disclosed herein
                                        DETAILED DESCRIPTION
   In one aspect, embodiments disclosed herein relate to an automated meter to measure
20 emulsion stability and rheological properties of drilling and completion fluids. More specifically,
   embodiments disclosed herein relate to autonomous analysis of drilling and completion fluids
   that may be performed or analyzed remote from the rig or testing site.
   Embodiments disclosed herein relate to a method and apparatus for automating the
25 measurement of properties of invert emulsion oil-based or synthetic based fluids (i.e., drilling
   fluids and/or completion fluids) and water based fluids. Although the disclosure herein may
   reference drilling fluid, one of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that other types of fluids
   (e.g., completion fluids) may also be tested with the method and apparatus disclosed herein.
30 Referring to Figure 1, a general schematic of an automated fluid property analyzer 10 in
   accordance with embodiments disclosed herein is shown. The automated fluid property
   analyzer 10 is placed in line with an active fluid system and configured to obtain a sample of
   fluid from the system for analyzing. As shown, the automated fluid property analyzer 10
   includes a sample cell 12, a valve block 14, and a pump 16. Although the valve block 14 is
35 illustrated as a single unit, one of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that valve block 14
   may include one or more valves arranged as necessary to provide fluid flow in and out of the
   sample cell 12. An electronic control module 18 is operatively connected to the sample cell 12,
   valve block 14, and pump 16, as designated by the phantom lines. Generally, a fluid is

                                                      -6
    pumped by pump 16 through inlet 20 of valve block 14 into sample cell 12. The pump 16 may
    be, for example, a pneumatic pump or a positive displacement pump. The fluid may be tested
    in sample cell 12 and/or cycled through the sample cell and out through outlet 22 in valve
    block 14. The valve block 14 may also include a cleaning fluid inlet 24 through which a
  5 cleaning fluid may be pumped into the sample cell 12 for cleaning the sample cell 12 between
    tests of the fluid. One of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that various fluids may be used
    for cleaning the sample cell 12. For example, the cleaning fluid may be mineral oil, diesel, or
    water and may include various chemical additives, such as surfactants and/or acid.
10  As discussed in greater detail below, the sample cell 12 may include a housing (not shown)
    configured to contain a desired volume of fluid for sampling and analyzing. One of ordinary
    skill in the art will appreciate that the volume of the housing may vary based on the type of
    fluid to be sampled, size constraints of the location at which the sampling is to be performed,
    and the types of analysis to be performed. In some embodiments, the volume of the sample
15  cell housing may be in a range between 0.25 L and 1.0 L. In some embodiments, the volume
    of the sample cell is 0.5 L. The sample cell 12 may include devices or components configured
    to determine at least one of an electrical stability, a gel strength, and a viscosity of the fluid
    sampled, as discussed below. For example, in one embodiment, the sample cell may include
    an automated electrical stability meter, an automated viscometer, or a combination of both.
20
    The electronic control module 18 includes electronics configured to send and/or receive
    signals between the components of the sample cell 12, the valve block 14, and pump 16 to
    automate the sampling and analysis process. The electronic control module 18 may send
    periodic signals to the valve block 14 and a component for determining an electrical stability of
25  a sample fluid in the sample cell 12, thereby initializing a measurement reading. The electronic
    control module 18 may be configured to control the timing between measurement
    readings/data acquisition. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the frequency of
    measurement readings may be determined by factors other than timing. For example, drilling
    fluid may be sampled and measured based on the quantity of drilling fluid that is driven
30  through the sample cell 12. Alternatively, drilling fluid may be sampled and measured on
    demand and/or in real-time.
    In one or more embodiments, configuration files stored on a USB flash drive (not shown), or
    other type of computer readable medium or storage device, are provided to the electronic
35  control module 18 via a USB connector (not shown). Those skilled in the art will appreciate
    that other types of connectors and storage devices may also be employed. For example, an
    SD card and corresponding SD connector may be used to store and load configuration files.
    Alternatively, a hard drive, floppy disk drive, internal memory, or a CD may also be used. The

                                                    -7
    configuration files may include probe waveform definitions, calibration data, and automated
    and manual process definitions for the electronic control module 18.
    Referring now to Figure 2, an automated electrical stability meter 30 for measuring electrical
  5 stability of a sample of fluid is shown in accordance with embodiments disclosed herein. The
    automated electrical stability meter 30 includes a housing (not shown) configured to contain a
    volume of fluid to be analyzed. The sample fluid enters the housing through an inlet 32 and
    exits the housing through an outlet 34. A pump (not shown) is configured to pump the sample
    fluid in and out of the housing when signaled from the electronic control module (not shown).
10
    A probe assembly 36 is disposed in the housing (not shown) and operatively coupled to the
    electronic control module (not shown). The probe assembly 36 includes an electrode probe 38
    for measuring the electrical stability and other properties of the drilling fluid. The electrode
    probe 38 is a fork-shaped probe with two electrodes 40 on each tong-like piece. Between the
15  two electrodes 40 is a probe gap 42. When fluid fills the volume of the housing, the fluid is
    directed through the probe gap 42 of the probe assembly 36. A voltage is applied across the
    probe gap to determine an electric stability of the drilling fluid based at least in part on the
    applied voltage. A series of measurements, i.e., a testing sequence, may be taken with the
    same fluid sample in the housing.
20
    The electrical stability meter 30 may also include a cleaning mechanism 44 configured to clean
    the probe gap 42 between the two electrodes 40. The cleaning mechanism 44 is configured to
    remove any residue from the surface of the electrodes 40 or stuck in the probe gap 42 to
    ensure proper test results of subsequent fluid samples. As shown in Figure 2, cleaning
25  mechanism 44 may include a rotating disc 46 coupled to a shaft 48. The shaft 48 is coupled to
    a motor 50. Motor 50 is coupled to an outer surface of the housing (not shown), and the shaft
    48 extends into the housing proximate the probe assembly 36. When the motor 50 receives a
    signal from the electronic control module (not shown), the motor 50 rotates the shaft 48 and,
    therefore, the disc 46. The width of the disc 46 is approximately equal to the width of the probe
30  gap 42 (i.e., the distance between the two electrodes 40). Therefore, as the disc 46 is rotated
    between the electrodes 40, the disc 46 removes any remaining residue from the probe gap 42
    and the electrodes 40. The electronic control module (not shown) may operate the cleaning
    mechanism 44 between sampling and testing sequences. Cleaning of the probe assembly 36
    may be performed at predetermined time intervals or may be individually initiated by the
35  electronic control module (not shown).
    The disc 46 may be formed from any material known in the art capable of cleaning a surface.
    In one embodiment, the disc 46 is formed from a flexible material so as to prevent damage to

                                                    -8
    the electrodes 40. Disc 46 may be formed from polyethylene, for example ultra high molecular
    weight polyethylene (UHMW), or polytetrafluoroethylene (PTFE). As shown, the disc 46
    includes a cut out or opening 52 extending through the width of the disc 46. Once cleaning of
    the probe assembly 36 is completed, rotation of the disc 46 is stopped such that the opening
  5 52 is in alignment with the probe gap 42. Thus, analysis of a sample of fluid is to be
    performed, the opening 52 of the disc 46 is positioned between the electrodes 40 in the probe
    gap 42 so as to provide a maximum volume of sample fluid between the electrodes 40 for
    measurement of the electrical properties of the fluid.
io  A position indicator (not shown) may be coupled to the motor 50 or the rotating disc 46. The
    position indicator (not shown) is operatively coupled to the electronic control module (not
    shown) and configured to send a signal representative of the location of the rotating disc 46
    and the opening 52. The signal representative of the location of the rotating disc 46 may be
    compared to predetermined values for locations of the disc 46 with respect to the probe
15  assembly 36 for sampling and testing sequences or cleaning sequences to ensure that the
    opening 52 is properly aligned with the probe assembly 36. While the cleaning mechanism 44
    as described may include a rotating disc 46, one of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that
    other cleaning mechanisms may be used without departing from the scope of embodiments
    disclosed herein. For example, a wiper blade may be rotated into and out of the probe gap 42,
20  an actuated squeegee may wipe the surfaces of the electrodes 40, or jets may be installed
    proximate the electrodes to blast residue off of the electrodes 40 with fluid, such as water,
    base oil, or air.
    In some embodiments, the automated electrical stability meter 30 may include an agitator (not
25  shown). In one embodiment, the agitator may include a one or more turbine blades coupled to
    the cleaning mechanism 44. For example, one or more turbine blades may be coupled to the
    shaft 48 and/or the rotating disc 46. Thus, as the rotating disc 46 is operated, the turbine
    blades (not shown) of the agitator (not shown) also rotate and mix the fluid contained within
    the housing. Rotation of the agitator (not shown) stirs or mixes the fluid contained in the
30  housing and reduces or prevents settling of particulates or separation of liquids in the fluid.
    The electronic control module (not shown) may operate the agitator (not shown) between
    sampling and testing sequences. Agitation of the fluid in the housing may be performed at
    predetermined time intervals or may be individually initiated by the electronic control module
    (not shown).
35
    A thermal jacket (not shown) .is disposed around the housing (not shown) of the automated
    electrical stability meter 30. The thermal jacket is configured to heat the sampled fluid
    contained within the housing (not shown). In one embodiment, the thermal jacket includes an

                                                     -9
    electrical circuit configured to supply an alternating current to heat the fluid contained in the
    housing (not shown). In another embodiment, the thermal jacked includes an electrical circuit
    configured to supply a direct current to heat the fluid contained in the housing (not shown).
    The electronic control module (not shown) may be used to control the electrical circuit in the
  5 thermal jacket and, therefore, heating of the sample fluid.
    To cool the fluid contained in the housing, a water jacked may be disposed around the housing
    (not shown) of the automated electrical stability meter 30. For example, cooling loop 56
    (Figure 3) may be run along a portion of the housing or around the circumference of the
io  housing (not shown). In this embodiment, a water supply line 64 (Figure 3) may be connected
    to a loop of tubing encircling or placed adjacent the housing (not shown) of the automated
    electrical stability meter 30. A valve may be actuated by, for example, the electronic control
    module to provide a flow of fluid having a temperature less than the sample fluid to the cooling
    loop. Heat from the sample fluid is transferred to fluid flowing through the cooling loop 56
15  (Figure 3), thereby cooling the sample fluid. The cooling fluid may be, for example, water, sea
    water, or any other fluid known in the art. The cooling loop 56 may allow for a more rapid
    cooling of the sample fluid, thereby decreasing the time between tests. As the time between
    tests may be decreased, more frequent samples of the fluid may be obtained, thereby
    informing a drilling engineer as to changes in electrical stability and gel strength.
20
    In other embodiments, a Peltier device (not shown) may be coupled to the housing and used
    to cool and/or heat the fluid contained in the housing. A Peltier device uses the Peltier effect to
    create heat flux across the device. The Peltier device may be coupled to a DC voltage
    generator. The resultant temperature of the sample fluid may be determined by the amount of
25  current provided to the Peltier device.
    A temperature sensor (not shown) may be disposed in the housing of the automated electrical
    stability meter 30. The temperature sensor is operatively coupled to the electronic control
    module (not shown) and is configured to sense and transmit data representative of the
30  temperature of the sample fluid. The electronic control module may be configured to
    continuously monitor the temperature of the sample fluid, to monitor the temperature of the
    sample fluid at timed intervals, to monitor the temperature of the sample fluid before and/or
    after each testing sequence, or to monitor the temperature of the sample fluid at manually
    initiated times. Based on readings of the temperature sensor (not shown) and a predetermined
35  desired temperature input value, the electronic control module (not shown) may initiate heating
    or cooling of the sample fluid, as discussed above.

                                                      -10
    Referring to Figure 2B, a top view of the electrical stability meter 30 of Figure 2, according to
    embodiments of the present disclosure is shown. In this embodiment, electrical stability meter
    30 includes a probe assembly 36 disposed in a housing 35. An electrode probe 38 is
    configured to measure the electrical stability, as well as other properties of a sample drilling
  5 fluid. Between electrodes (not shown) of electrode probe 38, a probe gap 42 is formed. During
    operation, a sample drilling fluid is provided in the probe gap 42, a voltage is applied across
    the probe gap 42 such that an electrical stability of the sample drilling fluid may be determined.
    A cleaning mechanism 44, such as a wiper blade, may be configured to rotate into probe gap
    42, thereby allowing the probe gap 42 to be cleaned between testing cycles.
10
    Electrical stability meter 30 also includes an agitator 41 that is configured to rotate. Agitator 41
    includes one or more blades 43 that may be rotated in order to mix fluid within the housing 35.
    The mixing of fluid within housing 35 prevent solids particles from settling out or otherwise
    separating from the mixing during and between testing cycles. In certain embodiments,
15  housing 35 may also includes a heating/cooling jacket 49. The heating/cooling jacket 49 may
    thereby heat and subsequently cool sample drilling fluids, thereby allowing the fluid to be
    tested according to downhole conditions. Additionally, the jacket 49 may allow the sample
    drilling fluid to be cooled more rapidly between test cycles, thereby decreasing the time
    between tests.
20
    Referring now to Figure 3, a process and instrumentation diagram of the closed system
    automated electrical stability meter 30 is shown. As shown, an automated electrical stability
    meter 30 is placed in line with an active fluid system 60. A plurality of valves 62 control flow of
    fluids in and out of the automated electrical stability meter 30. In one embodiment, at least one
25  valve 62 is a solenoid valve, while in other embodiments, valve 62 may include check valves
    or combinations of solenoid and check valves. In certain embodiments, rather than a solenoid
    valve, other types of actuated valves may be used. In certain embodiments, solenoid valves
    having large passageways are coupled to the inlet 32 and outlet 34 of the automated electrical
    stability meter 30. Such solenoid valves may be used to prevent a build up of residue,
30  particles, or debris from settling out of the fluid transported therethrough and blocking the
    valve. Such valves are commercially available from ASCO@ (Florham Park, NJ). The solenoid
    valves may be also be positioned so as to prevent material from settling into areas of the valve
    that may prevent proper actuation of the valve.
35  Referring briefly to Figures 3A and 3B, a specific type of valve 62 according to embodiments of
    the present disclosure is shown. In Figure 3A, a check valve 63 is shown. The check valve 63
    includes a plunger 71, a valve body 73, and a plunger assembly 75 including an elastomer
    material 77. During a fill stage of the testing (Figure 3A), during low pressure conditions, the

                                                      - 11
   fluid is flowing along path A, thereby moving the plunger 71 into an open position and allowing
   fluid to flow into the electrical stability meter. During a high pressure condition, such as during
   a back flow, the fluid is flowing in direction B (of Figure 3B), causing the plunger 71 to close
   and seal check valve 63. Such a one-way check valve may be less prone to failure from liquids
 5 or slurries that are highly viscous or contain particulate matter.
   Referring briefly to Figure 3C, an exploded view of check valve 63 is shown. As illustrated,
   check valve 63 includes a valve body 73, a plunder assembly 75 having an elastomer material
   77, and a plunger guide 79. The elastomer material 77 is configured to seal against sealing
10 surface 81 of valve body 73, and is configured to remain constrained within plunger guide 79.
   Those of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that in certain embodiments, a check valve 63
   may be used along or in combination with other types of valves, such as the solenoid valves
   described above. Referring back to Figure 3, s shown, a valve 62 is actuated on a fluid inlet
   line 2 to sample fluid from the active fluid system 60. The electronic control module 18
15 includes, for example, a programmable logic controller 68 or a micro processor and a voltage
   generator 66. The electronic control module 18 is configured to send a signal to at least one of
   the valves 62 to open or close. The sample fluid is directed through the inlet 32 of the
   automated electrical stability meter 30. A temperature sensor 54 operatively coupled to the
   electronic control module 18 is disposed in the housing 70 of the automated electrical stability
20 meter 30. If the temperature sensed by the temperature sensor 54 is above or below a
   predetermined temperature value, the electronic control module 18 sends a signal to the
   thermal jacket 58 or the cooling loop 56 to heat or cool, respectively, the sample fluid.
   Specifically, if the temperature of the sample fluid needs to be raised, the electronic control
25 module 18 sends a signal to generate a current in the thermal jacket 58. The electrical current
   in the thermal jacket heats the sample fluid until the predetermined temperature is reached.
   Similarly, if the temperature of the sample fluid needs to be lowered, the electronic control
   module 18 sends a signal to a valve 62 disposed on the cooling loop line 3 to circulate water
   (or other fluids) from the water supply line 64 around the housing 70 of the automated
30 electrical stability meter 30, thereby cooling the sample fluid. The temperature sensor 54 may
   continuously monitor the temperature of the fluid during heating or cooling periods of the
   sample fluid.
   A pressure sensor 72 may be operatively coupled to the housing 70 and to the electronic
35 control module 18. If the pressure sensed by the pressure sensor 72 in the closed system
   automated electrical stability meter 30 is below or above a predetermined pressure value, the
   electronic control module 18 signals the valve 62 on an air supply line 4 to open or close to
   increase or decrease, respectively, the pressure inside the housing 70.

                                                   -  12
    The probe assembly 36 disposed in the automated electrical stability meter 30 is actuated by
    the electronic control module 18 and a voltage is supplied by the voltage generator 66 to the
    probe electrodes (not independently illustrated). The voltage generator may supply a ramped
  5 voltage to the probe assembly 36, as set by control circuitry in the electronic control module
    18. In one embodiment, the voltage generator may supply 0 to 2,000 volts to the probe
    assembly 36.
    The standard API electrical stability test specifies a 340 Hz sinusoidal AC signal that ramps
10  from 0-2000 volts at 150 volts per second. The procedure (i.e., software) stored in a
    configuration file is used to determine when to drive a particular waveform signal to the probe
    assembly 36. In one or more embodiments, the waveform( s) are stored as separate files and
    may not be part of the configuration file.
    The API standard ES reading is the peak voltage at which the current reaches 61 pA.
15  However, the configuration file may also provide the ECM with signals that are based on a
    non-linear voltage ramp and/or other types of ramp rates. Those skilled in the art will
    appreciate that the specifications of the electrical stability test may be changed by
    programming different waveforms onto the configured file that is fed to the electronic control
    module. Thus, the threshold current may be a value higher or lower than 61 pA.
20
    The electronic control module 18 controls actuation of the cleaning mechanism 44. At
    predetermined intervals or as needed, the motor 50 is actuated by the electronic control
    module 18, thereby rotating the wiper or rotating disc (not shown) into the probe gap (not
    shown) of the probe assembly 36. The position indicator (not shown) sends signals back to the
25  electronic control module 18 indicating the rotational position of the disc or the relative position
    of the cleaning mechanism 44 with respect to the probe gap. The motor 50 may also be
    signaled by the electronic control module 18 to actuate the agitator (not shown). The agitator
    may be run to ensure thorough mixing of the fluid and reduce and/or prevent settling of
    material within the housing.
30
    After the testing sequence is completed, the electronic control module 18 signals the outlet 34
    to open and initiate the pump 16 to pull the sample fluid from the housing 70 of the automated
    electrical stability meter 30 and return the sample fluid to the active fluid system 60. An
    additional sampling and testing sequence may then be initiated or a cleaning sequence may
35  be initiated. To implement a cleaning sequence, electronic control module 18 sends a signal to
    the cleaning mechanism 44, as discussed above, and sends a signal to a valve 62 on a
    cleaning fluid line 5 to open the valve 62 and transfer cleaning fluid to the housing 70. The
    cleaning mechanism 44 is operated within the housing 70 while the cleaning fluid is flushed

                                                     -13
    through the housing. The agitator (not shown) may also be run to enhance cleaning of the
    housing 70 and probe assembly 36. Cleaning fluid may be drained through the outlet 34 and
    discarded.
  5 Referring to Figures 3 and 4 together, the automated electrical stability meter 30, including the
    housing 70, electronic control module 18, valves 62, and various supply lines and drain lines
    may be disposed within in a shell housing 75. The shell housing 75 encloses all of the main
    components of the automated electrical stability meter 30. The shell housing 75 may include a
    plurality of ports or connections for connecting fluid lines, for example, the active fluid system
10  line, water lines, drain lines, etc. to the housing 70 of the automated electrical stability meter
    30. A display 74 mounted to the shell housing 75 is configured to display information
    representative of the results of signals sent and received by the electronic control module 18.
    For example, the display 7 4 may display electrical stability of the sample fluid, temperature of
    the sample fluid, pressure within the housing 70, etc.
15
    Referring now to Figure 5, an automated viscometer 100 for measuring gel strength and/or
    viscosity of a sample of fluid is shown in accordance with embodiments disclosed herein. The
    automated electrical stability meter 30 includes a housing (not shown) configured to contain a
    volume of fluid to be analyzed. Similar to the automated electrical stability meter discussed
20  above, the sample fluid enters the housing through an inlet (not shown) and exits the housing
    through an outlet (not shown). A pump (not shown) is configured to pump the sample fluid in
    and out of the housing when signaled from an electronic control module (not shown).
    The automated viscometer 100 includes a viscometer sleeve 102 disposed in the housing (not
25  shown), a bob 104 disposed in the sleeve 102, a motor 106 operatively coupled to at least one
    of the viscometer sleeve 102 and the bob 104, and a torque measuring device 108 operatively
    coupled to the viscometer sleeve 102 and/or the bob 104. In the embodiment shown, the bob
    104 is suspended by a torsion wire 131 (Figure 6B) from the torque measuring device 108 and
    the sleeve 102 is rotated by the motor 106. An annulus 110 is formed between the viscometer
30  sleeve 102 and the bob 104. After a sample fluid is transferred from the active drilling fluid
    system into the housing, the fluid is directed to the annulus 110 between the viscometer
    sleeve 102 and the bob 104. Depending on the configuration of the automated viscometer
    100, either the viscometer sleeve 102 or bob 104 is rotated at a specific speed by the motor
    106. The specific speed determines the shear rate of the fluid inside the annulus 110. The
35  torque exerted on bob 104 or viscometer sleeve 102, as determined by the torque measuring
    device 108, is recorded, and the data is either stored or sent to a remote computer system for
    processing, as described below. For example, the torque measuring device 108 may measure
    the amount of twist of the torsion wire 131 caused by the drag rotation of the bob 104. Said

                                                    - 14
    another way, torque measuring device 108 may measure the torque caused by movement of
    the torsion wire 131. Based on the torque detected, the viscosity and gel strength of the fluid
    may be determined.
  5 As described in detail above with respect to the automated electrical stability meter 30 (Figure
    2), the electronic control module 18 (Figure 1) may similarly control the automated viscometer
    100. The electronic control module 18 (Figure 1) may send signals to solenoid valves (not
    shown) to open and close flow lines for directing a sample fluid from an active fluid system into
    the housing (not shown) of the automated viscometer 100. Once the housing is filled with a
1o  sample fluid, the electronic control module 18 (Figure 1) may send a signal to the motor 106 to
    run/spin the bob 104 of sleeve 102. The torque measuring device 108 may determine an
    applied torque based on specified speed of rotation and the drag rotation the sample fluid in
    the annulus 110 creates on the non-rotating bob 104 or sleeve 102. The data collected by the
    torque measuring device 108 may be sent to the electronic control module 18 (Figure 1) for
15  further processing. Once the sample fluid has completed the testing sequence, the electronic
    control module 18 sends a signal to a valve (not shown) and a pump (not shown) to transfer
    the sample fluid back to the active fluid system (not shown).
    In one embodiment, a magnetic coupling (not shown) may be disposed between the bob 104
20  and the torque measuring device 108. Because the torque measured by the torque measuring
    device 108 is typically very low, seal drag between the bob 104 and the torque measuring
    device 108 should be reduced or eliminated. The magnetic coupling (not shown) reduces or
    eliminates seal drag between the bob 104 and the torque measuring device 108 for more
    accurate measurement of the torque on the bob 104.
25
    Similar to the automated electrical stability meter 30 (Figure 2), temperature and pressure
    sensors (not shown) may be disposed within the housing of the automated viscometer 100 to
    determine and monitor the temperature and pressure of the sample fluid contained therein.
    Additionally, the electronic control module 18 (Figure 1) may actuate a thermal jacket, a
30  cooling loop, or initiating pressurization or depressurization of the housing based on a
    comparison of the determined temperature and pressure and predetermined temperature and
    pressure values. The closed system automated viscometer 100 provides maintenance of the
    temperature and pressure of the fluid within the housing, which may improve the accuracy of
    the rheological properties of the fluid measured.
35
    Referring now to Figures 6A and 6B, an automatic drilling fluid property analyzer 200 in
    accordance with embodiments disclosed herein is shown. The automatic drilling fluid property
    analyzer 200 includes an automated electrical stability meter 30 and an automated viscometer

                                                  -15
   100. As shown, the automatic drilling fluid analyzer 200 includes a housing 70 having an inlet
   32 and an outlet 34. At least one solenoid valve (not shown) is disposed proximate at least
   one of the inlet 32 and the outlet 34 and configured to open and close to provide a sample of
   fluid from an active fluid system into the housing 70.
 5
   A temperature sensor (not shown) may be disposed inside the housing 70 and configured to
   determine a temperature of the fluid contained therein. A thermal jacket 58 encases at least a
   portion of the housing 70 and is configured to heat the sample fluid if the temperature sensor
   senses a temperature below a predetermined value or it otherwise actuated by the electronic
10 control module 18 (Figure 1 ). A cooling loop (not shown) or a water jacket (not shown) may
   also enclose at least a portion of the housing 70. The cooling loop is configured to cool the
   sample fluid in the housing 70 if the temperature sensor senses a temperature above a
   predetermined value.
15 A pressure sensor (not shown) may be operatively coupled to the housing 70 and configured
   to determine a pressure inside the housing. If the pressure sensor senses a pressure below a
   predetermined pressure value, air or fluid may be added to the housing 70 through a valve
   controlled flow line (not shown) to increase the pressure. If the pressure sensor senses a
   pressure above the predetermined pressure value, a valve may be opened to relieve the
20 pressure within the housing 70.
   A probe assembly 36 is coupled to the housing 70 for measuring electrical stability of the
   sample fluid in the housing 70. The probe assembly 36 includes an electrode probe 38 having
   two electrodes (not shown) extending into a volume of the housing 70. A cleaning mechanism
25 44 is disposed in the housing 70 and configured to move into engagement with a probe gap
   (not shown) between the electrodes of the electrode probe 38. In the embodiment shown, the
   cleaning mechanism 44 includes a rotating disc 46 coupled to a shaft 48 rotated by a motor
   50. Motor 50 is coupled to an outer surface of housing 70 and is configured to rotate the
   cleaning mechanism 44 and/or an agitator (not shown). A position indicator (not shown) may
30 be coupled to the motor 50 or the cleaning mechanism 44 and configured to detect a relative
   position of the cleaning mechanism 44 with respect to the probe assembly 36.
   The viscometer sleeve 104 and bob 102 of the automated viscometer 100 are disposed in the
   housing 70. As discussed above with respect to the automated viscometer 100, a motor 106 is
35 operatively coupled to at least one of the viscometer sleeve 102 and the bob 104, and a torque
   measuring device 108 is operatively coupled to the viscometer sleeve 102 and/or the bob 104.
   In the embodiment shown, the bob 104 is suspended by a torsion wire 131 from the torque
   measuring device 108 and the sleeve 102 is rotated by the motor 106. An annulus 110 is

                                                      -16
    formed between the viscometer sleeve 102 and the bob 104. Depending on the configuration,
    either the viscometer sleeve 102 or bob 104 is rotated at a specific speed by the motor 106.
    The specific speed determines the shear rate of the fluid inside the annulus 110. The torque
    exerted on bob 104 or viscometer sleeve 102, as determined by the torque measuring device
  5 108, is recorded, and the data is either stored or sent to a remote computer system for
    processing, as described below. For example, the torque measuring device 108 may measure
    the amount of twist of the torsion wire 131 caused by the drag rotation of the bob 104. Based
    on the torque detected, the viscosity and gel strength of the fluid may be determined.
io  The automatic drilling fluid property analyzer 200 may be disposed in a shell housing 75, as
    shown in Figures 7 A and 7B. The shell housing 75 may be divided into two segments, a first
    area 165 in which the sample housing, automated electrical stability meter 30, and automated
    viscometer 100 components are housed, and a second area 167 in which an electronic control
    module 18 is housed. As shown, a housing 156 may be fitted over the motor 106 and torque
15  sensing device 108. Details of the electronics of the electronic control module 18 are
    discussed in more detail below. Electrical conduits and wiring 161 may be run between the
    first area 165 and the second area 167 for electrically connecting various components of the
    analyser 200, for example, motor 50, motor 106, torque measuring device 108, valves 163,
    etc., to the electronic control module 18. Shell housing 75 may include one or more vents
20  and/or fans 169 configured to prevent the analyzer components and electronics from
    overheating. The valves, 163 may include check valves, as discussed above, which may be
    disposed in a manifold 167. The manifold 167 may thus include various valves 163, inlets and
    outlets, thereby controlling the flow of fluid into and out of the analyzer 200.
25  As shown, the automatic drilling fluid property analyzer 200 also includes a pump 16 for
    pumping sample fluid into and out of the housing 70 of the analyzer 200 from an active fluid
    system. One or more solenoid valves 163 are disposed within the shell housing 75 and fluidly
    connected to the housing 70. The solenoid valves 163 are actuated to allow a sample fluid to
    fill housing 70 for testing.
30
    Figure 7C shows a rear view of the shell housing 75 of the automatic drilling fluid property
    analyzer 200 having a plurality of plumbing connections for connecting outside fluid lines to
    various components of the analyzer 200. As shown, the shell housing 75 may include
    connections for a water line in 201, an air line in 202, a mud line in 204, and a cleaning fluid
35  line in 205. Additionally, connections for waste return 206 and water return 203 may also be
    provided.

                                                     -17
    Referring generally to Figures 6-7, in some embodiments, automatic drilling fluid property
    analyzer 200 may also include an alarm system configured to send a signal when an alarm
    event has occurred. The alarm system may include a plurality of sensors disposed in or
    proximate various components of the automatic drilling fluid property analyzer 200 and an
  5 alarm. For example, a temperature sensor may be disposed in the shell housing 75 and send
    a signal to the electronic control module 18 when a temperature inside the shell housing
    exceeds a predetermined maximum value. The electronic control module will then actuate the
    alarm. The alarm may be a bell, buzzer, electronic sound, or any other alarm known in the art.
    Additionally, the display 74 of the analyzer may display a message or indicate an alarm event
io  has occurred. The display 74 may specify the type of alarm event. The display may, for
    example, note that the analyzer has overheated. Examples of alarm events may include a
    plugged valve, an open door to the shell housing, a low fluid level in the housing,
    disconnection of a flow line. The alarm system may include various types of sensors, for
    example, contact sensors, pressure sensors, temperature sensors, position sensors, etc.
15
    In other embodiments of the drilling fluid analyzer, an x-ray spectrometer may be used to
    determine the content of a sample drilling fluid. For example, a sample may be excited by high
    energy x-rays or gamma rays, thereby causing the emission of secondary, fluorescent, x-rays.
    The secondary x-rays may then be analyzed to determine the chemical composition of the
20  sample drilling fluid. The results of the testing may then be transferred to local storage or to a
    remote facility for processing. Those of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that other
    meters may also be used to further analyze drilling fluid samples.
    Referring to Figure 24, a schematic representation of a fluid analyzer having an x-ray
25  spectrometer ("XRF") 435 according to embodiments of the present disclosure is shown. In
    this embodiment, a flow of fluid is directed from an active drilling system flow line 400 through
    one or more valves 405 and into a test chamber 410. Inside test chamber 410, a slide ( 450 of
    Figure 25) is disposed and configured to move in one or more directions, thereby allowing a
    sample of drilling fluid to be procured from the active fluid system. One or more motors 415,
30  420, and 425 may be used to control the orientation of the slide or test chamber 410. As
    illustrated, motor 415 is configured to move slide laterally in test chamber 410. However, in
    other embodiments, motor 415 may be used to move slide in more than one direction. The
    fluid analyzer also includes a helium tank 430 in fluid communication with XRF 435, thereby
    allowing helium to be used during the analysis. In order to control the flow of helium from
35  helium tank 430 to XRF 435, a solenoid valve 440 may be operatively controlled by a micro
    processor 445 or PLC.

                                                    -18
   The fluid analyzer may also include a cleaning fluid tank 455 in fluid communication with test
   chamber 410. During a cleaning cycle, a fluid, such as a base oil, water, or other fluid
   containing chemicals such as surfactants may be transferred from the cleaning fluid tank 455
   to the test chamber 410. The flow of the cleaning fluid may be controlled by a valve, such as
 5 solenoid valve 460. In addition to cleaning fluid, fluid analyzer may include an air system 465
   configured to supply air to test chamber 410 or another component of the fluid analyzer. The
   flow of air may also be controlled with a valve, such as a solenoid valve 470. After a test is
   complete, the sample fluid may be drained from test chamber 410 through waste drain 475
   and back into the active drilling system flow line 400. The sample fluid evacuation may be
io facilitated though use of a pump 480, air from air system 465, or pushed out of test chamber
   410 as new fluid is drawn into test chamber 410. The fluid analyzer may also include various
   sensors, such as pressure sensor 485, temperature sensors (not shown), or other various
   sensors for determining the position of the slide within test chamber 410 or a property of the
   fluid. In certain embodiments, the fluid analyzer may also include various check valves, such
15 as those discussed above, as well are various temperature control apparatuses, such as
   heating/cooking jackets.
   To control fluid analyzer, the system includes micro processor 445 and a local memory
   storage 490, such as a hard disc drive, flash, or other type of memory known in the art. Data
20 may be displayed and the fluid analyzer may be controlled through local display 495.
   Additionally, a device for allowing a connection to a network, such as a modem 497, may be
   used to allow the fluid analyzer to communicate data as well as receive control signals
   remotely. The remote control aspect of the present disclosure will be explained in detail below.
25 Referring now to Figures 25A-C, cross-sectional views of the test chamber and XRF 435
   during fill, intermediate, and test positions, respectively, according to embodiments of the
   present disclosure are shown. In the fill position (Figure 25A), the slide 450 is in a position to
   allow fluid to be injected through an injection port 451 into a sample cavity 452. In this
   embodiment, sample cavity includes approximately a 25 mm opening that allows fluid to flow
30 into the cavity 452. Those of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that in other embodiments,
   sample cavity 452 may include openings of different size and/or geometry. One or more of
   motors (415, 420, or 425 of Figure 24) may be used to control the orientation of slide 450
   within test chamber 410. For example, a motor may move slide 450 laterally in test chamber
   410. In the intermediate position (Figure 25B), slide 450 moves sample cavity 452 including a
35 test fluid out of fluid communication with injection port 451. My moving sample cavity 452 out
   of fluid communication with injection port 451, fluid is prevented from spilling out of test
   chamber 410. Thus, the intermediate position may allow the sample size in sample cavity 452
   to be controlled. In the test position (Figure 25C), sample cavity 452 is aligned with test port

                                                     -19
   453. As sample cavity 452 is not enclosed (enclosing test cavity would prevent accurate XRF
   analysis), slide 450 should be moved into testing orientation so as to prevent the test fluid from
   spilling out of sample cavity 452. In the test position, the XRF 435 may be used to analyze the
   drilling fluid. The sequence of a filling position, an intermediate position, and a test position
 5 allows the volume of the sample in sample cavity 452 to be maintained. The sequence also
   prevents fluid from overflowing from sample cavity 452 as the intermediate position is closed
   from the rest of the system, thereby preventing the injection side and the testing side of the
   system to be open at the same time.
io Because XRF testing is sensitive to the location of the sample being tested, the motors (415,
   420, and 425 of Figure 24) may be used to ensure that the orientation of sample cavity 452 to
   XRF 435 is within a specific tolerance. By using an XYZ orientation analysis, the fluid analyzer
   can ensure that fluid sample tests are not distorted by blockage of the sample, as well as
   ensure that the sample does not overflow sample cavity 452. Referring briefly back to Figure
15 24, in an embodiment wherein motor 415 controls slide 450, slide 450 may be moved laterally
   within test chamber 410 to move a sample fluid from fluid communication with injection port
   451 into orientation with test port 453. During testing, motors 420 and 425 may be configured
   to change the orientation of either test chamber 410 or XRF 435, thereby allow multiple tests
   from a single sample to be procured. Because the focal length between the XRF and the
20 sample is important to maintain consistent and comparable results, the motors 415, 420, and
   425 may work in concert to ensure that the distance between the sample fluid and test port
   453 remains relatively constant. In certain embodiments, the gap between the XRF and the
   sample may be between 0.5 mm and 1.0 mm. Depending on the specifications of the XRF,
   this gap may be increased or decreased, thereby allowing the system to be customized to
25 analyze particular fluids. In certain embodiments, the motors may be used to adjust the
   position of the XRF, thereby allowing multiple samples to be procured. In such an
   embodiment, the XRF may move in a substantially circular path, thereby allowing various
   portions of the sample to be tested. Specifically, the XRF may move laterally across the
   surface of the sample, while maintaining the same height above the sample, thereby allowing
30 various readings to be taken across the surface of the sample. Additionally, because multiple
   readings of each sample may be procured, false readings may be avoided. For example, in
   certain embodiments, multiples readings are procured and a statistical average is performed
   or account for anomalies in the various readings.
35 Additionally, the temperature of the test chamber 410 and the sample may be controlled,
   thereby maintaining a constant volume of fluid and allowing the distance between the sample
   and XRF 435 to be the same among various tests. The temperature may be controlled by
   disposing a fluid conduit (not shown) in test chamber 410 proximate sample cavity 452. A fluid,

                                                    - 20
    such as water, having a known and controlled temperature may be run through the fluid
    conduit thereby allowing the temperature of the sample fluid to be controlled. Controlling the
    sample fluid may help ensure that the XRF test is accurate between multiple samples. By
    controlling the location of the sample relative to XRF 435 and controlling the temperature, the
  5 results of the tests may be more accurate and provide better comparability between the results
    of multiple tests.
    Referring to Figures 26A-C, a cross-sectional view of the test chamber in fill and test positions,
    respectively, according to embodiments of the present disclosure are shown. During a testing
io  process, slide 450 begins in a fill position (Figure 26A), and a fluid solenoid (not shown) and
    an air solenoid (not shown) are opened, thereby allowing a sample of fluid to be injected from
    the active drilling fluid system into sample cavity 452. When sample cavity 452 has the desired
    volume of fluid, the air and fluid solenoids are closed, thereby stopping the flow of fluid into
    test chamber 410. Slide 450 is then moved into test position (Figure 26B), such that sample
15  cavity 452 is aligned with test port 453 and is configured to allow the XRF (not shown) to run a
    test sequence. After the test sequence, a pump (not shown) is actuated along with opening of
    the air solenoid, thereby purging sample cavity 452 of the sample fluid. When sample cavity
    452 is purged, the pump is stopped and slide 450 is moved back into the fill position. Between
    the fill position and the test position, the sample may be held in an intermediate position
20  (Figure 26C). In the intermediate position, the sample may be temporarily held to allow the
    fluid to stabilize, thereby preventing an overflow. Depending on the properties of the fluid, the
    hold time may vary, for example, in certain embodiments, the sample is in an intermediate
    position between 5 seconds and 10 minutes, and in specific embodiments, the sample is in the
    test position for approximately 30 seconds.
25
    Once in the fill position (Figure 26A), a base oil cleaner may be injected into test chamber 410
    and into sample cavity 452 by opening a base solenoid (not shown). The pump is then re
    actuated, thereby purging any residual fluid or particulate matter from test chamber 410. Slide
    450 may then be moved back into the test position (Figure 26B), and the pump actuated via
30  opening of the air solenoid to further remove residual fluid and/or particulate matter from test
    chamber 410. At this point, a subsequent fluid test may be performed. Those of ordinary skill
    in the art will appreciate that depending on the type of fluid being tested, the sequence of fill
    and test positions may vary. For example, in certain operations, only a single purge cycle may
    be required, while in other operations, three or more purge cycles may be required to
35  adequately purge residual fluid and particulate matter from test chamber 410.
    Additional components may be included, such as a valve (not shown) on sample cavity 452,
    which may be closed when the fluid is being tested. When such a valve is in a closed position,

                                                    -21
   fluid would not be allowed to evacuate sample cavity 452, thereby ensuring the sample volume
   remains constant. Opening of the valve may allow the fluid to be removed from sample cavity
   452, such as during a cleaning cycle. Other components may include cleaning devices. An
   example of a cleaning device that may be used with embodiments of the present disclosure is
 5 a wiper (not shown) disposed on or proximate test chamber 410. The wiper may be used to
   clean injection port 451, sample cavity 452, or other portions of the system. In certain
   embodiments, the wiper may be disposed on slide 450, thereby allowing both internal and
   external components of test chamber 410 to be cleaned. Additionally, a pump (not shown),
   such as a pneumatic pump may be in fluid communication with sample cavity 452. The pump
io may be used to draw fluid into or out of sample cavity 452 during filling and cleaning cycles.
   During XRF testing, a single sample may be tested multiple times. For example, once in the
   test position, the XRF 435 may be moved relative to test chamber 410 by actuation of one or
   more motors, thereby allowing the focus of the XRF to shift relative to sample cavity 452.
15 Because the portion of the sample fluid being tested is small relative to the total surface area
   of the sample exposed through sample cavity 452, multiple tests not including an overlapping
   sample portion may be performed. In other embodiments, XRF 435 may be held in a constant
   position and test chamber 410 may be moved relative to XRF 435, thereby providing another
   way for multiple tests to be performed. In still another embodiment one or more motors may be
20 used move slide 450 relative to test chamber 410 and/or XRF 435. In such an embodiment,
   the test chamber 410 and XRF may be held stable, and only slide 410 would be movable.
   The XRF analyzer may be combined with the various other testing apparatuses described
   above, thereby allowing a single fluid analyzer to have a viscometer, electrical stability
25 monitor, and XRF monitor. In such a configuration, the XRF may be disposed either before or
   after the viscometer or electrical stability monitor, as well as in a configuration to allow the
   separate tests to occur simultaneously.
   As explained above, in order to conduct a stability test, fluid is drawn into a closed chamber
30 having an electrical stability probe and a wiper that can be rotated into the gap in the probe to
   clean residue therefrom. In order to draw the fluid into the chamber, a series of solenoid valves
   work in conjunction with a pump, thereby allowing the volume of fluid in the chamber to be
   controlled. Once an acceptable temperature is reached, a test sequence is initiated. After the
   test is complete, the test fluid is withdrawn from the chamber and replaced with a cleaning
35 fluid. To clean the device, a wiper is actuated with cleaning fluid present to remove residue
   that may have settled on the probe. In order to control the testing and cleaning, a
   programmable logic controller ("PLC") or micro processor is operatively coupled to the device,
   as will be explained in detail below.

                                                      - 22
   To further explain the operation of a combined electrical stability, viscometer, and XRF
   analyzer, Figure 27, which is a process and instrumentation diagram for such a system is
   discussed below. As illustrated, an automated electrical stability meter 30, a viscometer 31,
 5 and an XRF analyzer 435 are placed in line with an active fluid system 400. A plurality of
   valves 62 control the flow of fluids in and out of the automated electrical stability meter 30, a
   viscometer 31, and an XRF analyzer 435. In certain embodiments, valves 62 may be solenoid
   valves, while in other embodiments, valves 62 may include check valves 63, as discussed in
   detail above. Depending on the operational requirements of the system, a combination of
10 solenoid 62 and check valves 63 may be used in certain systems. For example, as illustrated,
   fluid inlet line 2 and base fluid inlet line 5 are configured to provide a flow of fluid through
   solenoid valves 62 and then through check valves 63. Thus, fluids that may include particulate
   matter that may clog valves 62 may flow through check valves 63. However, water inlet 64
   flows though valves 62 not including check valves 63. Those of ordinary skill in the art will
15 appreciate that in alternate embodiments, water inlet 64 may also flow through check valves
   63.
   During operation fluid may flow through fluid inlet line 2 and into one or more of the automated
   electrical stability meter 30, a viscometer 31, and an XRF analyzer 435. Those of ordinary skill
20 in the art will appreciate that depending on the type of test required, fluid may flow into one,
   two, or all three of the analyzers, thereby allowing multiple tests to be performed
   simultaneously. In certain embodiments, it may be desirable for fluid to be tested by all three
   analyzers, while in other embodiments, only one or .two of the tests may be run. Additionally,
   while Figures 27 illustrates the analyzers being disposed in serial fashion, in alternate
25 embodiments, multiple inlet lines may be used such that fluid may flow substantially
   simultaneously into each of the meters, or at least two of the meters.
   As explained above, the system also includes a cleaning fluid tank 455 that is configured to
   provide a flow of base fluid to the automated electrical stability meter 30, a viscometer 31, and
30 an XRF analyzer 435, thereby allowing the analyzers to be cleaned between tests. The system
   also includes a pump 480 that is configured to remove tested fluids and cleaning fluids from
   the automated electrical stability meter 30, a viscometer 31, and an XRF analyzer 435. The
   pump 480 may be used to pump fluids to waste drain and, in certain embodiments, back into
   active fluid system 400. The system may further include an air supply 464 connected to an air
35 inlet 465, thereby allowing air to be injected into one or more of the automated electrical
   stability meter 30, a viscometer 31, and an XRF analyzer 435.

                                                       - 23
    The automated electrical stability meter 30, a viscometer 31, and an XRF analyzer 435 are
    also operatively connected to a micro-processor control 445, thereby allowing the analyzers to
    collect and process data. The micro-processor control 445 is operative connected to a local
    storage memory 490 and a display 495, thereby allowing collected and processed data to be
  5 stored and/or displayed. In certain embodiments, micro-processor control 445 may also be
    operatively connected to a remote connection 497, such as an Ethernet connection, thereby
    allow collected and/or processed data to be sent or received remotely.
    Those of ordinary skill will appreciate that, in view of the present disclosure, various
10  combinations of analyzers may exist. For example, in certain embodiments, a system having
    all three of the automated electrical stability meter 30, a viscometer 31, and an XRF analyzer
    435 may be used. In alternate embodiments, a system may include only the automated
    electrical stability meter 30 and the viscometer 31, the automated electrical stability meter 30
    and the XRF analyzer 435, or the viscometer 31 and the XRF analyzer 435.
15
    Generally, the present disclosure is directed to a computer-assisted method for automated
    drilling fluid property analysis. The drilling fluid properties that may be analyzed/determined
    include viscosity, gel strength, and electric stability. Multiple configurations of drilling fluid
    analyzers are within the scope of the present disclosure. For example, in certain
20  embodiments, the drilling fluid analyzer may be configured to determine electric stability, while
    in other embodiments the drilling fluid analyzer may be configured to determine gel strength,
    viscosity, or combinations thereof. Regardless of whether the drilling fluid analyzer is
    configured to determine one or more combinations of electric stability, gel strength, and/or
    viscosity, the system for determining the properties will be operatively connected to a
25  computer for the determination of the specific property or properties. The computer, whether
    local or remote, includes a software application executing on a processor.
    The software application includes instructions for causing a drilling fluid to be transferred from
    an active fluid system to a sample cell. The amount of drilling fluid transferred may vary
30  depending on the requirements of a particular operation; however, generally, a 0.5 liter sample
    will be transferred from the active drilling fluid system to a sample cell of the fluid analyzer.
    After the sample cell is filled with a desired amount of fluid, the fluid may be directed into
    contact with electrodes of an electric probe. As a voltage is applied across the electrodes of
    the electric probe, the fluid analyzer determines when the fluid conducts a charge across the
35  electrodes, the data is recorded, and an electric stability may be determined based on the
    applied voltage. Those of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that the above method will
    allow for the determination of the electric stability, and thus the emulsion stability of oil-based
    or synthetic-based drilling fluids.

                                                    - 24
   In certain embodiments, the recorded data may be stored locally until testing is complete,
   while in other embodiments, the data may be transferred to a remote data store for either
   storage or remote processing. Depending on the amount of data, number of tests, etc., the
 5 data maybe be transferred after each test or in batches.
   The length of the test may vary based on the properties of the drilling fluid. For example, a
   single test may last 30 minutes or longer in certain embodiments, while in other embodiments,
   a new test may be performed every couple of minutes. In order to increase the accuracy of the
io determined drilling fluid property, a single sample fluid may be tested multiple times. For
   example, a single fluid may be tested five times, and if any outlier results are detected, the
   outlier results may be excluded from the sample results used in determining the final fluid
   property.
15 After the test is performed, the fluid analyzer may perform a cleaning cycle, by discharging the
   fluid sample and injecting a cleaning fluid into the sample cell. The cleaning fluid may include a
   base oil, such as diesel, mineral oil, or other bases to the particular fluid in the active drilling
   fluid system, or may include other additives, such as surfactants or water to further clean the
   sample cell. During the cleaning cycle, the wiper may be rotated through the probe, thereby
20 cleaning the surfaces of the probe, as well as agitating the cleaning fluid in the sample cell to
   remove particulate matter that may have settled on other surfaces of the sample cell.
   The time the cleaning fluid remains in the sample cell may be modulated based on particular
   properties of the fluid. For example, a fluid with high viscosity may require a longer cleaning
25 cycle, or fluids with high levels of low gravity solids or weighting agents that may adhere to the
   surfaces of the sample cell may require longer cleaning cycles to thoroughly remove. The
   cleaning cycle may includes multiple rotations of the wiper, as well as one or more additions of
   cleaning fluid to the sample cell. In certain embodiments, the cleaning cycle may also include
   additions of water or air to further remove a tested fluid sample from the sample cell prior to
30 sampling of a subsequent fluid sample.
   After the sample cell is clean, the fluid analyzer may be instructed to discharge the cleaning
   fluid and transferred a second sample from the active drilling fluid system into the sample cell.
   Depending on the specifics of the operation, a specified volume of drilling fluid may be cycled
35 from the active drilling system through the fluid analyzer prior to filling the sample cell, thereby
   ensuring that the second sample does not contain residual fluid remaining in the line from the
   original test. For example, in certain embodiments, fluid may be allowed to run through the
   fluid analyzer from the active drilling system for a set period of time or until a specific volume

                                                    - 25
   of fluid has passed through the system. When it is determined that the fluid passing through
   the system is acceptable for sampling, the sample cell is filled, and a second test cycle may
   begin.
 5 In other embodiments, the fluid analyzer may also include a viscometer configured to allow the
   fluid analyzer to collect data for determining the gel strength and/or viscosity of a sample
   drilling fluid. Similar to the test described above, after a sample fluid is transferred from the
   active drilling fluid system into the sample cell, the fluid is directed to an area between a
   sleeve and bob of a viscometer. Depending on the configuration of the viscometer, either the
10 sleeve or bob is rotated at a specific speed. The response of the fluid to the rotational speed of
   the sleeve or bob is recorded, and the data is either stored or sent to a remote computer
   system for processing, as described above with respect to the electric stability test.
   The rotational speed of the sleeve or bob may also be varied in order to more accurately
15 determine the gel strength of the fluid. For example, the sleeve or bob may be rotated at 3, 6,
   300, and/or 600 revolutions per minute ("RPM"). Those of ordinary skill in the art will
   appreciate that the rotational speed may vary based on the specifics of the drilling operation or
   the requirements of the analysis.
20 In certain embodiments, both electric stability tests and viscosity and/or gel strength tests may
   occur substantially simultaneously. Thus, the length of time required for the test may be
   decreased. Additionally, other steps may occur before, after, or during a specific test. For
   example, a temperature of the sample fluid may be adjusted, and/or the sample cell may be
   pressurized. The test may also be adjusted via a remote computer during the test if an
25 operator determines that the fluid analyser is not performing as desired.
   The progression of the test, including the specific parameters of the test, may be pre
   programmed, such that the tests may be fully automated. For example, a drilling operator may
   adjust specific fluid analyzer parameters including the number of tests to be performed on a
30 single sample, the number of samples to be tested, the frequency of the tests, the sample size
   to be tested, the temperature of sample fluid, the voltage applied, the rotational speed of the
   viscometer, the pressure applied to the sample cell, number of cleaning cycles, type of
   cleaning cycle, etc. The specific parameters may then be input as a test package, either locally
   or remotely, and the fluid analyzer may automatically being testing. Should a condition occur
35 that requires manual adjustment, a local operator or remote operator may override the
   programming, adjusting one or more of the analyzer parameters, thereby allowing for
   optimization of the testing.

                                                     - 26
   As explained above, the fluid testing may include a series of tests that are preprogrammed
   either from a remote location or from a local control. In order to control and/or monitor the
   testing, a drilling operator may also have one or more control panels showing multiple
   displays. The graphical user interface ("GUI") that is displayed to an operator may change
 5 based on the particulars of the operation; however, exemplary GUis are described below as an
   indication as to the type of displays that may be used.
   Referring initially to Figure 8, a local display according to embodiments of the present
   disclosure is shown. In this embodiment, the local display includes a menu for selecting
10 specific types of tests, calibration modes, etc. As illustrated, local display may include an auto
   test selector 500, a 500V selector 501, a 1900V selector 502, an air test selector 503, a water
   test selector 504, a setup selector 505, a data display selector 506, a diagnostic selector 507,
   and a utilities selector 508.
15 Prior to operation, one or more test cycles may be programmed, thereby allowing for
   automation of the entire testing process. In addition to test cycles, calibration tests may also
   be performed. For example, in one embodiment, the device includes a 500V test that allows
   the operator to verify the calibration of the probe against an internal resistor network. The
   device may also include a 1900V test that allows the operator to verify the calibration of the
20 probe against an internal resister network. The results of the tests may be displayed on a data
   display page such as that displayed in Figures 9 and 10.
   Other embodiments may include an air test and/or a water test. As air is a relatively good
   insulator, the test should result in a high voltage reading of approximately 1900V and fall within
25 about 2.5% of the 1900V requirement. As water is a conductor, the test should result in a high
   voltage reading of approximately 500V and fall within about 2.5% of the 500V requirement. If
   the tests do not fall within an acceptable range, the operator may be notified that the device is
   not in condition to perform automated testing.
30 During calibration of the device, a cleaning cycle is initially performed. In the cleaning cycle,
   existing fluid in the chamber is discharged, cleaning fluid fills the chamber, and the probe is
   automatically cleaned. After the cleaning cycle, an electronics test is performed, in which the
   probe is internally disconnected and the voltage is ramped up to a maximum. After the
   electronics test, an air test is performed, in which cleaning fluid is discharged from the
35 chamber, air is allowed to fill the vessel, and the probe is reconnected and voltage is ramped
   up to maximum. After the air test is performed, a water test is performed, in which the test
   vessel is filled with water, the voltage is ramped up, and the electrical stability threshold of 3V
   is compared to the test voltage. The last step in calibration is determining meter accuracy. In

                                                        - 27
    this step, the probe is disconnected and internal resisters and Zener diodes are used to check
    the accuracy of the meter running at 500VAC and
    1900VAC.
  5 In order to setup a test, a number of different options may be selected by the operator.
    Referring to Figures 11 and 12, example setup test displays according to embodiments of the
    present disclosure are shown. Initially, an operator may determine a number of profiles
    correspond to the number of tests that will be performed. The user may also select a number
    of ramps, number of wipes, mud transfer in duration, cool down duration, temperature hold
10  times, delay between ramps, cycle delays, pressure set points, base fluid in duration, base
    soak durations, and various temperature set points. Each selection may be adjusted based on
    the requirements of the drilling operation and/or the requirements of a particular test.
    Referring to Figure 13, the local display may be selected so a viewing may observe current
15  testing data. Other displays that an operator may select to view include a system status page,
    such as that displayed in Figures 14 and 15. The systems status page may allow an operator
    to view the condition of the wiper, motor, structure of the unit, condition of one or more valves,
    the condition of the relays, a voltage reading, current reading, temperature reading, and/or
    pressure reading.
20
    Navigating between the different displays may be achieved via multiple types of interfaces
    such as, for example, peripheral devices, keyboard, and/or touch screens. Those of ordinary
    skill in the art will appreciate that all of the discussed displays as well as additional displays
    may be present in a particular device, depending on the requirements of a drilling operation.
25
    As explained above, the device may have a local display, as well as a remote display. The
    remote display allows the device to be controlled and the testing monitored remotely. Different
    methods of establishing a connection between the device and a remote control facility may be
    used. In one embodiment, the device may be connected to an Ethernet network, thereby
30  allowing device to be accessed remotely over the Internet. In other embodiments, the device
    may be connected through a virtual private network ("VPN"), thereby allowing connection
    between the device and any personal computer logged into the network. In still another
    embodiment, the device may be accessed remotely by connecting the device to a network
    router.
35
    While operating in remote mode, an operator may monitor and/or control the testing, including,
    for example, initiating calibration tests, inputting testing parameters, loading new testing
    profiles, and viewing the results of the test. Examples ofremote displays are illustrated in

                                                       - 28
    Figures 16-21. Figure 16 is a display of an automatic results page, Figures 17 and 18 are
    displays of calibration modes, Figure 19 is a display of the setup screen, Figure 20 is a display
    of the test data screen, and Figure 21 is a display of a diagnostics screen.
  5 Those of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that the specific displays may vary according to
    the specific components of the device. While the displays discussed above are specific for a
    device for testing electrical stability of a fluid the same and additional options may be available
    for a device capable of determining gel strength and/or viscosity.
10  Referring to Figure 22, a flow chart of an exemplary operations sequence according to
    methods of the present disclosure is shown. During a typical testing cycle an operation may
    select a start option 600 to initiate a testing sequence. Before actual testing begins, the probe
    may be cleaned by instituting a cleaning cycle 601, ensuring that any residual fluid that may
    have adhered to the probe is removed. After the device is cleaned, drilling fluid is transferred
15  602 from an active drilling fluid system through the inlet as cleaning fluid is removed from the
    device. The sample fluid is then heated 603 to a particular temperature, for example between
    500C and 1500C. When the desired temperature has been achieved, the voltage is ramped up
    604 at a rate of about 150V/s at 340Hz. The current is then monitored 605 until 61 microamps
    are detected or 2000V are provided. The results are stored 606 for later transference to a
20  remote facility for processing 607 or other use for local processing 608. The steps of ramping
    the voltage 504, monitoring 605, and storing the results 606 are subsequently repeated 609
    until the desired number of tests have been
    completed.
25  Various additional steps may be added in specific applications, thereby allowing the device to
    collect additional data. For example, in certain operations, the chamber of the device may be
    pressurized, thereby decreasing the amount of heat required to increase the temperature. In
    certain operations, the pressure may be increased within a range of 4-6 bar.
30  During testing, a single fluid sample may be tested multiple times, at different temperatures.
    The multiple tests may be used to remove outliers that may otherwise skew the results.
    Additionally, in gel strength tests, a single fluid may be tested at various temperatures and at
    different rotational speeds. For example, the sleeve or cup of the viscometer may be rotated at
    3, 6, 300, and 600 RPMs, thereby allowing the gel strength to be determined.
35
    After the data is collected and stored 606, one or more drilling fluid properties, such as
    viscosity, gel strength, and/or electric stability are determined 610. The determined results
    may then be displayed directly on the device or otherwise displayed through a web server. In

                                                    - 29
   certain embodiments, the results may also be provided 611 to the Wellsite Information
   Transfer specification ("WITS") as a specific user-defined record. After all tests on a specific
   fluid are performed, a subsequent cleaning cycle may be initiated 612. In the subsequent
   cleaning cycle, the discharge valve is opened 613, the cleaning fluid pump actuated 614, and
 5 cleaning fluid is transferred 615 into the device. The wiper motor is then started 616, thereby
   cleaning the surfaces of the device, probe, viscometer, etc. The device is then in condition to
   test a subsequent fluid sample.
   Embodiments of the present disclosure may be implemented on virtually any type of computer
10 regardless of the platform being used. For example, as shown in Figure 23, a computer
   system 700 includes one or more processor(s) 701, associated memory 702 (e.g., random
   access memory (RAM), cache memory, flash memory, etc.), a storage device 703 (e.g., a hard
   disk, an optical drive such as a compact disk drive or digital video disk (DVD) drive, a flash
   memory stick, etc.), and numerous other elements and functionalities typical of today's
15 computers (not shown). In one or more embodiments of the present disclosure, the processor
   701 is hardware. For example, the processor may be an integrated circuit. The computer
   system 700 may also include input means, such as a keyboard 704, a mouse 705, or a
   microphone (not shown). Further, the computer system 700 may include output means, such
   as a monitor 706 (e.g., a liquid crystal display (LCD), a plasma display, or cathode ray tube
20 (CRT) monitor). The computer system 700 may be connected to a network 708 (e.g., a local
   area network (LAN), a wide area network (WAN) such as the Internet, or any other type of
   network) via a network interface connection (not shown). Those skilled in the art will
   appreciate that many different types of computer systems exist, and the aforementioned input
   and output means may take other forms. Generally speaking, the computer system 700
25 includes at least the minimal processing, input, and/or output means necessary to practice
   embodiments of the present disclosure.
   Further, those skilled in the art will appreciate that one or more elements of the
   aforementioned computer system 700 may be located at a remote location and connected to
30 the other elements over a network. Further, embodiments of the present disclosure may be
   implemented on a distributed system having a plurality of nodes, where each portion of the
   present disclosure (e.g., the local unit at the rig location or a remote control facility) may be
   located on a different node within the distributed system. In one embodiment of the invention,
   the node corresponds to a computer system. Alternatively, the node may correspond to a
35 processor with associated physical memory. The node may alternatively correspond to a
   processor or microcore of a processor with shared memory and/or resources. Further,
   software instructions in the form of computer readable program code to perform embodiments
   of the invention may be stored, temporarily or permanently, on a computer readable medium,

                                                   - 30
   such as a compact disc (CD), a diskette, a tape, memory, or any other computer readable
   storage device.
   The computing device includes a processor 701 for executing applications and software
 5 instructions configured to perform various functionalities, and memory 702 for storing software
   instructions and application data. Software instructions to perform embodiments of the
   invention may be stored on any tangible computer readable medium such as a compact disc
   (CD), a diskette, a tape, a memory stick such as a jump drive or a flash memory drive, or any
   other computer or machine readable storage device that can be read and executed by the
10 processor 701 of the computing device. The memory 702 may be flash memory, a hard disk
   drive (HDD), persistent storage, random access memory (RAM), read-only memory (ROM),
   any other type of suitable storage space, or any combination thereof.
   The computer system 700 is typically associated with a user/operator using the computer
15 system 700. For example, the user may be an individual, a company, an organization, a group
   of individuals, or another computing device. In one or more embodiments of the invention, the
   user is a drill engineer that uses the computer system 700 to remotely access a fluid analyzer
   located at a drilling rig.
20 Advantageously, embodiments disclosed herein may provide an automated system for
   determining an electric stability, viscosity, and/or gel strength of a fluid, such as a drilling or
   completion fluid. The automated system may be capable of being controlled from a remote
   location, as well as executing various sampling and testing protocols, so as to allow the
   system to run without significant manual oversight. The system may also provide for more
25 robust and accurate analysis, as a single sample of fluid may be tested multiple times thereby
   allowing the system or operator to remove outliers and/or false readings.
   Also advantageously, the system may be a closed system, thereby allowing the pressure to be
   controlled. Control of the pressure may thereby also the boiling point of a sample to be
30 adjusted, so that the temperature required during the testing may be decreased. The closed
   system may also provide for more accurate measurements, and the pressure can be readily
   controlled, modulated, and monitored. Accordingly, pressure or temperature sensitive
   measuring devices or components may be less likely to be affected during routine operation.
35 Advantageously, embodiments of the present disclosure having a magnetic coupling may
   provide more accurate results due to reduced seal drag. Also, as the viscosity, electrical
   stability, and gel strength tests may be performed simultaneously, the time required to
   determine the respective drilling fluid properties may be reduced. Because the data may be

                                                     - 31
   transmitted and properties determined in real-time, the drilling fluids at the rig may be adjusted
   as required, thereby decreasing the overall cost of drilling, as well as potentially decreasing
   the likelihood of rig damaging events, such as blowouts.
 5 While the invention has been described with respect to a limited number of embodiments,
   those skilled in the art, having benefit of this disclosure, will appreciate that other embodiments
   can be devised which do not depart from the scope of the invention as disclosed herein.
   Accordingly, the scope of the invention should be limited only by the attached claims.
10 It is to be understood that, if any prior art is referred to herein, such reference does not
   constitute an admission that such prior art forms a part of the common general knowledge in
   the art, in any country.
   In the claims that follow and in the preceding description of the invention, except where the
15 context requires otherwise due to express language or necessary implication, the word
    'comprise" or variations such as "comprises" or "comprising" is used in an inclusive sense, i.e.
   to specify the presence of the stated features but not to preclude the presence or addition of
   further features in various embodiments of the invention.

                                                   - 32
                      THE CLAIMS DEFINING THE INVENTION ARE AS FOLLOWS:
    1.       An automated electrical stability meter for measuring electrical stability of a sample of
    fluid, the meter comprising:
  5          a housing having an inlet and an outlet;
             at least one actuated valve disposed proximate the inlet and configured to open and
    close to provide a sample of fluid into the housing;
             an electronic control module configured to send a signal to the at least one valve; and
             a probe assembly operatively coupled to the electronic control module, the probe
10  assembly comprising:
             an electrode probe having two electrodes and a probe gap therebetween.
    2.       The automated electrical stability meter of claim 1, further comprising a cleaning
    mechanism configured to periodically clean the probe gap.
15
    3.       The automated electrical stability meter of claim 2, wherein the cleaning mechanism
    comprises a rotating disc and a motor.
    4.       The automated electrical stability meter of claim 2, further comprising an agitator
20  coupled to the cleaning mechanism.
    5.       The automated electrical stability meter of claim 1, further comprising at least one of a
    thermal jacket and a cooling loop disposed around the housing.
25  6.       The automated electrical stability meter of claim 1, further comprising a pump
    configured to pump the fluid in and out of the housing.
    7.       The automated electrical stability meter of claim 1, further comprising a temperature
    sensor disposed in the housing.
30
    8.       The automated electrical stability meter of claim 1, wherein the housing is pressurized.
    9.       The automated electrical stability meter of claim 1, further comprising:
             at least one check valve.
35
    10.      The automated electrical stability meter of claim 1, further comprising:
             a viscometer sleeve disposed in the housing;

                                                   - 33
            a bob disposed in the viscometer sleeve, wherein an annulus is formed between the
    viscometer sleeve and the bob, and wherein at least one of the viscometer sleeve and the bob
    is configured to rotate,
            a motor operatively coupled to at least one of the viscometer sleeve and the bob; and a
  5 torque measuring device operatively coupled to the viscometer sleeve and the bob.
    11.     The automated electrical stability meter of claim 1, further comprising:
            a test chamber disposed within the housing, the test chamber comprising:
                    an injection port in fluid communication with the inlet;
io                  a slide disposed within the test chamber, the slide comprising a sample cavity;
            and
                    a test port;
            an x-ray fluorescence spectrometer disposed within the second housing; and
            at least one motor operatively coupled to the slide of the test chamber.
15
    12.     The automated electrical stability meter of claim 11, further comprising:
            a viscometer sleeve disposed in the housing;
            a viscometer bob disposed in the sleeve, wherein an annulus is formed between the
    viscometer sleeve and the bob, and wherein at least one of the viscometer
20          sleeve and the bob is configured to rotate,
            a motor operatively coupled to at least one of the viscometer sleeve and the bob; and
            a torque measuring device operatively coupled to the viscometer sleeve and the bob.
    13.     An automated viscometer comprising:
25          a housing having an inlet and an outlet;
            a viscometer sleeve disposed in the housing;
            a bob disposed in the sleeve, wherein an annulus is formed between the viscometer
    sleeve and the bob, and wherein at least one of the viscometer sleeve and the bob is
    configured to rotate,
30          a motor operatively coupled to at least one of the viscometer sleeve and the bob; and
            a torque measuring device operatively coupled to the viscometer sleeve and the bob.
    14.     The automated viscometer of claim 13, further comprising a magnetic coupling
    disposed between the bob and the torque measuring device.
35
    15.     The automated viscometer of claim 13, further comprising at least one actuated valve
    disposed proximate the inlet and at least one actuated valve disposed proximate the outlet, the

                                                        - 34
    actuated valves configured to open and close to provide a sample of a fluid into and out of the
    housing.
    16.      The automated viscometer of claim 15, further comprising at least one check valve.
  5
    17.      The automated viscometer of claim 13, further comprising a pump configured to pump
    a fluid in and out of the housing.
    18.      The automated viscometer of claim 13, further comprising an agitator disposed in the
10  housing, wherein the agitator is operatively coupled to a motor.
    19.      The automated viscometer of claim 13, further comprising:
             a test chamber disposed within the housing, the test chamber comprising:
                      an injection port in fluid communication with the inlet;
15                    a slide disposed within the test chamber, the slide comprising a sample cavity;
             and
                      a test port;
             an x-ray fluorescence spectrometer disposed within the second housing; and
             at least one motor operatively coupled to the slide of the test chamber.
20
    20.      A computer-assisted method for controlling an automatic drilling fluid property analyzer,
    the method comprising:
             a software application executing on a processer, the software application comprising
    instructions for:
25           sending a control signal from a remote location to the drilling fluid property analyzer at
    a drilling location;
             verifying the control signal was received by the drilling fluid analyzer;
             receiving data from the drilling fluid analyzer;
             processing the data received from the drilling fluid analyzer; and
30           determining at least one of a viscosity, a gel strength, an electrical stability, and a
    composition of a drilling fluid in the drilling fluid property analyzer.
    21.      The method of claim 20, wherein the control signal includes instructions to:
             transfer a specific volume of drilling fluid from an active fluid system to a sample cell;
35           direct the fluid through an electric probe, wherein the electric probe comprises a probe
    gap between two electrodes; and
             apply a voltage across the probe gap.

                                                     - 35
    22.     The method of claim 20, wherein the control signal includes instructions to:
            transfer a specific volume of drilling fluid from an active fluid system to a sample cell;
            direct the drilling fluid in the sample cell into a space between a sleeve and a bob of a
    viscometer; and
  5         rotate at least one of the sleeve and the bob at a specified speed.
    23.     The method of claim 20, wherein the control signal includes instructions to:
            actuate an x-ray fluorescence spectrometer to sample a fluid within a sample cavity.
10  24.     The method of claim 20, wherein the software application comprises instructions to:
            process automatically at least two drilling fluid samples.
    25.     The method of claim 24, wherein properties of the at least two drilling fluid samples are
    processed at least two times.
15
    26.     The method of claim 20, wherein at least one of the determining drilling fluid properties
    is sent to the drilling fluid analyzer.
    27.     The method of claim 20, wherein the at least one drilling fluid property is determined
20  substantially in real-time.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
