E:\dr\ltrwoven\NRPrtb\DCC\)ER\6490496 _ldoc-1/03/2018
                                                      ABSTRACT
               In a technological process for generating images of geological structures of
subterranean formations using marine seismic techniques in which two or more sources are
activated to generate acoustic energy that is reflected from the subterranean formations and is
recorded by seismic sensors as blended seismic data, the specific improvement comprising:
               deblending the blended seismic data into separate deblended shot records based on the
blended seismic data and time delays between activations of the two or more sources, each
deblended shot record recording acoustic energy reflected from the subterranean formation in
response to activation of one of the two or more sources; and
               using the deblended shot records in generating an image of the subterranean formation,
thereby enhancing the image of subterranean earth layer layers.

                115
 CO
      Lo
             Q3
  LO
  (Z)    CZ)           00
                       CZ)
co
Q)
                    CZ)
                    Q3

 ~\dr\latrwoven\NRPortbf\DCC\)ER\6490496_ I doc-1/03/2018
       METHOD AND SYSTEM FOR SEPARATING SEISMIC SOURCES IN MARINE
                                         SIMULTANEOUS SHOOTING ACQUISITION
                                                          BACKGROUND
[0001]                        This application is a divisional of Australian Patent Application No.
<removed-apn>, the originally filed specification of which is incorporated herein by reference in
its entirety.
[0002]                        In the oil and gas industry, geophysical prospecting is commonly used to aid in
the search for and evaluation of subsurface earth formations. Geophysical prospecting
techniques yield knowledge of the subsurface structure of the earth, which is useful for finding
and extracting valuable natural resources, particularly hydrocarbon deposits such as oil and
natural gas. A well-known technique of geophysical prospecting is a seismic survey. In a land
based seismic survey, a seismic signal is generated on or near the earth's surface and then
travels downward into the subsurface of the earth. In a marine seismic survey, the seismic
signal may also travel downward through a body of water overlying the subsurface of the
earth. Seismic energy sources are used to generate the seismic signal which, after propagating
into the earth, is at least partially reflected by subsurface seismic reflectors. Such seismic
reflectors typically are interfaces between subterranean formations having different elastic
properties, specifically sound wave velocity and rock density, which lead to differences in
acoustic impedance at the interfaces. The reflected seismic energy is detected by seismic
sensors (also called seismic receivers) at or near the surface of the earth, in an overlying body
of water, or at known depths in boreholes. The seismic sensors generate signals, typically
electrical or optical, from the detected seismic energy, which are recorded for further
processing.
[0003]                        The appropriate seismic sources for generating the seismic signal in land
seismic surveys may include explosives or vibrators. Marine seismic surveys typically employ
a submerged seismic source towed by a ship and periodically activated to generate an acoustic
wavefield. The seismic source generating the wavefield may be of several types, including a
small explosive charge, an electric spark or arc, a marine vibrator, and, typically, a gun. The

 ~\dr\latrwoven\NRPortbf\DCC\)ER\6490496_ I doc-1/03/2018
                                                                 -2
seismic source gun may be a water gun, a vapor gun, and, most typically, an air gun.
Typically, a marine seismic source consists not of a single source element, but of a spatially
distributed array of source elements. This arrangement is particularly true for air guns,
currently the most common form of marine seismic source.
[0004]                        The appropriate types of seismic sensors typically include particle velocity
sensors, particularly in land surveys, and water pressure sensors, particularly in marine
surveys. Sometimes particle displacement sensors, particle acceleration sensors, or pressure
gradient sensors are used in place of or in addition to particle velocity sensors. Particle
velocity sensors and water pressure sensors are commonly known in the art as geophones and
hydrophones, respectively. Seismic sensors may be deployed by themselves, but are more
commonly deployed in sensor arrays. Additionally, pressure sensors and particle motion
sensors may be deployed together in a marine survey, collocated in pairs or pairs of arrays.
[0005]                        In a typical marine seismic survey, a seismic survey vessel travels on the water
surface, typically at about 5 knots, and contains seismic acquisition equipment, such as
navigation control, seismic source control, seismic sensor control, and recording equipment.
The seismic source control equipment causes a seismic source towed in the body of water by
the seismic vessel to actuate at selected times (the activation commonly known as a "shot").
Seismic streamers, also called seismic cables, are elongate cable-like structures towed in the
body of water by the seismic survey vessel that tows the seismic source or by another seismic
survey ship. Typically, a plurality of seismic streamers are towed behind a seismic vessel. The
seismic streamers contain sensors to detect the reflected wavefields initiated by the seismic
source and returning from reflective interfaces.
                                                       SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
[0006]                        According to the present invention there is provided in a technological process
for generating images of geological structures of subterranean formations using marine
seismic techniques in which two or more sources are activated to generate acoustic energy that
is reflected from the subterranean formations and is recorded by seismic sensors as blended
seismic data, the specific improvement comprising:

 ~\dr\latrwoven\NRPortbf\DCC\)ER\6490496_ I doc-1/03/2018
                                                                 -3
                              deblending the blended seismic data into separate deblended shot records based
on the blended seismic data and time delays between activations of the two or more sources,
each deblended shot record recording acoustic energy reflected from the subterranean
formation in response to activation of one of the two or more sources; and
                              using the deblended shot records in generating an image of the subterranean
formation, thereby enhancing the image of subterranean earth layer layers.
[0007]                        The invention also provides a non-transitory computer readable medium having
machine-readable instructions encoded thereon for enabling one or more processors of a
computer system to perform the operations of:
                              deblending blended seismic data generated by seismic sensors in response to
acoustic energy reflected from a subterranean formation in response to activation of two or
more sources into separate deblended shot records based on the blended seismic data and time
delays between activations of the two or more sources, each deblended shot record recording
acoustic energy reflected from the subterranean formation in response to activation of one of
the two or more sources; and
                              using the deblended shot records in generating an image of the subterranean
formation, thereby enhancing the image of subterranean earth layer layers.
[0008]                        The invention also provides a computer system programmed to generate an
image of geological structures of a subterranean formation, the system comprising:
                              one or more processors;
                              one or more computer readable media; and
                              machine readable instructions stored in the one or more computer readable
media that when executed by the one or more processors to perform the operations of
                                           retrieving blended seismic data from the one or more computer readable
media, the blending blended seismic data recorded by seismic sensors that detect acoustic
energy reflected from the subterranean formation in response to activation of the two or more
sources;
                                           deblending the blended seismic data into separate deblended shot
records based on the blended seismic data and time delays between activations of the two or
more sources, each deblended shot record recording acoustic energy reflected from the
subterranean formation in response to activation of one of the two or more sources; and

 ~\dr\latrwoven\NRPortbf\DCC\)ER\6490496_ I doc-1/03/2018
                                                                   -4
                                           using the deblended shot records in generating an image of the
subterranean formation, thereby enhancing the image of subterranean earth layer layers.
                                          BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0009]                        The invention and its advantages may be more easily understood by reference
to the following detailed description and the attached drawings, in which:
[0010]                       FIG. 1 is a diagram of an example system for acquiring seismic data suitable
for use with embodiments of the invention;
[0011]                       FIG. 2 is a diagram illustrating, by way of example, one of many different
types of computer systems that can be used in accordance with embodiments of the invention;
[0012]                       FIG. 3 is a flowchart illustrating an example embodiment of a method for
separating seismic sources in marine simultaneous shooting acquisition;
[0013]                       FIG. 4 is a flowchart illustrating an example embodiment of a method for an
iterative inversion solution of models for the activation of two or more seismic sources; and
[0014]                       FIG. 5 is a flowchart illustrating an example embodiment of a method for
iteratively updating a residual.
                                                          DETAILED DESCRIPTION
[0015]                        FIG. I is a diagram of an example system for acquiring seismic data suitable for
use with embodiments of the invention. In various embodiments, a single seismic sensor cable
(also called a seismic streamer) or a single ocean bottom cable are shown for simplicity of
illustration. This illustration of one cable is only meant to more clearly demonstrate principles
of the invention and is not intended as a limitation of the invention. Multiple streamers or
cables may also be used.
[0016]                       In FIG. 1, a seismic acquisition system is designated generally as 100, A
seismic vessel 101 is disposed in a body of water 102 and carries equipment 103 for
navigation, seismic source control, and seismic sensor recording. The seismic vessel 101 or
another service vessel (not shown) tows a seismic source 104 through the body of water 102
below the surface 105 of the water. The seismic source 104 comprises any appropriate type of
source, typically in arrays. In one embodiment, one or more seismic sources 104 are towed at

 ~\dr\latrwoven\NRPortbf\DCC\)ER\6490496_ I doc-1/03/2018
                                                          -5
the front of the seismic streamer 106 by the seismic vessel 101, while one or more seismic
sources 117 are towed at the rear of the seismic streamer 106, for example, by another service
vessel 118. The configuration of seismic sources 104 illustrated in the seismic acquisition
system 100 is not intended to be a limitation of the invention. Other configurations of the
seismic sources 104 may also be used.
[0017]                       In one embodiment, the seismic vessel 101 or another service vessel (not
shown) tows a seismic streamer 106 through the body of water 102. The seismic streamer 106
comprises seismic sensors 107 at spaced apart positions along the seismic streamer 106, so
that the seismic streamer 106 containing the seismic sensors 107 is disposed in the body of
water 102. The seismic sensors 107 are typically pressure sensors, such as hydrophones. In
another embodiment, the seismic streamer 106 comprises a dual-sensor streamer, in which the
seismic sensors 107 comprise pairs of collocated pressure and particle motion sensors. The
particle motion sensors are typically particle velocity sensors, such as geophones, or
accelerometers. The seismic sensors 107 typically comprise arrays of sensors at each spaced
apart position. An alternative to having the pressure and particle motion sensors co-located is
to have sufficient spatial density of sensors so that the respective wavefields recorded by the
pressure and particle motion sensors can be interpolated or extrapolated to produce the two
wavefield signals at the same location.
[0018]                       In another embodiment, the seismic vessel 101 or another service vessel (not
shown) disposes an ocean bottom cable 108 on the water bottom 109. The ocean bottom cable
108 also comprises seismic sensors 107 at spaced apart positions along the cable, also
typically in arrays of sensors at each spaced apart position. The seismic sensors 107 in the
ocean bottom sensor 108 can also comprise pairs of pressure and particle motion sensors. In
yet another embodiment, both seismic streamers 106 and ocean bottom cable 108 are
employed. The type of sensors illustrated in the seismic acquisition system 100 is not intended
to be a limitation of the invention. For example, in other embodiments, discrete seismic
sensors 107 located at ocean bottom nodes (not shown) or seismic sensors 107 located in
vertical arrays or in bore holes (not shown) could be included in the seismic acquisition
system 100. Other types of seismic sensors 107 and their arrangements may also be used.
[0019]                        When the seismic sources 104 are activated, acoustic energy travels
downwardly, at 110, through the body of water 102 and the water bottom 109 to layer

  ~\dr\latrwoven\NRPrtb\DCC\)ER\6490496_ I doc-1/03/2018
                                                           -6
boundaries, such as 111 and 112, surrounding a subterranean formation layer, such as 113. A
portion of the acoustic energy is reflected from the layer boundary at 111 and travels
upwardly, at 114. The upwardly traveling acoustic energy 114 is detected at seismic sensors
 107 on the ocean bottom cable 108 or the seismic streamer 106. The upwardly traveling
acoustic energy continues upward, at 115, until reflecting off the water surface 105 and then
travels downwardly again, at 116. The downwardly traveling acoustic energy 116 may be
detected again by seismic sensors 107 on the seismic streamer 106 or the ocean bottom cable
 108, resulting in a ghost signal. The acoustic energy detected at the seismic sensors 107 may
be recorded onto any type of appropriate storage media at any location, such as, but not
restricted to, at the seismic streamer 106 or the ocean bottom cable 108, on the seismic vessel
 101 or another service vessel, or onshore.
[0020]                      FIG. 2 is a diagram illustrating, by way of example, one of many different types
of computer systems that can be used in accordance with embodiments of the invention. A
central processor 20 is coupled to user input devices, such as a keyboard 61 (wired or wireless)
and a mouse 22 (wired or wireless). The processor 20 is further coupled to a display, such as a
monitor 23. A computer program in accordance with embodiments of the invention may reside
on any of a number of computer readable media, such as a disk 24 insertable into a disk drive
25 or on an internal or external hard drive (not shown).
[0021]                       As shown above in FIG. 1, marine seismic exploration typically employs a
submerged seismic source 104 towed by a ship and periodically activated to generate an
acoustic wavefield (the shot). The wavefield may be generated by a small explosive charge, an
electric spark or arc, a vibrator, or, typically, a gun. The gun may be a water gun, vapor gun,
or, most typically, an airgun. Each airgun contains a volume of air typically compressed to
about 2000 psi (pounds per square inch) or more. An airgun abruptly releases its compressed
air to create an air bubble, leading to an expanding sound wave in the water. The resulting
wave front propagates downwardly into the earth beneath the water, reflects from subterranean
earth layers, and returns upwardly toward the water surface.
[0022]                      In seismic exploration, there is continuous drive towards more dense data
sampling to better image complex geological structures. Recent advances in acquisition such
as Wide-Azimuth, Multi-Azimuth or Rich-Azimuth acquisition can deliver a more diverse
range of source, azimuth and offset sampling. To collect such data, multiple seismic service

 ~\dr\latrwoven\NRPortbf\DCC\)ER\6490496_ I doc-1/03/2018
                                                           -7
vessels to source and receiver vessels are deployed, thereby increasing the costs of the survey
significantly.
[0023]                       In conventional acquisition, there is zero time overlap between shot records,
and seismic data are recorded discontinuously. As a result, the seismic source domain is often
poorly sampled, leading to aliasing. In simultaneous shooting acquisition, data can be recorded
continuously, and temporal overlap between shots is allowed. As a result, more sources are
fired during the same period of acquisition, which enhances the flexibility in survey
geometries. As a result, a more densely sampled data set in terms of source spacing, but also
azimuth and offset distributions, can be obtained. The resulting recorded shot records are also
referred to as "blended" shot records.
[0024]                        In terms of efficiency, simultaneous acquisition can contribute by reducing
survey times, which is of particular value in critical situations where small acquisition time
windows dominate due to severe safety, environmental, or economic restrictions.
[0025]                        The simultaneous firing of marine seismic sources can provide significant
advantages in seismic acquisition efficiency. However, each source is affected by the seismic
interference from one or more other sources. This interference associated with each seismic
source needs to be accounted for so that effective processing techniques can be applied to the
acquired seismic data to separate the sources in the seismic data.
[0026]                        The randomization of seismic source timing allows for the attenuation of the
energy from interfering sources after sorting the acquired data to a domain that makes it
possible to align the contributions from one specific source to zero time, while the other
source(s) will appear to be incoherent. As a result, methods that can discriminate between
coherent and incoherent energy allow for the sources to be separated.
[0027]                        Using techniques in accordance with embodiments of the invention, two or
more sources may be separated, or "deblended", by being constructed through minimization of
a cost function. The cost function describes the size of the residual, or misfit between the input
data and the modelled data. How to use the cost function to calculate an iterative solution for
the inversion on a sequence of overlapping temporal windows will be described below in
example embodiments of the invention.
[0028]                        One embodiment includes a method to separate seismic sources in seismic data
that was acquired using marine simultaneous shooting acquisition. Using matrix notation,

 ~\dr\latrwoven\NRPortbf\DCC\)ER\6490496_ I doc-1/03/2018
seismic data can be represented by a data matrix P, with its columns representing shot records
and its rows representing receiver gathers. Hence, element PiJ, represents a single trace related
to source position j and detector position i. The position of each element in the P matrix
corresponds to the spatial coordinates of the sources and receivers; with different rows
co1Tesponding to different detector numbers and different columns corresponding to different
experiments, i.e., shot records. In general, seismic source blending can be formulated as
follows:
                             P'(zd, zS) = P(zdzS)F,                                                          (1)
where P' is the blended data matrix, and                           zd, and z, are the detector and source depth levels,
respectively. Blending matrix F contains the blending parameters. In the case of a marine
survey with random firing times but equal source strengths, only phase encoding is utilized. In
this case, the blending elements Fk. consist only of phase terms exp(-j.i) that express the
time delay rk given to source k in blended source array 1.
[0029]                        To retrieve individual 'deblended' shot records from the blended data matrix P',
a matrix inversion has to be performed. In general, the blending problem is underdetermined
(i.e., P' has less columns than P), meaning that unique solutions to the inverse problem do not
exist. Hence, the blending matrix F is not invertible.
[0030]                        A goal, also known as an objective function, may be defined for the inverse
problem. The goal is a functional (i.e. a map from a vector space to the field underlying the
vector space) that measures how close the deblended data, represented by vector m, from the
recovered model fits the blended input data d. The standard objective function is usually of the
form:
                               (Mi, M2)                   |mF - dI2,                                         (2)
which represents the L2 norm of the residual, which is defined as the misfit between the
recorded blended data d and the predicted blended data mF, that can be constructed from the
predicted deblended data m. Note that an L2 norm is used here as a generic measurement of
the distance between the predicted data and the observed data, but that other norms are also

 ~\dr\latrwoven\NRPortbf\DCC\)ER\6490496_ I doc-1/03/2018
                                                            -9
possible for use. Additionally, this embodiment is illustrated with two sources, but this is not a
restriction of the invention. Two or more sources may be used.
[0031]                        The goal of the objective function is to minimize the difference between the
predicted and observed data. To minimize the objective function (i.e. solve the inverse
problem), the gradient of the objective function is computed, using the same rationale to
minimize a function of only one variable. The gradient of the objective function in Equation
(2), set equal to zero, is:
                              V,=mFFH-dFH =0,                                                       (3)
[0032]                        which simplifies after rearrangement into the least squares solution:
                              m = dF'H (F 1H -4
[0033]                        In the marine case, blending matrix F only contains phase terms (phase
encoding). As a result, its least-squares inverse corresponds to the transpose complex
conjugate (Hermitian). The application of the transpose complex Hermitian, designated by a
superscript "H", to the blended input data then leads to "pseudo-deblended" shot gathers:
                             m = dF".                                                               (5)
[0034]                       From the physics point of view, the "pseudo-deblending" process carries out an
expansion corresponding to the number of seismic sources that are blended together. For
example, if this number of sources is b, each blended shot record is copied b times. Then, each
of these shot record copies is corrected for the corresponding time delays introduced in the
field or decoded in the case of encoded sources (correlation). This corresponds to simply
correcting each shot to its own time zero. Since the responses of multiple sources are included
in a single blended shot record and the source codes are not orthogonal, the "pseudo
deblending" process generates correlation noise. This correlation noise is known as 'blending
noise' or 'cross talk". Nevertheless, these pseudo-deblended shot records serve a purpose in
further processing, either as end-product after separation, or as input for a subsequent source

 ~\dr\latrwoven\NRPrtb\DCC\)ER\6490496_ I doc-1/03/2018
                                                         - 10
separation method to be applied.
[0035]                      An alternative to the least squares solution is to impose constraints on the
possible solutions by emphasizing certain possible features in our models. This type of
constraint technique is known as regularization.
[0036]                      One approach to regularization is to constrain the inversion by enforcing
sparseness to some convenient domain (for example, radon transformed CMP-gathers).
However, such schemes are known to have at least the following drawbacks. Enforcing
sparseness not only suppresses the blending noise but, unfortunately, also suppresses the
weaker reflection events. Even in the Radon domain (stacking power for the coherent events),
the weaker reflection events cannot be distinguished from the blending noise. Further,
reflection events are typically too complex to be described by only a few Radon parameters,
since the result is not sparse enough.
[0037]                      An alternative to using sparseness constraints is using coherency constraints. In
such methods, incoherent energy recognized as a representation of coherent events belonging
to (one of) the interfering shots. The inversion approach aims to distribute all energy in the
blended shot records by reconstructing the individual unblended shot records at their
respective locations.
[0038]                     In example embodiments, a method may be used that constrains the inversion
by imposing that the recorded wave-field is regular, i.e. that nearby sources produce records
that are similar to each other in the sense that the desired records m contain data that are, at
least locally, predictable and contain coherent events. Various methods exist to separate
coherent signal from the incoherent interference from the overlapping shots, e.g. multi
dimensional F-X deconvolution, but alternative methods may also be utilized.
[0039]                      To aid in the separation of coherent from incoherent energy, an NMO
correction can be used to flatten the events such that they become more parabolic. However,
an extensive velocity profile that aims to flatten all events will result in stretch effects that may
be severe. At the same time, a simple velocity model (for example, very smooth and with low
velocities) will yield less severe stretching effects, but will not flatten all events as desired.
[0040]                      To overcome this problem, it is proposed to build up the deblended shot records
using overlapping temporal windows. In the first update step, the water bottom reflection is
considered, where a NMO correction with the water-velocity is applied to all pseudodeblended

 ~\dr\latrwoven\NRPortbf\DCC\)ER\6490496_ I doc-1/03/2018
                                                          - 11
gathers. Typically, the NMO correction is applied after sorting the seismic data to a Common
Depth Point (CDP) domain in order to flatten the reflection events as much as possible. Note
that only minimal stretch effects are introduced by doing so, because a constant velocity is
used.
[0041]                        To extract the coherent signals from the NMO-corrected data gathers, a
multidimensional median filter may be utilized. The type of filter utilized is not limited to
median filters. The type of filter utilized may include, but is not limited to, other filters such as
frequency-wavenumber filters, Radon filters, and curvelet or wavelet domain filters.
Subsequently, an inverse NMO is applied to the retrieved signals, after which the time-delays
are applied, the results are summed and subtracted from the residual. The residual will then
serve as input for next update, progressively expanding the temporal window of interest,
thereby using an appropriate NMO correction for the extended temporal window under
consideration.
[0042]                        One advantage of the temporal windowing approach is that it is capable of
aligning the target events with less stretch effects. Furthermore, it allows for the removal of
strong incoherent spikes from the shallow data first, so that extracting coherent energy is
easier when the process is repeated for larger arrival times, i.e. for deeper events. The
invention is not limited to using time window constrained NMO corrections. Other methods,
such as static shifts, could be employed to avoid stretch effects.
[0043]                        The proposed multi-dimensional median filter improves the separation of any
overlapping events, i.e. a reflection event and an overlapping blending noise spike. By
utilizing a median filter, the blending noise is reduced significantly. The target event may not
be reconstructed completely in a single iteration, but the remaining reflection information still
resides in the residual data, that is, it hasn't leaked to the wrong shot. As such, the remnant
reflection energy can still be added in subsequent iterations. A similar, conservative principle
is used for weaker or less aligned events. The application of aggressive extraction filters
should be avoided to ensure that, if an event is not added to the correct deblended gather, it is
also not added to the wrong gather. After the last iteration, the residual is added to all
deblended gathers to ensure that no relevant information was lost.

 ~\dr\latrwoven\NRPortbf\DCC\)ER\6490496_ I doc-1/03/2018
                                                                   - 12
[0044]                        The inversion approach starts by computing pseudo-deblended data gathers,
obtained as a scaled version of the least squares solution to minimizing the objective, or cost,
function (in,....,                  n,9):
                                (mi, MN)=1m                 - d2(6)
Here, d is blended input data (as originally measured) and m = [m,... n?,V]T constitutes the N
deblended data gathers in the time domain and || 112represents the L2 or Euclidean norm
(distance function).
[0045]                        In the first update step, an NMO correction using the water velocity is applied
to all pseudo-deblended gathers. Note again that only minimal stretch effects are introduced
doing so because a constant velocity is used. Next, a temporal window is considered that
contains the flattened water bottom reflection event. Then, a multi-dimensional median filter is
used to extract the coherent signals. Subsequently, an inverse NMO is applied to the retrieved
signals, after which the time-delays are applied; the results are summed and subtracted from
the residual. The residual will then serve as input for next update, progressively expanding the
temporal window of interest.
[0046]                         Initially, the models are empty and, thus, from Equation (6), the initial residual
rwo equals the blended input data d. In the ith iteration, the it residual ri) is given by:
                              r(i) = d - m)               .                                            (7)
[0047]                       Models m through mN for the separated sources are built up iteratively, where
in each subsequent iteration, a larger temporal window is considered, focusing on the next
(deeper) strong reflection event. This procedure is repeated until all events in the seismic data
have been reconstructed. After the iterative scheme has been completed, the residual data are
added to the deblended data sets il, .. , MN
[0048]                        The NMO correction is typically applied in the Common Depth Point (CDP)
domain, and as such, this domain is convenient for computing the residual and reconstructing
the models in,, ..., MN. However, the invention is not limited to this choice of gathers. The

 ~\dr\latrwoven\NRPortbf\DCC\)ER\6490496_ I doc-1/03/2018
                                                                  - 13
process can also be applied to other gathers, such as common source or common receiver
gathers.
[0049]                        The         proposed        multi-dimensional median    filter   will   have    an
averaging/smoothing effect on the events which is good to separate overlapping events.
Otherwise, a reflection event and the overlapping blending noise spikes (belonging to coherent
events in the other shot) will be both added to the update (leakage, seen as gaps in the other
shot). The target event might not be removed completely this way (the remaining is still in the
residual data, so not leaked). However, the corresponding blending noise is reduced
significantly such that, in a later iteration, a deeper and weaker event can be filtered out as
well and added to the correct deblended gather. As long as events are in the residual, the
events have not leaked to the wrong shot and can be added afterwards. The same conservative
principle can be used for weaker or less aligned events. Too aggressive filters should not be
used to ensure that, if an event is not added to the correct deblended gather, the event is also
not added to the wrong gather. As a result, after updating, the residual must be added to all
deblended gathers, giving a slightly more noisy output.
[0050]                       FIG. 3 is a flowchart illustrating an example embodiment of a method for
separating the effects of seismic sources in simultaneous shooting acquisition.
[0051]                        At block 30, seismic data are obtained by recording simultaneously in seismic
streamers, acquired by activating approximately simultaneously two or more seismic sources,
towed at two or more positions in vicinity of seismic streamers.
[0052]                        At block 31, a residual is iteratively updated for an inversion solution of models
for the activations of the two or more seismic sources from block 30. The iterative updating of
the residual utilizes a sequence of overlapping temporal windows containing reflection events
and utilizes normal moveout corrections based on largest reflection events in each temporal
window.
[0053]                        At block 32, a final updated residual from block 31 is added to a final updated
model result from block 31.
[0054]                       FIG. 4 is a flowchart illustrating an example embodiment of a method for an
iterative inversion solution of models for the activation of two or more seismic sources.
[0055]                        At block 40, one or more seismic sources are towed at a first position in the
vicinity of seismic streamers and one or more seismic sources are towed at one or more other

R-~\d\rwoven\NRrbDCC\DER\ 6490496_I doc-1/03/2018
                                                      - 14
positions in the vicinity of the seismic streamers. In one embodiment, the first position can be
at the front of the seismic streamers and another position can be at the rear of the seismic
streamers. However, the invention is not intended to be restricted to these positions.
[0056]                At block 41, the two or more separated seismic sources from block 40 are
activated approximately simultaneously. Random time delays of -500 ms to +500 ms are
applied to the timing of the activation of the two or more seismic sources.
[0057]                At block 42, seismic data is recorded in the seismic streamers in response to the
seismic source activations in block 41. The responses to the two or more seismic sources are
recorded simultaneously.
[0058]                At block 43, a set of temporal windows, each containing reflection events, is
selected in the seismic data recorded in block 42, starting with the water bottom reflection and
proceeding downward. Let the number of temporal windows be designated as N. These
temporal windows do not have to follow the recorded reflection events or any sub-surface
reflectors. The temporal windows may reflect isochrones or pseudo-boundaries representing
windows in time, specified only by a window length.
[0059]                At block 44, at initial iterative step 0, deblended model results m(o) are set equal
to zero. Thus, the initial residual r(o) equals the blended input data d from block 42.
[0060]                At block 45, at each iterative step i, from i = 1, 2, ..., N, the residual rj) is
updated for an inversion solution of model results m(i) at the ith event in the selected set of
temporal windows from block 43.
[0061]                At block 46, after the final iterative step, the final updated residual    r(N) from
block 45 is added to the model result m(N).
[0062]                FIG. 5 is a flowchart illustrating an example embodiment of a method for
iteratively updating the residual. This flowchart describes in more detail the iterative step in
the process referred to in block 45 of FIG. 4.
[0063]                At block 50, the previous (i-1)th iterative residual r(j_) is taken from block 45 in
FIG. 4.
[0064]                At block 51, the residual r(jy)from block 50 is pseudo-deblended for the two or
more seismic sources from block 40 of FIG. 4 and sorted into CDP gathers.
[0065]                Because two or more sources are fired with only small random time delays in
between, the responses of the sources are recorded at the same time. Deblending the seismic

 ~\dr\latrwoven\NRrtb\DCC\)ER\6490496_ I doc-1/03/2018
                                                         - 15
data means that the data for one source are aligned by re-applying the random time delays and
then that part of the data (blending noise) that was ignited by the other sources are removed.
Pseudo deblending means that the data is only aligned for the desired source, while the
blending noise is untainted.
[0066]                      At block 52, an NMO-correction is applied to the pseudo-deblended CDP
gathers from block 51. Although this NMO correction may work best on CMP gathers, the
invention is not restricted to this choice of gather. The process can also be applied to other
gathers, such as common source or common receiver gathers.
[0067]                      At block 53, a multi-dimensional median filter is applied to retrieve the
coherent signals in the NMO-corrected CDP gathers from block 52. A temporal window can
be used to limit the area where the filter is active.
[0068]                      At block 54, an inverse NMO correction is applied to the retrieved signals from
block 53.
[0069]                      At block 55, the random time delays from block 41 of FIG. 4 are applied to the
inverse NMO-corrected signals from block 54.
[0070]                      At block 56, blending is applied to the time-delayed signals from block 55.
[0071]                      At block 57, the blended signals from block 56 are subtracted from the previous
residual r(jl) to generate the new residual r(i).
[0072]                      The seismic data obtained in performing a seismic survey, representative of
earth's subsurface, are processed to yield information relating to the geologic structure and
properties of the subsurface earth formations in the area being surveyed. The processed
seismic data are processed for display and analysis of potential hydrocarbon content of these
subterranean formations. The goal of seismic data processing is to extract from the seismic
data as much information as possible regarding the subterranean formations in order to
adequately image the geologic subsurface. In order to identify locations in the earth's
subsurface where there is a probability for finding petroleum accumulations, large sums of
money are expended in gathering, processing, and interpreting seismic data. The process of
constructing the reflector surfaces defining the subterranean earth layers of interest from the
recorded seismic data provides an image of the earth in depth or time. A prerequisite for
discovery of any oil or gas reservoir is a well-resolved seismic image of the earth's subsurface.

 ~\dr\latrwoven\NRPortbf\DCC\)ER\6490496_ I doc-1/03/2018
                                                          - 16
[0073]                        The image of the structure of the earth's subsurface is produced in order to
enable an interpreter to select locations with the greatest probability of having petroleum
accumulations. To verify the presence of petroleum, a well must be drilled. Drilling wells to
determine whether petroleum deposits are present or not, is an extremely expensive and time
consuming undertaking. For that reason, there is a continuing need to improve the processing
and display of the seismic data, so as to produce an image of the structure of the earth's
subsurface that will improve the ability of an interpreter, whether the interpretation is made by
a computer or a human, to assess the probability that an accumulation of petroleum exists at a
particular location in the earth's subsurface. The processing and display of acquired seismic
data facilitates more accurate decisions on whether and where to drill, and thereby reduces the
risk of drilling dry holes.
[0074]                       Embodiments in accordance with the invention have been discussed above as
methods, for illustrative purposes only. Embodiments can also be implemented as systems.
Systems in accordance with embodiments of the invention may, for example, be implemented
by means of computers, in particular digital computers, along with other conventional data
processing equipment. Such data processing equipment, well known in the art, may comprise
any appropriate combination or network of computer processing equipment, including, but not
be limited to, hardware (processors, temporary and permanent storage devices, and any other
appropriate computer processing equipment), software (operating systems, application
programs, mathematics program libraries, and any other appropriate software), connections
(electrical, optical, wireless, or otherwise), and peripherals (input and output devices such as
keyboards, pointing devices, and scanners; display devices such as monitors and printers;
computer readable storage media such as tapes, disks, and hard drives, and any other
appropriate equipment).
[0075]                        A computer program may be stored in a computer readable medium, with the
program having logic operable to cause a programmable computer to perform any of the
methods described above.
[0076]                       It should be understood that the preceding is merely a detailed description of
specific embodiments of this invention and that numerous changes, modifications, and
alternatives to the disclosed embodiments can be made in accordance with the disclosure here
without departing from the scope of the invention. The preceding description, therefore, is not

 ~\dr\latrwoven\NRPrtb\DCC\)ER\6490496 _ldoc-1/03/2018
                                                        - 17
meant to limit the scope of the invention. Rather, the scope of the invention is to be
determined only by the appended claims and their equivalents.
[0077]                      The reference in this specification to any prior publication (or information
derived from it), or to any matter which is known, is not, and should not be taken as an
acknowledgment or admission or any form of suggestion that that prior publication (or
information derived from it) or known matter forms part of the common general knowledge in
the field of endeavour to which this specification relates.
[0078]                      Throughout this specification and the claims which follow, unless the context
requires otherwise, the word "comprise", and variations such as "comprises" and
"comprising", will be understood to imply the inclusion of a stated integer or step or group of
integers or steps but not the exclusion of any other integer or step or group of integers or steps.

  ~\dr\latrwoven\NRPrtbDCC\)ER\6490496_ I doc-1/03/2018
                                                        - 18
THE CLAIMS DEFINING THE INVENTION ARE AS FOLLOWS:
 1.             In a technological process for generating images of geological structures of
subterranean formations using marine seismic techniques in which two or more sources are
activated to generate acoustic energy that is reflected from the subterranean formations and is
recorded by seismic sensors as blended seismic data, the specific improvement comprising:
                deblending the blended seismic data into separate deblended shot records based on the
blended seismic data and time delays between activations of the two or more sources, each
deblended shot record recording acoustic energy reflected from the subterranean formation in
response to activation of one of the two or more sources; and
               using the deblended shot records in generating an image of the subterranean formation,
thereby enhancing the image of subterranean earth layer layers.
2.              The process of claim 1, wherein deblending the blended seismic data comprises:
                forming a blending matrix, each blending matrix element represents the time delay
between activations of two of the two or more sources;
                minimizing a residual between the blended seismic data and a product of predicted
deblended seismic data models and the blending matrix for each temporal window of a
sequence of overlapping temporal windows containing reflection events of the blended seismic
data; and
                adding a final updated residual to a final updated deblended seismic data model that
corresponds to the deblended shot record.
3.              The process of claim 2, wherein minimizing the residual comprises:
                determining the sequence of temporal windows such that each temporal window
contains reflection events in the blended seismic data, starting with a water bottom reflection
and proceeding downward;
                initializing a deblended seismic data model to zero;
                updating, at each iterative step the residual for an inversion solution of a deblended
seismic data model at an event in the sequence of temporal windows; and
                adding, after the final iterative step, the final updated residual to the final updated
deblended seismic data model.

  ~\dr\latrwoven\NRrtb\DCC\)ER\6490496_ I doc-1/03/2018
                                                        - 19
4.              The process of claim 3, wherein updating the residual at each iterative step comprises:
               pseudo-deblending a previous residual for the two or more sources to generate pseudo
deblended common depth point ("CDP") gathers as a product of the blended seismic data
multiplied by a conjugate transpose of the blending matrix;
                applying a normal moveout ("NMO")-correction to the pseudo-deblended CDP
gathers;
                applying a filter to retrieve coherent signals in the NMO-corrected CDP gathers;
                applying an inverse NMO correction to the retrieved coherent signals;
                applying the random time delays to the inverse NMO-corrected signals;
               blending to the time-delayed signals; and
                subtracting the blended time-delayed signals from the previous residual to generate a
residual for a current iteration.
5.              The process of claim 4, wherein applying the filter comprises applying a multi
dimensional median filter.
6.              The process of claim 5, wherein the applying a multi-dimensional median filter
comprises using a temporal window to limit the area where the multi-dimensional median
filter is active.
7.              The process of claim 4, wherein applying the filter comprises applying one of a
frequency-wavenumber filter, Radon filter, curvelet filter and a wavelet domain filter.
8.              The process of claim 3, wherein updating the residual utilizes a static shift.
9.              The process of claim 1, further comprising storing the deblended shot records on a
computer readable medium.
 10.            A non-transitory computer readable medium having machine-readable instructions
encoded thereon for enabling one or more processors of a computer system to perform the
operations of:

 ~\dr\latrwoven\NRPortbf\DCC\)ER\6490496_ I doc-1/03/2018
                                                          - 20
                deblending blended seismic data generated by seismic sensors in response to acoustic
energy reflected from a subterranean formation in response to activation of two or more
sources into separate deblended shot records based on the blended seismic data and time
delays between activations of the two or more sources, each deblended shot record recording
acoustic energy reflected from the subterranean formation in response to activation of one of
the two or more sources; and
               using the deblended shot records in generating an image of the subterranean formation,
thereby enhancing the image of subterranean earth layer layers.
11.             The medium of claim 10, wherein deblending the blended seismic data comprises:
                forming a blending matrix, each blending matrix element represents the time delay
between activations of two of the two or more sources in a body of water above a subterranean
formation;
                minimizing the residual between the blended seismic data and a product of predicted
deblended seismic data models and the blending matrix for each temporal window of a
sequence of overlapping temporal windows containing reflection events of the blended seismic
data; and
                adding a final updated residual to a final updated deblended seismic data model that
corresponds to the deblended shot records.
12.             The medium of claim 11, wherein minimizing the residual comprises:
                determining the sequence of temporal windows such that each temporal window
contains reflection events in the blended seismic data, starting with a water bottom reflection
and proceeding downward;
                initializing a deblended seismic data model to zero;
                updating, at each iterative step the residual for an inversion solution of a deblended
seismic data model at an event in the sequence of temporal windows; and
                adding, after the final iterative step, the final updated residual to the final updated
deblended seismic data model.

  ~\dr\latrwoven\NRrtb\DCC\)ER\6490496 _ldoc-1/03/2018
                                                       - 21
 13.           The medium of claim 12, wherein updating the residual at each iterative step
comprises:
               pseudo-deblending a previous residual for the two or more sources to generate pseudo
deblended common depth point ("CDP") gathers as a product of the blended seismic data
multiplied by a conjugate transpose of the blending matrix;
               applying a normal moveout ("NMO")-correction to the pseudo-deblended CDP
gathers;
               applying a filter to retrieve coherent signals in the NMO-corrected CDP gathers;
               applying an inverse NMO correction to the retrieved coherent signals;
               applying the random time delays to the inverse NMO-corrected signals;
               blending to the time-delayed signals; and
               subtracting the blended time-delayed signals from the previous residual to generate a
residual for a current iteration.
 14.           The medium of claim 13, wherein applying the filter comprises applying a multi
dimensional median filter.
 15.           The medium of claim 14, wherein the applying a multi-dimensional median filter
comprises using a temporal window to limit the area where the multi-dimensional median
filter is active.
 16.           The medium of claim 13, wherein applying the filter comprises applying one of a
frequency-wavenumber filter, Radon filter, curvelet filter and a wavelet domain filter.
 17.           The medium of claim 12, wherein updating the residual utilizes a static shift.
 18.           The medium of claim 10, further comprising storing the deblended shot records on a
computer readable medium.
 19.           A computer system programmed to generate an image of geological structures of a
subterranean formation, the system comprising:

 ~\dr\latrwoven\NRPortbf\DCC\)ER\6490496_ I doc-1/03/2018
                                                          - 22
                one or more processors;
                one or more computer readable media; and
                machine readable instructions stored in the one or more computer readable media that
when executed by the one or more processors to perform the operations of
                              retrieving blended seismic data from the one or more computer readable media,
the blending blended seismic data recorded by seismic sensors that detect acoustic energy
reflected from the subterranean formation in response to activation of the two or more sources;
                              deblending the blended seismic data into separate deblended shot records based
on the blended seismic data and time delays between activations of the two or more sources,
each deblended shot record recording acoustic energy reflected from the subterranean
formation in response to activation of one of the two or more sources; and
                              using the deblended shot records in generating an image of the subterranean
formation, thereby enhancing the image of subterranean earth layer layers.
20.             The system of claim 19, wherein deblending the blended seismic data comprises:
                forming a blending matrix, each blending matrix element represents the time delay
between activations of two of the two or more sources;
                minimizing the residual between the blended seismic data and a product of predicted
deblended seismic data models and the blending matrix for each temporal window of a
sequence of overlapping temporal windows containing reflection events of the blended seismic
data; and
                adding a final updated residual to a final updated deblended seismic data model that
corresponds to the deblended shot records.
21.             The system of claim 20, wherein minimizing the residual comprises:
                determining the sequence of temporal windows such that each temporal window
contains reflection events in the blended seismic data recorded, starting with a water bottom
reflection and proceeding downward;
                initializing a deblended seismic data model to zero;
               updating, at each iterative step the residual for an inversion solution of a deblended
seismic data model at an event in the sequence of temporal windows; and

 ~\dr\latrwoven\NRrtb\DCC\)ER\6490496 _ldoc-1/03/2018
                                                      - 23
              adding, after the final iterative step, the final updated residual to the final updated
deblended seismic data model.
22.           The system of claim 21, wherein updating the residual at each iterative step comprises:
              pseudo-deblending a previous residual for the two or more sources to generate pseudo
deblended common depth point ("CDP") gathers as a product of the blended seismic data
multiplied by a conjugate transpose of the blending matrix;
              applying a normal moveout ("NMO")-correction to the pseudo-deblended CDP
gathers;
              applying a filter to retrieve coherent signals in the NMO-corrected CDP gathers;
              applying an inverse NMO correction to the retrieved coherent signals;
              applying the random time delays to the inverse NMO-corrected signals;
              blending to the time-delayed signals; and
              subtracting the blended time-delayed signals from the previous residual to generate a
residual for a current iteration.
23.           The system of claim 22, wherein applying the filter comprises applying a multi
dimensional median filter.
24.           The system of claim 23, wherein the applying a multi-dimensional median filter
comprises using a temporal window to limit the area where the multi-dimensional median
filter is active.
25.           The system of claim 22, wherein applying the filter comprises applying one of a
frequency-wavenumber filter, Radon filter, curvelet filter and a wavelet domain filter.
26.           The system of claim 21, wherein updating the residual utilizes a static shift.
27.           The system of claim 19, further comprising storing the deblended seismic data on one
or more the computer readable medium

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
