                                          ABSTRACT
A control unit for a beer production system is provided. The control unit includes at least
one processor configured to execute computer-readable instructions stored on at least one
computer-readable storage media, the computer-readable instructions including a beer
production module. The beer production module is configured to receive a selection of one
of a plurality of recipes for beer stored on the at least one computer-readable storage media.
The beer production module is further configured to control formation of a mixture of
ingredients in accordance with the selected recipe, and monitor conditions associated with
production of beer from the mixture of ingredients, including at least temperature, and
carbon dioxide evolution. The beer production module is configured to control the
conditions in accordance with a production routine associated with the selected recipe and
stored on the at least one computer-readable storage media.
                                                11

WO 2012/131475                                     PCT/IB2012/000624
                                         4/4
                                    System 400
               Computer-Readable Media      408   Input Device
                                                       402
              Operating              Content
                System                & Data
                 412                   410      Communication
                                                    Interface
                   Beer Production Module
                                                  Processor(s)
                                                       4o6
                     Audio Rendering /Audio             / Video
                       Display System            Input / Output
                             420                       418

    WO 2012/131475                                                           PCT/IB2012/000624
                                               TITLE
                Producing Beer Using a Wort Concentrate
                                                FIELD
          [00011 Various embodiments relate generally to beer production and restaurant
 services, pubs, retail stores, and more particularly, to a method of producing wort concentrate,
which is subsequently directed to individual commercial establishments where beer is crafted,
produced, and sold to consumers.
                                           BACKGROUND
         [0002]   Beer production is an age-old art; one that is often individualized for particular
regions, tastes, styles, and the like. "Micro-brews" and uniquely crafted beers allow for more
positive variations, as opposed to major beer manufacturers, in beer quality for a consumer.
         [0003]   Generally, beer production of beer starts by producing "sweet wort." The
sweet wort is formed by the addition of water to malted and unmalted crushed grain such as,
but not limited to, barley to form a slurry or mash in a mash tun. Through the action of
naturally occurring enzymes this mash is then converted into the sweet wort. Subsequently,
the liquid in the sweet wort is drained from the mash tun and directed to a brew kettle where
hops are added. The hopped liquid is then boiled in the brew kettle to produce a "hopped
wort." The final step in the brewing process involves the addition of yeast to cause
fermentation to occur in a fermentation vessel, which in turn results in the production of
alcohol.
         [0004]   Restaurants generally provide customers with beer by purchasing beer
produced at a brewery, which is then shipped to a restaurant for sale, or, in a few instances, by
producing the beer on-site at the restaurant. Restaurants that produce the beer on-site are
typically referred to as "brew-pubs." The vast majority of beer is brewed by the major
breweries and then transported to various restaurants and served either in individual containers
(bottles or cans) or out of kegs.
         [0005]   Some restaurants have made the large capital expenditures necessary to brew
beer from start to finish on-site; however, the actual number of such restaurants is low because
of the associated financial investment and liability in purchasing, operating, and maintaining a
quality beer production facility in a restaurant. In addition, such restaurants may find this
expansion difficult to achieve for several reasons, not the least of them being because of the
                                                        I R i'ln
                                                   1i'nr"rRnA

    WO 2012/131475                                                          PCT/IB2012/000624
 cost involved in building new brewing facilities and/or the lack of skilled brew masters to
oversee the brewing process in the individual restaurants. Consequently, often times a
 successful restaurant offering on-site brewing as well as other restaurant services is unable to
 expand beyond a single restaurant because of the capital cost involved with establishing
 another on-site brewery and/or the lack of a brew master to oversee the brewing operation.
                                              SUMMARY
         [0006] This Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified
form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not
intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter, nor is it
intended to be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.
         [0007] Various embodiments describe techniques for producing beer using a wort
concentrate. In various embodiments, a wort concentrate having a specific gravity of at least
about 1.085 kg/m 3 is produced and packaged predetermined amounts while at a temperature of
about fifty-eight degrees Celsius or greater. In various embodiments, acid and sulphur can be
added to the wort concentrate to produce a sulfur concentration of 10 ppm or more and a pH
below about 3.0. Packages can then be shipped or otherwise transported or stored. In various
embodiments, the wort concentrate is mixed with predetermined amounts of filtered water, an
acid neutralizing solution, and yeast, and fermented for a predetermined time period. Various
embodiments can further include cooling the fermented mixture to about zero degrees Celsius
and storing the fermented mixture. In some embodiments, yeast finings are introduced and the
fermented mixture is filtered and carbonated such that beer is produced.
                               BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
         [0008] While the specification concludes with claims particularly pointing out and
distinctly claiming the subject matter, it is believed that the embodiments will be better
understood from the following description in conjunction with the accompanying figures, in
which:
         [0009] Fig. 1 is a block diagram of an example process for producing wort concentrate
in accordance with one or more embodiments;
         [0010] Fig. 2 depicts an example process for packaging wort concentrate in accordance
with one or more embodiments;
         [0011] Fig. 3 is a block diagram of an example process for producing a fermented
mixture from wort concentrate in accordance with one or more embodiments; and
                                                    2

    WO 2012/131475                                                         PCT/IB2012/000624
        [0012] Fig. 4 is a block diagram of an example system that can be used to implement
one or more embodiments.
                                     DETAILED DESCRIPTION
        Overview
        [0013] Various embodiments describe techniques for producing beer using a wort
concentrate. In various embodiments, a wort concentrate having a specific gravity of at least
about 1.085 kg/m 3 is produced and packaged in predetermined amounts while at a temperature
of about fifty-eight degrees Celsius or greater. In various embodiments, acid and sulphur can
be added to the wort concentrate to produce a sulfur concentration of 10 ppm or more and a pH
below about 3.0. Packages can then be shipped or otherwise transported or stored. In various
embodiments, the wort concentrate is mixed with predetermined amounts of filtered water, an
acid neutralizing solution, and yeast and fermented for a predetermined time period. Various
embodiments can further include cooling the fermented mixture to about zero degrees Celsius
and storing the fermented mixture. In some embodiments, yeast finings are introduced and the
fermented mixture is filtered and carbonated such that beer is produced.
        [0014] In the discussion that follows, a section entitled "Producing Wort Concentrate"
describes various techniques for producing wort concentrate in accordance with one or more
embodiments. Next, a section entitled "Packaging Wort Concentrate" describes various
techniques for packaging wort concentrate in accordance with one or more embodiments. A
section entitled "Producing Beer from Wort Concentrate" describes techniques for using
packaged wort concentrate to produce beer for consumption. Finally, a section entitled
"Example System" describes an example system that can be used to implement one or more
embodiments.
        [0015] Consider, now, an example process for producing wort concentrate in
accordance with one or more embodiments.
        Producing Wort Concentrate
        [0016] Fig. 1 is a block diagram of an example process 100 for producing wort
concentrate in accordance with one or more embodiments.
        [0017] Block 102 mixes ingredients. Ingredients can include malted grain and water.
Malted grain can be, for example, barley, wheat, rice, or other grains. In some embodiments,
the malted grain can be crushed or milled. Other ingredients can be added, depending on the
particular embodiment. The ingredients can be mixed in a mash tun or other vessel.
                                                  3

    WO 2012/131475                                                         PCT/IB2012/000624
         [00181 Block 104 mashes the mixture of block 102 at a first temperature. This can be
performed in any suitable way. In various embodiments, the first temperature is a temperature
of approximately 65 degrees Celsius. Mashing enables the enzymes in the grain to convert
starches (e.g., long chain carbohydrates) from the grain into fermentable sugars. This
conversion process is sometimes called "saccharification." Fermentable sugars can include, for
example, glucose, maltose, and malotriose. In various embodiments, the mixture is mashed for
an amount of time between ten and thirty minutes. The particular time of mashing can vary
depending on the particular embodiment.
         [00191 Block 106 increases the temperature. This can be performed in any suitable
way. For example, a brewer can increase the temperature manually or an automated system
can be employed to increase the temperature to a temperature between 73 and 74 degrees
Celsius. The particular increase in temperature can vary depending on the specific
embodiment.
         [0020] Next, block 108 mashes the mixture at the second temperature. This can be
performed in any suitable way. For example, the mixture can be mashed for an amount of time
between about thirty and about ninety minutes at a temperature between 73 and 74 degrees
Celsius. This secondary mashing can produce fermentable sugars and/or non-fermentable
sugars. Non-fermentable sugars, such as DP4 and DP3 for example, can contribute to the body
and mouthfeel of the final beer product.
         [00211 Block 110 filters liquid off the mixture. This can be performed in any suitable
way. For example, the wort can be strained through the bottom of the mash tun in a process
sometimes referred to as "lautering" and transferred into another vessel. Other methods of
filtering the wort from the mash mixture can be used, depending on the particular embodiment.
         [0022] Next, block 112 adds hops to the wort. This can be performed in any suitable
way. For example, hops can be added, with or without other ingredients such as herbs or
sugars, to the wort to add flavor, aroma, and bitterness.
         [00231 Block 114 boils the hops and wort mixture. This can be performed in any
suitable way. For example, the hops and wort mixture can be boiled in the brew kettle for a
predetermined amount of time effective to convert hops from non-bitter compounds into bitter
compounds. In various embodiments, the predetermined amount of time is between about 1
and about 3 hours. The particular amount of time can vary depending on the specific
embodiment. In various embodiments, the hops and wort mixture is boiled effective to
produce a wort concentrate having a specific gravity in a range from about 1.085 kg/m3 to
about 1.095 kg/m 3.
                                                  4

    WO 2012/131475                                                         PCT/IB2012/000624
         [0024] Finally, block 116 packages the wort concentrate. This can be performed in any
suitable way, examples of which are provided above and below.
         [0025] At least one result of process 100 is a wort concentration having a specific
gravity in the range of about 1.085 kg/m 3 to about 1.095 kg/m 3 . By contrast, traditional wort
concentrations have a specific gravity in the range of about 1.038 kg/m3 to about 1.060 kg/m.
The increased specific gravity and concentration of the wort concentrate can be attributed at
least in part to an increased boiling time over convention methods of wort production.
         [0026] Having described an example method of producing a wort concentrate, consider
now a description of techniques for packaging the wort concentrate.
         Packaging Wort Concentrate
         [0027] Fig. 2 illustrates an example process 200 for packing wort concentrate in
accordance with one or more embodiments. Process 200 can be employed, for example, by
block 116 in Fig. 1.
         [0028] Block 202 boils the wort. This can be performed in any suitable way. For
example, wort can be boiled with hops, such as described above in reference to block 114.
         [00291 Next, block 204 whirlpools the wort. This can be performed in any suitable
way. For example, after boiling, the hopped wort can be settled to clarify, effective to separate
out solid particles, including coagulated protein and hops compounds. In various
embodiments, most or a majority of the solid particles are separated from the wort concentrate.
         [0030] Block 206 acidifies the wort concentrate. This can be performed in any suitable
way. For example, phosphoric or lactic acid can be added to the wort effective to acidify the
wort to a pH of between about 2.0 and about 3.0. In various embodiments, sulfur is added to a
level of 1Oppm or more. This can be performed in any suitable way. For example, sodium
metabisulphite and/or potassium metabisulphite can be added in an amount effective to adjust
the sulfur level to 1Oppm or more.
         [0031] Next, block 208 cools the wort concentrate. This can be performed in any
suitable way. For example, the wort can be transferred from the whirlpool through a heat
exchanger into a fermenter for cooling. Other methods of cooling wort concentrate can be
used depending on the particular embodiment. In various embodiments, the wort concentrate
is cooled to a temperature between about 58 and about 60 degrees Celsius.
      . [0032] Finally, block 210 packages the wort concentrate. This can be performed in any
suitable way. For example, the wort concentrate can be packaged and shipped in
predetermined sizes, weights, or the like. For example, the wort concentrate can be packaged
                                                  5

    WO 2012/131475                                                         PCT/IB2012/000624
 into 20 or 25 liter bags in boxes or a suitable one-way vessel. In various embodiments, the
wort concentrate is packaged at a temperature between about 58 degrees Celsius and about 60
 degrees Celsius.
          [00331 Process 200 can be used to package the wort concentrate such that the wort
 concentrate is substantially microbiologically stabilized. While various techniques included in
process 200 can contribute to the stabilization and sterilization of the wort concentrate, a
 substantially microbiologically stable wort concentration can be achieved by using less than all
of these techniques. For example, packaging the wort at a temperature between about 58
degrees Celsius and about 60 degrees Celsius can have a pasteurization effect. As another
 example, acidification of the wort concentration to a pH of between about 2.0 and about 3.0
 can have a deleterious effect on bacteria and yeast to minimize or even prevent bacterial and/or
yeast growth or survival. In some embodiments, alternative techniques may be employed.
         [0034] Once packaged, the wort concentrate can be shipped to a retail outlet, such as a
restaurant, bar, store, or the like, for use in producing beer.
         Producingz Beer from Wort Concentrate
         [0035] Fig. 3 is a block diagram of an example process 300 for producing beer from
wort concentrate. The wort concentrate can be, for example, the wort concentrate produced by
process 100 and packaged by process 200. In various embodiments, the wort concentrate can
be selected based upon the end-type of beer desired, such as, for example, lager, dry, amber,
stout, wheat, or the like. In various embodiments, process 300 can be performed by an
automated system.
         [0036] Block 302 adds the wort concentrate, water, acid neutralizer, and yeast to a
fermenter. In some embodiments, other ingredients may also be added. This can be performed
in any suitable way. For example; a user can select a recipe from a system screen and a pre
determined amount of wort concentrate can be pumped into a fermentation tank according to
the selected recipe. Filtered water, an acid neutralizing solution, and yeast can also be added to
the fermentation tank. This can be performed by a user or automatically by the system. In
embodiments when the mixture is formed by a system, the system can receive a user selection
of a recipe and cause an appropriate amount of each ingredient to be added to the tank.
         [0037] Block 304 ferments the mixture. This can be performed in any suitable way.
For example, in some embodiments, a user can push a "start" button when all ingredients have
been added by block 302, or the system can automatically start fermenting upon the addition of
ingredients. In various embodiments, temperature and carbon dioxide evolution are monitored
                                                    6

    WO 2012/131475                                                         PCT/IB2012/000624
during fermentation. Carbon dioxide evolution can be calibrated against specific gravity drop
and subsequent alcohol development through a mass flow meter. In various embodiments, the
mixture is fermented until carbon dioxide evolution reaches a pre-determined level.
         [0038] Next, block 306 cools the fermented mixture. This can be performed in any
suitable way. For example, when monitored carbon dioxide levels indicate fermentation is
substantially complete, temperature of the fermentation tank can be decreased effective to cool
the fermented mixture to a temperature between about zero and about four degrees Celsius. In
various embodiments, the fermented mixture is cooled at a temperature between about zero and
about four degrees Celsius for about five to seven days. The time and temperature of cooling
can vary depending on the particular embodiment.
         [0039] Block 308 adds yeast finings. This can be performed in any suitable way. For
example, after discharging waste yeast and cleaning system lines, yeast finings can be
introduced into the fermentation tank. In various embodiments, yeast finings are added to the
fermented mixture and the mixture is stored for about twenty-four hours.
         [0040] Next, block 310 filters the mixture. This can be performed in any suitable way.
For example, the mixture can be filtered into a bright tank or another vessel. In various
embodiments, filtration can occur automatically. In some embodiments, a pH meter,
flowmeter, and pressure transducers can be used to monitor filtration.
         [0041] Finally, block 312 carbonates the filtrate. This can be performed in any suitable
way. For example, a carbon dioxide and time dependent regime can be implemented
automatically upon transfer of the filtrate into the bright tank. Upon carbonation, the beer is
ready for consumption. The beer can be, for example, packaged into cans, bottles, or kegs, or
can be otherwise prepared for consumption.
         [0042] The techniques described above can be implemented to produce beer from a
wort concentrate. In various embodiments, the techniques can be implemented by an
automatic system such that a brew master need not be on-site to produce the beer. Consider
the following example system that can be used to implement one or more embodiments.
        Example System
        [0043] Fig. 4 depicts an example system 400 that can be used to implement one or
more embodiments. For example, system 400 can be used to automatically produce beer from
wort concentrate, such as described in example process 300.
        [00441 System 400 includes input device 402 that may include Internet Protocol (IP)
input devices as well as other input devices, such as a keyboard. Other input devices can be
                                                   7

    WO 2012/131475                                                           PCT/IB2012/000624
used, such as a pressure transducer, pH meter, flow meter, and the like. System 400 further
includes communication interface 404 that can be implemented as any one or more of a
wireless interface, any type of network interface, and as any other type of communication
interface. Through communication interface 404, system 400 can direct other components,
such as fermentation tanks, bright tanks, filtration components, and the like, to be configured
according to particular parameters. A network interface provides a connection between system
400 and a communication network by which other electronic and computing devices can
communicate data with system 400. A wireless interface can enable system 400 to operate as a
mobile device for wireless communications.
         10045] System 400 also includes one or more processors 406 (e.g., any of
microprocessors, controllers, and the like) which process various computer-executable
instructions to control the operation of system 400 and to communicate with other electronic
devices. System 400 can be implemented with computer-readable media 408, such as one or
more memory components, examples of which include random access memory (RAM) and
non-volatile memory (e.g., any one or more of a read-only memory (ROM), flash memory,
EPROM, EEPROM, etc.). A disk storage device may be implemented as any type of magnetic
or optical storage device, such as a hard disk drive, a recordable and/or rewriteable compact
disc (CD), any type of a digital versatile disc (DVD), and the like.
        [00461 Computer-readable media 408 provides data storage to store content and data
410, as well as device executable modules and any other types of information and/or data
related to operational aspects of system 400. The data storage to store content and data 410
can be, for example, storage of recipes for producing beer from wort concentrate and
production routines to produce the beer. For example, various routines for times and
temperatures of the fermentation tank can be stored as content and data 410. One such
configuration of a computer-readable medium is signal bearing medium and thus is configured
to transmit the instructions (e.g., as a carrier wave) to the hardware of the computing device.
The computer-readable medium may also be configured as a computer-readable storage
medium and thus is not a signal bearing medium. Examples of a computer-readable storage
medium include a random access memory (RAM), read-only memory (ROM), an optical disc,
flash memory, hard disk memory, and other memory devices that may use magnetic, optical,
and other techniques to store instructions and other data. The storage type computer-readable
media are explicitly defined herein to exclude propagated data signals.
                                                    8

    WO 2012/131475                                                           PCT/IB2012/000624
         [00471 An operating system 412 can be maintained as a computer executable module
with the computer-readable media 408 and executed on processor 406. Device executable
modules can also include a beer production module 414 as described above and below.
         [0048] Beer production module 414 can be implemented to control various facets of
beer production, such as described in process 300. For example, beer production module 414
can control dilution, fermentation, filtration, transfers of filtrate and mixtures between vessels,
carbonation, and cleaning. In various embodiments, beer production module 414 monitors
carbon dioxide evolution and, upon detecting that a pre-determined amount of carbon dioxide
has been released into the atmosphere, can shut off the gas valve effective to use additional
carbon dioxide generated to pre-carbonate the beer. In various embodiments, the beer is pre
carbonated to a level of 2.0 - 2.6 (volume/volume), and is measured by an input device 402,
such as a pressure transducer.
        10049] In addition to measuring carbon dioxide evolution, beer production module 414
is configured to monitor alcohol formation and a drop in the specific gravity of the mixture.
For example, given static state conditions of volume and temperature, beer production module
414 can monitor the alcohol formation and specific gravity drop through evolution of carbon
dioxide. When the appropriate alcohol content has been reached, beer production module 414
can cause the fermenter to be cooled and arrest further fermentation. In various embodiments,
beer production module 414 causes the fermenter to be cooled when the specific gravity of the
beer is about 1.045 kg/m3 .
        [0050] Beer production module 414 can also be configured to cause a beer brewing
system, including fermenters, transfer lines, filtration equipment, and bright tanks, to be
cleaned. For example, in addition to being connected to each of these components via
communication interface 404, system 400 can be connected to a clean water tank in which
cleaning solutions can be made. Beer production module 414 can direct a cleaning solution to
be transferred to one or more specific components, implement and time a cleaning regime, and
cause the component to be sanitized.
        10051] System 400 also includes an audio and/or video input/output 418 that provides
audio and/or video data to an audio rendering and/or display system 420. The audio rendering
and/or display system 420 can be implemented as integrated component(s) of the example
system 400, and can include any components that process, display, and/or otherwise render
audio, video, and image data.
        [0052] As before, the blocks may be representative of modules that are configured to
provide represented functionality. Further, any of the functions described herein can be
                                                   9

   WO 2012/131475                                                          PCT/IB2012/000624
implemented using software, firmware (e.g., fixed logic circuitry), manual processing, or a
combination of these implementations. The terms "module," "functionality," and "logic" as
used herein generally represent software, firmware, hardware, or a combination thereof. In the
case of a software implementation, the module, functionality, or logic represents program code
that performs specified tasks when executed on a processor (e.g., CPU or CPUs). The program
code can be stored in one or more computer-readable storage devices. The features of the
techniques described above are platform-independent, meaning that the techniques may be
implemented on a variety of commercial computing platforms having a variety of processors.
         [0053] While various embodiments have been described above, it should be understood
that they have been presented by way of example, and not limitation. It will be apparent to
persons skilled in the relevant art(s) that various changes in form and detail can be made
therein without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. Thus, embodiments should
not be limited by any of the above-described exemplary embodiments, but should be defined
only in accordance with the following claims and their equivalents.
                                                  10

WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
1.      A control unit for a beer production system, including:
        at least one processor configured to execute computer-readable instructions stored
on at least one computer-readable storage media, the computer-readable instructions
including:
                 a beer production module configured to:
                          receive a selection of one of a plurality of recipes for beer stored on
                 the at least one computer-readable storage media;
                          control formation of a mixture of ingredients in accordance with the
                 selected recipe;
                          monitor conditions associated with production of beer from the
                 mixture of ingredients, including at least temperature, and carbon dioxide
                 evolution; and
                          control the conditions in accordance with a production routine
                 associated with the selected recipe and stored on the at least one computer
                 readable storage media.
2.      The control unit of claim 1, wherein the beer production module is configured to
determine that fermentation of the mixture of ingredients is complete based at least in part
on the carbon dioxide evolution.
3.      The control unit of claim 2, wherein the beer production module is configured to
cool the fermented mixture of ingredients to between about zero and about four degrees
Celsius.
4.      The control unit of any one of claims 1 to 3, wherein the beer production module is
configured to control a gas valve of a fermentation tank containing the mixture of
ingredients based at least in part on carbon dioxide evolution.
5.      The control unit of any one of claims 1 to 4, wherein the beer production module is
configured to control cleaning of one or more components of a beer brewing system
exposed to the ingredients.
                                                  11

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
