                               ABSTRACT OF THE DISCLOSURE
           A multipurpose tool is provided which may be useful for functions relating to
   firearms and explosives. The multipurpose tool may include a variety of tools and
   features while maintaining a compact form. For example, the multipurpose tool may
 5 include a blade positioned in a pocket defined between a handle and a body member
   which define a hook configuration. Elongate members may be rotatably connected to the
   multipurpose tool and may include a base member with a cam surface and one or more
   detents which cooperate with a spring follower to hold the elongate member in either or
   both of an operational position or a storage position. A receiving aperture may be
10 received in a jaw of a pair of pliers, and configured to receive an accessory member.
   Further, a sleeve may store a bit on the side of a handle and may be retained in the
   sleeve by a displaceable button.

                                      MULTIPURPOSE TOOL
                                    FIELD OF THE INVENTION
            Embodiments of the present invention relate generally to a multipurpose tool and,
   more particularly, to a multipurpose tool configured to provide additional features
   including, in one example, features configured to service a firearm.
 5
                              BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
            Multipurpose tools are widely popular for their utility in a substantial number of
   different applications. As its name suggests, a multipurpose tool includes a number of
10 tools carried by a common frame. A multipurpose tool may include different combinations
   of tools depending upon its intended application. For example, multipurpose tools that
   are designed for a more universal or generic application can include pliers, a wire cutter,
   a bit driver, one or more knife blades, a saw blade, a bottle opener or the like. Other
   multipurpose tools are designed to service more specific applications or niche markets
15 and correspondingly include tools that are useful for the intended application. For
   example, multipurpose tools may be specifically designed for automobile repairs, hunting,
   fishing or other outdoor applications, gardening and the like.
            One reason for the popularity of multipurpose tools is the capability provided by a
   multipurpose tool to provide a wide range of functionality with a single tool, thereby
20 reducing the need to carry a number of different tools to perform those same functions.
   For example, a single multipurpose tool may be carried instead of a pair of pliers, one or
   more screwdrivers, a knife and a bottle opener. As such, the burden upon a user is
   reduced since the user need only carry a single multipurpose tool.
            As noted above, one common tool of a multipurpose tool is a bit driver. A bit
25 driver is advantageously designed to receive a variety of different bits in order to increase
   the functionality of the multipurpose tool. To facilitate the ease of operation by the user, it
   would also be desirable for the extra bits, that is, the bits not presently engaged by the bit
   driver, to be stored and carried by the multipurpose tool so as to be readily available to
   the user and to avoid loss of the bits. However, it is also desirable for the multipurpose
30 tool to have a compact form such that the storage of the extra bits by the multipurpose
                                                 - 1-

   tool would desirably not increase the overall size of the multipurpose tool or restrict the
   capability of the multipurpose tool to assume a compact form.
            As multipurpose tools are frequently carried by users in the field, it is desirable for
   the multipurpose tools to be relatively small and lightweight while remaining rugged so as
 5 to resist damage. In order to reduce the overall size of a multipurpose tool, some
   multipurpose tools have been designed to be foldable. In this regard, foldable
   multipurpose tools are designed to move between a closed position and an open position.
   Generally, the closed position is more compact with the multipurpose tool frequently
   being carried in the closed position. Conversely, while the open position is generally less
10 compact than the closed position, the open position generally allows the deployment of
   one or more of the tools that are stowed and relatively inaccessible when the
   multipurpose tool is in the closed position.
            For example, a multipurpose tool may include pliers having a pair of jaws
   connected to respective handles. In the open position, the pliers are deployed and
15 capable of being actuated by movement of the handles toward and away from one
   another. In the closed position, the handles may be folded about the pliers such that the
   pliers are no longer functional. In the closed position, however, the multipurpose tool is
   more compact with the form factor generally defined by the proximal relationship of the
   handles.
20          However, it may be desirable for the multipurpose tool to include additional
   functionality. As such, the present applicant has designed a multipurpose tool having a
   compact configuration, even in instances in which the multipurpose tool includes
   additional functionality.
25                             BRIEF SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
            According to one embodiment, a multipurpose tool is provided that includes a
   plurality of handles comprising a first handle and a second handle configured for relative
   movement between a closed position and an open position, and a bit driver coupled to
   the second handle, wherein the bit driver comprises a bit chamber defining an opening
30 configured to receive a bit along an axis. A body member is coupled to the first handle,
   wherein the body member overlaps with the second handle when the multipurpose tool is
   in the closed position such that the body member intersects the axis to thereby prevent
   the bit from falling out of the bit chamber when the multipurpose tool is in the closed
   position. The body member may define an impact surface configured to withstand
35 impact. The multipurpose tool may further comprise an actuation extension defined by
   the body member and configured to engage a bolt mechanism of a firearm when the
   multipurpose tool is in the closed position. A pocket may be defined between the first
                                                -2-

   handle and the body member with a blade, which may be removable, positioned in the
   pocket. The blade may be at least partially retained in the pocket by a retaining member
   such as a screw extending at least partially through the blade and at least partially
   through the first handle or the body member. The multipurpose tool may additionally
 5 comprise a carabiner defined at least in part by the first handle and the body member.
           In an additional embodiment a multipurpose tool comprises a handle and a bit
   driver coupled to the handle, wherein the bit driver comprises a bit chamber configured to
   receive a bit. A bit retention spring is movable between a locking position wherein the bit
   retention spring is configured to engage a recess in the bit, and a release position
10 wherein the bit retention spring is configured to disengage from the recess, wherein the
   bit retention spring is integral with the handle. A bit release member may be configured
   to displace the bit retention spring from the locking position to the release position,
   wherein the bit retention spring is biased to the locking position. The bit release member
   may also be integral with the handle.
15         In a further embodiment a multipurpose tool comprises a plurality of handles
   comprising a first handle and a second handle configured for relative movement between
   a closed position and an open position, a plurality of tools carried by at least one of the
   handles, and a pair of pliers defined by a first jaw coupled to the first handle and a second
   jaw coupled to the second handle. A receiving aperture is defined in the first jaw, and an
20 opening in the second handle is configured to align with the receiving aperture when the
   multipurpose tool is in the closed position, wherein the receiving aperture is configured to
   receive an accessory member such as a barrel cleaning rod. The pair of pliers may
   define a crimping aperture between the first jaw and the second jaw.
           Additional embodiments of a multipurpose tool comprise a plurality of handles
25 comprising a first handle and a second handle configured for relative movement between
   a closed position and an open position, the first handle comprising a projection defining a
   sleeve on a first side of the first handle, wherein the sleeve defines a longitudinal axis,
   and wherein the sleeve is configured to receive a removable bit along the longitudinal
   axis. A bit stop is positioned along the longitudinal axis and configured to limit travel of
30 the removable bit. The multipurpose tool may further comprise a displaceable button
   configured to selectively limit movement of the removable bit in the sleeve along the
   longitudinal axis, wherein the displaceable button is moveable between a retracted
   position wherein movement of the removable bit along the longitudinal axis is allowed and
   an extended position wherein movement of the removable bit along the longitudinal axis
35 in the second axial direction is limited.
           The multipurpose tool may further comprise a second sleeve coupled to a second
   side of the first handle substantially opposite to the first side and configured to receive a
                                                 -3-

   second removable bit, wherein the second sleeve defines a second longitudinal axis
   substantially parallel with the longitudinal axis. The displaceable button may be
   configured to limit movement of the second removable bit along the second longitudinal
   axis when the displaceable button is in the retracted position and the extended position
 5 and allow movement of the second removable bit along the second longitudinal axis when
   the displaceable button is in a second extended position. A spring may comprise a first
   prong configured to selectively engage a first inner groove and a first outer groove
   defined in the displaceable button, and a second prong configured to selectively engage a
   second inner groove and a second outer groove defined in the displaceable button,
10 wherein the first prong engages the first inner groove and the second prong engages the
   second inner groove when the displaceable button is in the extended position. The first
   prong engages the first outer groove when the displaceable button is in the retracted
   position, and the second prong engages the second outer groove when the displaceable
   button is in the second extended position. A clip may be coupled to the first handle,
15 wherein the clip defines a bit aperture substantially coaxial with the longitudinal axis, and
   wherein the bit aperture is configured to receive the removable bit during insertion of the
   removable bit into the sleeve. A button cutout may be defined by the clip, wherein the
   button cutout is configured to facilitate access to the displaceable button.
           A further embodiment of a multipurpose tool comprises a handle and a handle
20 cover coupled to the handle, wherein the handle cover defining a longitudinal channel
   configured to receive a removable bit. The handle cover and the removable bit thereby
   collectively define a handgrip when the removable bit is received in the longitudinal
   channel. The handle cover may comprises at least one finger extending into the
   longitudinal channel, wherein the finger is configured to engage the removable bit to
25 selectively retain the removable bit in the longitudinal channel. In some embodiments the
   handle comprises a tang displaced from a corresponding aperture in the handle and
   extending at an angle outwardly from the handle, wherein the handle cover comprises a
   recess configured to receive the tang to thereby at least partially couple the handle cover
   to the handle.
30         In a further embodiment a multipurpose tool comprises a plurality of handles
   including a first handle and a second handle configured for relative movement between a
   closed position and an open position, a plurality of tools carried by at least one of the
   handles, and a latch coupled to the first handle. The latch is configured to deflect to
   releasably engage the second handle when the first handle and the second handle are in
35 the closed position to selectively retain the multipurpose tool in the closed position. The
   latch may comprise a bent piece of metal which defines an end tab configured to engage
                                                 -4-

   the second handle when the multipurpose tool is in the closed position. Further, the latch
   may pivot about a retaining member which holds one of the tools to the first handle.
 5          BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE SEVERAL VIEWS OF THE DRAWING(S)
           Having thus described the invention in general terms, reference will now be made
   to the accompanying drawings, which are not necessarily drawn to scale, and wherein:
           FIG. 1 illustrates a perspective view of side A of an embodiment of a multipurpose
   tool comprising regular pliers and an elongate member with a blunt end surface, wherein
10 the multipurpose tool is in an open position;
           FIG. 2 illustrates a perspective view of side B of an embodiment of the
   multipurpose tool of FIG. 1 comprising a tip at a distal end of the elongate member,
   wherein the multipurpose tool is in a closed position;
           FIG. 3 illustrates a view of side A of the multipurpose tool of FIG. 2, which further
15 comprises a crimping aperture, wherein the multipurpose tool is in the open position;
           FIG. 4 illustrates an enlarged perspective view of the bit driver of the multipurpose
   tool according to one embodiment of the present invention;
           FIG. 5 illustrates an enlarged end view of the bit driver of FIG. 4 with the bit
   removed;
20         FIG. 6 illustrates the second handle of the multipurpose tool according to one
   embodiment of the present invention;
           FIG. 7 illustrates side B of the multipurpose tool of FIG. 1 in the closed position
   with the second elongate member in the storage position;
           FIG. 8 illustrates an edge view of the multipurpose tool of FIG. 2 in the closed
25 position;
           FIG. 9 illustrates side B of the multipurpose tool of FIG. 7 with the second
   elongate member in the operational position;
           FIG. 10 illustrates an enlarged portion of FIG. 9;
           FIG. 11 illustrates a perspective view of side A of the multipurpose tool of FIG. 2 in
30 the closed position;
           FIG. 12 illustrates an exploded view of the multipurpose tool according to one
   embodiment of the present invention;
           FIG. 13 illustrates a perspective view of the spring and displaceable button of FIG.
   12;
35         FIG. 14 illustrates a perspective view of the handle cover according to one
   embodiment of the present invention;
                                                 -5-

             FIG. 15 illustrates a sectional view through the handle cover and second handle
   according to one embodiment of the present invention; and
             FIG. 16 illustrates a perspective view of the multipurpose tool with a latch
   according to one embodiment of the present invention.
 5
                           DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
             The present invention now will be described more fully hereinafter with reference
   to the accompanying drawings, in which some, but not all embodiments of the inventions
   are shown. Indeed, these inventions may be embodied in many different forms and
10 should not be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth herein; rather, these
   embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will satisfy applicable legal
   requirements. Like numbers refer to like elements throughout.
             Referring now to FIG. 1, a multipurpose tool 10 according to one embodiment of
   the present invention is depicted. The multipurpose tool includes a plurality of handles 12
15 configured for movement relative to one another, as well a plurality of tools carried by at
   least one of the handles. Typically, the multipurpose tool includes a pair of generally
   elongate handles 12 that extend between opposed ends 12a, 12b. As a result of their
   connection, such as a pivotal connection, to one another and/or to one or more of the
   tools, the handles can be moved toward and away from one another, such as in order to
20 actuate a tool as described below.
            As also described below, the multipurpose tool 10 may be configured such that
   the handles 12 are adapted for relative movement between an open position as shown in
   FIG. 1 and a closed position as shown in FIG. 2 and discussed hereinafter. As will be
   apparent, the multipurpose tool 10 has a compact form factor in the closed position so as
25 to facilitate transport and storage of the multipurpose tool. While the multipurpose tool 10
   is more expansive in the open position, one or more of the tools of the multipurpose tool
   are accessible and capable of being utilized in the open position, even though those
   same tool(s) are stowed and generally inaccessible in the closed position.
             With reference to FIG. 1, the multipurpose tool 10 may include first 12' and
30 second 12" handles that are respectively connected to the opposed first jaw 13' and
   second jaw 13" of a tool 14 which may together define a pair of pivotable pliers. In
   particular, the embodiment of the tool 14 illustrated in FIG. 1 includes needle nose pliers
    17a and regular pliers 17b. In the open configuration, the handles 12 may be moved
   toward one another to a position shown in FIG. 1 in order to close the jaws 13 of the
35 pliers and away from one another in order to open the jaws of the pliers. The tool 14 may
   further comprise receiving apertures 15', 15" defined in one or both of the jaws 13. The
   receiving apertures 15 may be configured to receive an accessory member. For
                                                   -6-

   example, the receiving apertures 15 may be threaded to receive and engage a barrel
   cleaning rod used to clean the barrel of a firearm, although various other accessory
   members may be received by the receiving aperture, and various other types of
   connectors may be employed.
 5          Regardless of the type of accessory member received in the receiving apertures
    15, the multipurpose tool 10 may be securely gripped by the user in order to use the
   accessory member. In particular, as illustrated in FIG. 2, an opening 16 may be defined
   in one of the handles 12 and configured to align with a corresponding receiving aperture
    15 when the multipurpose tool 10 is in the closed position. For example, in the illustrated
10 embodiment, a receiving aperture 15" is defined in the second jaw 13", and thus when the
   first handle 12' is pivoted to the closed position, the receiving aperture is accessible
   through the opening 16 in the second handle. Alternatively or additionally a receiving
   aperture may be defined in the first jaw and accessible through an opening defined in the
   second handle. Thus, the multipurpose tool may function as a handle when an accessory
15 member is received and engaged by the receiving aperture, which may thereby facilitate
   use of the accessory member.
            Further, as illustrated in FIG. 3, the multipurpose tool 10 may include a crimping
   aperture 17b' defined between the first jaw 13' and the second jaw 13" of the pliers
   instead of the regular pliers. The crimping aperture 17b' may be sized and shaped to
20 crimp a blasting cap useable for insertion into C4 or other explosives for demolition
   purposes. Thus, the multipurpose tool 10 may comprise features which are useful for
   demolition experts.
            In one embodiment, the jaws 13', 13" of the pliers are configured to contact one
   another once the jaws are in a fully opened position in order to prevent further opening of
25 the jaws. Even though the jaws 13', 13" cannot be opened any further, the handles 12
   can be pivoted relative to the respective jaws in order to transition from the open position
   as shown in FIG. 1 to the closed position as shown in FIG. 2. Although the handles may
   be connected to the jaws in a variety of different manners, the pivotable connection
   between the handles and jaws may incorporate a camming mechanism in order to bias
30 the handles to remain in either the open or closed positions. The camming mechanism
   incorporated into the pivotable connection between the handles and the jaws may thereby
   reduce the unlikelihood that the multipurpose tool will be inadvertently transitioned
   between the open and closed positions.
            The multipurpose tool 10 can include a variety of tools. Although not heretofore
35 described, the pliers can also include wire cutters and/or wire strippers, if desired.
   Additionally, the multipurpose tool 10 of one embodiment includes a knife blade 20 (see
   FIG. 2) and a bit driver 22 (see FIG. 1) carried by one of the handles 12. One of the
                                                   -7-

   handles may also carry a saw blade and/or other tools, such as a bottle opener, can
   opener, file, razor, gut hook or the like. With reference to the illustrated embodiment, the
   knife blade 20 can be pivotally connected to one of the handles 12 so as to be unfolded to
   a deployed position, particularly in instances in which the multipurpose tool 10 is in the
 5 closed configuration. Additionally, the bit driver 22 defines a bit chamber 22a that is sized
   and shaped to snugly receive corresponding bits 23, such as the Philips head screwdriver
   bit 23"' which is illustrated as received in the bit driver. As shown, the bit driver 22 may
   be defined in one end 12b of one of the handles 12, such as the end of the second
   handle 12" opposite the pivotable connection with the jaws 13', 13". The bit driver 22 may
10 receive a wide variety of bits 23 including screwdriver bits, torx bits, hex bits, Robertson
   bits, etc.
            In some embodiments the bit driver 22 may comprise features which allow the
   user to selectively retain a bit 23 in the bit driver and release the bit. For example, FIGS.
   4 and 5 show an embodiment of the multipurpose tool 10 comprising a bit retention spring
15 22b. The bit retention spring 22b comprises a catch 22c, which may comprise an integral
   bent portion of the bit retention spring. The catch 22c is configured to engage a recess
   23a in the bit 23' when the bit retention spring is in a locking position, as illustrated.
   However, when the bit retention spring 22b is displaced from the locking position to a
   release position wherein the catch 22c is lifted from the recess 23a, the bit 23"' may be
20 removed from the bit chamber 22a. The bit retention spring 22b may be biased to the
   locking position such that the catch 22c will tend to overlap with the opening of the bit
   chamber 22a when no force is applied to the bit retention spring, as illustrated in FIG. 5.
            The multipurpose tool 10 may further comprise a bit release member 22d
   configured to displace the bit retention spring 22b from the locking position to the release
25 position. As illustrated in FIG. 4, the bit release member 22d is spring loaded and
   opposes the bit retention spring 22b. In particular, the bit release member 22d is
   positioned on an opposite side of the bit driver 22 and comprises first 22d' and second
   22d" prongs. As a result of leaving a gap 22e between the bit release member 22d and
   the body of the bit driver 22, the bit release member may be displaced by the user toward
30 the bit retention spring 22b such that the first 22d' and second 22d" prongs displace the
   bit retention spring. Thereby the catch 22c is displaced from the recess 23a as the bit
   retention spring 22b is moved to the release position. Accordingly, the user may thereby
   remove the bit 23"'. However, many different embodiments of bit release members may
   be used. For example, the bit release member may alternatively comprise an integral
35 part of the bit retention spring. Thus, the bit release member could comprise one or more
   extensions of the catch 22c extending on one or both sides of the bit 23"', which could be
   depressed by the user to release the bit.
                                                   - 8-

             In some embodiments either or both of the bit retention spring 22b and the bit
   release member 22d may be integral with the handle holding the bit driver 22. For
   example, in the illustrated embodiment the bit retention spring 22b is integral with the
   second handle 12", as illustrated in FIG. 6. However, in alternate embodiments the bit
 5 release member may additionally or alternatively be integral with the handle. By
   integrating one or both of the bit retention spring and the bit release member with the
   handle, the number of parts forming the multipurpose tool may be reduced, which may
   provide benefits in terms of reduced complexity, weight, and/or cost of the multipurpose
   tool.
10           As illustrated in FIG. 1, the multipurpose tool 10 may also include a carabiner 24
   for permitting the multipurpose tool to be removably secured to another object, such as a
   belt loop, key ring or the like. The carabiner 24 is configured to move in concert with one
   of the handles 12 and is typically formed by the respective handle, such as at one end
    12b thereof. The carabiner 24 is typically formed, not by the second handle 12", which
15 carries the bit driver 22, but instead by the first handle 12'.
             The carabiner 24 includes first 26a and second 26b sidewalls that are spaced
   from one another. The first 26a and second 26b sidewalls also generally define a portion
   of the first handle 12', such as a frame, so as to permit the handle including the carabiner
   24 to be fabricated in an efficient manner. Thus, the carabiner 24 moves in concert with
20 the first handle 12' and is generally not movable relative to the remainder of the handle,
   i.e., is incapable of movement independent of the remainder of the handle. As shown,
   the first 26a and second 26b sidewalls are spaced apart from one another such that at
   least portions of the first and second sidewalls define a gap therebetween which may be
   partially or completely filled by a body member 30, as will be described below.
25           The carabiner 24 defines an opening 32 into an engagement aperture 34 with the
   engagement aperture being accessible through both the first 26a and second 26b
   sidewalls. In this regard, the object to which the multipurpose tool 10 is desirably
   attached may be inserted through the opening 32 into the engagement aperture 34 such
   that the carabiner 24 is effectively clipped to the object. In order to secure the object
30 within the engagement aperture 34, the carabiner 24 can also include a gate 36 that
   extends across the opening 32 defined by the carabiner. While the carabiner 24 can
   include a variety of gates, the carabiner of one embodiment includes a gate 36 that is
   pivotally connected, at one end, to the body member 30, as illustrated. In this regard, the
   gate 36 may be spring loaded so as to close the opening 32 in the absence of any
35 applied force. Although the gate 36 can be pivotally connected to the body member 30 in
   various manners, the gate of the illustrated embodiment is a rectangular hoop that is
                                                   -9-

   pivotally connected to a first extension 30a of the body member 30. Alternatively, the
   gate 36 could pivotally connect to the first handle 12' directly.
            Although the first 26a and second 26b sidewalls are spaced from one another,
   one or more portions of the first and second sidewalls may be interconnected. For
 5 example, portions of the first 26a and second 26b sidewalls proximate the opening 32
   defined by the carabiner 24 may be interconnected as indicated by interconnect 38.
   Medial portions of the first 26a and second 26b sidewalls may also be interconnected with
   interconnect 40, albeit at some distance spaced apart from the carabiner 24. However,
   other portions of the first and second sidewalls may be free of any direct connection.
10          While the carabiner 24 may have various orientations relative to the first handle
    12' and, in turn, relative to the multipurpose tool 10, the carabiner of the illustrated
   embodiment is configured such that the opening 32 defined by the carabiner faces
   inwardly, i.e., faces toward the second handle 12", in instances in which the multipurpose
   tool is in the open position as shown in FIG. 1. As such, the transition of the multipurpose
15 tool 10 from the open position to a closed position as shown in FIG. 2 repositions the
   carabiner 24 such that the opening 32 defined by the carabiner now faces outwardly, i.e.,
   faces away from the second handle 12", so as to be more easily accessed by the user.
            Further, in order to reduce the form factor of the multipurpose tool 10 in the closed
   position, the carabiner 24 may be configured such that a tool carried by the second
20 handle 12", that is, the handle not carrying the carabiner, is at least partially disposed
   within the carabiner between the first 26a and second 26b sidewalls when the handles 12
   are in the closed position. As shown in FIGS. 7 and 8, for example, the bit driver 22 is at
   least partially disposed within the carabiner 24 between the first 26a and second 26b
   sidewalls when the multipurpose tool 10 is in the closed position. As such, the resulting
25 configuration of the multipurpose tool 10 is more compact than if the bit driver 22 did not
   fold at least partially within the carabiner 24.
            As shown in FIG. 1, the carabiner 24 may also include an integral bottle opener.
   For example, the carabiner may include an inwardly turned lip 25 proximate the opening
   32 defined by the carabiner. For example, the lip 25 may be a portion of or proximate to
30 interconnect 38. In order to open a bottle, the bottle cap may be inserted through the
   opening 32, thereby displacing the gate 36, such that the lip engages the bottle cap and
   permits the transfer of force thereto by the user.
            The first handle 12' and the above-mentioned body member 30 may provide
   additional functionality to the multipurpose tool 10. As illustrated in FIGS. 7 and 8, the
35 body member 30 may be connected to one or both of the first 26a and second 26b
   sidewalls of the first handle 12' by being inserted therebetween. The first handle 12' and
   the body member 30 may thereby define a hook configuration (see, e.g. FIG. 7)
                                                 -10-

   comprising a pocket 42 (see FIG. 8) defined between the first handle and the body
   member. A blade 44 may thereby be positioned and supported within the pocket 42, and
   may be removable from the pocket (see FIG. 12). The blade 44 may comprise a single
   piece of metal or other material, or may alternatively comprise a multipiece assembly.
 5 When the blade 44 is removable, a retaining member, such as a screw or other similar
   device may extend at least partially through the blade and at least partially through the
   first handle 12' or the body member 30. For example, a screw may extend through a hole
   45 (see FIG. 4) defined in the second sidewall 26b of the first handle 12' to retain the
   blade 44 in the pocket 42.
10          The blade 44 may define a hook shaped edge 44', although other edge and blade
   shapes are possible. As a result of the body member 30 and the first handle 12'
   cooperating to define a hook configuration, and the blade 44 also optionally defining a
   hook shaped edge 44', the multipurpose tool 10 may be configured to hook and cut
   various objects. For example, the hook configuration may be particularly useful for
15 cutting rope, zip ties, and other objects which may be brought into contact with the blade
   44. In this regard, it is notable that the hook configuration defined by the body member
   30 and the first handle 12' may provide a safety function in that the blade 44 is partially
   shielded by the body member and/or the first handle such that inadvertent contact with
   the blade may be avoided.
20         As illustrated in FIG. 7, the body member 30 includes an extension 30a which
   retains the gate 36 of the carabiner 24. The body member 30 may also define an impact
   surface 30b configured to withstand impact. Thus, the multipurpose tool 10 may be used
   to hammer nails, stakes, and other objects. By retaining the body member 30 within the
   first 26a and second 26b sidewalls of the first handle 12', the body member and the
25 impact surface 36b may be configured to withstand impact. In particular, as illustrated in
   FIG. 8, first 31a and second 31b overhanging portions of the body member 30 may
   overlap with the first 26a and second 26b sidewalls such that the first handle 12' supports
   the body member, which may provide strength to the multipurpose tool 10 which helps
   the body member to withstand impact.
30         As illustrated in FIG. 7, the body member 30 may also define an actuation
   extension 30c. The actuation extension may define a member which protrudes generally
   perpendicularly to the handle 12' to which it is attached. The actuation extension 30c
   may be useful as a lever or hook for manipulating various objects. For example, the
   actuation extension 30c may be configured and used to engage a bolt mechanism of a
35 firearm such as when the firearm jams. In terms of this configuration, the actuation
   extension 30c may generally taper to a rounded tip. Various other uses as would be
   known by one having skill in the art are also possible. Further, a portion of the body
                                                 - 11 -

   member 30 such as the actuation extension 30c may overlap with second handle 12"
   such that the body member intersects the axis along which the bit driver 22 receives bits
   23 when the multipurpose tool 10 is in the closed position, as illustrated. As a result of
   this overlap, the bit 23"' may be prevented from falling out of the bit chamber 22a of the
 5 bit driver 22 even during extreme hammering using the impact surface 30b of the
   multipurpose tool when the multipurpose tool 10 is in the closed position. Such a
   configuration also allows the actuation extension 30c to generally overlap with the second
   handle 12" when the multipurpose tool is in the closed position, such that the
   multipurpose tool defines a relatively compact configuration.
10          Use of the actuation extension 30c and/or the blade 44 may be facilitated by
   providing the impact surface 30b with one or more grip enhancing elements, such as ribs
   46, configured to enhance friction during use of the multipurpose tool 10. For example,
   when using the multipurpose tool 10, the user may grasp the multipurpose tool such that
   the user positions his thumb on the ribs 46 on the impact surface 30b to enhance grip in
15 some situations. Further, the ribs 46 may help prevent the impact surface 30b from
   slipping off of an object when the multipurpose tool 10 is being used as a hammer on the
   object as described above.
           As illustrated in FIG. 2, the multipurpose tool 10 may additionally comprise one or
   more elongate members 48, 50 coupled to respective base members 49, 51 at respective
20 proximal ends 48a, 50a of the elongate members. One or both of the elongate members
   48, 50 may be configured to be removable from the base members 49, 51 such as
   through a threaded connection, or the elongate members may be integral with the base
   members. When the elongate members 48, 50 are removable, they may include a
   textured surface configured to provide a user with sufficient grip to remove or attach the
25 elongate members, depending on the type of connection used to secure the elongate
   members to the respective base members 49, 51. For example, the first elongate
   member 48 is provided with splines at the proximal end 48a which facilitate a threaded
   connection between the first elongate member and the first base member 49. When an
   elongate member 48, 50 is integral with a respective base member 49, 51, as is the case
30 with the illustrated second elongate member, the entirety of the elongate member and
   base member may be removed by removing a respective end screw 68, 69. One of the
   end screws 68, 69 may secure to a pin member with a stepped shoulder portion within
   the multipurpose tool 10, wherein the stepped shoulder portion is configured to retain the
   remainder of the tools and other components attached to the pin (other than the
35 respective elongate member 48, 50) even when the respective end screw is removed.
   Further, when the elongate members 48, 50 are removable from the respective base
   members 49, 51, other tools may be connected to the base members. Thus, a user may
                                                - 12-

   select the type of tools connected to the base members depending on the type of use the
   multipurpose tool 10 will serve.
            The base members 49, 51 are in turn connected to respective handles 12, which
   may comprise either of the first handle 12' or the second handle 12". Each base member
 5 49, 51, comprises a cam surface 53, 55 and may further comprise one or more detents
   57, 59. Spring followers 61, 63, may be defined by the handles 12', 12". For example,
   the spring followers 61, 63 may comprise cantilevered portions of the handles 12', 12".
   The spring followers 61, 63 are configured to contact the respective cam surfaces 53, 55
   as the base members 49, 51 rotate about respective axes in order to extend the elongate
10 members 48, 50 to operational positions from storage positions, as will be explained
   below. The axes about which the elongate members 48, 50 rotate may be common with
   one or both of the axes about which the handles 12 rotate.
            In the illustrated embodiment, the first elongate member 48 comprises a punch
   which may comprise a blunt surface 48b (see, e.g. FIGS. 1 and 11) or a sharpened tip
15 48b' (see, e.g. FIGS. 2 and 3) at a distal end. The first elongate member 48 may be used
   to create holes in various objects or may be used to manipulate objects which may
   otherwise be difficult to access, such as certain internal parts of a firearm. In particular,
   when the first elongate member 48 has a blunt surface 48b, the first elongate member
   may be useful to disassemble a firearm. In terms of creating holes, the first elongate
20 member 48 may be useable to punch a hole in an explosive such as C4, in order to insert
   a blasting cap therein during preparation of explosives for demolition, particularly when
   the first elongate member comprises a sharpened tip 48b'. The second elongate member
   50 may comprise a blade edge 50c extending at least partially between the proximal end
   50a and a distal end 50b of the of the second elongate member. The second elongate
25 member 50 may thus be useful for scraping or other similar functions. In particular, the
   second elongate member 50 may comprise a material which is relatively softer than the
   material forming the object being scraped, such as a second elongate member 50 formed
   of bronze or a bronze alloy for scraping a bolt mechanism or other portion of a firearm
   formed of steel or the like. The second elongate member 50 may thereby be useful to
30 scrape carbon buildup off of the bolt mechanism or other component substantially without
   damaging the firearm, and may thereafter be replaced when needed, as described above.
   However, various other uses of the elongate members 48, 50 and various other types of
   elongate members would be known by one having skill in the art.
            Movement of the elongate members will now be described with respect to the
35 second elongate member 50, though movement of the first elongate member 48 will be
   substantially similar. Referring to FIG. 7, which illustrates the second elongate member
   50 in a storage position, the base member 51 may comprise first 59a and second 59b
                                                -13-

   detent members on either sides of the cam surface 55. When the second elongate
   member 50 is in the storage position, the second elongate member is folded such that the
   multipurpose tool 10 defines a compact configuration. In this position, the spring follower
   63 engages the first detent 59a, which thereby provides a force on the base member 51
 5 which tends to retain the second elongate member 50 in the storage position.
            However, when the user wants to use the second elongate member 50, the user
   will grasp the second elongate member in order to rotate the second elongate member in
   a first direction. In doing so, this will cause the base member 51 to also rotate in the first
   direction. Thereby, the spring follower 63 will come out of contact with the first detent 59a
10 and begin contacting the cam surface 55. The cam surface 55 may comprise a first
   radius R1 which is greater than a first detent radius Ro. Accordingly, the spring follower
   63 must be displaced further in order to rotate the base member 51 such that the first
   detent 59a comes out of contact with the spring follower. This additional force may tend
   to avoid accidental opening of the second elongate member 50. Once the spring follower
15 comes into contact with the cam surface 55, the spring force may remain constant if the
   second radius R2 and third radius R3 further defined by the cam surfaces 55 are equal to
   the first radius R1 . Alternatively, the second radius R2 may be less than the first radius R1
   and the third radius R3, and thus the effort required to rotate the second elongate member
   50 will initially be reduced, but then will increase as the third radius along the cam surface
20 55 comes into contact with the spring follower 63. Finally, the spring follower 63 will
   come into contact with the second detent 59b when the second elongate member 50
   reaches the operational position, as shown in FIG. 9.
            When in the operational position, the second elongate member 50 may be
   prevented from rotating further in the first direction by contact between a stop surface 59c
25 and the spring follower 63 in a direction whereby the spring follower substantially resists
   displacement, such as perpendicular to the direction whereby the spring follower applies
   a force to the second detent 59b. The stop surface 59c may be defined by the proximal
   end 50a of the second elongate member, or may alternatively be defined by the base
   member 51.
30          As shown in FIG. 10, which illustrates an enlarged section of FIG. 9, a gap 67 may
   be formed between a portion of the spring follower 63 and the second detent 59b of the
   base member 51 when the second elongate member 50 is in the operational position.
   The gap 67 may exist due to the stop surface 59c being formed such that the stop
   surface contacts the end of the spring follower 63 and prevents the base member 51 from
35 rotating to the point where the second detent 59b is parallel with the portion of the spring
   follower that the second detent contacts. In such embodiments, as a result of the fourth
   radius R4 defined by the second detent 59b being less than the third radius R3 of the cam
                                                  - 14-

   surface 55, the second elongate member 50 may be biased such that the stop surface
   59c will be forced into contact with the end of the spring member 63. In alternate
   embodiments, the spring follower may be parallel to the second detent when the stop
   surface contacts the end of the spring follower such that no gap is formed between the
 5 spring follower and the second detent when the second elongate member is in the
   operational position.
             Rotation of the elongate member 50 in a second direction back to the storage
   position illustrated in FIG. 7 is resisted by the third radius R3 defined by the cam surface
   being larger than the fourth radius R4 defined by the second detent 59b, and hence
10 rotation in the second direction would require overcoming additional resistance created by
   the spring follower 63, similarly as to that described above with respect to the first detent
   59a. Although the second elongate member 50 has been described as having first 59a
   and second 59b detents, the base member 51 may comprise a single detent, additional
   detents, or no detents at all in alternate embodiments. The above-description is also
15 applicable in a similar manner to the first elongate member 48, but will not be discussed
   in detail for the sake of brevity.
             As noted above, the multipurpose tool 10 can include a bit driver 22 for engaging
   corresponding bits 23, such as screwdriver bits, torx bits, hex bits, Robertson bits, etc..
   Accordingly, the multipurpose tool of one embodiment is configured to store at least one
20 bit in instances in which the bit is not engaged by the bit driver. As such, extra bits, i.e.,
   bits that are not currently engaged by the bit driver, can be stored by the multipurpose
   tool 10 itself in order to avoid misplacement of the extra bits. As shown in FIG. 1, for
   example, a sleeve 56 may be coupled to a first side A (see sides A and B defined in FIG.
   8) of the first handle 12' and defining a longitudinal axis, wherein the sleeve is configured
25 to receive a removable bit 23' along the longitudinal axis. The sleeve 56 may comprise
   an integral part of the first handle 12' in some embodiments. For example, the sleeve 56
   is illustrated as being defined by a projection extending from the first handle 12', which is
   bent or otherwise formed into an angled member configured to receive a bit. Thus, the
   sleeve 56 may be formed partially or entirely from the first handle 12', which may reduce
30 the weight, complexity, and/or cost of the multipurpose tool 10.
   The sleeve 56 may be configured to substantially prevent movement of the removable bit
   23' in a plurality of directions other than a first axial direction and a second axial direction
   along the longitudinal axis of the sleeve. A bit stop may be positioned along the axis and
   configured to limit travel of the removable bit 23' in the first axial direction. The bit stop
35 may comprise an integral part of the sleeve 56, a separate member, or it may
   alternatively comprise the first base member 49. Further, a displaceable button 58 may
   be configured to selectively limit movement of the removable bit 23' in the sleeve 56 in
                                                  -15-

   the second axial direction along the axis. The displaceable button 58 may be moveable
   between a retracted (i.e. depressed) position wherein the displaceable button is displaced
   in a direction generally from side A toward side B wherein movement of the removable bit
   23' along the longitudinal axis is allowed, and an extend position (illustrated) wherein
 5 movement of the removable bit along the longitudinal axis in the second axial direction is
   limited.
            As illustrated in FIG. 11, the multipurpose tool 10 may further comprise a clip 60
   coupled to the first handle 12'. The clip 60 may be useful for attaching the multipurpose
   tool 10 to a belt, pocket, or other object. The clip 60 may comprise a titanium material,
10 which resists bending while avoiding adding significant weight to the multipurpose tool 10.
   Additionally, the clip 60 may also be removable in order decrease the overall dimensions
   and weight of the multipurpose tool 10, or to allow for replacement of the clip in the
   unlikely event that the clip is damaged. Further, the clip 60 may comprise single piece of
   material or multiple pieces of material. The clip defines a bit aperture 62 substantially
15 coaxial with longitudinal axis defined by the sleeve 56. The bit aperture 62 may thus be
   configured to receive the removable bit 23' during insertion of the removable bit into the
   sleeve 56 and during removal of the removable bit from the sleeve. The clip 60 may
   further comprise a button cutout 64 configured to facilitate access to the displaceable
   button 58, and thus facilitate removal and insertion of the removable bit 23'.
20          Additionally, as illustrated in FIGS. 2 and 7, the multipurpose tool 10 may further
   comprise a second sleeve 66 coupled to the second side B, substantially opposite to the
   first side A, of the first handle 12' and defining a second longitudinal axis substantially
   parallel with the longitudinal axis of the sleeve 56. Similarly to the first sleeve 56, the
   second sleeve 66 may also be integral with the first handle 12' as described above. The
25 second sleeve 66 is configured to receive a second removable bit 23". In this
   embodiment the displaceable button 58 may be configured to limit movement of the
   second removable bit 23" along the second longitudinal axis when the displaceable
   button is in the retracted position and the extended position. However, the displaceable
   button 58 may allow movement of the second removable bit 23" along the second
30 longitudinal axis when the displaceable button is in a second extended position wherein
   the displaceable button is displaced in a direction generally from side B toward side A
   past the extended position.
            Thus, in summary, when the displaceable button 58 is in the extended position,
   both the removable bit 23' and the second removable bit 23" may be retained in the
35 respective sleeves 56, 66. However, when the displaceable button 58 is moved to the
   retracted position, the removable bit 23' may be removed from the sleeve 56, whereas
   the second removable bit 23" will be retained in the second sleeve 66 by the displaceable
                                                  -16-

   button. Conversely, when the displaceable button 58 is moved to the second extended
   position, the second removable bit 23" may be removed from the second sleeve 66,
   whereas the removable bit 23' will be retained in the sleeve 56 by the displaceable
   button. Accordingly, access to the bits 23 may be selectively controlled by selecting the
 5 position of the displaceable button 58.
             A variety of different types of mechanisms may be employed to allow the
   displaceable button 58 to operate as described above. However, one embodiment of a
   mechanism configured to operate in this manner is illustrated in FIGS. 12-13. FIG. 12
   illustrates an exploded view of the multipurpose tool 10 with the first handle 12' removed
10 for clarity purposes. As shown, one embodiment of the multipurpose tool 10 uses a
   spring 70 in conjunction with the displaceable button 58. The spring 70 is positioned such
   that it is retained in place by the body member 30 and the first handle 12'. In particular,
   first 70a and second 70b prongs of the spring 70 wrap around opposite sides of the body
   member 30. When the multipurpose tool 10 is fully assembled, the first handle 12' will be
15 positioned around the spring 70 such that the spring is thereby retained between the first
   handle and the body member 30.
             In terms of the relationship of the spring 70 with the displaceable button 58, FIG.
    13 illustrates the interaction of the spring with the displaceable button when the
   displaceable button is in the extended position. The other parts of the multipurpose tool
20  10 have been removed in this view for clarity purposes. As illustrated, when in the
   extended position, the first prong 70a engages a first inner groove 58a defined in the
   displaceable button 58 and the second prong 70a engages a second inner groove 58b
   defined in the displaceable button. The first 70a and second 70b prongs thus interact
   with the first 58a and second 58b inner grooves to retain the displaceable button in the
25 extended position. However, the multipurpose tool 10 includes empty space opposite the
   displaceable button 58 from the spring 70 within the first handle 12' which allows the first
   70a and second 70b prongs to deflect when the displaceable button is pushed along its
   longitudinal axis. Thus, the displaceable button 58 may be moved to either of the
   retracted position or the second extended position, as described above.
30           To reach the retracted position, the user would push the displaceable button 58
   generally to the left along the longitudinal axis of the displaceable button, as viewed from
   the perspectives illustrated in FIGS. 12 and 13. When the displaceable button 58 is
   moved to the retracted position, the first prong 70a deflects as it is forced out of the first
   inner groove 58a and then engages the first outer groove 58c. At the same time the
35 second prong 70b deflects as it is forced out of the second inner groove 58b and then
   rests on the center cylindrical portion 58e of the displaceable button 58. Note that during
   all of these operations and those described below, the spring 70 essentially remains
                                                  -17-

   stationary with the exception of the deflections of the first 70a and second 70b prongs
   towards and away from the displaceable button 58 which deflect as they move in and out
   of the grooves 58a-d. The spring 70 is generally restrained from other movement due to
   each prong 70a, 70b being positioned between the body member 30 and the first handle
 5  12'.
            Once the displaceable spring 58 is in the retracted position, the bit 23' may be
   removed or inserted into the sleeve 56. Thereafter it may be desirable to restrain the bit
   23' in the sleeve 56. In order to accomplish this, the displaceable button 58 would be
   pushed by the user back to the extended position, generally to the right along the
10 longitudinal axis of the displaceable button 58 as illustrated in FIG. 12 and 13, whereby
   the first prong 70a moves from the first outer groove 58c back to the first inner groove
   58a, and the second prong 70b slides along the center cylindrical portion 58e and returns
   to the second inner groove 58b. Thereafter it may further be desirable to allow access to
   the second sleeve 66 such that the bit 23" may be removed or inserted into the second
15 sleeve. Accordingly, the user pushes the displaceable button 58 further to the right along
   the longitudinal axis of the displaceable button 58, in terms of the perspective illustrated
   in FIGS. 12 and 13, to reach the second extended position. As the displaceable button
   58 travels from the extended position to the second extended position, the second prong
   70b will deflect as it is forced out of the second inner groove 58b, and then engage the
20 second outer groove 58d. At the same time, the first prong 70a deflects as it is forced out
   of the first inner groove 58a and then rests on the center cylindrical portion 58e of the
   displaceable button 58. In this second extended position, the bit 23" may be either
   removed or inserted into the second sleeve 66. To return the displaceable button 58 to
   the extended position, the user pushes on the button generally to the left along the
25 longitudinal axis of the displaceable button, such that the first prong 70a returns to the
   first inner groove 58a, and the second prong 70b returns to the second inner groove 58b.
            Notably, the displaceable button 58 may comprise two additional features which
   were not discussed above. One such feature is that the first outer groove 58c and the
   second outer groove 58d respectively comprise first 58c' and second 58d' flat end
30 surfaces. The flat end surfaces 58c', 58d' are configured to prevent the displaceable
   button 58 from extending past the retracted and second extended positions whereby the
   displaceable button could possibly fall out of the multipurpose tool 10. In particular, the
   first 70a and second 70b prongs contact the flat end surfaces 58c', 58d' and stop, as
   opposed to deflecting and allowing the displaceable button 58 to move further. This is in
35 contrast to the generally tapered shapes defined by the other portions of the grooves 58a
   d which allow the movement described above.
                                                 -18-

            The second additional feature is that the displaceable button 58 may be easier to
   move from the retracted and second extended positions to the extended position than it is
   to move the displaceable button out of the extended position. This is because when the
   displaceable button 58 is in the extended position, both the first prong 70a and the
 5 second prong 70b engage a respective groove 58a, 58b in the displaceable button.
   However, when the displaceable button 58 is in either of the retracted or second
   extended position, the prongs will only engage one groove. For example, when the
   displaceable button 58 is in the retracted position, only the first prong 70a engages a
   groove (the first outer groove 58c), whereas the second prong 70b will rest on the center
10 cylindrical portion 58e, and thereby does not add significant additional resistance to
   movement of the displaceable button. Similarly, when the displaceable button 58 is in the
   second extended position, only the second prong 70b engages a groove (the second
   outer groove 58d), whereas the first prong 70a will rest on the center cylindrical portion
   58e, and thereby does not add significant additional resistance to movement of the
15 displaceable button. Accordingly, the displaceable button 58 may advantageously be
   more difficult to move out of the extended position, which may be preferable because the
   extended position retains both of the bits 23', 23" in the respective sleeves 56, 66.
            In some embodiments the multipurpose tool 10 may comprise additional storage
   for removable bits. As used herein, removable bits are broadly defined to include a
20 variety of tools and items which may be selectively held by the multipurpose tool. Thus
   removable bits can include the illustrated bits 23, though other items such as fire starter
   kits, compasses, and other tools and items which can be selectively held by the
   multipurpose tool 10 are included within the meaning of this term. As illustrated in FIG.
    11, one embodiment of the multipurpose tool 10 includes a handle cover 72 coupled to
25 the second handle 12". The handle cover 72 defines an ergonomic shape which may
   make the multipurpose tool 10 more comfortable to use. Further, the handle cover 72
   may define a longitudinal channel 74 configured to receive a removable bit. The handle
   cover 72 and the removable bit may collectively define a handgrip when the removable bit
   is received in the longitudinal channel 74. When a removable bit is not received in the
30 longitudinal channel, the handle cover 72 may define a handgrip by itself. The handle
   cover 72 may also comprise one or more fingers 76 which extend into the longitudinal
   channel 74. Thus, when a removable bit slides into the longitudinal channel 74, the
   fingers 76 are configured to engage the removable bit to selectively retain the removable
   bit therein by providing an interference fit with the removable fit or acting as spring
35 elements which apply a spring force to the removable bit to hold it therein.
            The handle cover 72 may be coupled to the second handle 12" in a variety of
   manners. In the illustrated embodiment, the handle cover 72 is coupled to the second
                                                 -19-

   handle 12" using a configuration which simplifies attachment while providing a
   substantially secure connection. In particular, as illustrated in FIG 6 the second handle
    12" comprises an integral tang 78 which is displaced from a corresponding aperture 80 in
   the second handle and extends at an angle outwardly from the second handle. As
 5 illustrated in FIG. 14, the handle cover 72 comprises a recess 82 configured to receive
   the tang 78. The coupling of the handle cover 72 to the second handle 12" is shown in
   the sectional view illustrated in FIG. 15. As illustrated, when the tang 78 slides into the
   recess 82, the handle cover 72 is at least partially coupled to the second handle 12". A
   second point of attachment, such as a bolt extending through the handle cover 72 and the
10 second handle 12" could further secure the handle cover to the handle, such as through
   one or more holes 84 in the handle cover. Accordingly, a secure attachment of the
   handle cover 72 to the second handle 12" may be effectuated.
             In an additional embodiment, the multipurpose tool 10 may comprise a latch 86
   configured to selectively retain the multipurpose tool in the closed position, as illustrated
15 in FIG. 16. In the illustrated embodiment the latch 86 selectively couples the first handle
    12' to the second handle 12" to thereby hold the multipurpose tool 10 in the closed
   configuration. While many different configurations are possible, the illustrated
   embodiment of the latch 86 attaches to and pivots about a retaining member 88, and
   which may comprise a screw or pin in some embodiments. The retaining member 88
20 also holds the blade 44 in place, although in other embodiments the retaining member
   may couple other tools to the first handle 12'. The latch 86 comprises an end tab 86b
   which engages the end 12b of the second handle 12". In particular, the latch 86 and/or
   the end 12b of the second handle 12" may deflect slightly to allow the latch and the end of
   the second handle to interfere such that the latch securely engages the end of the second
25 handle to thereby resist accidental opening of the multipurpose tool 10. In some
   embodiments the latch 86 comprises a single bent piece of metal, such as a bent piece of
   sheet metal. Accordingly, the latch 86 may define a lightweight structure with simplified
   construction.
             The latch 86 may be secured and released by one hand. For example, the user
30 may close the latch 86 by squeezing the latch to thereby apply pressure to a main arm
   86a of the latch. Thereafter, to allow the multipurpose tool 10 to open, the user may flick
   the latch 86 open with the nail side of the thumb to thereby apply a force to a end tab 86b
   of the latch, which releases it. Accordingly, operation of the latch 86 may be simplified
   while providing a secure way to retain the multipurpose tool 10 in the closed position
35 when desired.
             Many modifications and other embodiments of the inventions set forth herein will
   come to mind to one skilled in the art to which these inventions pertain having the benefit
                                                - 20 -

   of the teachings presented in the foregoing descriptions and the associated drawings.
   Therefore, it is to be understood that the inventions are not to be limited to the specific
   embodiments disclosed and that modifications and other embodiments are intended to be
   included within the scope of the appended claims. Although specific terms are employed
 5 herein, they are used in a generic and descriptive sense only and not for purposes of
   limitation.
            In the specification the term "comprising" shall be understood to have a broad
   meaning similar to the term "including" and will be understood to imply the inclusion of a
   stated integer or step or group of integers or steps but not the exclusion of any other
10 integer or step or group of integers or steps. This definition also applies to variations on
   the term "comprising" such as "comprise" and "comprises".
            The reference to any prior art in this specification is not, and should not be taken
   as an acknowledgement or any form of suggestion that the referenced prior art forms part
   of the common general knowledge in Australia.
15
                                                 -21 -

                                                 CLAIMS
   The claims defining the invention are as follows:
   1.      A multipurpose tool comprising:
 5          a plurality of handles comprising a first handle and a second handle configured for
   relative movement between a closed position and an open position;
            a plurality of tools carried by at least one of the handles; and
            a latch coupled to the first handle,
           wherein the latch is configured to deflect to releasably engage the second handle
10 when the first handle and the second handle are in the closed position to selectively
   retain the multipurpose tool in the closed position.
   2.       The multipurpose tool of Claim 1, wherein the latch defines an end tab configured
   to engage the second handle when the multipurpose tool is in the closed position.
15
   3.       The multipurpose tool of Claim 2, wherein the latch comprises a bent member that
   defines the end tab.
   4.       The multipurpose tool of Claim 3, wherein the bent member is formed of metal.
20
   5.       The multipurpose tool of Claim 2, wherein the end tab is configured to engage an
   end of the second handle.
   6.       The multipurpose tool of Claim 5, wherein at least one of the end tab or the end of
25 the second handle is configured to deflect to permit engagement of the end tab with the
   end of the second handle.
   7.       The multipurpose tool of Claim 1. further comprising a retaining member which
   holds one of the tools to the first handle, wherein the latch is configured to pivot about the
30 retaining member.
   8.       The multipurpose tool of Claim 1, wherein the first handle comprises a projection
   defining a sleeve on a first side of the first handle, wherein the sleeve defines a
   longitudinal axis, wherein the sleeve is configured to receive a removable bit along the
35 longitudinal axis, and wherein the multipurpose tool further comprises a bit stop
   positioned along the longitudinal axis and configured to limit travel of the removable bit.
                                                   - 22 -

   9.      The multipurpose tool of Claim 8, further comprising a clip coupled to the first
   handle,
           wherein the clip defines a bit aperture substantially coaxial with the longitudinal
   axis, and
 5         wherein the bit aperture is configured to receive the removable bit during insertion
   of the removable bit into the sleeve.
    10.    The multipurpose tool of Claim 1 further comprising:
           a bit driver coupled to one handle, wherein the bit driver comprises a bit chamber
10 defining an opening configured to receive a bit along an axis; and
           a body member coupled to another handle, wherein the body member overlaps
   with the one handle when the multipurpose tool is in the closed position such that the
   body member intersects the axis to thereby prevent the bit from falling out of the bit
   chamber when the multipurpose tool is in the closed position.
15
    11.    The multipurpose tool of Claim 10, wherein the body member defines an impact
   surface configured to withstand impact.
    12.    The multipurpose tool of Claim 11, further comprising an actuation extension
20 defined by the body member and configured to engage a bolt mechanism of a firearm
   when the multipurpose tool is in the closed position.
    13.    The multipurpose tool of Claim 10, further comprising a pocket defined between
   the another handle and the body member; and
25         a blade positioned in the pocket.
    14.    The multipurpose tool of Claim 13, wherein the blade is removable.
    15.    The multipurpose tool of Claim 13, wherein the blade is at least partially retained
30 in the pocket by a retaining member extending at least partially through the blade and at
   least partially through the another handle or the body member.
    16.    The multipurpose tool of Claim 10, further comprising a carabiner, wherein the
   carabiner is defined at least in part by the another handle and the body member.
35
                                                - 23 -

   17.     The multipurpose tool of Claim 1 further comprising:
           a bit driver coupled to one handle, wherein the bit driver comprises a bit chamber
   configured to receive a bit; and
           a bit retention spring movable between a locking position wherein the bit retention
 5 spring is configured to engage a recess in the bit, and a release position wherein the bit
   retention spring is configured to disengage from the recess,
           wherein the bit retention spring is integral with the one handle.
   18.     The multipurpose tool of Claim 17, further comprising a bit release member
10 configured to displace the bit retention spring from the locking position to the release
   position,
           wherein the bit retention spring is biased to the locking position.
   19.     The multipurpose tool of Claim 1 further comprising:
15         a pair of pliers defined by a first jaw coupled to one handle and a second jaw
   coupled to another handle;
           wherein the first jaw defines a receiving aperture, and
           wherein the another handle defines an opening that is configured to align with the
   receiving aperture when the multipurpose tool is in the closed position,
20         wherein the receiving aperture is configured to receive an accessory member.
   20.     The multipurpose tool of Claim 19, wherein the accessory member comprises a
   barrel cleaning rod.
                                                  - 24 -

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
