                                        ABSTRACT
A flexible self-supporting container (10) has an outer bag-like layer (11 ) with an upper
opening (12). A flexible cover (13) is formed as an extension of the outer layer (11 ) to
open/close the opening (12) forming an air-tight seal. A removable flexible particle/fibre
impervious inner bag-like layer (17), manufactured from either a low density polyethylene
or a continuous polymer sheet geomembrane such as reinforced polyethylene, lines the
inner walls and base of the outer layer (11 ) and a portion (18) extends out of the open end
(12). The inner bag-like layer (17) can include a Quick Response Code (23). The closed
container (10) is collapsed to a substantially flat state and transported to the site where
hazardous material is to be removed. The cover (13) is opened and the inner layer (17) is
extended out of the open 10 end (12) and overlaid onto the exterior surface of the outer
layer (11 ). The hazardous material is then placed into the inner bag-like layer (17). The
inner layer overlaying the outer layer (11 ) is returned to the interior of the assembly (10)
and closed. The cover (13) is closed. The assembly (10) is transported to a waste disposal
site where either the entire assembly (10) or the inner bag-like layer (17) with its contents
can be disposed of.

        1/4
     A
   6
 161             12
              11
13
       FIG. 1

                                                 1
METHOD AND MEANS FOR DISPOSAL OF HAZARDOUS MATERIAL
Technical Field
[0001]      THIS INVENTION relates to a method and means for the disposal of hazardous
material with especial, but not limiting, reference to asbestos, to asbestos-containing
material and products, and to medical waste.
[0002]      Throughout this specification, unless the contrary is expressly stated, where a
document, act or item of knowledge is referred to or discussed, this reference or discussion
is not an admission that the document, act or item of knowledge or any combination
thereof was, at the priority date, publicly available, known to the public, part of the common
general knowledge, or known to be relevant to an attempt to solve any problem with which
this specification is concerned.
Background Art
[0003]      There are many industries which require the routine removal and/or disposal of
hazardous materials - the building and healthcare industries being two such examples.
[0004]      Asbestos has been used in many applications in the past in the construction of
buildings including its spray application to steel girders or the like for a range of different
fire-proofing purposes. Asbestos sheeting has also been used in many building
applications including for internal and external walls and in a corrugated form for roofing
purposes. As these constructions become damaged, individuals can are exposed to
asbestos particles or fibres.
[0005]      Similarly, as these constructions reach the end of their effective use and require
removal and/or repair, individuals can easily become exposed to the asbestos particles and
fibres. Thus many people so exposed risk contracting the well-documented diseases

                                               2
associated with the inhalation of asbestos particles or fibres. Whilst it is possible, in some
instances, to leave the asbestos intact, for example where it has been used in the form of
compressed sheeting, removal of the asbestos eliminates any possible future risk to
individuals and is the preferred option in today's society when such asbestos-containing
material is identified.
[0006]      Current methods for removing asbestos products require workers to wear
protective clothing and respirators. Smaller pieces of asbestos are wrapped in plastics
sheeting or bagged in polythene bags. However, these methods are not always successful.
For example, when such wrapped or bagged materials are dropped into a skip or disposed
of at a dump site, the plastics material is often torn or ruptured which allows the particles
or fibres to escape, again presenting a health hazard.
[0007]      Apart from the inherent medical risks of handling asbestos, increasing
government regulations also require that waste handlers submit waste tracking information
when transporting regulated waste or waste residues. Such waste tracking ensures that
waste is transported and managed in a way that helps prevent illegal waste management
activities, which may cause environmental harm.
[0008]      Hazardous materials are also present in the healthcare industry, particular in the
provision of medical services in hospitals, age-care facilities, medical centres and the like.
Of particular concern is biomedical waste composed of "sharps", which includes any device
or object used to puncture or lacerate the skin such as hypodermic needles, disposable
scalpels and blades, and contaminated glass and some plastics. The main risk from a cut
or wound caused by a sharp object is exposure to infections, especially blood-borne
viruses such as Hepatitis B, Hepatitis C and HIV. This risk of injury can occur from sharps
waste if the hazardous materials are not separated from normal rubbish. Further, if sharps
waste is not disposed of correctly and removed from the environment, it can be subject to
reuse and misuse (both intentional and unintentional). This is especially applicable in the
area of hypodermic needles.

                                                 3
[0009]       Again, this potential risk of medical injury to an individual could be significantly
minimised if the containment of the sharps were to reduce the likelihood of a puncture or
laceration to the skin and the subsequent disposal of the sharps could also be tracked to
its final disposal destination.
[0010]       It is thus a general object of the present invention to overcome, or at least
ameliorate, one or more of the above-mentioned disadvantages and to provide a container
for holding hazardous material which can be fully tracked to its final disposal destination
and/or is sufficiently robust to minimise the risk of a puncture or laceration to the skin of an
individual seeking to dispose of medical sharps.
Summary of the Invention
[0011]       As a first aspect of the present invention, there is provided a container for
             holding hazardous material, said container comprising:
[0012]           a flexible assembly with an open end and having an outer bag-like layer of
                 a first flexible material;
[0013]           an inner bag-like layer of a second flexible material with an open end and
                 capable of extending out of said open end of said outer bag-like layer to
                 overlie at least a portion of the exterior surface of said first material, said
                 second material being substantially impervious to the passage of particles
                 of said hazardous material therethrough;
[0014]           a first closure means to constrain said hazardous material within said inner
                 bag-like layer;
[0015]           a second closure means to sealingly close said open end of said outer
                 bag-like layer; and

                                                 4
[0016]          a tracking means affixed to said inner bag-like layer for tracking said inner
                bag-like layer from an initial location to a final destination.
[0017]       As a second aspect of the present invention, there is provided a container for
             holding hazardous material which includes medical sharps, said container
             comprising:
[0018]          a flexible assembly with an open end and having an outer bag-like layer of
                a first flexible material;
[0019]          an inner bag-like layer of a second flexible, puncture and tear-resistant
                material with an open end and capable of extending out of said open end of
                said outer bag-like layer to overlie at least a portion of the exterior surface of
                said first material, said second material being substantially impervious to the
                passage therethrough of any particulate of said hazardous material present;
[0020]          a first closure means to constrain said hazardous material within said inner
                bag-like layer; and
[0021]          a second closure means to sealingly close said open end of said outer
                bag-like layer.
[0022]       Said first closure means includes any suitable means known in the art such as
rolling the free upper regions of said inner bag-like layer together into a relatively tight spiral
configuration, twisting the free upper regions of said inner bag-like layer together, tying the
free upper regions of said inner bag-like layer into a knot, or by the use of a separate tie,
for example, a "zip tie" to secure the free upper regions of said inner bag-like layer.

                                                5
[0023]      Preferably, said second closure means includes a cover for overlying said open
end of said outer bag-like layer and a fastening means therefor to sealingly close said open
end of said outer bag-like layer.
[0024]      Preferably, said fastening means comprises a zip fastener having its
complementary parts affixed to said cover and said outer bag-like layer which can
cooperate with each other to close said open end of said outer bag-like layer.
[0025]      Said cover may be separate from, or be a flap-like extension of, said outer bag
like layer.
[0026]      Preferably, said outer bag-like layer defines a base and a peripheral wall of said
assembly.
[0027]      Preferably, said first flexible material is of sufficient rigidity to enable said
container to be substantially self standing.
[0028]      Preferably, said inner bag-like layer is removably affixed to an interior surface
of said outer bag-like layer.
[0029]      Preferably, said first flexible material is a first plastics material.
[0030]      Preferably, said first plastics material is a polypropylene weave material.
[0031]      Preferably, said second flexible material is a second plastics material.
[0032]      Preferably, said second plastics material is a polyethylene material.
[0033]      Preferably, said polyethylene material is a low density polyethylene.

                                                6
[0034]      Preferably, second flexible, puncture and tear-resistant material              is a
geomembrane material.
[0035]      Preferably, said geomembrane material is a continuous polymer sheet
geomembrane.
[0036]      Preferably, said continuous polymer sheet geomembrane is a reinforced
polyethylene geomembrane.
[0037]      Preferably, said tracking means is a Quick Response Code.
[0038]      In those embodiments of the present invention which include said second
flexible, puncture and tear-resistant material, optionally, said container further includes said
tracking means.
[0039]      In all embodiments of the present invention, optionally, said container includes
lifting means to assist in the transport of a container holding said hazardous material.
[0040]      Preferably, said lifting means comprise one or more loops affixed to said first
flexible material.
[0041]      A third aspect of the present invention is the provision of a method of disposing
            hazardous material, said method comprising:
[0042]          providing a container as hereinbefore described with or without said tracking
                means as required;
[0043]          initiating said tracking means if required;
[0044]         extending said inner bag-like layer out of said open end of said outer bag-like

                                              7
layer to overlie at least a portion of the exterior surface of said first material;
[0045]       depositing said hazardous material into said inner bag-like layer; closing said
             first closure means to constrain said hazardous material within said inner
             bag-like layer;
[0046]       closing said second closure means to sealingly close said open end of said
             outer bag-like layer;
[0047]       transporting thus closed said container to a disposal site for disposal of said
             container and said hazardous material; and
[0048]       finalising said tracking means if required.
Brief Description of the Drawings
[0049]    Reference will now be made to the accompanying drawings which illustrate a
preferred embodiment of a container constructed according to the present invention,
wherein:
[0050]    FIG.1 is a schematic perspective view of a container according to the present
          invention;
[0051]    FIG. 2 is a cross-sectional view of the container of FIG. 1 in the plane AA;
[0052]    FIG. 3 is a partial interior view of area B of the container of FIGS. 1 & 2; and
[0053]    FIG. 4 is a schematic view of the container of FIGS. 1-3 in a ready-to-use
          configuration.

                                               8
Detailed Description of the Preferred Embodiment
[0054]      Referring to the drawings, there is illustrated a flexible container assembly (10)
(FIG.1) having an outer bag-like layer (11 ) typically manufactured from a relatively stiff
woven polypropylene material. The container assembly (10) and thus outer layer (11 ) are
of a substantially square configuration.    The assembly has an upper opening (12).          A
flexible cover (13) is formed as an extension or flap of the outer layer (11 ) and is also
typically manufactured from woven polypropylene material. The first part (14) of a zip
closure extends partially around the periphery of the open end (12) of the assembly (10)
and is adapted to cooperate with its complementary second part (15) which extends
partially around or along the periphery of the cover (13). The parts (14) and (15) of the zip
closure cooperate in a conventional manner such that the cover (13) can close the open
end (12) of the container assembly (10) to form a substantially airtight seal. Lifting loops
(16), which can be engaged by the 15 hook of a crane or other lifting device, are affixed
to the outer layer (11 ). A removable flexible inner bag-like layer (17) lines the inner walls
and base of the outer layer (11 ) and a portion (18) of which, when required, can extend
out of the open end (12) (FIG. 2).       The material from which the inner layer (17) is
manufactured is dependent on the hazardous material to be contained and is selected
from plastics materials which prevent the passage of fibres or particles of greater than 0.04
mm size therethrough, such as a low density polyethylene, which are suitable to retain
asbestos-containing material, and a continuous polymer sheet geomembrane such as
reinforced polyethylene to contain biomedical waste which includes sharps. The inner
layer (17) has a Quick Response Code (23) imprinted thereon by any convenient means
known in the art. The inner layer (17) is removably affixed to the inside surface of the base
of the outer layer (11) by a series of tapes (19) affixed to the outer surface of the inner
layer (17) which attach to complementary pads (20) on the inside surface of the base using
conventional "hook and eye" - type fasteners (FIG. 3).
[0055]       In use (FIG. 4), the container assembly (10) is folded or collapsed to a
substantially flat state and transported to the site where the hazardous material is to be

                                              9
removed and then opened so as to be substantially self-supporting. The zip closure
(14,15) is opened to provide access to the open end (12) of the assembly (10). The inner
layer (17) is then extended out of the open end (12) and overlaid onto the exterior surface
of the outer layer (11 ). The hazardous material (21) is then collected in the normal
manner, taking whatever precautions are appropriate - for example, by the wearing of
protective coveralls, gloves, respirators and footwear covers - and placed into the interior
(22) of the exposed inner bag. When the inner bag is full (or when collection of the
hazardous material is completed), the inner layer (17) overlaying the outer layer (11) is
returned to the interior of the assembly (10) and closed by any suitable means, such as
tying the free upper regions of the inner layer (17) into a knot. The zip closure (14,15) is
closed such that the cover (13) closes and seals the open end (12) of the assembly (10).
A crane or other similar lifting device engages the loops (16) to enable 15 the assembly
(10) to be lifted onto a suitable vehicle such as a tipping vehicle and transported to a
designated waste disposal site whereat the entire assembly (10) and its contents can be
disposed of. The Quick Response Code (23) enables tracking of the hazardous material
containing inner bag from its initial manufacture to its final disposal.
[0056]      Although specific reference has been made to the removal of asbestos or
asbestos-containing material and bio-medical waste composed of sharps, it will be
appreciated that the present invention has application in many other areas of
contamination removal - for example, earth that has been contaminated with toxic
chemicals from water run off from a mining site or similar can readily be loaded into the
container (10); bloodstained linen and clothing from hospitals, medical centres, etc. can
be placed directly into the container (10) without further handling by medical staff; and
similarly, perished food from hotels, restaurants, etc. can be transferred directly to the
container (10).

                                              10
[0057]      The present invention thus offers a number of advantages which include:
[0058]         can be used to contain and transport hazardous material with minimal
               contact, if any, by any individual with the hazardous material;
[0059]         can be manufactured in any suitable size, shape, strength and appropriate
               materials to meet the requirements of the particular hazardous material being
               disposed of;
[0060]         all components can be manufactured from readily available materials;
[0061]         can be transported to a disposal site with significantly reduced likelihood of
               any rupture of the container exposing the hazardous material;
[0062]         in certain circumstances, only the hazardous material-containing inner bag
               needs to be disposed of allowing the outer bag to be reused, thus saving
               costs of disposal; and
[0063]         the hazardous material-containing inner bag can be tracked from its initial
               manufacture to its final disposal.
[0064]      The terms "comprising" or"comprises" as used throughout the specification and
claims are taken to specify the presence of the stated features, integers and components
referred to but not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other feature/s,
integer/s, component/s or group thereof.
[0065]      It will be appreciated that the above described embodiment is only an
exemplification of the various aspects of the present invention and that modifications and
alterations can be made thereto without departing from the inventive concept as defined
in the following claims.

                                            11
                                         CLAIMS
1  A container for holding hazardous material, said container comprising:
        a flexible assembly with an open end and having an outer bag-like layer of a
        first flexible material;
        an inner bag-like layer of a second flexible material with an open end and
        capable of extending out of said open end of said outer bag-like layer to overlie
        at least a portion of the exterior surface of said first material, said second
        material being substantially impervious to the passage of particles of said
        hazardous material therethrough;
        a first closure means to constrain said hazardous material within said inner
        bag-like layer;
        a second closure means to sealingly close said open end of said outer bag-like
        layer; and
        a tracking means affixed to said inner bag-like layer for tracking said inner bag
        like layer from an initial location to a final destination.
2. A container as defined in Claim 1 wherein said tracking means is a Quick Response
   Code.
3. A container for holding hazardous material which includes medical sharps, said
   container comprising:
        a flexible assembly with an open end and having an outer bag-like layer of a
        first flexible material;

                                            12
          an inner bag-like layer of a second flexible, puncture and tear-resistant material
          with an open end and capable of extending out of said open end of said outer
          bag-like layer to overlie at least a portion of the exterior surface of said first
          material, said second material being substantially impervious to the passage
          therethrough of any particulate of said hazardous material present;
          a first closure means to constrain said hazardous material within said inner
          bag-like layer; and
          a second closure means to sealingly close said open end of said outer bag-like
          layer.
4. A container as defined in Claim 3 wherein said second flexible, puncture and tear
   resistant material is a geomembrane material.
5. A method of disposing hazardous material, said method comprising:
     providing a container as defined in any one of Claims 1 to 4 with or without said
    tracking means as required;
     initiating said tracking means if required;
    extending said inner bag-like layer out of said open end of said outer bag-like layer
    to overlie at least a portion of the exterior surface of said first material;
    depositing said hazardous material into said inner bag-like layer; closing said first
    closure means to constrain said hazardous material within said inner bag-like layer;
    closing said second closure means to sealingly close said open end of said outer
     bag-like layer;

                                      13
transporting thus closed said container to a disposal site for disposal of said
container and said hazardous material; and
finalising said tracking means if required.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
