ABSTRACT
The invention relates to a wastewater treatment method comprising: filling a
container of a treatment device with a biocompatible bed of electrically
conductive inert material; supplying a flow of wastewater, which flows into the
container filled with the conductive biocompatible bed; and leaving           the
wastewater inside the container for a sufficient amount of time so that the
electrons that are produced in the oxidation reactions of material transported by
the wastewater are transferred to molecules       also transported in the same
wastewater through the conductive biocompatible bed.

                                        1
                      WASTEWATER TREATMENT METHOD
PURPOSE OF THE INVENTION
[0001]    The present invention refers to a method for treating wastewater.
TECHNICAL STATE-OF-THE-ART
[0002]    The use of natural purification systems for wastewater treatment is well
known, as water has an intrinsic self-purification capacity, in other words, the
ability    to  eliminate   or    reduce   the  concentration    of   pollutants  by
physical/chemical and biological means.
[0003]    The aforesaid process occurs at slow rate, so thus wastewater treatment
systems are required to speed up the self-purification treatment, such as
biological filters whereby the waste water flows through a bed of inert material.
[0004]    The biological filter comprises a recipient container filled with a bed of
inert material, usually plastic and of variable geometry, through which the flow
of water to be treated is passed, completely flooding the container, which acts as
a biological reactor where a biofilm of microorganisms responsible for the
biological treatment is developed, which purifies the wastewater by oxidising the
organic matter in the water. The filter is usually equipped with an air stream to
supply the oxygen needed to support biological water purification.
[0005]    The oxygen serves to consume the electrons generated in the biological
oxidation of organic matter in the water. The air supply represents an additional
cost in water treatment, while generating a large amount of biomass or sludge
due to the high cellular performance of aerobic microbial metabolisms. If the
biofilter is operated under anaerobic conditions, i.e. without additional oxygen, it
is possible to reduce the production of biomass, although the purification rate is
slowed down due to lack of electron acceptors to consume the electrons
generated in the oxidation of organic matter.

                                      2
SUMMARY
[0006]    The present invention    seeks   to overcome      one or more of the
aforementioned drawbacks by means of a wastewater treatment method as
expressed in the claims.
[0007]    The aim of one embodiment is to provide a wastewater treatment device
comprising a refillable container with a bed of biocompatible electrically
conductive inert material, which will be the final acceptor of electrons or
negative electric charges produced in redox reactions. This biocompatible
conductive bed favours the biological processes involved in removal of
oxidisable material, i.e. organic material or any biodegradable waste such as
urban wastewater, industrial effluent, vegetable residues, etc.
[0008]    Another aim of the embodiment is to provide a wastewater treatment
device with greater capacity for sewage treatment by oxidation reactions, thus
improving performance while cutting down the need for space and improving the
nitrification of ammonium by oxidation with a view to the reuse of effluent
waters, to ensure that they comply with the regulations currently in force.
[0009]    Another aspect of the embodiment consists of providing a bed of inert
biocompatible electrically conductive material which is integrated into the
electron transport chain, where the final acceptor of the electrons is usually an
inorganic molecule. The biocompatible bed can be granulated into particles of
variable or uniform grain size to provide a conductive outer surface to form part
of the electron transport chain.
  [0010] In consequence, the biocompatible conductive bed favours oxidation
 reactions, boosting the capacity of the microorganisms to transfer the electrons
  generated during the oxidation processes to the surface of the bed, and from the
 bed surface to the final electron acceptor, which is generally an inorganic
  molecule.

                                      3
[0011] Yet another aspect of the embodiment consists of providing a
biocompatible bed of inert electrically conductive material, comprising an
electron non-conductive core coated with an electron-conducting material.
[0012] The biocompatible conductor bed is graphite or coke type, or similar.
[0013] The embodiment further seeks to provide a simple procedure for the
treatment of polluted water currents with nitrogen compounds dissolved
through bacterial action, which transforms these compounds into gaseous
nitrogen.
[0014] In consequence, the treatment device consists of a container filled with a
bed of biocompatible conductive inert material which is also an electron carrier,
which purifies wastewater using an anaerobic biological process to remove
polluting substances, such as nitrogen compounds.
[0015] The embodiment further seeks to provide a wastewater treatment device
for water treatments at atmospheric pressure and room temperature, minimising
the production of sludge or biomass, without the artificial supply of oxygen to
the treatment device.
[0016] A further aim of the embodiment concerns the application of this concept
in the construction of artificial wetlands that favour oxidation and purification
of the material transported by the wastewaters, minimising the production of
slurry or biomass and thereby reducing the phenomena of filter substrate
clogging.
[0016A] In another example aspect, there is provided a wastewater treatment
method in which wastewater is purified using an anaerobic biological process to
remove polluting substances, the procedure comprising the following stages:
filling a recipient container of a treatment device with wastewater flow and a
biocompatible bed of electrically conductive inert material; providing a

                                       4
 wastewater flow to flood the recipient container filled with the biocompatible
 bed of electrically conductive inert material; permanence of the wastewater in
 the recipient container to transfer the electrons produced in anaerobic biological
 oxidation reactions of the polluting substances transported by the wastewater to
 final electron acceptor molecules also transported in the same wastewater,
 through the biocompatible bed of electrically conductive inert material, which
 constitutes a substrate where a biofilm of microorganisms responsible for the
 anaerobic purification treatment of wastewater develops.
 [0016B] In another example aspect, there is provided a wastewater treatment
 device configured to act as an anaerobic biological reactor for implementing the
 method described      above, said wastewater treatment device comprising:
 recipient container of a treatment device is filled with wastewater flow and a
 biocompatible bed of electrically conductive inert material; recipient container
 is flooded with wastewater flow and filled with the biocompatible bed of
 electrically conductive inner material; permanence of the wastewater in the
 recipient container to transfer the electrons produced in anaerobic biological
 oxidation reactions of the polluting substances transported by the wastewater to
 final electron acceptor molecules also transported in the same wastewater,
 through the biocompatible bed of electrically conductive inert material, which
 constitutes a substrate where a biofilm of microorganisms responsible for the
 anaerobic purification treatment of wastewater develops.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE FIGURES
 [0017]A more detailed explanation of the invention is provided in the
 description below and is based on the attached figures:
 [0018]Figure 1 shows how the wastewater is purified when passing through a
 biocompatible conductive bed; and
 [0019]Figure 2 shows a detail of the microbial purification process; i.e.

                                       5
 oxidation of organic matter and ammonium coupled to the reduction acceptor
 through the biocompatible conductive bed.
DESCRIPTION OF AN EMBODIMENT
 [0020] In relation to figures 1 and 2, a wastewater treatment device comprising
 a totally or partially filled recipient container with a bed of biocompatible
 electrically conductive inert material, an inlet that supplies a flow of water to be
 treated which totally or partially floods the recipient container, in such a way
 that the biocompatible bed acts as a biological reactor and an outlet for the
 purified water.
 [0021] The biocompatible bed is a conductive hydrophilic material such as
 graphite or coke, etc., supplied in the form of particles or grains which may be
 of varying or uniform particle sizes.       The biocompatible bed constitutes a
 substrate where a biofilm of microorganisms responsible for the anaerobic
 purification treatment of wastewater develops.
 [0022] The biocompatible bed is adapted to encourage the growth of this
 biofilm of microorganisms over the conductive outer surface. This surface
 forms part of the transport chain of the electrons generated in the microbial
 oxidation processes of the materials carried by the wastewater that floods the
 biocompatible bed.
 [0023] The biocompatible bed is adapted to transfer the electrons generated
 during oxidation reactions to final acceptors, generally an inorganic molecule
 such as SO 4 2-, N02, N0   3 or CO2, etc.
 [0024] Consequently, the oxidation reactions of the oxidisable matter, i.e.
 organic material or biodegradable waste such as urban wastewater, industrial
 effluents, vegetable residues etc., in the absence of oxygen, generate electrons
 that are transferred to inorganic molecules through the outer conductive surface
 of the biocompatible bed.

                                        6
  [0025] The fact that the biocompatible bed is waterlogged means that the
  oxygen is consumed on the surface of the bed, and therefore cannot participate
  in the oxidation processes inside the treatment device or biological reactor.
  Consequently, the bed is anaerobic.
  [0026] The biocompatible particles inside the biological reactor supply a
  conductive area other that favours the oxidation processes of the material
  transported by the sewage water, initially encouraging the transfer of electrons
 released    during the oxidation      process   to the biocompatible     bed and,
  subsequently, to inorganic molecules.
  [0027] Both the biological reactor and the size of the particles in the
 biocompatible bed are designed in terms of their size and the flow speeds of
  water through the reactor, in such a way that the time that the water remains
  around the biocompatible particles will be sufficient to favour oxidation
 reactions and, therefore, so that the transfer of electrons is completed
  substantially to inorganic molecules, ensuring that all the wastewater is treated.
  [0028] In consequence, increasing        the outer conductive surface       of the
 biocompatible bed results in an increased capacity to transfer the electrons
  generated during the processes of oxidation to inorganic molecules, through the
  granulate biocompatible bed, and therefore enhances the purification capacity of
  the wastewater treatment device and minimises the production of slurry.
  [0029] One application of this waste water treatment technology is the
  construction of artificial wetlands.
[0030]    For example, removing nitrogen compounds whatever the predominant
form of nitrogen in water, ammonium or nitrate, requires the addition of
electrons to convert the nitrogen compounds to gaseous nitrogen, N2 .
  [0031] Thus, the electrons necessary to remove nitrogen pollution are supplied
 by    the   oxidation    reactions  through   the biocompatible     granular    bed.

                                       7
Consequently, an important parameter to determine wastewater treatment
capacity is the numerical value of the outer conductive surface provided by the
biodegradable granular bed, in other words, the greater the conductive surface,
the higher the electron transfer capacity of the biocompatible granular bed and,
therefore, the higher the wastewater treatment capacity of the treatment device,
biological reactor, or artificial wetlands.
[0032] Throughout this specification and the claims which follow, unless the
context requires otherwise, the word "comprise", and variations such as
"comprises" or "comprising", will be understood to imply the inclusion of a
stated integer or step or group of integers or steps but not the exclusion of any
other integer or step or group of integers or steps.
[0033] The reference      in this specification    to any prior publication (or
information derived from it), or to any matter which is known, is not, and
should not be taken as, an acknowledgement or admission or any form of
suggestion that that prior publication (or information derived from it) or known
matter forms part of the common general knowledge in the field of endeavour
to which this specification relates.

                                       8
The claims defining the invention are as follows:
1.      A wastewater treatment method in which wastewater is purified using an
anaerobic biological process to remove polluting substances, the procedure
comprising the following stages:
              filling a recipient container of a treatment device with wastewater
        flow and a biocompatible bed of electrically conductive inert material,
              providing a wastewater flow to flood the recipient container filled
        with the biocompatible bed of electrically conductive inert material,
              permanence of the wastewater in the recipient container to transfer
        the electrons produced in anaerobic biological oxidation reactions of the
        polluting substances transported by the wastewater to final electron
        acceptor molecules also transported in the same wastewater, through the
        biocompatible bed of electrically conductive inert material, which
        constitutes a substrate where a biofilm of microorganisms responsible for
        the anaerobic purification treatment of wastewater develops.
2.      Method in accordance with claim 1, wherein the method further
comprises the step of granulating         the biocompatible bed of electrically
conductive inert material is supplied in the form of particles or grains, which may
be of varying or uniform particle sizes.
3.      Method in accordance with claim 1 or 2, wherein the method comprises
electron transfer from the outer conductive surface of the particles of the
biocompatible bed of electrically conductive inert material to final electron
acceptor molecules are inorganic molecules such as sulfate, nitrogen compounds
carried out by the wastewater.
4.      Method in accordance with claim 3, wherein the nitrogen compounds
transported by the wastewater are ammonium, nitrite or nitrate types.

                                         9
5.       A wastewater treatment device configured to act as an anaerobic
biological reactor for implementing the method of any one of claims 1 to 4, said
wastewater treatment device comprising:
                recipient container of a treatment device is filled with wastewater
         flow and a biocompatible bed of electrically conductive inert material;
                recipient container is flooded with wastewater flow and filled with
         the biocompatible bed of electrically conductive inner material;
                permanence of the wastewater in the recipient container to transfer
         the electrons produced in anaerobic biological oxidation reactions of the
         polluting substances transported by the wastewater to final electron
         acceptor molecules also transported in the same wastewater, through the
         biocompatible bed of electrically conductive inert material, which
         constitutes a substrate where a biofilm of microorganisms responsible for
         the anaerobic purification treatment of wastewater develops.
6.       Biocompatible      bed   in   accordance   with  claim    5, wherein    the
biocompatible bed is a conductive hydrophilic material, which is graphite,
supplied in the form of particles or grains, which may be of varying or uniform
particle sizes.
7.       Biocompatible      bed   in   accordance   with  claim    6,  wherein   the
biocompatible bed comprises a core coated with an outer electron conducting
substance.
8.       Biocompatible bed in accordance with claim 5 or 6, wherein the
biocompatible bed is graphite.
9.      Use of a biocompatible bed of electrically conductive inert material for
being poured into a recipient container of a wastewater treatment device so as to
obtain a wastewater treatment device in accordance with any one of claims 5 to
8.

                  <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                         1/1
FIG. 2   FIG. 1

