   ABSTRACT
   A system (1) for providing an electronic gaming machine (EGM)(2) with a control
   signal indicative of one or more gaming credits. The EGM is operated by a gamer (not
   shown) for playing a game of chance by redeeming the one or more gaming credits,
 5 where the game is controlled by a primary logic unit (3) included within EGM (2).
   System (1) includes an interface in the form of a coupon validator (4). The validator
   interacts with a currency note (not shown) or a non-currency coupon in the form of a
   printed ticket (5) that is indicative of the one or more gaming credits. The interaction of
   validator (4) with ticket (5) provides a credit signal indicative of the credits. A card
10 reader (6), receives first identification information about the gamer from identification
   carrier in the form of a magnetic strip card (not shown), and selectively provides an
   enable signal. System (1) includes a system processor (7) that is responsive to the credit
   signal and the enable signal for selectively providing a control signal to unit (3) of EGM
   (2).
15 Figure 1

                                    - 1/5
                               Figure 1
                                                            26
                                                            15
     16
                        17      18     19
                        24
                                        28                 External
          Credit             3                             Network
   45     Meter     I          Primary         etwor                  51
             46 _'     -----    Logic        Interface   - - -
   27                             Unit         Card               52
          Ticket   3-                      53 t
          Printer  .                    14
                     30                                _            5
              6~2   12         0/
31                             System
             Reader      ~ Processor        Validator
        I           711
61
                            1

                                                  -2
     FIELD OF THE INVENTION
      [00011 The present invention relates to a system and method for providing an electronic
     gaming machine (EGM) with a control signal and in particular to a system and method
  5  for providing an EGM with a control signal indicative of one or more gaming credits.
      [00021 The embodiments of the invention have been developed primarily for EGMs
     having ticket in ticket out (TITO) functionality and will be described hereinafter with
     reference to that application. However, it will be appreciated that the invention is not
     limited to that particular field of use, and is also suitable to EGMs that have TITO
 10  functionality retrospectively included, and to EGMs that have both TITO functionality
     and currency functionality.
     BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
     [00031 Any discussion of the prior art throughout the specification should in no way be
     considered as an admission that such prior art is widely known or forms part of the
15   common general knowledge in the field.
     [00041 EGMs currently deployed in gaming venues typically include slot machines,
    poker machines or other devices that provide gainers with gaming functionality in
    exchange for or by redeeming gaming credits. Each EGM typically includes a housing,
    a gaming display and actuating buttons or levers mounted to the housing, and a
20  dedicated central logic unit disposed within the housing and which is electronically
    linked with the display and buttons for controlling the gaming functionality of the EGM.
    This central logic unit is often referred to as a gaming controller, gaming board, gaming
    control board or the like. Many EGMs also include a validator mounted to the housing
    for receiving coupons carrying printed credit information.        The coupon is typically
25  presented to the validator by the gamer and, in response, the validator derives the credit
    information from the coupon, and transmits this information to the central logic unit.
    That is, the validator allows the gamer to upload from the coupon to the EGM one or
    more gaming credits and, hence, allows the central logic unit to control the gaming
    functionality subsequently offered to the gamer.

                                                  -3
      [00051 While coupons traditionally take the form of currency notes, many venues have
     moved to provide cashless gaming by using non-currency coupons. Currently, this is
     typically implemented in one of two ways: card based cashless (CBC) systems; and
     ticket in ticket out (TITO) systems.
  5   [0006] CBC systems require each gamer to hold an account with the venue before being
     able to play an EGM. In venues using a CBC system, monetary credit is held and
     managed by the venue on behalf of the gainers.         This necessitates an added level of
     responsibility and expense on the venue, as banking-style policies and processes are
     required for the IT systems, and the venue must comply with any additional relevant
 10  financial regulations for the jurisdiction in which the venue is disposed.      Therefore,
     CBC systems are relatively expensive to implement and administer, and the associated
     IT systems are highly complex and often cumbersome.
     [0007] Known alternatives to CBC systems are TITO systems, where the EGMs are
     configured to read a coupon. Typically coupons are in the form of a ticket carrying
 15 printed information, where the printed information includes a non-monetary credit value.
     The EGM is configured to receive the tickets serially, derive the credit value and
     subsequently increment a credit meter on the EGM with the credit value. As the ticket
    carries the credit value, the venue is not required to take on the responsibility and
    expense of installing a banking-style system. However, the tickets are susceptible to
20  being lost, either inadvertently or by theft, and do not allow more sophisticated loyalty
    systems to be easily implemented.
     [00081 A combination of a CBC system and a TITO system is disclosed in US patent
    application 2006/0068898 to Maya. A gamer is able to use either a prepaid "game-credit
    card" - that is, a TITO system - or a player "identification card" carrying game credits
25  that is, a CBC system. Maya, in incorporating both a CBC system and a TITO system
    on a single EGM, suffers from the disadvantages described above of both systems while
    also being more complex than either one of those systems used alone.
    SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
    [0009] It is an object of the present invention to overcome or ameliorate at least one of
30  the disadvantages of the prior art, or to provide a useful alternative.

                                                  -4
      [00101 According to a first aspect of the invention there is provided a system for
     providing an electronic gaming machine (EGM) with a control signal indicative of one
     or more gaming credits, wherein the EGM is operated by a gamer for playing a game of
     chance by redeeming the one or more gaming credits, the system including:
  5          an interface for: interacting with a non-currency coupon indicative of the one or
     more gaming credits; and providing a credit signal indicative of the credits;
             an enabler for receiving first identification information about the gamer and for
     selectively providing an enable signal; and
             a system processor that is responsive to the credit signal and the enable signal for
 10  selectively providing the control signal to the EGM.
     [0011] In an embodiment, the credit signal and the enable signal are included within a
    combined signal.
     [00121 In an embodiment, the combined signal is provided by the enabler and the system
    processor is responsive to the combined signal for providing the control signal.
 15  [00131 In an embodiment, the combined signal is provided by the interface and the
    system processor is responsive to the combined signal for providing the control signal.
     [00141 In an embodiment, the system additionally includes:
             a database for storing second identification information about the gamer; and
             a verification device that is responsive to the first and the second identification
20  information for selectively providing a validation signal, wherein the enabler is
    responsive to the validation signal for providing the enable signal.
    [0015] In an embodiment, the first identification information             is stored on an
    identification carrier.
    [0016] In an embodiment, the enabler includes a reader for receiving the first
25  identification information from the identification carrier.
    [0017] In an embodiment, the reader receives the first information wirelessly.

                                                   -5
       [00181 In an embodiment, the identification carrier is selected from the group including:
      an RFID tag; a magnetic-strip card; and a printed ticket.
       [0019] In an embodiment, the first identification information is stored on the carrier in a
      machine-readable form.
   5   [0020] In an embodiment, the machine readable form requires decoding to reveal the
      identification information.
       [00211 In an embodiment, the decoding involves decryption.
      [0022] In an embodiment, the non-currency coupon is a ticket having machine-readable
      data which is indicative of one or more gaming credits.
 10   [0023] In an embodiment, the interface includes an interface input mechanism
      configured for receiving the ticket.
      [0024] In an embodiment, the machine readable form is a barcode and the interface
      input mechanism is a barcode scanner.
      [00251 In an embodiment, the EGM includes a gaming controller that is responsive to
 15  the control signal for attributing the one or more gaming credits to the EGM.
      [00261 In an embodiment, the gaming controller includes a gaming processor for
     controlling the game of chance.
      [0027] In an embodiment, the gaming controller includes the system processor.
     [0028] According to a second aspect of the invention there is provided an electronic
20   gaming machine (EGM) that is operated by a gamer for playing a game of chance by
     redeeming the one or more gaming credits, the EGM including:
              an interface for: interacting with a non-currency coupon indicative of the one or
     more gaming credits; and providing a credit signal indicative of the credits;
              an enabler for receiving first identification information about the gamer and for
25   selectively providing an enable signal; and

                                                  -6
              a gaming controller that is responsive to the credit signal and the enable signal
      for selectively making the one or more gaming credits available for redemption at the
      EGM.
      [00291 According to a third aspect of the invention there is provided a method of
   5  providing an electronic gaming machine (EGM) with a control signal indicative of one
      or more gaming credits, wherein the EGM is operated by a gamer for playing a game of
      chance by redeeming the one or more gaming credits, the method including the steps of:
              interacting with a non-currency coupon indicative of the one or more gaming
     credits and providing a credit signal indicative of the credits;
 10           receiving identification information about the gamer and selectively providing an
     enable signal; and
              in response to the credit signal and the enable signal, selectively providing the
     control signal to the EGM indicative of the credits.
     BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
 15  [00301 Preferred embodiments of the invention will now be described, by way of
     example only, with reference to the accompanying drawings in which:
              Figure 1 is a schematic front view of an EGM including an embodiment of the
     invention;
              Figure 2 is a schematic top view of a ticket for use in the system of Figure 1;
20            Figure 3 is a schematic top view of another ticket for use in the system of Figure
     1;
              Figure 4 is a schematic representation of a plurality of EGMs connected to a
     common network;
             Figure 5 is a top view of an RFID card for use with the EGM of Figure 1 as an
25   alternative to the magnetic strip card described in the embodiments below;
             Figure 6 is a schematic front view of another embodiment of the invention; and

                                                   -7
             Figure 7 is a schematic front view of a further embodiment of the invention.
     PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS OF THE INVENTION
     [00311 Referring to Figure 1 there is provided a system 1 for providing an electronic
     gaming machine (EGM) 2 with a control signal indicative of one or more gaming
  5  credits. The EGM is operated by a gamer (not shown) for playing a game of chance by
     redeeming the one or more gaming credits, where the game is controlled by a primary
     logic unit 3 included within EGM 2. System 1 includes an interface in the form of a
     coupon validator 4. The validator interacts with a currency note (not shown) or a non
     currency coupon in the form of a printed ticket 5 - which is best shown in Figure 2
 10 that is indicative of the one or more gaming credits. The interaction of validator 4 with
    ticket 5 provides a credit signal indicative of the credits. An enabler, in the form of a
    card reader 6, receives first identification           information about the gamer from
    identification carrier in the form of a magnetic strip card (not shown), and selectively
    provides an enable signal. System 1 includes a system processor 7 that is responsive to
15  the credit signal and the enable signal for selectively providing a control signal to unit 3
    of EGM 2.
     [00321 Validator 4 and reader 6 are configured to communicate with processor 7 via
    respective cabled two-way communications links 11 and 12. That is, the credit signal
    and the enable signal are respectively provided to processor 7 via links 11 and 12. In
20  other embodiments, alternative links are used such as wireless links, or dedicated tracks
    on a PCB.      That is, in some embodiments, one or both of validator 4, reader 6 and
    processor 7 are commonly mounted to a circuit board (not shown).
    [00331 Validator 4 is manufactured by Japan Cash Machine Co., Ltd (JCM) and
    designated as model number WBA 12. In other embodiments alternative validators are
25  used.    Examples of such validators include that manufactured by Global Payment
    Technologies, Inc. and designated as model number SA4. It will be appreciated by those
    skilled in the art that alternative validators are also available.
    [00341 Reader 6 is a magnetic-strip reader manufactured by Omron and designated as
    model number 3S4YR - SBR4N-20. In other embodiments different readers are used.
30  An example of such readers includes that manufactured by Leadus and designated as

                                                  -8
      model number M5231P. In other embodiments readers other than magnetic-strip readers
      are used. For example, and as will be described below, other embodiments make use of
      RFID cards and, accordingly, the readers are RFID interrogators. In other embodiments,
      the reader is able to interact with one or more identification carriers. For example, in
   5  one specific embodiment, the reader is configured to interact with both a magnetic-strip
      card and an RFID card. It will be appreciated by those skilled in the art that in other
      embodiments different readers and combinations of reader types are used.
       [0035] It will be understood by those skilled in the art, given the benefit of the teaching
      herein, that other validators and readers, and combinations of validators and readers, are
 10   also suitable for use with the embodiments described in this specification.
      [0036] For the purposes of the present detailed description, the term "EGM" refers to a
      gaming machine such as a poker machine or a slot machine.           However, it should be
      appreciated by those skilled in the art that the term "EGM" is also intended to include
      other embodiments of electronic machines that provide one or more functionalities in
 15   exchange for receiving credit from a user. For example, in other embodiments an EGM
      includes one or more of a poker machine or other gaming terminal, an internet terminal,
     a vending machine, an ATM and the like.
      [0037] Unit 3 is often referred to as a gaming board or gaming controller and is subject
     in most jurisdictions to strict regulation. Accordingly, a manufacturer of EGM 2 and
20   unit 3 are careful to ensure compliance of these components with the relevant
     regulations. Moreover, if any revisions are contemplated, particularly to unit 3, there
     arises a need to seek official approval of that change prior to use or sale of an EGM
     including the revisions.     The cost and opportunity cost of gaining this approval is a
     significant barrier to developing revisions to unit 3.
25   [00381 Unit 3 includes a microprocessor (not shown) for executing software instructions
     to provide the game of chance and/or other gaming functionalities. Unit 3 also includes
     a memory device (not shown) for storing in a digital format the software instructions and
     any other data required to allow delivery of the game of chance. This memory device
     includes RAM, ROM, onboard cache, and a hard drive, as required.                    In other
30   embodiments the memory device includes additional or alternative storage media, or
     different combinations of storage media. In addition, unit 3 includes other hardware and

                                                  -9
     components - such as communications ports, one or more communications buses, power
     supply circuitry, a graphics card, and others - to allow it to operate effectively in
     executing the programmable code held in the memory device.
     [00391 Unit 3 is linked directly to processor 7 by a cabled two-way communications link
  5   14. That is, the control signal provided by processor 7 is carried by link 14 to unit 3.
     [0040] In executing the software instructions, unit 3 controls a visual display in the form
     of an LCD flat-panel display 15. In other embodiments, alternative or multiple displays
     are controlled. The game of chance is typically a primary game that is delivered to the
     gamer via display 15, and which presents to the gamer a set of virtual reels each bearing
10   respective spatially arranged symbols. In alternative embodiments the game of chance
     in presented to the gamer in different formats such as a set of virtual playing cards or
     dice. In some embodiments, unit 3 provides other functionalities such as a secondary
     game of chance, a tertiary game of chance, or a loyalty system that are delivered via
    display 15 or another display (not shown).
15   [00411 Unit 3 includes a graphics card (not shown) that provides a video signal to
    display 15 via a cabled one-way communication link 16. It will be appreciated by those
    skilled in the art that the display may take any known form, such as an LED display, a
    CRT display, a plasma display, a laser TV display or the like. In some embodiments
    EGM 2 includes more than one display, and more usually a combination of different
20  display types.
     [0042] EGM 2 includes six buttons 17, 18, 19, 20, 21 and 22 that are received within
    respective apertures of a rectangular metal panel 24. Buttons 17 to 22 are arranged in a
    linear array, and panel 24 extends horizontally and transversely across the front of EGM
    2. The buttons are selectively manually depressed by the gamer to operate the EGM to:
25  provide the game of chance; activate one or more functions associated with the game of
    chance; and, where available, initiate operations relating to the secondary or tertiary
    games or chance. It will be appreciated that EGM 2 includes a rigid and secure external
    cabinet 26 (illustrated schematically only) to which panel 24 and display 15 are, in use,
    securely and fixedly mounted.

                                                -10
      [0043] Cabinet 26 defines a secure cavity 27 for containing the elements bounded by the
     schematic representation of the cabinet. It will be appreciated by those skilled in the art
     that additional or alternative elements are also able to be included within cavity 27 for
     providing the same or additional functions. In particular, in this embodiment, system 1
  5  is securely mounted within cavity 27, and only part of validator 4 and reader 6 are
     evident to the gamer from the exterior of cabinet 26. In other embodiments, one or more
     of the components of system 1 are mounted to the exterior of cabinet 26, while in other
     embodiments processor 7 is mounted remote from cabinet 26.
     [00441 Buttons 17 to 22, when depressed, provide respective actuation signals that are
 10  communicated to unit 3 via a two-way cabled communication link 28.                 In this
     embodiment the signals are buffered and individually packaged as a serial actuation
     signal to unit 3. However, in other embodiments the individual signals are fed directly
    to unit 3 via link 28.
     [0045] In some embodiments one or more of buttons 17 to 22 are selectively illuminated
 15 to provide the gamer with a visual effect, or to alert the gamer to the function of the
    respective button. In this embodiment, all of buttons 17 to 22 are illuminated, where the
    timing and nature of the illumination is controlled by unit 3. Preferably, in one mode the
    illumination is sequential, and in another mode the illumination is in response to the
    button that is manually depressed by the gamer.
20  [00461 Depending on the specific game of chance that is delivered on EGM 2, buttons
    17 to 22 control one or more specific actions within the game.          For example, in a
    specific embodiment one of the buttons 17 stops the spinning of the virtual reels,
    allowing the gamer to have the perception of controlling the position of the symbols on
    the reels. In the Figure 1 embodiment, however, buttons 17 to 21 are used to initiate the
25  game respectively based upon a unit wager, twice the unit wager, three times the unit
    wager, four times the unit wager, and five times the unit wager. Typically, a unit wager
    corresponds to a unit of currency in the jurisdiction. For example, for EGMs deployed
    in the United States unit wagers typically include I cent, 2 cents, 5 cents, 10 cents, 25
    cents and $1.00.
30  [0047] In other embodiments additional buttons are provided to allow the gamer to
    select the number of "paylines" along which a winning combination is assessed. These

                                                 - 11
     buttons are provided in an array that is adjacent to and parallel with panel 24. More
     typically, the two arrays are offset such that the buttons in the different arrays fall
     transversely between each other. It will be appreciated by those skilled in the art that for
     a five by three array of symbols commonly used in games provided by EGMs such as
  5  EGM 2, the number of paylines available to select is within the range of 1 to 243.
     [00481 The sixth button 22 is a cash-out or collect button that, once manually depressed
     by the gamer, results in, amongst other things, unit 3 actuating a thermal paper ticket
     printer 30, via processor 7, to print a paper ticket 31.      The communication between
     processor 7 and printer 30 is via a cabled two-way communication link 32.
 10  [00491 In other embodiments, printer 30 is a dot-matrix printer, a laser printer, an inkjet
     printer, or other printer type.
     [00501 Ticket 5 and ticket 31 are respectively illustrated in Figure 2 and Figure 3, where
     corresponding features are denoted by corresponding reference numerals. Particularly,
    tickets 5 and 31 each include a generally rectangular paper substrate 32 that extends
15   longitudinally between spaced apart ends 33 and 34 that are joined by spaced apart
     longitudinally extending sides 35 and 36.         Ends 33 and 34 and sides 35 and 36
    collectively define a rectangular top face 37 for receiving printed indicia.       Face 37
    defines a first generally rectangular information zone 39 adjacent to end 34, and a
    second generally rectangular information zone 40 that is disposed between zone 39 and
20  end 33. In this embodiment zones 39 and 40 contain printed information that will be
    described below. The remainder of face 37 is pre-coloured - either uniformly or with a
    pattern or other image or part image - to provide a desired visual affect to the gamer. In
    some embodiments face 37 bears a watermark, and more preferably a watermark that is
    a logo or other branding.
25  [00511 Ends 33 and 34 are approximately 65 mm wide and sides 35 and 36 are
    approximately 155 mm long to best ensure tickets 5 and 32 are accepted within a broad
    range of validators. In other embodiments different dimensions are used.
    [00521 Tickets 5 and 31 include within respective zones 39 machine-readable code in
    the form of pre-printed unique barcodes (not shown) that are indicative of the gaming
30  credits carried by the respective tickets.     The tickets also include in zone 40 human-

                                                 - 12
     readable printed indicia - that are provided by printer 30 or a like printer of another
     EGM or cashier station or cash terminal - which is visually representative of the
     assigned monetary value of the one or more credits indicated by the respective barcodes.
     In other embodiments, the barcode is indicative of alternative or additional information.
  5  For example, in an embodiment, the barcode is indicative of a unique transaction - that
     of the gamer purchasing credits and being issued with the ticket - and is not indicative of
     the number of credits. In this embodiment, the data indicative of the credits is in a
     database or external network, as will be described in more detail below.
     [00531 In other embodiments use is made of additional or alternative zones 39 and 40.
 10  For example, in some embodiments, tickets 5 and 31 include a pre-printed barcode and
     no zone 40. In other embodiments, zone 40 is blank or omitted. In other embodiments,
     zone 40 includes other information such as, for example, one or more of:
        r     An identifier for the gamer. For example: all or part of the gamer's name; a
              nickname for the gamer; and/or an alphanumeric code.
 15     >     Advertising for one or more products or services where this is permitted in the
              relevant jurisdiction.
        >     Branding information for the venue or other organisation.
        >     Promotional information associated with the venue or other organisations.
        >     Contact information for counselling for problem gambling.
20      >     An identifier of a defined class of person to which the gamer is allocated or
              belongs.
        >     An expiry date and/or time for the ticket.
        >     An identifier for the venue in which EGM 2 is disposed.
        >     An identifier for the operator of EGM 2.
25  [00541 In other embodiments tickets 5 and 31 include blank substrates and any
    information printed on those substrates is determined prior to, and in some instances
    immediately prior to, the respective tickets being printed. In further embodiments, all

                                                 - 13
     the information presented on face 37 is pre-printed, and printer 30 is simply a ticket
     dispenser.
      [00551 While tickets 5 and 31 are both rectangular and elongate, in other embodiments
     less or more elongate tickets are used. In further embodiments different shaped tickets,
  5  such as square tickets, are used. In alternative embodiments one or more of tickets 5 and
     31 include more than two information zones on face 37 or elsewhere. It will also be
     appreciated that one or more of the tickets include, in some embodiments, a different
     spatial relationship between the zones than is illustrated in Figures 2 and 3.
     [0056] Tickets 5 and 31 bear printed indicia on face 37 only. The substrates of the
 10  tickets include respective further faces (not shown) that are opposite to and of the same
     dimensions as faces 37 and which are left blank. In other embodiments, however, one or
     more of tickets 5 and 31 include printing - either pre-applied or provided by a printer
     such as printer 30 - to the further faces. For example, in some embodiments both faces
     are printed with the same subject matter so that the tickets are able to be presented to
15  validator 4 with either face upwardly. In other embodiments, the subject matter printed
    on the opposite faces differs only in detail that is machine readable to allow further
    verification steps to be performed on the ticket.
     [0057] Ticket 5 is presented to validator 4 by the gamer and, subject to other factors
    discussed below, allows the gamer to participate in the game of chance provided by
20  EGM 2, either once or sequentially more than once. Once the gamer chooses to cease
    participating in the game of chance, by depressing button 22, printer 32 issues ticket 31
    which is indicative of the credits remaining on EGM 2 at that time.                In some
    embodiments, validator 4 and printer 30 are integrated such that ticket 31 is defined by
    ticket 5, but with additional or changed indicia applied to face 37 by printer 30.
25   [0058] EGM 2 includes a credit meter 45 that is securely housed by and fixedly mounted
    to cabinet 26 for providing the gamer with a visual indication of the credits available at
    EGM 2 for participating in the game of chance provided by that EGM. Meter 45 is
    connected to a port (not shown) of unit 3 via a cabled one-way communication link 46.
    Meter 45 is a five digit LED display, while in other embodiments alternative displays are
30  used. For example, in a specific embodiment, meter 45 is included as part of display 15.

                                                -14
     [00591 As will be described in more detail below, unit 3 controls meter 45 in response to
     the initiation and outcome of the game of chance being participated in by the gamer, and
     the validation and printing of tickets. It will be appreciated that meter 45 is a display,
     and is representative of the number of credits that are stored by unit 3 in memory based
  5  upon the various gamer inputs and the gaming software.
     [0060] The communication links described above operate on an RS232 protocol.
    However, in other embodiments alternative communication protocols are used.
     [00611 EGM 2 includes a network interface card 50 disposed within cabinet 26 for
    allowing unit 3 to communicate with an external network 51 via a cabled two-way
 10 communication link 52. The linking of unit 3 to network 51 allows for various gaming
    and auditing functions, as would be appreciated by those skilled in the art.
     [00621 A typical gaming venue includes a plurality of EGMs arranged in rows or other
    formations either in a given area or separate areas within the venue. The EGMs are all
    linked to network 51, similarly to EGM 2. This arrangement is schematically illustrated
15  in Figure 4, where corresponding features are denoted by corresponding reference
    numerals.      Although four EGMs are explicitly illustrated in Figure 4, it will be
    appreciated that different numbers of EGMs are used in different venues and
    embodiments. In some venues where the number of EGMs is very large, those EGMs
    are often linked in groups and network 51 includes a plurality of a slave controllers, one
20  for each group, to provide for some distributed processing within the network.
    [0063] Having a plurality of EGMs linked to network 51 facilitates:
        >      Secondary gaming - so-called "link games".
        >     Monitoring of the EGMs individually and/or collectively for performance,
              compliance, likely misuse, mechanical or electrical faults, and the like.
25      >     A TITO system.
    [00641 Network 51 includes many components, including one or more servers, storage
    devices, processors, power supplies and other hardware to allow execution of the
    software necessary for operating the network.            These components        are shown

                                                  - 15
     schematically only as hardware 53. Network 51 also includes a database 54 for storing
     data for use by system 1 and EGM 2. This data will include ticket identifiers, gamer
     identifiers, ticket values, ticket expiry times, ticket redemption times and amounts, ticket
     issue times, gaming activities undertaken by each gamer and at which EGM, and the
  5  like.
     [0065] In a specific embodiment, gaming activities are broken down into two categories
     including: that relating to the gaming meters of an EGM; and data which is exported to
     the gaming system and/or central monitoring system after an event and/or at specific
     intervals. The main gaming meters for an EGM usually include: turnover; wins; stroke;
 10  cash in; cash out; ticket in; ticket out; money (external credit) in; money (external credit)
     out; cashbox; and cancel credit. Other meters will be known to those skilled in the art.
     The data provided by these meters is available for inspection in the usual manner.
     [00661 For the present embodiment, the second category of event specific data includes:
        >      Card In/Out data such as: Card In/Out ID; Associated gaming machine ID;
15             Time/Date Stamp; and Record of Outcome (accepted, rejected).
        >      Ticket In/Out Data such as: Ticket ID; Ticket Value; Associated gaming
               machine ID; Time/Date Stamp; Record of Outcome (accepted, rejected).
     [0067] Network 51 also includes a plurality of gamer interfaces in the form of respective
    gamer kiosks 55 (only one shown). These kiosks are disposed about the venue, and
20  preferably near the entrances and exits from the rooms containing the EGMs.
    [00681 As best shown in Figure 1 and Figure 5, system I includes an identification
    carrier, in the form of a passive RFID card 61. This card is issued to the gamer either by
    kiosk 55 or manually following interaction of the gamer with kiosk 55. Card 61 includes
    at least one identifier for the gamer. This identifier, and any other identification data for
25  the gamer, is also stored on database 54.
    [0069] As mentioned above, system 1 is configured to accept as information carriers
    either a magnetic-strip card or an RFID card. This requires reader 6 to include a dual
    interface for reading the magnetic-strip of a magnetic-strip             card or wirelessly
    interrogating an RFID card.         Additionally, reader 6 includes software controls for

                                                 - 16
     sensing which card type is being presented to the EGM to allow automated uploading of
     the identification information.   While the following description of the operation of
     system I refers primarily to an RFID card, it will be appreciated by those skilled in the
     art that use of a magnetic strip card would be substantially identical.          This also
  5  application to other embodiments where reader 6 interacts with additional or alternative
     identification carriers.
     [00701 Card 61 is generally rectangular and includes four sides 62, 63, 64 and 65 that
     collectively define two opposite faces 66 (only one illustrated). The faces are defined by
     respective rigid plastics sheets that are laminated together.         The sheets sandwich
 10  between them an inductive loop antenna 67 and processing circuitry 68. The circuitry
     includes a processor and memory for storing data indicative of the identifier. When card
     61 is interrogated appropriately - typically by reader 6 - it will transmit wirelessly a
    reply signal that is indicative of the identifier. In the preferred embodiments, at least
     some of the reply signal is encrypted or coded to reduce the risk of the identifier being
 15  intercepted by an unauthorised recipient.
     [00711 When entering the venue in which EGM 2 is disposed, the gamer approaches
    kiosk 55 and provides some form of identification. For existing patrons of the venue this
    may simply be to insert a credit card or other card into a suitable reader (not shown) at
    kiosk 55 to allow relevant data to be uploaded to the kiosk. If no such card is available,
20  the gamer is able to manually enter data identifying himself or herself. Preferably, kiosk
    55 includes a touch screen display for facilitating the interaction with the gamer. In
    other embodiments kiosk 55 is manned by an employee of the venue and, instead of or
    in addition to an automated identification there is conducted a manual identification of
    one or more identification papers held by the gamer.
25  [00721 Once the gamer has been identified, kiosk 55 activates, validates and issues card
    61 and dispenses it to the gamer.        In particular, the validation includes storing on
    circuitry 68 of card 61 at least one identifier for the gamer. In this embodiment, more
    than one identifier is provided and all the identifiers are encrypted.
    [0073] In other embodiments, card 61 takes the form of a printed ticket, and the
30  identifier is provided as a barcode that is printed on the ticket. In further embodiments,

                                                -17
     card 61 is a smart card, a magnetic strip card, a punched paper or cardboard card, or
     other data carrier.
     [0074] Once card 61 has been dispensed to the gamer, the gamer then is able to obtain
     from kiosk 55 ticket 5. More particularly, the gamer inserts one or more currency notes
  5  into a currency receiving slot (not shown) provided at kiosk 55. The currency is fed to a
     validator (not shown) and, if validated, ticket 5 is printed bearing indicia representative
     of the value of the credits, or the number of credits. In other embodiments, kiosk 55
     includes a card reader into which the gamer is able to insert a credit card or debit card
     and have funds transferred to an account of the venue - subject to the usual security
 10  requirements.     In return, ticket 5 is printed bearing indicia representative of a
     corresponding value of the credits. In further embodiments, kiosk 55 includes provision
    to receive both currency and credit and debit cards.
     [00751 The gamer then proceeds to EGM 2 and inserts ticket 61 into validator 4. The
    validator reads the indicia or other printed matter in zone 40 and provides the credit
 15 signal indicative of the credits to processor 7 via link 11. Ticket 6 is not returned to the
    gamer but, rather, automatically progressed to a hopper or other receptacle (not shown)
    that is disposed within cavity 27.      Processor 7 is responsive to the credit signal, in
    absence of the enable signal, to communicate with unit 3 that a ticket has been received
    but that the gamer has not identified himself or herself.
20   [0076] Another option is for the gamer to omit any interaction with kiosk 55 and simply
    approach EGM 2 in the usual manner and insert into validator 4 one or more notes of
    currency that are accepted by the EGM. If validator 4 validates the note or notes, a
    corresponding credit signal is provided to processor 7 via link 11. A further option is for
    the gamer to insert both a ticket and one or more notes.
25  [00771 It will be appreciated that some EGMs also include a coin acceptor for receiving
    and validating coins. Once validated, these coins are treated similarly to a validated
    note, and a credit signal is provided to processor 7.
    [0078] In any case, once a credit signal is generated, unit 3 is responsive to that
    communication to control display 15 to provide a message to the gamer that there is a
30  need to provide identification before gaming can commence.           More preferably, the

                                                 - 18
     display provides an explanation of the actions required which, in this embodiment,
     includes presenting card 61 to reader 6.
      [0079] In another embodiment, card 61 is substituted by a further ticket (not shown) that
     is printed with the identification information and issued to the gamer by kiosk 55 or
  5  other dispenser within the gaming venue. This further ticket is inserted into validator 4
     instead of card 61 and, once read, returned to the gamer. In some embodiments both
     card 61 and the further ticket are available.
     [00801 Once card 61 is presented to reader 6, the reader interrogates the card to upload
     identification information about the gamer. This information is decrypted by the reader
 10  to decrypt and assessed for the correct format. Following this, the decrypted information
     is packaged with the enable signal and sent to processor 7 via link 12. Processor 7 is
    responsive to the enable signal, in absence of the credit signal, to communicate with unit
     3 that a card has been interrogated but that the gamer has not inserted a ticket into
    validator 4. In this embodiment, unit 3 is responsive to that communication to control
 15 display 15 to provide a message to the gamer that there is a need to insert a ticket. In
    other embodiments, the message to the gamer provides options for having credits
    included on the EGM, including the insertion of a ticket, the insertion of one or more
    notes, or the insertion of one or more coins.
     [00811 Once both the credit signal and the enable signal have been received by
20  processor 7, that processor provides a request signal to network 51, via card 50, that
    includes data indicative of the identification information, the ticket, and the credits. The
    network is responsive to the request signal for assessing the data and selectively
    providing an authentication signal that the data accords with the records held on network
    51. The authentication signal is communicated to processor 7, via card 50. In response,
25  processor 7 generates the control signal and unit 3 is enabled for operation by the gamer.
    If there is a discrepancy in the data contained within the request signal and the
    corresponding data held on network 51, an alert is raised on network 51 and EGM 2
    remains inactive in the absence of an authentication signal. In some embodiments a
    message is provided on display 15 to provide some feedback to the gamer of the
30  interruption being experienced.

                                                 - 19
     [0082] In other embodiments, the actual value of the credits is not identified on ticket 5
     or in the request signal. Rather, network 51 is responsive to the information in the
    request signal to communicate within the authentication signal the value of the credits
    that relate to the identified ticket.
  5  [00831 It will be appreciated that system I allows unit 3 to function as if downstream of
     link 14 there was simply a banknote validator. This allows for the advantages of a TITO
    system to be achieved with player tracking, but without having the administrative
    overhead of managing funds of the gamer. Processor 7 is separately linked to card 50,
    and is not, in this embodiment, dependent upon unit 3 to communicate with network 51.
 10 Accordingly, even if EGM 2 is a standalone unit - in that link 53 is omitted - system I is
    still able to operate.     This also allows system 1 to be easily retrofitted to existing
    machines while still ensuring compliance with local regulations. In embodiments where
    use is made of purpose designed EGMs (not shown) the function of processor 7 and unit
    3 are combined and, hence, separate links between these components and card 50 are not
 15 required.
    [0084] As mentioned above, once processor 7 generates the control signal, unit 3
    enables EGM 2 for use by the gamer. This includes displaying the credits on meter 45
    and being responsive to the depression of buttons 17 to 21 allow the wagering of one or
    more of the credits on a game of chance, or successive games of chance. Typically, unit
20  3 will also be in periodic or frequent communication with network 51, via card 50, to
    provide various activity reports, which are usually predefined, and to receive
    communications from the network about any jackpot games in which the EGM is
    participating.
    [0085] Once the gamer depresses the collect button 22, this signals that the present
25  gaming session is to conclude. Unit 3 is responsive to button 22 to assess the available
    credits - which are also displayed on meter 45 - and to communicate this to processor 7
    via link 14. Processor 7 is responsive to the available credits for communicating with
    network 51 to ascertain a unique indicator for a ticket to be printed - in this
    embodiment, ticket 31.      More particularly, network 51 updates the database with the
30  available credits and allocates an identifier for a ticket. Following from this, network 51
    communicates the unique identifier to processor 7 which, in turn, actuates printer 30 to

                                                   -20
       print ticket 31 that includes in zone 40 data indicative of the available credits.
       Accordingly, in completing the gaming session, the gamer is presented with a printed
       ticket for any remaining credits. This ticket - that is, ticket 31 - is then able to be
       subsequently inserted by the gamer into another EGM (not shown) in the gaming venue
   5   to allow play of that another EGM, subject to presenting card 61 also.
       [0086] In a further embodiment, once the gamer depresses button 22, there is a need to
      then present card 61 to reader 6 to identify the gamer. This is a further assurance that
      only the gamer who provided ticket 5 to validator 4 is able to request the production of
      ticket 31.
 10    [00871 It will be appreciated that the above embodiment allows for cashless gaming and
      player tracking. For not only is it known who is playing - in that the gamer must present
      card 61 - but also where the credits have been issued, where they have been redeemed,
      and what credits are available.      In some embodiments, the tickets are linked to the
      specific gamer and cannot be used except by that specific gamer. In other embodiments,
 15   however, the identification information for each gamer includes a group designation,
      where gamers within the same group are entitled to use tickets issued to any other gamer
      in that group.
      [0088] In circumstances where a jackpot prize is awarded to EGM 2 it is possible for the
      credits to be also printed on ticket 31. In some embodiments, however, the jackpot prize
20    is printed on a separate ticket.
      [00891 In this embodiment, the printed tickets have a finite lifetime of 24 hours from
      issue to reduce the risk of theft. Accordingly, gamers are encouraged, prior to leaving
     the gaming venue, to convert any tickets held to cash. To do so, the gamer presents the
     ticket or tickets to kiosk 55 and banknotes corresponding to the monetary value of the
25   credits are issued to the gamer. In some embodiments, if the ticket has expired the
     gamer must provide additional identification to recover the cash or credit monies.
     [0090] The TITO functionality provided in the above embodiment is only able to be
     achieved through an association with a player card which, in the above embodiment, is
     card 61. Accordingly, system 1 allows the creation and storage of records indicative of
30   this aspect of a player's activity. These records are then able to be used by the gamer to

                                                 -21
     monitor their own gaming activities, and by the venue and/or Regulator for harm
     minimisation and customer relations management purposes.             For example, in this
     embodiment, kiosk 55 provides the gamer with the option of viewing predefined reports
     about their gaming activities, including total amount wagered, amounts won, amounts
  5  lost, biggest wins, smallest wins, accumulated loyalty points, redeemed loyalty points,
     and the like. In other embodiments, the reports are also available on EGM 2. In still
     further embodiments, the gamer and/or the venue are able to set thresholds that, once
     reached, result in a message being displayed to the gamer at EGM 2 or kiosk 55, or to
     the operator of the venue. For example, in some embodiments, the gamer is able to
 10  request an alert once $50 (or other predefined amount) has been wagered on an EGM as
     a reminder to move to another EGM. Another example is where the gamer requests an
     alert that their balance of credits is now approaching that originally included on the
     ticket inserted into the EGM. In another embodiment, once the threshold is approached
    the player is provided a visual and audible alert and once the threshold is reached,
 15  further gaming at EGM 2 is prevented. As in, processor 7 will print ticket 31 containing
    data indicative of the remaining credits on EGM 2. In the event the gamer attempts to
     insert ticket 31 into another EGM in the gaming venue, that EGM will not accept the
    ticket. In this embodiment, the prevention of further gaming at the venue for that gamer
    is maintained for two hours. However, in other embodiments, other durations are used.
20  For example, a duration is selected from: one hour; six hours; twelve hours; twenty four
    hours; one week. Other variable durations are also used in other embodiments, such as
    not allowing play until the next business day, or the next weekend day or the next public
    holiday or the next payday of the gamer.
    [0091] In another embodiment, system 1 allows the gamer or the venue to set a
25  threshold for the total amount to be wagered by that gamer during a gaming session and,
    as such, any winnings arising in that session are not available to be wagered in that
    session.    In a further embodiment, system 1 allows the gamer or the venue to set a
    maximum time for a wagering session. This is particularly applicable in venues which
    are open long hours, or continuously.       In another embodiment, system 1 allows the
30  gamer or the venue to limit, for a particular gamer, for a particular session, the maximum
    amount able to be wagered on any given EGM. For example, if the EGM takes wagers
    of $1 or multiples of $1 up to $5, system 1 is able to be configured to limit the gamer,

                                                   - 22
     during the session, from making other than $1 wagers. It will be appreciated by those
     skilled in the art, with the benefit of the teaching herein, that other embodiments include
     a combination the above functions and/or with other functions.
     [0092] The time and/or wagering limits for the player as contained within system 1 are
  5  able to be set by the gamer and/or the venue. In practice, the lower of the limits is
     always allowed to prevail to ensure the gamer is well informed of the overall gaming
     activity. However, there is also a hierarchy of thresholds or limits, where those set by
     the player are lower in the hierarchy than those set by the venue. Accordingly, if the
    player's limit is higher than that of the venue's, the lower limit of the venue prevails.
 10  [00931 It will be appreciated that to operate system 1 no player accounts need be set-up
    and managed by the venue therefore reducing the cost of the associated information
    systems and avoiding the risk and complexity involved in running such accounts.
     [0094] Reference is now made to Figure 6 where there is illustrated another embodiment
    of the invention in the form of system 71, where corresponding features are denoted by
15  corresponding reference numerals. Link 53 between unit 3 and card 50 has been omitted
    for the sake of clarity only.      This link is able to be included to allow centralised
    connection of the EGM for control or reporting purposes. System 71 is designed for an
    SAS configuration as used in the US market and many other markets.               One of the
    significant differences relative to the Figure 1 embodiment is the inclusion of a collect
20  button intercept board 72 that interfaces the collect button 22 directly to processor 7
    rather than via unit 3. This allows for minimal or no changes to unit 3 and, hence, for
    ease of retrofitting to existing machines that have regulatory approval. In particular, the
    use of board 72 allows the issuing of a ticket by system 71 to be managed entirely
    independently of unit 3. In effect, unit 3 is unaware of the collect request as this is
25  managed via processor 7 which, in turn, communicates with unit 3 and network 51 to
    derived the value or quantity of the credits to include on ticket 61.
    [0095] It will be appreciated that in other embodiments system 71 is designed for other
    configurations, such as the X Series configuration used in Australia in the state of New
    South Wales.

                                               - 23
     [00961 It is usual for venues,        and particularly   for larger venues,    to enable
     communication with the individual primary logic units 3 of the various EGMs.          The
     embodiments of Figure 1 and Figure 6 make use of the same card 6 to establish
     communications with a central network.         This allows for greater use of existing
  5  communications hardware - for example, the cabling and interface cards - while
    providing the improved functionality of TITO together with the ability to track player
    activity.
     [0097] Reference is now made to Figure 7 where there is illustrated another embodiment
    of the invention in the form of system 81, where corresponding features are denoted by
 10 corresponding reference numerals. As with the Figure 6 embodiment, link 53 has been
    omitted for the sake of clarity but is included, as required.    System 81 is designed a
    Qcom configuration as used primarily Australia in the states of Victoria and Queensland.
    In this embodiment the venue makes use of a site controller 82 for controlling and
    policing the function of all the EGMs in a venue.       Controller 82 is securely located
15  typically within the venue and provides for both control and reporting of EGM activity.
    This site controller is connected directed to unit 3 via a dedicated link 83, and also to
    processor 7 of system 81 via a dedicated link 84. Network 51 includes software in the
    form of a gaming engine for managing data flows to and from EGM 2, and for executing
    requests and commands. While controller 82 provides some control of processor 7, and
20  obtains information from processor 7, that processor also communicates with network 51
    for collectively enabling the TITO functionality. That is, network 51 and controller 82
    are separate but work together to provide the required functionality.             In other
    embodiments, site controller 82 and network 51 are physically or functionally integrated.
    [00981 The embodiments of the invention provide the gamer and/or the venue with a
25  player tracking solution that is able to be implemented relatively easily and
    inexpensively.     The different embodiments are suited to either retrofitting to existing
    EGMs, or for being integrally designed into new EGMs.            Other advantages of the
    preferred embodiments include:
                 Allowing self-monitoring of activities by the gamer and the ability, within a
30               ticketing system, for the gamer to pre-commit to defined limits in terms of
                 total wagers or time spent gaming.

                                                   -24
             *  Allowing the venue to more effectively implement harm minimisation
                 strategies that are easily tailored to individual garners or groups of gainers.
             *  Accommodate a wide variety of identification carriers and coupons.
             *   Suitable for use with many gaming network protocols.
  5          e  Allow for centralised processing, distributed processing, or a combination of
                both.
             *  Provides player tracking while also providing the benefits of a cash-based
                system - in that coupons are accepted at all EGMs and credits are
                transportable between EGMs.
 10         0   Provides player tracking while not requiring the administrative downside of
                maintaining player accounts.
     [00991 Unless specifically stated otherwise, as apparent from the following discussions,
    it is appreciated that throughout the specification discussions utilising terms such as
    "processing",     "processing    system",     "computing",     "calculating",  "determining",
15  "analysing" or the like, refer to the action and/or processes of a computer or computing
    system, or similar electronic computing device, that manipulate and/or transform data
    represented as physical, such as electronic, quantities into other data similarly
    represented as physical quantities.
    [001001         In a similar manner, the term "processor" may refer to any device or
20  portion of a device that processes electronic data, for example, from registers and/or
    memory to transform that electronic data into other electronic data that, for example,
    may be stored in registers and/or memory. A "computer" or a "computing machine" or a
    "computing platform" may include one or more processors.
    [00101]         The methodologies described herein are, in one embodiment, performable
25  by one or more processors that accept computer-readable (also called machine-readable)
    code containing a set of instructions that when executed by one or more of the
    processors carry out at least one of the methods described herein.             Any processor
    capable of executing a set of instructions (sequential or otherwise) that specify actions to

                                                -25
      be taken are included. Thus, one example is a typical processing system that includes
      one or more processors. Each processor may include one or more of a CPU, a graphics
      processing unit, and a programmable DSP unit. The processing system further may
      include a memory subsystem including main RAM and/or a static RAM, and/or ROM.
   5  A bus subsystem may be included for communicating between the components.            The
      processing system further may be a distributed processing system with processors
      coupled by a network. If the processing system requires a display, such a display may
      be included, for example, a liquid crystal display (LCD) or a cathode ray tube (CRT)
      display. If manual data entry is required, the processing system also includes an input
 10   device such as one or more of an alphanumeric input unit such as a keyboard, a pointing
      control device such as a mouse, and so forth. The term "memory unit" or "memory" as
      used herein, if clear from the context and unless explicitly stated otherwise, also
      encompasses a storage system such as a disk drive unit. The processing system in some
      configurations may include a sound output device, and a network interface device, for
 15   example. The memory subsystem thus includes a computer-readable carrier medium
     that carries computer-readable code (for example, software) including a set of
      instructions to cause performing, when executed by one or more processors, one of more
     of the methods described herein. Note that when the method includes several elements,
      for example, several steps, no ordering of such elements is implied, unless specifically
20   stated. The software may reside in the hard disk, or may also reside, completely or at
     least partially, within the RAM and/or within the processor during execution thereof by
     the computer system. Thus, the memory and the processor also constitute computer
     readable carrier medium carrying computer-readable code.
     [001021          Furthermore, a computer-readable carrier medium may form, or be
25   includes in a computer program product.
     [00103]          In alternative embodiments, the one or more processors operate as a
     standalone device or may be connected, for example, by being networked to another
     processor or other processors. In such a networked deployment, the one or more
     processors may operate in the capacity of a server or a user machine in a server-user
30   network environment, or as a peer machine in a peer-to-peer or distributed network
     environment. The one or more processors may form a personal computer (PC), a tablet
     PC, a set-top box (STB), a Personal Digital Assistant (PDA), a cellular telephone, a web

                                                  - 26
      appliance, a network router, switch or bridge, or any machine capable of executing a set
      of instructions (sequential or otherwise) that specify actions to be taken by that machine.
      [00104]         Where a figure only illustrates a single processor and/or a single memory
     that carries the computer-readable code, those in the art will understand that many of the
  5  components described above are included, but not explicitly shown or described to
     reduce the risk of obscuring the inventive aspect. For example, while only a single
     machine is illustrated, the term "machine" shall also be taken to include any collection of
     machines that individually or jointly execute a set (or multiple sets) of instructions to
     perform any one or more of the methodologies discussed herein.
 10   [00105]         Thus, one embodiment of each of the methods described herein is in the
     form of a computer-readable carrier medium carrying a set of instructions - for example,
     a computer program - that are for execution on one or more processors. For example,
     the one or more processors that are part of an apparatus for determining the award of a
     set of prizes. Thus, as will be appreciated by those skilled in the art, embodiments of the
 15  present invention may be embodied as a method, an apparatus such as a special purpose
     apparatus, an apparatus such as a data processing system, or a computer-readable carrier
     medium, for example, a computer program product.             The computer-readable carrier
     medium carries computer readable code including a set of instructions that when
     executed on one or more processors cause a processor or processors to implement a
20   method. Accordingly, aspects of the present invention may take the form of a method,
     an entirely hardware embodiment, an entirely software embodiment or an embodiment
     combining software and hardware aspects. Furthermore, the present invention may take
    the form of carrier medium (for example, a computer program product on a computer
    readable storage medium) carrying computer-readable program code embodied in the
25  medium.
     [00106]         The software may further be transmitted or received over a network via a
    network interface device (exemplified by interface card 4 and communications card 28).
    While the carrier medium is shown in an exemplary embodiment to be a single medium,
    the term "carrier medium" should be taken to include a single medium or multiple media
30  (for example, a centralized or distributed database, and/or associated caches and servers)
    that store the one or more sets of instructions. The term "carrier medium" shall also be

                                                   -27
     taken to include any medium that is capable of storing, encoding or carrying a set of
      instructions for execution by one or more of the processors and that cause the one or
     more processors to perform any one or more of the methodologies of the present
      invention. A carrier medium may take many forms, including but not limited to, non
  5  volatile media, volatile media, and transmission media. Non-volatile media includes, for
     example, optical, magnetic disks, and magneto-optical disks. Volatile media includes
     dynamic memory, such as main memory. Transmission media includes coaxial cables,
     copper wire and fibre optics, including the wires that comprise a bus subsystem.
     Transmission media also may also take the form of acoustic or light waves, such as those
 10  generated during radio wave and infrared data communications. For example, the term
     "carrier medium" shall accordingly be taken to included, but not be limited to, solid-state
     memories, a computer product embodied in optical and magnetic media, a medium
     bearing a propagated signal detectable by at least one processor of one or more
     processors and representing a set of instructions that when executed implement a
 15  method, a carrier wave bearing a propagated signal detectable by at least one processor
     of the one or more processors and representing the set of instructions a propagated signal
     and representing the set of instructions, and a transmission medium in a network bearing
     a propagated signal detectable by at least one processor of the one or more processors
     and representing the set of instructions.
20   [001071          It will be understood that the steps of methods discussed are performed in
    one embodiment by an appropriate processor (or processors) of a processing - that is, a
    computer - system executing instructions - that is, computer-readable code - stored in
    storage.    It will also be understood that the invention is not limited to any particular
    implementation or programming technique and that the invention may be implemented
25  using any appropriate techniques for implementing the functionality described herein.
    The invention is not limited to any particular programming language or operating
    system.
    [001081          Reference throughout this specification to "one embodiment" or "an
    embodiment" means that a particular feature, structure or characteristic described in
30  connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment of the present
    invention.      Thus, appearances of the phrases "in one embodiment" or "in              an
    embodiment" in various places throughout this specification are not necessarily all

                                                  - 28
     referring to the same embodiment, but may.            Furthermore, the particular features,
     structures or characteristics may be combined in any suitable manner, as would be
     apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art from this disclosure, in one or more
     embodiments.
  5  [001091         Similarly it should be appreciated that in the above description of
     exemplary embodiments of the invention, various features of the invention are
     sometimes grouped together in a single embodiment, figure, or description thereof for
    the purpose of streamlining the disclosure and aiding in the understanding of one or
    more of the various inventive aspects. This method of disclosure, however, is not to be
 10  interpreted as reflecting an intention that the claimed invention requires more features
    than are expressly recited in each claim.          Rather, as the following claims reflect,
    inventive aspects lie in less than all features of a single foregoing disclosed embodiment.
    Thus, the claims following the Detailed Description are hereby expressly incorporated
    into this Detailed Description, with each claim standing on its own as a separate
15  embodiment of this invention.
     [001101         Furthermore, while some embodiments described herein include some but
    not other features included in other embodiments, combinations of features of different
    embodiments are meant to be within the scope of the invention, and form different
    embodiments, as would be understood by those in the art. For example, in the following
20  claims, any of the claimed embodiments can be used in any combination as would be
    understood by a skilled addressee given the benefit of the teaching herein.
    [001111         Furthermore, some of the embodiments are described herein as a method
    or combination of elements of a method that can be implemented by a processor of a
    computer system or by other means of carrying out the function. Thus, a processor with
25  the necessary instructions for carrying out such a method or element of a method forms a
    means for carrying out the method or element of a method. Furthermore, an element
    described herein of an apparatus or system embodiment is an example of a means for
    carrying out the function performed by the element for the purpose of carrying out the
    invention.
30  [001121         In the description provided herein, numerous specific details are set forth.
    However, it is understood that embodiments of the invention may be practiced without

                                                  -29
     these specific details. In other instances, well-known methods, structures and techniques
     have not been shown in detail in order not to obscure an understanding of this
     description.
      [001131         As used herein, unless otherwise specified the use of the ordinal
  5  adjectives "first", "second", "third", etc., to describe a common object, merely indicate
     that different instances of like objects are being referred to, and are not intended to imply
     that the objects so described must be in a given sequence, either temporally, spatially, in
     ranking, or in any other manner.
     [001141          In the claims below and the description herein, any one of the terms
10   comprising, comprised of or which comprises is an open term that means including at
     least the elements/features that follow, but not excluding others.            Thus, the term
     comprising, when used in the claims, should not be interpreted as being limitative to the
    means or elements or steps listed thereafter. For example, the scope of the expression a
    device comprising A and B should not be limited to devices consisting only of elements
15  A and B. Any one of the terms including or which includes or that includes as used
    herein is also an open term that also means including at least the elements/features that
    follow the term, but not excluding others.        Thus, including is synonymous with and
    means comprising.
     [001151         Thus, while there has been described what are believed to be the
20  preferred embodiments of the invention, those skilled in the art will recognize that other
    and further modifications may be made thereto without departing from the spirit of the
    invention, and it is intended to claim all such changes and modifications as fall within
    the scope of the invention.        For example, any formulas given above are merely
    representative of procedures that may be used. Functionality may be added or deleted
25  from the block diagrams and operations may be interchanged among functional blocks.
    Steps may be added or deleted to methods described within the scope of the present
    invention.

                                                   - 30
     THE CLAIMS DEFINING THE INVENTION ARE AS FOLLOWS:
      1.      A system for providing an electronic gaming machine (EGM) with a control
     signal indicative of one or more gaming credits, wherein the EGM is operated by a
     gamer for playing a game of chance by redeeming the one or more gaming credits, the
  5  system including:
              an interface for: interacting with a non-currency coupon indicative of the one or
     more gaming credits; and providing a credit signal indicative of the credits;
              an enabler for receiving first identification information about the gamer and for
     selectively providing an enable signal; and
 10          a system processor that is responsive to the credit signal and the enable signal for
     selectively providing the control signal to the EGM.
     2.       A system according to claim 1 wherein the credit signal and the enable signal are
     included within a combined signal.
     3.     A system according to claim 2 wherein the combined signal is provided by the
15   enabler and the system processor is responsive to the combined signal for providing the
     control signal.
     4.     A system according to claim 2 wherein the combined signal is provided by the
     interface and the system processor is responsive to the combined signal for providing the
    control signal.
20   5.    A system according to any one of the preceding claims including:
           a database for storing second identification information about the gamer; and
           a verification device that is responsive to the first and the second identification
    information for selectively providing a validation signal, wherein the enabler is
    responsive to the validation signal for providing the enable signal.
25  6.     A system according to any one of the preceding claims wherein the first
    identification information is stored on an identification carrier.
    7.     A system according to claim 6 wherein the enabler includes a reader for receiving
    the first identification information from the identification carrier.

                                                  -31
     8.    A system according to claim 7 wherein the reader receives the first information
     wirelessly.
     9.    A system according to claim 8 wherein the identification carrier is selected from
     the group including: an RFID tag; a magnetic-strip card; and a printed ticket.
  5  10.   A system according to claim 9 wherein the first identification information is stored
     on the carrier in a machine-readable form.
     11.   A system according to claim 9 or claim 10 wherein the machine readable form
    requires decoding to reveal the identification information.
     12.   A system according to claim 11 wherein the decoding involves decryption.
 10  13.   A system according to any one of the preceding claims wherein the non-currency
    coupon is a ticket having machine-readable data which is indicative of one or more
    gaming credits.
     14.   A system according to claim 13 wherein the interface includes an interface input
    mechanism configured for receiving the ticket.
15   15.   A system according to claim 10 wherein the machine readable form is a barcode
    and the interface input mechanism is a barcode scanner.
     16.   A system according to anyone of the preceding claims wherein the EGM includes
    a gaming controller that is responsive to the control signal for attributing the one or more
    gaming credits to the EGM.
20  17.    A system according to claim 16 wherein the gaming controller includes a gaming
    processor for controlling the game of chance.
    18.    A system according to claim 16 or claim 17 wherein and the gaming controller
    includes the system processor.
    19.    An electronic gaming machine (EGM) that is operated by a gamer for playing a
25  game of chance by redeeming the one or more gaming credits, the EGM including:
            an interface for: interacting with a non-currency coupon indicative of the one or
    more gaming credits; and providing a credit signal indicative of the credits;

                                                 -32
            an enabler for receiving first identification information about the gamer and for
   selectively providing an enable signal; and
            a gaming controller that is responsive to the credit signal and the enable signal
   for selectively making the one or more gaming credits available for redemption at the
 5 EGM.
   20.      A method of providing an electronic gaming machine (EGM) with a control
   signal indicative of one or more gaming credits, wherein the EGM is operated by a
   gamer for playing a game of chance by redeeming the one or more gaming credits, the
   method including the steps of:
10        interacting with a non-currency coupon indicative of the one or more gaming
   credits and providing a credit signal indicative of the credits;
          receiving identification information about the gamer and selectively providing an
   enable signal; and
          in response to the credit signal and the enable signal, selectively providing the
15 control signal to the EGM indicative of the credits.

2009222456
<removed-apn> 25 Mar
           27     2018
              Sep 2009

2009222456
<removed-apn> 25 Mar
           27     2018
              Sep 2009

2009222456
<removed-apn> 25 Mar
           27     2018
              Sep 2009

2009222456
<removed-apn> 25 Mar
           27     2018
              Sep 2009

2009222456
<removed-apn> 25 Mar
           27     2018
              Sep 2009

