              DEVICES AND METHODS FOR KNEE ARTHROPLASTY
                            ABSTRACT OF THE DISCLOSURE
        The present invention provides, in certain embodiments, a device for positioning
and orienting the femoral cutting block. The present invention also provides a device for
setting rotation of sagittal resection for unicompartmental knee arthroplasty. The present
invention further provides methods for setting the rotation of the tibial implant by
kinematic measurements.

              DEVICES AND METHODS FOR KNEE ARTHROPLASTY
                               RELATED APPLICATIONS
        [0001]      This application is a divisional application of Australian Patent
Application No. 2013262624, the entire contents of which is incorporated herein by
reference.
        [0002]      This application claims priority from US Patent Application No.
61/648,762 filed on 18 May 2012, the entire contents of which is also incorporated herein
by reference.
                         BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
Field of the Invention
        [0003]      The present application includes inventions that provide devices and/or
methods to assist in the distal femur resection and/or the proximal tibial resection during
knee arthroplasty.
Description of the Related Art
        [0004]      The knee joint often requires replacement in the form of prosthetic
components due to strain, stress, wear, deformation, misalignment, and/or other
conditions in the joint. Prosthetic knee joint components are designed to replace a distal
portion or portions of a femur and/or a proximal portion or portions of a tibia. Prior to
replacing the knee joint with prosthetic components, surgical cuts commonly called
resections are generally made with a cutting tool or tools along a portion or portions of
both the proximal tibia and distal femur. These cuts are made to prepare the tibia and
femur for the prosthetic components.         After these cuts are made, the prosthetic
components can be attached and/or secured to the tibia and femur.
        [0005]      Resecting a portion or portions of the distal femur can provide a
location for placement and/or attachment of a femoral knee joint prosthetic ("distal
femoral resection"). The orientation of a cutting block, and/or cutting plane or planes, can
be pre-operatively determined in order to provide a desired fit and/or orientation for the
femoral knee joint prosthetic. Properly orientating the cutting plane or planes along the
distal femur can facilitate alignment of the femoral knee joint prosthetic with the tibial
knee joint prosthetic.   This alignment can create a set of knee joint prosthetics which
function smoothly, continuously, and/or without substantial wear during their life of use.

         [0006]     Similarly, resecting a portion or portions of the proximal tibia can
provide a location for placement and/or attachment of a femoral knee joint prosthetic
("proximal tibial resection"). The orientation of a cutting block, and/or cutting plane or
planes, can be pre-operatively determined in order to provide a desired fit and/or
orientation for the tibial knee joint prosthetic. Properly orientating the cutting plane or
planes along the proximal tibia can facilitate alignment of the tibial knee joint prosthetic
with the femoral knee joint prosthetic.      This alignment can create a set of knee joint
prosthetics which function smoothly, continuously, and/or without substantial wear during
their life of use.
         [0007]     Joint replacement procedures described above often use a system or
systems of surgical tools and devices, including but not limited to cutting guides (e.g.
cutting blocks) and surgical guides, to make surgical cuts along a portion or portions of
the patient's bone. Current systems and methods often use expensive, complex, bulky,
and/or massive computer navigation systems which require a computer or computers, as
well as three dimensional imaging, to track a spatial location and/or movement of a
surgical instrument or landmark in the human body. These systems are used generally to
assist a user to determine where in space a tool or landmark is located, and often require
extensive training, cost, and room.
         [0008]     Where such complex and costly system are not used, simple methods
are used, such "eyeballing" the alignment of rods with anatomical features, such as leg
bones.     These simple methods are not sufficiently accurate to reliably align and place
implant components and the bones to which such components are attached.
         [0009]     Accordingly, there is a lack of devices, systems and methods that can
be used to accurately position components of prosthetic joints without overly
complicating the procedures, crowding the medical personnel, and/or burdening the
physician of health-care facility with the great cost of complex navigation systems.
         [0010]     During conventional knee arthroplasty, the surgeon often visually
aligns the various components required for the femoral and tibial implants.
                            SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
         [0011]     In one embodiment, a system is provided for cutting a tibia of a leg of a
patient in a uni-condylar procedure. The system includes a guide pin and a sagittal saw
guide.    The guide pin has a first end configured to be embedded in a distal aspect of a
femur and a second end configured to protrude from the femur when the first end is so

placed. The sagittal saw guide has a first portion configured to couple with the second
portion of the guide pin and a second portion comprising a saw registration feature.
Wherein when the first portion of the sagittal saw guide is coupled with the second
portion of the guide pin, the second portion of the sagittal saw guide projects distally
away from the guide pin to position the saw registration feature over the tibia in a
generally sagittal plane.
         [0012]     In another embodiment, a method of cutting a tibia of a leg of a patient
in a uni-condylar procedure is provided. The mechanical axis of a femur is located based
on output from at least one inertial sensor coupled with the leg. A pin is placed in the
femur at an orientation corresponding to the mechanical axis of the femur based on output
from at least one inertial sensor. A sagittal saw guide is coupled with the pin such that a
saw registration feature is disposed over the tibia in a generally sagittal plane. The tibia is
resected along the saw registration feature. Whereby the sagittal resection is made based
on the orientation of the mechanical axis of the femur.
         [0013]     In another embodiment, a system for preparing a femur for a femoral
cutting block is provided. The system includes a first guide and a second guide. The first
guide has a first portion configured to contact a posterior condyle surface and a second
portion extending away from the first portion.      The second portion is configured to be
disposed adjacent to a resected distal femoral surface.      The second portion has a drill
guide feature spaced from the first portion a distance to provide a mounting position for a
femoral cutting block. The second guide has a first portion having a spike member and a
second portion extending away from the first portion. The second portion comprises a
drill guide feature. The second guide has a linear structure configured to be aligned with
a tibial plateau. Whereby the system enables the formation of a plurality of holes for
mounting a femoral cutting block to the femur.
         [0014]     In another embodiment, a method of preparing a femur for a femoral
cutting block is provided. Resection planes are formed on a distal portion of a femur and
a proximal portion of a tibia. A first portion of a first guide is contacted with a posterior
condyle of the femur. A second portion of the first guide is positioned over the resection
plane of the femur. A first hole is formed in the femur extending superiorly (e.g., toward
the hip joint) from the resection plane of the femur through the second portion of the first
guide. A first portion of a second guide is coupled with the first hole. A second portion
of the second guide is positioned such that a feature of the second guide is aligned with

the resection plane of the tibia.      A second hole is formed in the femur extending
superiorly (e.g., toward the hip joint) from the resection plane of the femur through the
second portion of the second guide.
        [0015]       In another embodiment, a system is provided for setting tibial implant
rotation. The system includes at least one orientation device and a plurality of tibial trial
components. The orientation device(s) is or are configured to be coupled with one or both
of a femur and a tibia. Each of the tibial trial components of the plurality is configured to
be placed between the tibia and the femur.          The system also includes a processor
configured to perform one or more of the following functions:
                 [0016] (i) gathering measurements from one or more inertial sensors of
        the orientation device(s);
                 [0017] (ii) performing calculations to convert the measurements from the
        inertial sensors to tibio-femoral kinematic information;
                 [0018] (iii) comparing the tibio-femoral kinematic information to target
        values of tibio-femoral kinematics; and
                 [0019] (iv) transmitting user output corresponding to one or both of the
        tibio-femoral kinematic information and the target vales.
        [0020]       In another embodiment, a method for setting tibial implant rotation is
provided. In the method, at least one inertial sensor is coupled with at least one of a tibia
and a femur of a leg of a patient. An implant is positioned on a resected surface of the
tibia of the patient. The leg is moved to position the tibia in a plurality of positions
differing in flexion, axial rotation, and/or varus-valgus relative to the femur. Values
based on output of the sensors indicative of tibio-femoral kinematics are compared with
tibio-femoral kinematic target values for one or more of flexion, axial rotation, and/or
varus-valgus.

                       BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
         [0021]     FIG. 1 shows a perspective view of an anterior-posterior positioning
guide of one embodiment of the present invention;
         [0022]     FIG. 2 shows a perspective view of a human femur;
         [0023]     FIG. 3 shows a perspective view of the positioning guide shown in
FIG. 1 attached to the femur shown in FIG. 2, with a tibia in an anatomically correct
relative location;
         [0024]     FIG. 4 shows a perspective view of a drill guide of one embodiment of
the present invention;
         [0025]     FIG. 5 shows a perspective view the drill guide shown in FIG 4
positioned on the femur and tibia shown in FIG. 3;
         [0026]     FIG. 6 shows a perspective view of a reference device of one
embodiment of the present invention;
         [0027]     FIG. 7 shows a perspective view of a femur, tibia, and a guide pin of
one embodiment of the present invention;
         [0028]     FIG. 8 shows a front view of a surgical orientation device of one
embodiment of the present invention;
         [0029]     FIG. 9 shows a front view of a cutting block of one embodiment of the
present invention; and
         [0030]     FIG. 10 shows a top view of a tibia including contact point lines.
           DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENT
         [0031]     To overcome the problems described above, the certain embodiments
of the present invention include devices and/or methods to assist in distal femur resection
and proximal tibial resection during knee arthroplasty.
1.      Devices for positioning and orienting femoral cutting block
         [0032]     The rotation of the femoral implant in total knee arthroplasty (TKA) is
set by the placement of the 4-in-i femoral cutting block, a standard component of the
knee system's instrument set.     This cutting block is used to guide the creation of the
anterior, posterior, anterior chamfer, and posterior chamfer resections. The cutting block
usually includes either two fixed spikes, or two holes for bone pins, which are used to
secure it to the femur after the distal resection has been completed. Drilling or marking

two holes for these features orients and locates the cutting block. The locations of these
holes are typically defined by a drill guide device which the surgeon visually aligns with
anatomical landmarks on the femur, but which does not account for the mechanical
alignment of the femur with the tibia. A drill guide that references the tibia may improve
implant function.
         [0033]      Following completion of the tibial resection 41 and the distal femoral
resection 22, an AP (anterior-posterior) positioning guide 10 is placed on the distal
surface 22 of the femur 20. Referring to FIGS. 1-3, this instrument includes a paddle 12
to reference either the medial or the lateral posterior condyle 24, and a hole 14 to position
a drill at a fixed distance anterior to the paddle 12. The distance from the paddle 12 to the
hole 14 is determined by the implant system's 4-in-i cutting block dimensions: The
distance is equal to the distance from the posterior cutting slot to the cutting block spike,
plus the posterior thickness of the femoral implant. The surgeon drills a hole in the femur
20 through the AP positioning guide 10.
         [0034]      Now referring to FIGS. 4-5, a spike 32 on one end of a drill guide 30 is
placed in the hole in the distal femur 22. The drill guide 30 is rotated around the spike 32
until its edge 36 is parallel to the tibial resection 41, then a second hole is drilled into the
femur 20 through the hole 34 in the drill guide 30. The drill guide 30 is configured to
space the two holes at the correct distance to accommodate the 4-in-i cutting block's
mounting pins.
         [0035]      Preferably, the technique described would include the use of some
commonly-used tensioning instrument (e.g., laminar spreader) to hold the femur 20 in the
correct rotational alignment with the tibia 40 while aligning the drill guide 30 with the
tibial resection 41.
2.       Devices for setting rotation of sagittal resection for UKA tibial implant
         [0036]      In unicompartmental knee arthroplasty (UKA), the tibial implant
replaces only the (usually) medial compartment of the tibia.          Accordingly, two tibial
resections are performed, one in a transverse plane, and one in a sagittal plane. This
sagittal resection both defines the medial-lateral position of the implant, and sets the
rotation of the implant relative to the tibia.       The rotation of this sagittal resection is
typically visually aligned according to surgeon preference and experience.          This visual
                                                -6-_

alignment does not account for the mechanical alignment of the femur with the tibia. A
cutting guide that references the femur may improve implant function.
         [0037]      Referring to FIGS. 6-7, the mechanical axis 28 of the femur 20 is
calculated by a reference device 100, which contains accelerometers and gyroscopes to
sense its angular orientation and rate, and which is fixed to the femur 20. The reference
device 100 incorporates generally the same components and basic measurement functions
as described in U.S. Patent No. 8,118,815 for its reference device (e.g., 16), and may be
identical to this device. A surgical orientation device 200, such as the device shown in
FIG. 8, communicates with the reference device and displays the angle of the surgical
orientation device relative to the calculated mechanical axis 28. The surgical orientation
device 200 incorporates generally the same components and basic measurement functions
as described in U.S. Patent No. 8,118,815 for its surgical orientation device (e.g., 14).
U.S. Patent No. 8,118,815 is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.
         [0038]      With reference to FIG. 7, a guide pin 50 is then placed in the distal
femur 20, with its axis parallel to the mechanical axis 28 of the femur 20, as determined
by the reference device 100. Alternatively, the guide pin 50 may be placed to align its
axis toward the femoral head 26.       The surgical orientation device 200 may be used to
guide placement of the pin 50.
         [0039]      This guide pin 50 is used to position a cutting block 60, which
references the pin 50 by a mating hole 62 in the cutting block 60, and which also includes
a cutting slot 64 for the sagittal resection on the tibia 40. The cutting slot 64 guides the
saw during resection of the tibia 40.
         [0040]      Optionally, the cutting block 60 could be configured to allow medial
lateral translation between the guide hole 62 and the cutting slot 64. This would allow the
rotation and position of the sagittal resection to be set independently. Also optionally, the
cutting block 60 could include a second cutting slot oriented in a transverse plane. This
second cutting slot would provide guidance for the saw during resection of the tibia 40 in
the transverse plane.
         [0041]      As an alternative method, the surgical orientation device 200 could be
mounted on the cutting block 60 and used to align it relative to the mechanical axis 26
without using the guide pin 50. The surgical orientation device 200 would display real
time orientation to the user during placement and pinning of the cutting block 60. If the
cutting block 60 included a second (transverse) cutting slot as described above, the
                                              -7-

angular display from the surgical orientation device could also be used to align this
second slot relative to the mechanical axis of the tibia 40.
3.       Methods for setting the rotation          of the tibial implant by kinematic
measurements
         [0042]      The rotation of the tibial implant in TKA is set following completion
of the tibial resection. The tibial implant can be rotated in any direction on the resected
tibial surface. Final rotation of the implant is typically determined by the surgeon by one
or more of three methods: 1) visually maximizing coverage of the resected surface in an
attempt to place the implant as nearly as possible on the outer rim of the bone; 2) visually
aligning the anterior-posterior (AP) axis of the implant with an anatomic landmark such
as the tibial tubercle; 3) allowing the implant to rotate freely, then fixing the tibial implant
in the rotational alignment dictated by contact with the femur with the knee in full
extension (hereinafter referred to as "traditional methods").         A more precise and/or
quantifiable alignment method is likely to improve implant performance and patient
satisfaction. The present invention provides, in certain embodiments, such more precise
and/or quantifiable alignment methods to improve implant performance and patient
satisfaction.
         [0043]      The present invention provides, in one embodiment, a method for
setting the rotation of the tibial implant by kinematic measurements based upon femur
tibia contact points. In this method of the present invention and referring to FIG. 7, the
femur 20 contacts the tibia 40 at two points: one medial, and one lateral. As the knee
flexes through its range of motion, the location of these contact points on the tibia 40 are
recorded. At any instantaneous flexion angle, a line connecting the two contact points can
be constructed, as shown in FIG. 10.        Lines 42-45 represent the lines connecting the
medial and lateral contact points throughout the range of motion, from line 42 at full
extension, to line 45 at full flexion. At any flexion angle, a line 46-49 perpendicular to
the instantaneous contact point lines 42-45 defines an AP axis that can be used as a
reference for tibial component alignment.
         [0044]      The contact points are identified using one of several art-disclosed
methods and devices including, without limitations, (i) pressure-sensitive film (e.g.,
"Prescale"    film manufactured by Fujifilm® Corp.); and (ii) use of knee implant

measurement devices such as those described by D'Lima et al., "Tibial Forces Measured
In Vivo After Total Knee Arthroplasty," Journal of Arthroplasty p. 255-262 (Vol. 21 No.2
February 2006), which contain load cells able to measure contact forces. Once the contact
points and connecting line 42-45 are identified, the AP axis of the tibial component is
aligned with any one of the perpendicular AP axes 46-49 chosen according to surgeon
preference.    Alternatively, an AP axis could be calculated as an average of all axes
throughout the range of motion, or could be a weighted average with greater weight given
to a specific range of flexion angles.
        [0045]      The present invention also provides, in one embodiment, a method for
setting the rotation of the tibial implant by kinematic measurements based on inertial
measurement of tibio-femoral kinematics.       In this method of the present invention and
referring to FIGS. 6-7, one reference device 100 is securely attached to each of the femur
20 and tibia 40.       The reference device 100 attached to the femur 20 is aligned
approximately with the femoral mechanical axis 28. The reference devices are preferably
mounted in a manner which allows normal function of the patella to reproduce normal
knee kinematics. A medialized attachment is preferred on both the tibia 40 and femur 20
to better accommodate the typical surgical exposure. Optionally, the orientation of the
mechanical axis 28 is calculated relative to the reference device 100 following the method
described in U.S. Patent No. 8,118,815. If desired, this offset angle can be applied to the
reference device 100 for greater measurement accuracy.
        [0046]      In order to establish the characteristics of the knee joint prior to
resection, the surgeon brings the knee into full extension and moves the leg through a
short arc of motion, pivoting about the femoral head 26 in all directions and rotating about
the long axis of the leg. During this motion, the two references devices 100, stationary
relative to each other, perform a "transfer alignment" to calculate the relative
misalignment between the two reference devices 100, allowing the orientation of the tibial
device to be established in the frame of reference of the femoral device.
        [0047]      The knee is then taken through a range of motion. Relative rotations
between the tibia 40 and femur 20 are measured by comparing the angular changes
recorded by their respective reference devices 100 throughout the range of motion. These
rotations are resolved into three directions corresponding to the flexion, axial rotation, and
varus/valgus directions. The rotations are transmitted to the surgical orientation device
200 as shown in FIG. 8, which graphically displays to the user plots of axial rotation and

varus/valgus rotation vs. flexion angle.      The surgical orientation device 200 may also
display numerical values for the rotation angle at various flexion angles of interest, such
as 90 degrees or 120 degrees.
         [0048]      During trial reduction, the surgeon repeats the above procedure. The
surgical orientation device 200 then displays the aforementioned kinematic               data
graphically and superimposes the trial curves upon the pre-operative curves and/ or
calculates the appropriate amount by which the tibial component should be rotated about
the tibial axis in order to best approximate the pre-operative curves. An optimization
algorithm can be employed for this purpose.
         [0049]      The surgeon then adjusts the rotational alignment of the tibial implant
and repeats the measurements above until the rotations of the tibia 40 relative to the femur
20 match the target rotations. These target rotations may be based on published averages
for healthy knees, or on kinematic measurements taken from the same patient prior to
resection.
         [0050]      As an additional optional step, the surgeon applies alternating varus
and valgus torque to the knee in order to gauge the tibio-femoral rotation allowed in each
direction. This varus or valgus rotation is displayed on the surgical orientation device
200, supplementing the traditional visual estimation of knee laxity in the varus/valgus
direction. This rotation information provides a means to quantitatively compare the varus
and valgus laxity, towards the traditional goal of balancing the two by means of soft tissue
releases. This measurement can be used to quantify the laxity of the knee joint in full
extension, 90 degrees flexion or any other angle to which the knee can be flexed.
         [0051]      The present invention further provides, in one embodiment, a method
for setting the rotation of the tibial implant by kinematic measurements using load cells to
measure contract forces between the tibial implant and the femoral implant.           In this
method of the present invention, the trial tibial implant is fitted with load cells able to
measure contact forces between the tibial implant and the femoral implant. Such devices
have been developed previously, and function similarly to the instrumented implant
described by D'Lima et al., "Tibial Forces Measured In Vivo After Total Knee
Arthroplasty," Journal of Arthroplasty p. 255-262 (Vol. 21 No.2 February 2006).
         [0052]      This instrumented trial tibial component is fixed to the tibia 40 in a
rotation determined by the traditional methods described above. As the knee is taken
through a range of motion, the trial component transmits the measured contact forces to a
                                               -1 0)-

surgical orientation device 200, which stores and displays the force data, either as a peak
force number, a force vs. flexion angle history, or both.      The surgeon then iteratively
adjusts the alignment of the trial tibial component and repeats the force measurement
steps.   The tibial component alignment that provides the best fit with the soft tissue
kinematic envelope will be identified as the configuration that produces the minimum
tibio-femoral contact force.
         [0053]      The present invention also provides, in one embodiment, a method for
setting the rotation of the tibial implant by kinematic measurements based upon
measurement of tibial interface torque. In this method of the present invention, the trial
tibial implant is fitted with a torque transducer able to measure axial torque between the
tibial articular surface and the tibia 40. Such devices have been previously demonstrated,
such as the instrumented implants described by Heinlein et al. in the Journal of
Biomechanics (Vol. 41 No.10). For the purposes of the present invention, the torque is
measured around an axis approximately parallel to the long axis of the tibia 40. This
instrumented trial tibial component is fixed to the tibia 40 in a rotation determined by the
traditional methods described above. As the knee is taken through a range of motion, the
trial component transmits the measured torque to a surgical orientation device 200, which
stores and displays the torque data, either as a peak torque number, a torque vs. flexion
angle history, or both. The surgeon then iteratively adjusts the alignment of the trial tibial
component and repeats the torque measurement steps. The tibial component alignment
that provides the best fit with the soft tissue kinematic envelope will be identified as the
configuration that produces the minimum axial torque.
         [0054]      Many other variations than those described herein and/or incorporated
by reference will be apparent from this disclosure.        For example, depending on the
embodiment, certain acts, events, or functions of any of the algorithms described herein
can be performed in a different sequence, can be added, merged, or left out altogether
(e.g., not all described acts or events are necessary for the practice of the algorithms).
Moreover, in certain embodiments, acts or events can be performed concurrently, e.g.,
through multi-threaded processing, interrupt processing, or multiple processors or
processor cores or on other parallel architectures, rather than sequentially.    In addition,
different tasks or processes can be performed by different machines and/or computing
systems that can function together.

         [0055]     The various illustrative logical blocks, modules, and algorithm steps
described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein or incorporated herein by
reference can be implemented as electronic hardware, computer software, or combinations
of both. To clearly illustrate this interchangeability of hardware and software, various
illustrative components, blocks, modules, and steps have been described above generally
in terms of their functionality. Whether such functionality is implemented as hardware or
software depends upon the particular application and design constraints imposed on the
overall system.     The described or incorporated functionality can be implemented in
varying ways for each particular application, but such implementation decisions should
not be interpreted as causing a departure from the scope of the disclosure.
         [0056]     The various illustrative logical blocks and modules described in
connection with the embodiments disclosed herein or incorporated by reference can be
implemented or performed by a machine, such as a general purpose processor, a digital
signal processor (DSP), an application specific integrated circuit (ASIC), a field
programmable gate array (FPGA) or other programmable logic device, discrete gate or
transistor logic, discrete hardware components, or any combination thereof designed to
perform the functions described herein.          A general purpose processor can be a
microprocessor, but in the alternative, the processor can be a controller, microcontroller,
or state machine, combinations of the same, or the like.         A processor can also be
implemented as a combination of computing devices, e.g., a combination of a DSP and a
microprocessor, a plurality of microprocessors,        one or more microprocessors in
conjunction with a DSP core, or any other such configuration. Although described herein
primarily with respect to digital technology, a processor may also include primarily analog
components. For example, any of the signal processing algorithms described herein may
be implemented in analog circuitry. A computing environment can include any type of
computer system, including, but not limited to, a computer system based on a
microprocessor, a mainframe computer, a digital signal processor, a portable computing
device, a personal organizer, a device controller, and a computational engine within an
appliance, to name a few.
         [0057]     The steps of a method, process, or algorithm described in connection
with the embodiments disclosed herein can be embodied directly in hardware, in a
software module executed by a processor, or in a combination of the two. A software
module can reside in RAM memory, flash memory, ROM memory, EPROM memory,
                                             -1 %

EEPROM memory, registers, hard disk, a removable disk, a CD-ROM, or any other form
of non-transitory computer-readable storage medium, media, or physical computer storage
known in the art. An example storage medium can be coupled to the processor such that
the processor can read information from, and write information to, the storage medium.
In the alternative, the storage medium can be integral to the processor. The processor and
the storage medium can reside in an ASIC. The ASIC can reside in a user terminal. In
the alternative, the processor and the storage medium can reside as discrete components in
a user terminal.
         [0058]      Conditional language used herein, such as, among others, "can,"
"might," "may," "e.g.," and the like, unless specifically stated otherwise, or otherwise
understood within the context as used, is generally intended to convey that certain
embodiments include, while other embodiments do not include, certain features, elements
and/or states.   Thus, such conditional language is not generally intended to imply that
features, elements and/or states are in any way required for one or more embodiments or
that one or more embodiments necessarily include logic for deciding, with or without
author input or prompting, whether these features, elements and/or states are included or
are to be performed in any particular embodiment. The terms "comprising," "including,"
"having," and the like are synonymous and are used inclusively, in an open-ended fashion,
and do not exclude additional elements, features, acts, operations, and so forth. Also, the
term "or" is used in its inclusive sense (and not in its exclusive sense) so that when used,
for example, to connect a list of elements, the term "or" means one, some, or all of the
elements in the list. Further, the term "each," as used herein, in addition to having its
ordinary meaning, can mean any subset of a set of elements to which the term "each" is
applied.
         [0059]      While the above detailed description has shown, described, and
pointed out novel features as applied to various embodiments, it will be understood that
various omissions, substitutions, and changes in the form and details of the devices or
algorithms illustrated can be made without departing from the spirit of the disclosure. As
will be recognized, certain embodiments of the inventions described herein can be
embodied within a form that does not provide all of the features and benefits set forth
herein, as some features can be used or practiced separately from others.
         [0060]      Where any or all of the terms "comprise", "comprises", "comprised" or
"comprising" are used in this specification (including the claims) they are to be interpreted
                                              -1'A-

as specifying the presence of the stated features, integers, steps or components, but not
precluding the presence of one or more other features, integers, steps or components.
        [0061]      A reference herein to a patent document or any other matter identified
as prior art, is not to be taken as an admission that the document or other matter was
known or that the information it contains was part of the common general knowledge as at
the priority date of any of the claims.
                                             Ad-

WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
        1.       A system for cutting a tibia of a leg of a patient in a uni-condylar
procedure, comprising:
                 a guide pin having a first end configured to be embedded in a distal aspect
        of a femur and a second end configured to protrude from the femur when the first
        end is so placed; and
                 a sagittal saw guide having a first portion configured to couple with the
        second portion of the guide pin and a second portion comprising a saw registration
        feature,
                 wherein when the first portion of the sagittal saw guide is coupled with the
        second portion of the guide pin, the second portion of the sagittal saw guide
        projects distally away from the guide pin to position the saw registration feature
        over the tibia in a generally sagittal plane.
        2.       The system of Claim 1, further comprising an orientation device
comprising an inertial sensor, the orientation device configured to couple with the guide
pin during placement of the guide pin such that the guide pin can be placed with reference
to an axis of the femur.
        3.       The system of Claim 1, wherein the second portion of the sagittal saw
guide is configured to move relative to the first portion to adjust the medial-lateral
position of the saw registration feature.
        4.       A method of cutting a tibia of a leg of a patient in a uni-condylar
procedure, comprising:
                 locating the mechanical axis of a femur based on output from at least one
        inertial sensor coupled with the leg;
                 placing a pin in the femur at an orientation corresponding to the
        mechanical axis of the femur based on output from at least one inertial sensor;
                 coupling a sagittal saw guide with the pin such that a saw registration
        feature is disposed over the tibia in a generally sagittal plane; and
                 resecting the tibia along the saw registration feature;
                 whereby the sagittal resection is made based on the orientation of the
        mechanical axis of the femur.
        5.       The method of Claim 4, wherein coupling the sagittal saw guide includes
fixing the position and orientation of a first portion of the sagittal saw guide, and further
                                               -15-

comprising adjusting a second portion of the sagittal saw guide relative to the first portion
in a direction generally transverse to the sagittal plane, the second portion of the saw
guide including the saw registration feature.
        6.      A system for preparing a femur for a femoral cutting block, comprising:
                a first guide having a first portion configured to contact a posterior condyle
        surface and a second portion extending away from the first portion configured to
        be disposed adjacent to a resected distal femoral surface, the second portion
        having a drill guide feature spaced from the first portion a distance to provide a
        mounting position for a femoral cutting block;
                a second guide having a first portion having a spike member and a second
        portion extending away from the first portion, the second portion comprising a
        drill guide feature, the second guide having a linear structure configured to be
        aligned with a tibial plateau;
                whereby the system enables the formation of a plurality of holes for
        mounting a femoral cutting block to a femur.
        7.      The system of Claim 6, further comprising a tensioner configured to be
placed between the femur and the tibia to adjust the rotation of one or both of the femur
and the tibia
        8.      A method of preparing a femur for a femoral cutting block, comprising:
                forming resection planes on a distal portion of a femur and a proximal
        portion of a tibia;
                contacting a first portion of a first guide with a posterior condyle of the
        femur;
                positioning a second portion of the first guide over the resection plane of
        the femur;
                forming a first hole extending superiorly from the resection plane of the
        femur through the second portion of the first guide;
                coupling a first portion of a second guide with the first hole;
                positioning a second portion of the second guide such that a feature of the
        second guide is aligned with the resection plane of the tibia; and
                forming a second hole extending superiorly from the resection plane of the
        femur through the second portion of the second guide.
                                              -16-

        9.       The method of Claim 8, further comprising positioning a tensioner
between the femur and the tibia and actuating the tensioner to rotationally align the femur
with the tibia prior to positioning the second portion of the second guide such that the
feature of the second guide is aligned with the resection plane of the tibia.
        10.      The method of Claim 8, further comprising locating the mechanical axis of
the femur, tibia, or leg using inertial sensors prior to forming at least one of the resection
planes on the femur and tibia with reference to the mechanical axis.
        11.      A system for setting tibial implant rotation, comprising:
                 at least one orientation device configured to be coupled with one or both of
        a femur and a tibia;
                 a plurality of tibial trial components configured to be placed between the
        tibia and the femur; and
                 a processor configured to perform one or more of the following functions:
                          (i) gathering measurements from one or more inertial sensors of the
                 orientation device(s);
                          (ii) performing calculations to convert the measurements from the
                 inertial sensors to tibio-femoral kinematic information;
                          (iii) comparing the tibio-femoral kinematic information to target
                 values of tibio-femoral kinematics; and
                          (iv) transmitting user output corresponding to one or both of the
                 tibio-femoral kinematic information and the target vales.
        12.      A method for setting tibial implant rotation, comprising:
                  (a)     coupling at least one inertial sensor with at least one of a tibia and a
        femur of a leg of a patient;
                 (b)      positioning an implant on a resected surface of the tibia of the
        patient;
                 (c)      moving the leg to position the tibia in a plurality of positions
        differing in flexion, axial rotation, and/or varus-valgus relative to the femur; and
                 (d)      comparing values based on output of the sensors indicative of tibio
        femoral kinematics with tibio-femoral kinematic target values for one or more of
        flexion, axial rotation, and/or varus-valgus.
        13.      The method of Claim 12, wherein comparing further comprises comparing
values based on output of the sensors with a model of values for a healthy knee.
                                               -17-

        14.     The method of Claim 12, wherein comparing further comprises comparing
values based on output of the sensors with one or more patient-specific values.
        15.     The method of Claim 14, further comprising recording patient-specific
values of tibio-femoral kinematics of the knee prior to resecting the tibia.
        16.     The method of Claim 14, further comprising recording patient-specific
values of tibio-femoral kinematics of a contralateral knee prior to resecting the tibia.
        17.     The method of Claim 12, further comprising adjusting the rotation of the
knee and repeating steps (c)-(d).
                                            -18-

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
