                                               151
RENAL PUMP
ABSTRACT
        Apparatus and methods are described including identifying a subject as suffering from a
condition selected from the group consisting of: cardiac dysfunction, congestive heart failure,
reduced renal blood flow, increased renal vascular resistance, arterial hypertension, and kidney
dysfunction. In response thereto, blood pressure within a renal vein (32) of the subject is
reduced, by placing a blood pump (150) inside the subject's renal vein and activating the
impeller to pump blood from the renal vein into the subject's vena cava (26). Other applications
are also described.

                                           RENAL PUMP
                                   RELATED APPLICATIONS
        This is a divisional application of Australian Patent Application No. 2014229150, the
contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.
        The application claims priority from US Provisional Patent Application 61/779,803 to
Schwammenthal, filed March 13, 2013, entitled "Renal Pump"; and US Provisional Patent
Application 61/914,475 to Schwammenthal, filed December 11, 2013, entitled "Renal pump".
The application is also related to International Patent Application PCT/IL2013/050495 to Tuval
(published as WO 13/183060), filed June 06, 2013, entitled "Prosthetic renal valve", which
claims priority from US Provisional Patent Application 61/656,244 to Tuval, filed June 06, 2012,
entitled "Prosthetic renal valve".
        All of the above-listed applications are incorporated herein by reference.
                      FIELD OF EMBODIMENTS OF THE INVENTION
         Some applications of the present invention generally relate to medical apparatus.
Specifically, some applications of the present invention relate to apparatus and methods
associated with placing a pump in one or more of a subject's renal veins.
                                          BACKGROUND
        It is common for cardiac dysfunction or congestive heart failure to develop into kidney
dysfunction, which in turn, causes congestive heart failure symptoms to develop or worsen.
Typically, systolic and/or diastolic cardiac dysfunction causes systemic venous congestion,
which gives rise to an increase in renal venous and interstitial pressure. The increase in the
pressure causes fluid retention by the body to increase due both to kidney dysfunction and renal
neurohormonal activation, both of which typically develop as a result of the increase in renal
venous and interstitial pressure. The resulting fluid retention causes congestive heart failure to
develop or worsen, by causing a blood volume overload at the heart and/or by increasing
systemic resistance. Similarly, it is common for kidney dysfunction and/or renal neurohormonal
activation to develop into cardiac dysfunction and/or congestive heart
                                                   1

   failure.    This pathophysiological cycle,       in which cardiac dysfunction and/or
   congestive heart failure leads to kidney dysfunction and/or renal neurohormonal
   activation, or in which kidney dysfunction and/or renal neurohormonal activation
   leads to cardiac dysfunction and/or congestive heart failure, each dysfunction leading
 5 to deterioration in the other dysfunction, is called the cardio-renal syndrome.
            Increased renal venous pressure has been experimentally shown to cause
   azotemia, and a reduction in glomerular filtration rate, renal blood flow, urine output,
   and sodium excretion.        It has also been shown to increase plasma renin and
   aldosterone, and protein excretion. Venous congestion may also contribute to anemia
10 via three different pathways: A reduction in the kidney's erythropoietin production,
   hemodilution by fluid retention, and an inflammatory response leading to a reduced
   gastro-intestinal iron uptake.
            Mechanistically, increased renal venous pressure, may cause intracapsular
   pressure and, subsequently, interstitial peritubular pressure, to rise.          A rise in
15 peritubular pressure may impact tubular function (reduce sodium excretion), as well
   as diminish glomerular filtration by raising the pressure in the Bowman capsule.
            In heart failure patients, increased renal venous pressure may not only result
   from increased central venous (right atrial) pressure, but also from intraperitoneal
   fluid accumulations (ascites) exerting direct pressure on the renal veins. Reduction of
20 intraabdominal pressure in heart failure patients by removal of fluid (e.g., via
   paracentesis, and/or ultrafiltration) has been shown to reduce plasma creatinine levels.
            Increased venous return resulting from activation of the "leg muscle pump"
   during physical activity such as walking may raise systemic venous pressure,
   particularly in heart failure patients, and may result in reflux into the renal veins.
25
                                                 2

                             SUMMARY OF EMBODIMENTS
           In accordance with some applications of the present invention, a blood pump
   that includes an impeller is placed inside a subject's renal vein and the impeller is
   activated to pump blood from the renal vein to the subject's vena cava, in order to
 5 provide acute treatment of a subject suffering from cardiac dysfunction, congestive
   heart failure,   low renal blood flow, high renal vascular resistance,            arterial
   hypertension, and/or kidney dysfunction. For example, the impeller may be placed
   inside the subject's renal veins for a period of more than one hour (e.g., more than one
   day), less than one week (e.g., less than four days), and/or between one hour and one
10 week (e.g., between one day and four days).
           The pump is typically configured to pump blood in a downstream direction
   such as to reduce pressure in the renal vein.        Typically, due to the reduction in
   pressure in the renal vein that is caused by the pumping of the blood in the
   downstream direction, perfusion of the kidney increases.        In turn, this may cause
15 pressure in the renal veins to rise relative to the pressure in the renal veins
   immediately subsequent to initiation of the pumping, due to increased blood flow into
   the renal vein. Typically, even after perfusion of the kidney increases, the pump is
   configured to maintain the pressure in the renal vein at a lower value than the pressure
   in the renal vein before the initiation of the pumping.
20         Typically, the subject's renal vein is protected from being injured by the
   impeller, by placing a cage into the renal vein around the impeller, the cage separating
   a wall of the renal vein from the impeller. For some applications, the cage and the
   impeller are engaged to one another by an engagement mechanism, such that, in
   response to the cage becoming radially compressed, the impeller becomes radially
25 compressed and the cage thereby maintains a separation between the wall of the renal
   vein and the impeller.
           In accordance with some applications, a pump and an occlusion element (e.g.,
   a valve) are placed inside the subject's renal veins in order to provide acute treatment
   of a subject suffering from cardiac dysfunction, congestive heart failure, low renal
30 blood flow, high renal vascular resistance, arterial hypertension, and/or kidney
   dysfunction. For example, the pump and the occlusion element may be placed inside
                                                 3

   the subject's renal veins for a period of more than one hour (e.g., more than one day),
   less than one week (e.g., less than four days), and/or between one hour and one week
   (e.g., between one day and four days).
            The occlusion element is configured to occlude the renal vein at an occlusion
 5 site. The pump is configured to pump blood in a downstream direction, from a site
   that is in fluid communication with the upstream side of the occlusion element to a
   site that is in fluid communication with a downstream side of the occlusion element.
   In doing so, the pump reduces pressure in the renal vein. The occlusion element is
   configured to protect the renal vein from backflow of blood from the vena cava to the
10 renal vein.
            Typically, due to the reduction in pressure in the renal vein that is caused by
   the pumping of the blood in the downstream direction, perfusion of the kidney
   increases. In turn, this may cause pressure in the renal veins to rise relative to the
   pressure in the renal veins immediately subsequent to initiation of the pumping, due to
15 increased blood flow into the renal vein. Typically, even after perfusion of the kidney
   increases, the pump is configured to maintain the pressure in the renal vein at a lower
   value than the pressure in the renal vein before the initiation of the pumping.
            In accordance with some applications of the invention, a blood-impermeable
   sleeve is placed within the subject's vena cava such that a downstream end of the
20 sleeve is coupled to the wall of the vena cava at a first location that is downstream of
   all renal veins of the subject, and such that an upstream end of the sleeve is coupled to
   a wall of the vena cava at a second location that is upstream of all renal veins of the
   subject.   Typically, a coupling structure, e.g., a rigid coupling structure (such as a
   stent), is configured to couple the upstream and downstream ends of the sleeve to the
25 vena cava.
            A pump pumps blood from a location that is exterior to the sleeve to a location
   that is in fluid communication with the interior of the sleeve (e.g., a location within
   the vena cava upstream or downstream of the sleeve). Thus, the pump pumps blood
   out of the subject's renal veins and into the subject's vena cava. The sleeve prevents
30 backflow of blood from the vena cava into the renal veins.
                                                4

           There is therefore provided, in accordance with some applications of the
   present invention, a method including:
           identifying a subject as suffering from a condition selected from the group
   consisting of: cardiac dysfunction, congestive heart failure, reduced renal blood flow,
 5 increased renal vascular resistance, arterial hypertension, and kidney dysfunction; and
           in response thereto, reducing blood pressure within a renal vein of the subject,
   by placing an impeller inside the subject's renal vein and activating the impeller to
   pump blood from the renal vein into a vena cava of the subject.
           For some applications, activating the impeller to pump blood from the renal
10 vein into the vena cava includes enhancing a rate of blood flow from the renal vein
   into the vena cava, without causing a substantial change in a direction of the blood
   flow relative to a direction of blood flow from the renal vein into the vena cava in an
   absence of activating the pump.
           For some applications, activating the impeller to pump blood from the renal
15 vein into the vena cava includes activating the impeller to pump blood from the renal
   vein directly into a portion of the vena cava that is adjacent to the renal vein.
           For some applications, activating the impeller to pump blood from the renal
   vein into the vena cava includes activating the impeller to pump blood from the renal
   vein into the vena cava, without removing blood from a venous system of the subject
20 into a non-venous receptacle.
           For some applications, placing the impeller inside the renal vein includes
   protecting the subject's renal vein from being injured by the impeller, by placing the
   impeller into the renal vein, with a cage disposed around the impeller, the cage
   separating an inner wall of the renal vein from the impeller.
25         For some applications, placing the impeller into the renal vein with the cage
   disposed around the impeller includes placing the impeller into the renal vein, with
   the cage disposed around the impeller, the cage and the impeller being engaged to one
   another by an engagement mechanism, such that in response to the cage becoming
   radially compressed, the impeller becomes axially elongated such that the cage
30 maintains a separation between the wall of the renal vein and the impeller.
                                                5

           There is further provided, in accordance with some applications of the present
   invention, apparatus including:
           an impeller, including:
                    an impeller frame that includes proximal and distal end portions and a
 5         plurality of helical elongate elements that wind from the proximal end portion
           to the distal end portion; and
                    a material that is coupled to the helical elongate elements, such that the
           helical elongate elements with the material coupled thereto define at least one
           blade of the impeller.
10         For some applications, the impeller includes a biocompatible impeller that is
   configured to be inserted into a blood vessel of a subject.
           For some applications, the plurality of elongate elements include a plurality of
   helical strips.
           For some applications, at least one of the helical elongate elements has a
15 variable pitch, the pitch of the at least one of the elongate elements varying along a
   length of the helical elongate element.
           For some applications, the impeller is configured to be placed inside a blood
   vessel of a subject and to pump blood through the blood vessel by rotating with
   respect to the blood vessel, the apparatus further including a radially expandable cage
20 configured to be disposed between the impeller and an inner wall of the blood vessel
   and to separate the blood vessel wall from the impeller.
           For some applications, the proximal and distal end portions includes proximal
   and distal rings.
           For some applications, at least one of the proximal and distal end portions
25 defines a notch in an edge thereof, the notch being configured to facilitate coupling of
   the material to the helical elongate elements.
           For some applications, the impeller further includes sutures tied around the
   helical elongate elements, the sutures being configured to facilitate coupling of the
   material to the helical elongate elements.
                                                 6

           For some applications, the plurality of helical elongate elements includes three
   helical elongate elements that wind from the proximal end portion to the distal end
   portion.
           For some applications, when the impeller is in a non-constrained configuration
 5 thereof, a length of each of the helical elongate elements, measured along a
   longitudinal axis of the impeller, is greater than 5 mm. For some applications, when
   the impeller is in the non-constrained configuration thereof, the length of each of the
   helical elongate elements, measured along a longitudinal axis of the impeller, is less
   than 14 mm.
10         For some applications, when the impeller is in a non-constrained configuration
   thereof, a span of the impeller in a direction perpendicular to a longitudinal axis of the
   impeller is greater than 8 mm. For some applications, the span of the impeller is
   greater than 10 mm. For some applications, the span of the impeller is less than 15
   mm. For some applications, the span of the impeller is less than 12 mm.
15         For some applications, the plurality of helical elongate elements includes two
   helical elongate elements that wind from the proximal end portion to the distal end
   portion.
           For some applications, radii of each of the two helical elongate elements are
   within 20 percent of one another. For some applications, radii of each of the two
20 helical elongate elements are similar to one another. For some applications, pitches of
   each of the two helical elongate elements are within 20 percent of one another. For
   some applications, pitches of each of the two helical elongate elements are similar to
   one another.    For some applications, longitudinal axes of each of the two helical
   elongate elements are parallel to each other and parallel to a longitudinal axis of the
25 impeller.
           For some applications, the material includes a continuous film of material that
   is supported by the helical elongate elements.
           For some applications, each of the helical elongate elements defines more than
   one eighth of a winding of a helix. For some applications, each of the helical elongate
30 elements defines less than half a winding of a helix.
                                                7

           For some applications:
           the helical elongate elements define proximal and distal ends thereof,
           the helical elongate elements are configured to support the material between
   the proximal and distal ends of the helical elongate elements, and
 5         the impeller does not include any additional supporting member for supporting
   the material between the proximal and distal ends of the helical elongate elements.
           For some applications, the impeller is configured such that rotational motion is
   imparted from the proximal end portion of the impeller to the distal end portion of the
   impeller substantially solely via the helical elongate elements of the impeller.
10         For some applications, the impeller, by not including any additional supporting
   member for supporting the material between the proximal and distal ends of the
   helical elongate elements, is configured to be radially compressible to a smaller
   diameter than if the impeller were to include an additional supporting member for
   supporting the material between the proximal and distal ends of the helical elongate
15 elements.
           For some applications, the impeller, by not including any additional supporting
   member for supporting the material between the proximal and distal ends of the
   helical elongate elements, is configured to be more flexible than if the impeller were
   to include an additional supporting member for supporting the material between the
20 proximal and distal ends of the helical elongate elements.
            For some applications,      the impeller, by not including any additional
   supporting member for supporting the material between the proximal and distal ends
   of the helical elongate elements, is configured such that a force that is required to
   axially elongate the impeller by a given amount is less than would be required if the
25 impeller were to include an additional supporting member for supporting the material
   between the proximal and distal ends of the helical elongate elements.
           There is additionally provided, in accordance with some applications of the
   present invention, a method, including:
           manufacturing an impeller by:
                                                8

                    cutting a tube such that the cut tube defines a structure having first and
            second end portions at proximal and distal ends of the structure, the end
            portions being connected to one another by a plurality of elongate elements;
                    causing the elongate elements to radially expand and form helical
 5          elongate elements, by axially compressing the structure; and
                    coupling a material to the helical elongate elements, such that the
            helical elongate elements with the material coupled thereto define at least one
            blade of the impeller.
            For some applications, cutting the tube includes laser cutting the tube.
10          For some applications, manufacturing the impeller includes manufacturing a
   biocompatible impeller that is configured to be inserted into a blood vessel of a
   subject.
            For some applications, cutting the tube includes cutting the tube such that the
   cut tube defines a structure having first and second end portions at proximal and distal
15 ends of the structure, the end portions being connected to one another by a plurality of
   strips.
            For some applications, causing the elongate elements to radially expand and
   form helical elongate elements includes causing at least one of the helical elongate
   elements to have a variable pitch, the pitch of the at least one of the elongate elements
20 varying along a length of the helical elongate element.
            For some applications, cutting the tube such that the cut tube defines a
   structure having first and second end portions at proximal and distal ends of the
   structure includes cutting the tube such that the cut tube defines a structure having
   first and second rings at proximal and distal ends of the structure.
25          For some applications, cutting the tube further includes forming a notch in an
   edge of at least one of the end portions, the notch being configured to facilitate
   coupling of the material to the helical elongate elements.
            For some applications, the method further includes tying sutures around the
   helical elongate elements, the sutures being configured to facilitate coupling of the
30 material to the helical elongate elements.
                                                 9

            For some applications, cutting the tube includes cutting the tube such that the
   cut tube defines a structure having first and second end portions at proximal and distal
   ends of the structure, the end portions being connected to one another by three
   elongate elements, and causing the elongate elements to radially expand and form
 5 helical elongate elements includes causing the elongate elements to form three helical
   elongate elements.
            For some applications, cutting the tube includes cutting the tube such that, in
   an absence of axial compression being applied to the structure, the structure has a
   length, measured along a longitudinal axis of the structure, of greater than 15 mm.
10 For some applications, cutting the tube includes cutting the tube such that, in the
   absence of axial compression being applied to the structure, the length of the
   structure, measured along the longitudinal axis of the structure, is less than 25 mm.
   For some applications, cutting the tube includes cutting the tube such that, in an
   absence of axial compression being applied to the structure, each of the elongate
15 elements has a length, measured along a longitudinal axis of the structure, of greater
   than 14 mm. For some applications, cutting the tube includes cutting the tube such
   that, in the absence of axial compression being applied to the structure, the length of
   each of the elongate elements, measured along the longitudinal axis of the structure, is
   less than 22 mm.
20          For some applications, axially compressing the structure includes axially
   compressing the structure such that the structure defines a length, measured along a
   longitudinal axis of the structure, of greater than 8 mm.       For some applications,
   axially compressing the structure includes axially compressing the structure such that
   the length, measured along the longitudinal axis of the structure, is less than 18 mm.
25 For some applications, axially compressing the structure includes axially compressing
   the structure such that each of the elongate elements defines a length, measured along
   a longitudinal axis of the structure, of greater than 5 mm. For some applications,
   axially compressing the structure includes axially compressing the structure such that
   the length of each of the elongate elements, measured along the longitudinal axis of
30 the structure, is less than 14 mm.
            For some applications, axially compressing the structure includes axially
   compressing the structure such that a span of the structure in a direction perpendicular
                                               10

   to a longitudinal axis of the structure is greater than 8 mm. For some applications,
   axially compressing the structure includes axially compressing the structure such that
   the span of the structure is greater than 10 mm.          For some applications, axially
   compressing the structure includes axially compressing the structure such that the
 5 span of the structure is less than 15 mm. For some applications, axially compressing
   the structure includes axially compressing the structure such that the span of the
   structure is less than 12 mm.
           For some applications, coupling the material to the helical elongate elements
   includes dipping at least a portion of the structure into the material, while the material
10 is in a liquid state thereof, and drying the material, while the material is being
   supported by the helical elongate elements.         For some applications, drying the
   material includes curing the material.
           For some applications, cutting the tube includes cutting the tube such that the
   cut tube defines a structure having first and second end portions at proximal and distal
15 ends of the structure, the end portions being connected to one another by two elongate
   elements, and causing the elongate elements to radially expand and form helical
   elongate elements includes causing the elongate elements to form two helical elongate
   elements.
           For some applications, drying the liquid material while the material is being
20 supported by the helical elongate elements includes causing the material to form a
   continuous film between the helical elongate elements, the continuous film being
   supported by the helical elongate elements.
           For some applications, cutting the tube includes cutting the tube such that the
   cut tube defines a structure having first and second end portions at proximal and distal
25 ends of the structure, the end portions being connected to one another by two elongate
   elements, and causing the elongate elements to radially expand and form helical
   elongate elements includes causing the elongate elements to form two helical elongate
   elements.
           For some applications, causing the elongate elements to form the two helical
30 elongate elements includes causing the elongate elements to form two helical elongate
   elements both of which originate at the first end portion, and terminate at the second
                                               11

   end portion, radii of the helical elongate elements being similar to one another. For
   some applications, causing the elongate elements to form the two helical elongate
   elements includes causing the elongate elements to form two helical elongate
   elements both of which originate at the first end portion, and terminate at the second
 5 end portion, radii of the helical elongate elements being within 20 percent of one
   another.
           For some applications, causing the elongate elements to form the two helical
   elongate elements includes causing the elongate elements to form two helical elongate
   elements both of which originate at the first end portion, and terminate at the second
10 end portion, pitches of the helical elongate elements being similar to one another. For
   some applications, causing the elongate elements to form the two helical elongate
   elements includes causing the elongate elements to form two helical elongate
   elements both of which originate at the first end portion, and terminate at the second
   end portion, pitches of the helical elongate elements being within 20 percent of one
15 another.
           For some applications, causing the elongate elements to form the two helical
   elongate elements includes causing the elongate elements to form two helical elongate
   elements, longitudinal axes of both of the helical elongate elements being parallel to
   each other and parallel to a longitudinal axis of the impeller.
20         For some applications, causing the elongate elements to form the two helical
   elongate elements includes causing the elongate elements to form two helical elongate
   elements, each of the helical elongate elements defining more than one eighth of a
   winding of a helix. For some applications, causing the elongate elements to form the
   two helical elongate elements includes causing the elongate elements to form two
25 helical elongate elements, each of the helical elongate elements defining less than half
   a winding of a helix.
           For some applications, cutting the tube includes cutting the tube such that the
   cut tube defines a structure having first and second rings at proximal and distal ends
   of the structure, and such that first and second ends of each of the elongate elements
30 are disposed at an angle from one another with respect to circumferences of the rings,
   the angle being greater than 50 degrees.       For some applications, cutting the tube
                                               12

   includes cutting the tube such that the first and second ends of each of the elongate
   elements are disposed at an angle from one another with respect to circumferences of
   the rings, the angle being greater than 70 degrees. For some applications, cutting the
   tube includes cutting the tube such that the first and second ends of each of the
 5 elongate elements are disposed at an angle from one another with respect to
   circumferences of the rings, the angle being greater than 90 degrees.
           For some applications, cutting the tube includes cutting the tube such that the
   cut tube defines a structure having first and second rings at proximal and distal ends
   of the structure, and such that first and second ends of each of the elongate elements
10 are disposed at an angle from one another with respect to circumferences of the rings,
   the angle being less than 180 degrees.        For some applications, cutting the tube
   includes cutting the tube such that the first and second ends of each of the elongate
   elements are disposed at an angle from one another with respect to circumferences of
   the rings, the angle being less than 150 degrees.    For some applications, cutting the
15 tube includes cutting the tube such that the first and second ends of each of the
   elongate elements are disposed at an angle from one another with respect to
   circumferences of the rings, the angle being less than 110 degrees.
           For some applications, coupling the material to the helical elongate elements
   includes coupling the material to the elongate elements such that, between the
20 proximal and distal ends of the helical elongate elements, the material is supported by
   the helical elongate elements, in an absence of any additional supporting member
   between the proximal and distal ends of the helical elongate elements for supporting
   the material.
           For some applications, coupling the material to the helical elongate elements
25 in the absence of any additional supporting member between the proximal and distal
   ends of the helical elongate elements for supporting the material includes configuring
   the impeller such that rotational motion is imparted from the proximal end portion to
   the distal end portion substantially solely via the helical elongate elements of the
   impeller.
30         For some applications, coupling the material to the helical elongate elements
   in the absence of any additional supporting member between the proximal and distal
                                               13

   ends of the helical elongate elements for supporting the material includes configuring
   the impeller to be radially compressible to a smaller diameter than if the impeller were
   to include an additional supporting member for supporting the material between the
   proximal and distal ends of the helical elongate elements.
 5         For some applications, coupling the material to the helical elongate elements
   in the absence of any additional supporting member between the proximal and distal
   ends of the helical elongate elements for supporting the material includes configuring
   the impeller to be more flexible than if the impeller were to include an additional
   supporting member for supporting the material between the proximal and distal ends
10 of the helical elongate elements.
           For some applications, coupling the material to the helical elongate elements
   in the absence of any additional supporting member between the proximal and distal
   ends of the helical elongate elements for supporting the material includes configuring
   the impeller such that a force that is required to axially elongate the impeller by a
15 given amount is less than would be required if the impeller were to include an
   additional supporting member for supporting the material between the proximal and
   distal ends of the helical elongate elements.
           There is further provided, in accordance with some applications of the present
   invention, apparatus including:
20         an impeller configured, in a radially-expanded configuration thereof, to pump
   a fluid by rotating;
           a radially expandable cage disposed around the impeller, such that, in radially
   expanded configurations of the impeller and the cage, the impeller is separated from
   an inner surface of the cage; and
25         an engagement mechanism configured to engage the impeller with respect to
   the cage, such that, in response to the cage becoming radially compressed, the
   engagement mechanism axially elongates the impeller such that the impeller remains
   separated from the inner surface of the cage.
           For some applications:
30         the cage and the impeller define axially-elongated configurations thereof, the
   cage, while in its axially-elongated configuration, being configured to accommodate
                                               14

   the impeller inside the cage, while the impeller is in its axially-elongated
   configuration, and
           the cage includes struts, at least some of the struts including portions thereof
   that are undulated at least when the cage is in the radially-expanded configuration of
 5 the cage,
           a level of undulation of the undulated portions of the struts when the cage is in
   its radially-expanded configuration being greater than a level of undulation of the
   undulated portions of the struts when the cage is in its axially-elongated configuration.
           For some applications, the engagement mechanism is configured to permit
10 rotation of the impeller, while the cage is maintained in a rotationally fixed position.
           For some applications, the engagement mechanism is configured, in response
   to the cage becoming radially compressed, to axially elongate the impeller, by
   imparting to the impeller longitudinal motion that is caused by longitudinal motion of
   the cage.
15         For some applications, the impeller includes a biocompatible impeller that is
   configured to be placed inside a blood vessel and to pump blood through the blood
   vessel by rotating, and the cage is configured to be disposed between the impeller and
   an inner wall of the blood vessel and to separate the blood vessel wall from the
   impeller.
20         For some applications, the cage includes struts that are shaped to define cells,
   and the cage is configured to separate the blood vessel wall from the impeller even if
   the blood vessel wall protrudes through a cell of the cage.
           For some applications:
           the impeller is coupled to the cage such that a longitudinal axis of the impeller
25 is aligned with a longitudinal axis of the cage, and
           the cage defines a central portion thereof that has a generally cylindrical shape,
   an outer surface of the cage at the generally cylindrical portion of the cage being
   parallel to the longitudinal axis of the cage.
           For some applications, the impeller is configured to be placed inside a blood
30 vessel and to pump blood through the blood vessel by rotating, and the cage is
                                                15

   configured to be disposed between the impeller and an inner wall of the blood vessel
   and to separate the inner wall of the blood vessel from the impeller.
            For some applications, the cage is configured to radially expand inside the
   blood vessel such that the outer surface of the cage at the generally cylindrical portion
 5 of the cage engages the inner wall of the blood vessel, the cage thereby becoming
   oriented within the blood vessel such that the longitudinal axis of the cage is parallel
   to a local longitudinal axis of the blood vessel.
            There is additionally provided, in accordance with some applications of the
   present invention, a method including:
10          placing inside a blood vessel of a subject:
                    an impeller configured, in a radially-expanded configuration thereof, to
            pump blood through the blood vessel by rotating; and
                    a radially-expandable cage disposed around the impeller;
           radially expanding the cage and the impeller inside the blood vessel, such that
15 the impeller is separated from an inner wall of the blood vessel by the cage,
                   the impeller being engaged with respect to the cage, such that, in
           response to the cage becoming radially compressed, the impeller is axially
            elongated, such that the impeller remains separated from the inner wall of the
           blood vessel; and
20          operating a control unit to pump blood through the blood vessel by rotating the
   impeller.
            For some applications, the blood vessel includes a renal vein, and operating
   the control unit to pump blood through the blood vessel includes operating the control
   unit to pump blood away from a kidney of the subject toward a vena cava of the
25 subject.
            For some applications, the method further includes operating the control unit
   to:
            measure pressure within the subject's blood vessel at a first location within the
   blood vessel that is upstream of the impeller, and at a second location within the blood
30 vessel that is downstream of the impeller; and
                                                16

           control rotation of the impeller responsively to the pressure measured at the
   first and second locations.
           For some applications:
           placing the cage and the impeller inside the blood vessel includes placing the
 5 cage and the impeller inside the blood vessel while the cage and the impeller are in
   axially-elongated configurations thereof, and while the cage, while in its axially
   elongated configuration accommodates the impeller inside the cage, while the
   impeller is in its axially-elongated configuration,
           the cage includes a cage that defines struts, at least some of the struts including
10 portions thereof that are undulated at least when the cage is in a radially-expanded
   configuration, and
           radially expanding the cage includes radially expanding the cage such that a
   level of undulation of the undulated portions of the struts becomes greater than a level
   of undulation of the undulated portions of the struts when the cage was in its axially
15 elongated configuration.
           For some applications, operating the control unit to rotate the impeller includes
   operating the control unit to rotate the impeller, while the cage is maintained in a
   rotationally fixed position.
           For some applications, the cage includes struts that are shaped to define cells,
20 and radially expanding the cage includes separating the blood vessel wall from the
   impeller even if the blood vessel wall protrudes through a cell of the cage, by radially
   expanding the cage.
           For some applications:
           placing the impeller and the cage inside the blood vessel includes placing the
25 impeller and the cage inside the blood vessel, the impeller being coupled to the cage
   such that a longitudinal axis of the impeller is aligned with a longitudinal axis of the
   cage,
           the cage includes a cage that defines a central portion thereof that has a
   generally cylindrical shape, an outer surface of the cage at the generally cylindrical
30 portion of the cage being parallel to the longitudinal axis of the cage, and
                                               17

           radially expanding the cage inside the blood vessel includes radially expanding
   the cage inside the blood vessel such that the outer surface of the cage at the generally
   cylindrical portion of the cage engages the inner wall of the blood vessel, the cage
   thereby becoming oriented within the blood vessel such that a longitudinal axis of the
 5 cage is parallel to a local longitudinal axis of the blood vessel.
           For some applications:
           the blood vessel has a given diameter in an absence of the cage;
           radially expanding the cage includes widening a portion of the blood vessel
   such that a diameter of the portion of the blood vessel is greater than the given
10 diameter; and
           radially expanding the impeller includes radially expanding the impeller such
   that a span of the impeller is at least equal to the given diameter.
           For some applications, the method further includes operating the control unit
   to:
15         measure flow through the blood vessel; and
           control rotation of the impeller responsively to the measured flow.
           For some applications, operating the control unit to measure flow through the
   blood vessel includes operating the control unit to measure blood flow via a thermal
   flow sensor that is disposed within a housing, the housing being configured such that
20 blood flow through the housing is substantially in a direction parallel to a local
   longitudinal axis of the blood vessel.
           There is further provided, in accordance with some applications of the present
   invention apparatus including:
           a   radially-expandable      impeller    configured,   in    a radially-expanded
25 configuration thereof, to pump a fluid by rotating;
           a radially-expandable cage disposed around the impeller, such that, in radially
   expanded configurations of the impeller and the cage, the impeller is separated from
   an inner surface of the cage;
           the impeller being coupled to the cage such that a longitudinal axis of the
30 impeller is aligned with a longitudinal axis of the cage, and
                                                 18

           the cage defining a central portion thereof that has a generally cylindrical
   shape, an outer surface of the cage at the generally cylindrical portion of the cage
   being parallel to the longitudinal axis of the cage.
           For some applications:
 5         the cage and the impeller define axially-elongated configurations thereof, the
   cage, while in its axially-elongated configuration, being configured to accommodate
   the impeller inside the cage, while the impeller is in its axially-elongated
   configuration, and
           the cage includes struts, at least some of the struts including portions thereof
10 that are undulated at least when the cage is in the radially-expanded configuration of
   the cage,
           a level of undulation of the undulated portions of the struts when the cage is in
   its radially-expanded configuration being greater than a level of undulation of the
   undulated portions of the struts when the cage is in its axially-elongated configuration.
15         For some applications:
           the impeller defines proximal and distal rings, respectively, at proximal and
   distal ends thereof,
           the cage defines proximal and distal rings, respectively, at proximal and distal
   ends thereof,
20         the impeller is coupled to the cage such that the longitudinal axis of the
   impeller is aligned with the longitudinal axis of the cage by:
                   the proximal rings of the impeller and the cage being placed on a first
           support element such that the proximal rings of the impeller and the cage are
           aligned with one another, and
25                 the distal rings of the impeller and the cage being placed on a second
           support element such that the distal rings of the impeller and the cage are
           aligned with one another.
           For some applications,       the  apparatus  further includes an engagement
   mechanism configured to engage the impeller with respect to the cage, such that, in
30 response to the cage becoming radially compressed, the engagement mechanism
   axially elongates the impeller such that the impeller remains separated from the inner
   surface of the cage.
                                                19

           For some applications, the engagement mechanism is configured to permit
   rotation of the impeller, while the cage is maintained in a rotationally fixed position.
           For some applications, the engagement mechanism is configured, in response
   to the cage becoming radially compressed, to axially elongate the impeller, by
 5 imparting to the impeller longitudinal motion that is caused by longitudinal motion of
   the cage.
           For some applications, the impeller is a biocompatible impeller that is
   configured to be placed inside a blood vessel and to pump blood through the blood
   vessel by rotating, and the cage is configured to be disposed between the impeller and
10 an inner wall of the blood vessel and to separate the blood vessel wall from the
   impeller.
           For some applications, the cage includes struts that are shaped to define cells,
   and the cage is configured to separate the blood vessel wall from the impeller even if
   the blood vessel wall protrudes through a cell of the cage.
15         For some applications, the impeller is a biocompatible impeller that is
   configured to be placed inside a blood vessel and to pump blood through the blood
   vessel by rotating, and the cage is configured to be disposed between the impeller and
   an inner wall of the blood vessel and to separate the blood vessel wall from the
   impeller.
20         For some applications, the cage is configured to radially expand inside the
   blood vessel such that the outer surface of the cage at the generally cylindrical portion
   of the cage engages the inner wall of the blood vessel, the cage thereby becoming
   oriented within the blood vessel such that the longitudinal axis of the cage is parallel
   to a local longitudinal axis of the blood vessel.
25         There is further provided, in accordance with some applications of the present
   invention, a method including:
           placing inside a blood vessel of a subject:
                   an impeller configured, in a radially-expanded configuration thereof, to
           pump blood through the blood vessel by rotating;
                                               20

                   a radially-expandable cage disposed around the impeller, the impeller
           being coupled to the cage such that a longitudinal axis of the impeller is
           aligned with a longitudinal axis of the cage, and the cage defining a central
           portion thereof that has a generally cylindrical shape, an outer surface of the
 5         cage at the generally cylindrical portion of the cage being parallel to the
           longitudinal axis of the cage;
           radially expanding the cage and the impeller inside the blood vessel, such that:
                   the impeller is separated from an inner wall of the blood vessel by the
           cage, and
10                 the outer surface of the cage at the generally cylindrical portion of the
           cage engages the inner wall of the blood vessel, the cage thereby becoming
           oriented within the blood vessel such that a longitudinal axis of the cage is
           parallel to a local longitudinal axis of the blood vessel; and
           operating a control unit to pump blood through the blood vessel by rotating the
15 impeller.
           For some applications, the method further includes operating the control unit
   to:
           measure pressure within the subject's blood vessel at a first location within the
   blood vessel that is upstream of the impeller, and at a second location within the blood
20 vessel that is downstream of the impeller; and
           control rotation of the impeller responsively to the pressure measured at the
   first and second locations.
           For some applications:
           the blood vessel has a given diameter in an absence of the cage;
25         radially expanding the cage includes widening a portion of the blood vessel
   such that a diameter of the portion of the blood vessel is greater than the given
   diameter; and
           radially expanding the impeller includes radially expanding the impeller such
   that a span of the impeller is at least equal to the given diameter.
30         For some applications, the method further includes operating the control unit
   to:
           measure flow through the blood vessel; and
                                                21

           control rotation of the impeller responsively to the measured flow.
           For some applications, operating the control unit to measure flow through the
   blood vessel includes operating the control unit to measure blood flow via a thermal
   flow sensor that is disposed within a housing, the housing being configured such that
 5 blood flow through the housing is substantially in a direction parallel to the local
   longitudinal axis of the blood vessel.
           There is further provided, in accordance with some applications of the present
   invention, apparatus including:
           a    radially-expandable     impeller    configured,   in   a    radially-expanded
10 configuration thereof, to pump a fluid by rotating; and
           a radially-expandable cage disposed around the impeller, such that, in radially
   expanded configurations of the impeller and the cage, the impeller is separated from
   an inner surface of the cage,
                    the cage and the impeller defining axially-elongated configurations
15         thereof, the cage,      while in its     axially-elongated  configuration,    being
           configured to accommodate the impeller inside the cage, while the impeller is
           in its axially-elongated configuration,
                    the cage including struts, at least some of the struts including portions
           thereof that are undulated at least when the cage is in the radially-expanded
20         configuration of the cage,
                    a level of undulation of the undulated portions of the struts when the
           cage is in its radially-expanded configuration, being greater than a level of
           undulation of the undulated portions of the struts when the cage is in its
           axially-elongated configuration.
25         For some applications, for each of the struts that include the undulated
   portions, the strut is configured such that a ratio of:
           a shortest distance from a first longitudinal end of the strut to a second
   longitudinal end of the strut when the cage is its axially-elongated configuration, to
           a shortest distance from the first longitudinal end of the strut to the second
30 longitudinal end of the strut when the cage is its radially-expanded configuration,
           is greater than 1.05:1.
                                                22

            For some applications, the ratio is less than 1.4:1. For some applications, the
   ratio is greater than 1.15:1. For some applications, the ratio is greater than 1.2:1.
            For some applications,      the   apparatus  further includes an engagement
   mechanism configured to engage the impeller with respect to the cage, such that, in
 5 response to the cage becoming axially elongated, the impeller is axially elongated
   such that the impeller remains separated from the inner surface of the cage.
            For some applications, the engagement mechanism is configured to permit
   rotation of the impeller, while the cage is maintained in a rotationally fixed position.
            For some applications, the engagement mechanism is configured, in response
10 to the cage becoming axially elongated, to axially elongate the impeller, by imparting
   to the impeller longitudinal motion that is caused by longitudinal motion of the cage.
            For some applications:
            the cage and the impeller are biocompatible and are configured to be inserted
   into a blood vessel, while the impeller is disposed inside the cage, and while the cage
15 and the impeller are in the axially-elongated configurations thereof,
            the impeller is configured to radially expand inside the blood vessel and to
   pump blood through the blood vessel by rotating, and
            the cage is configured to radially expand inside the blood vessel and to be
   disposed between the impeller and an inner wall of the blood vessel such as to
20 separate the inner wall of the blood vessel from the impeller.
            For some applications, the struts of the cage are shaped to define cells, and the
   cage is configured to separate the blood vessel wall from the impeller even if the
   blood vessel wall protrudes through a cell of the cage.
            For some applications:
25          the impeller is coupled to the cage such that a longitudinal axis of the impeller
   is aligned with a longitudinal axis of the cage, and
            the cage defines a central portion thereof that has a generally cylindrical shape,
   an outer surface of the cage at the generally cylindrical portion of the cage being
   parallel to the longitudinal axis of the cage.
                                                23

           For some applications, the impeller is biocompatible and is configured to be
   placed inside a blood vessel and to pump blood through the blood vessel by rotating,
   and the cage is configured to be disposed between the impeller and an inner wall of
   the blood vessel and to separate the inner wall of the blood vessel from the impeller.
 5         For some applications, the cage is configured to radially expand inside the
   blood vessel such that the outer surface of the cage at the generally cylindrical portion
   of the cage engages the inner wall of the blood vessel, the cage thereby becoming
   oriented within the blood vessel such that the longitudinal axis of the cage is parallel
   to a local longitudinal axis of the blood vessel.
10         There is additionally provided, in accordance with some applications of the
   present invention, a method including:
           placing inside a blood vessel of a subject:
                   an impeller configured, in a radially-expanded configuration thereof, to
           pump blood through the blood vessel by rotating; and
15                 a radially-expandable cage disposed around the impeller, the cage
           defining struts,
                            the placing being performed while the cage and the impeller are
                   in axially-elongated configurations thereof, and while the cage, while
                   in its axially-elongated configuration, accommodates the impeller
20                 inside the cage,      while the impeller is in its axially-elongated
                   configuration;
           radially expanding the cage and the impeller inside the blood vessel, such that
   the cage and the impeller are in radially-expanded configurations thereof, and such
   that the impeller is separated from an inner wall of the blood vessel by the cage; and
25         operating a control unit to pump blood through the blood vessel by rotating the
   impeller,
                   the cage including struts, at least some of the struts including portions
           thereof that are undulated at least when the cage is in the radially-expanded
           configuration of the cage,
30                 radially expanding the cage including radially expanding the cage such
           that a level of undulation of the undulated portions of the struts becomes
                                                24

            greater than a level of undulation of the undulated portions of the struts when
            the cage was in its axially-elongated configuration.
            For some applications, the blood vessel includes a renal vein, and operating
   the control unit to pump blood through the blood vessel includes operating the control
 5 unit to pump blood away from a kidney of the subject toward a vena cava of the
   subject.
            For some applications, the method further includes operating the control unit
   to:
            measure pressure within the subject's blood vessel at a first location within the
10 blood vessel that is upstream of the impeller, and at a second location within the blood
   vessel that is downstream of the impeller; and
            control rotation of the impeller responsively to the pressure measured at the
   first and second locations.
            For some applications:
15          the blood vessel has a given diameter in an absence of the cage;
           radially expanding the cage includes widening a portion of the blood vessel
   such that a diameter of the portion of the blood vessel is greater than the given
   diameter; and
           radially expanding the impeller includes radially expanding the impeller such
20 that a span of the impeller is at least equal to the given diameter.
            For some applications, radially expanding the cage includes radially expanding
   the cage such that, for each of the struts that include the undulated portions, a ratio of:
            a shortest distance from a first longitudinal end of the strut to a second
   longitudinal end of the strut when the cage is its axially-elongated configuration, to
25          a shortest distance from the first longitudinal end of the strut to the second
   longitudinal end of the strut when the cage is its radially-expanded configuration,
            is greater than 1.05:1.
            For some applications, radially expanding the cage includes radially expanding
   the cage such that, for each of the struts that include the undulated portions, the ratio
30 is less than 1.4:1.     For some applications, radially expanding the cage includes
   radially expanding the cage such that, for each of the struts that include the undulated
                                                25

   portions, the ratio is greater than 1.15:1. For some applications, radially expanding
   the cage includes radially expanding the cage such that, for each of the struts that
   include the undulated portions, the ratio is greater than 1.2:1.
           For some applications, the method further includes operating the control unit
 5 to:
           measure flow through the blood vessel; and
           control rotation of the impeller responsively to the measured flow.
           For some applications, operating the control unit to measure flow through the
   blood vessel includes operating the control unit to measure blood flow via a thermal
10 flow sensor that is disposed within a housing, the housing being configured such that
   blood flow through the housing is substantially in a direction parallel to a local
   longitudinal axis of the blood vessel.
           There is further provided in accordance with some applications of the present
   invention, a method including:
15         placing a radially expandable structure inside a blood vessel of a subject, the
   blood vessel having a given diameter in an absence of the radially expandable
   structure;
           widening a portion of the blood vessel such that a diameter of the portion of
   the blood vessel is greater than the given diameter, by expanding the radially
20 expandable structure inside the portion of the blood vessel;
           placing an impeller inside the portion of the blood vessel, the impeller
   including impeller blades, a span of the impeller blades being at least equal to the
   given diameter; and
           operating a control unit to pump blood through the blood vessel by rotating the
25 impeller with respect to the blood vessel.
           For some applications, expanding the radially-expandable structure includes
   expanding a radially-expandable cage that is disposed around the impeller such that
   the impeller is separated from an inner wall of the blood vessel by the cage.
           For some applications, the blood vessel includes a renal vein, and operating
30 the control unit to pump blood through the blood vessel includes operating the control
                                               26

   unit to pump blood away from a kidney of the subject toward a vena cava of the
   subject.
            For some applications, the method further includes operating the control unit
   to:
 5          measure pressure within the subject's blood vessel at a first location within the
   blood vessel that is upstream of the impeller, and at a second location within the blood
   vessel that is downstream of the impeller; and
            control rotation of the impeller responsively to the pressure measured at the
   first and second locations.
10          For some applications, the method further includes operating the control unit
   to:
            measure flow through the blood vessel; and
            control rotation of the impeller responsively to the measured flow.
            For some applications, operating the control unit to measure flow through the
15 blood vessel includes operating the control unit to measure blood flow via a thermal
   flow sensor that is disposed within a housing, the housing being configured such that
   blood flow through the housing is substantially in a direction parallel to a local
   longitudinal axis of the blood vessel.
            For some applications, widening the portion of the blood vessel includes
20 widening the portion of the blood vessel such that the diameter of the portion of the
   blood vessel is greater than 105 percent of the given diameter, by expanding the
   radially expandable structure inside the portion of the blood vessel.           For some
   applications, widening the portion of the blood vessel includes widening the portion
   of the blood vessel such that the diameter of the portion of the blood vessel is greater
25 than 115 percent of the given diameter, by expanding the radially expandable
   structure inside the portion of the blood vessel. For some applications, widening the
   portion of the blood vessel includes widening the portion of the blood vessel such that
   the diameter of the portion of the blood vessel is less than 125 percent of the given
   diameter, by expanding the radially expandable structure inside the portion of the
30 blood vessel.
                                                27

           There is further provided, in accordance with some applications of the present
   invention, apparatus including:
           a blood pump configured to pump blood through a blood vessel of a subject,
   the blood pump including:
 5                 an elongate element; and
                   an impeller disposed at a distal end of the elongate element, and
           configured to pump blood through the blood vessel by rotating;
           a thermal flow sensor configured to measure flow of the pumped blood, the
   thermal flow sensor including an upstream temperature sensor, a heating element and
10 a downstream temperature sensor, disposed sequentially along a portion of a length of
   the elongate element,
           the elongate element including a housing that is configured to house the
   thermal flow sensor, and that is configured such that blood flow through the housing
   is substantially in a direction parallel to a local longitudinal axis of the blood vessel.
15         For some applications, the housing includes a portion of an outer surface of the
   elongate element that is shaped to define an indentation therein, and the upstream
   temperature sensor, the heating element, and the downstream temperature sensor are
   disposed sequentially along the indentation.
           For some applications, a ratio of a length of the indentation to a width of the
20 indentation is greater than 4:1.
           For some applications, the apparatus further includes a cover coupled to the
   elongate element and disposed such as to cover the thermal sensor.
           For some applications, the housing includes a housing disposed on an outer
   surface of the elongate element, and the upstream temperature sensor, the heating
25 element, and the downstream temperature sensor are disposed sequentially along an
   inside of the housing.
           For some applications, the housing includes a compressible tube disposed on
   the outer surface of the elongate element.
           For some applications, a ratio of a length of the housing to a width of the
30 housing is greater than 4:1. For some applications, a ratio of the length of the housing
   to a height of the housing is greater than 4:1.
                                                 28

           There is additionally provided, in accordance with some applications of the
   present invention, a method including:
          placing into a blood vessel of a subject a blood pump that includes:
                   an elongate element; and
 5                 an impeller disposed at a distal end of the elongate element;
           operating a control unit to measure flow of the pumped blood, using a thermal
   flow sensor that includes an upstream temperature sensor, a heating element, and a
   downstream temperature sensor disposed sequentially along a portion of a length of
   the elongate element,
10                 the elongate element including a housing that is configured to house
           the thermal flow sensor, and that is configured such that blood flow through
           the housing is substantially in a direction parallel to a local longitudinal axis of
           the blood vessel; and
           operating the control unit to pump blood through the blood vessel by rotating
15 the impeller, at least partially in response to the measured flow.
           There is further provided, in accordance with some applications of the present
   invention, apparatus including:
           a pump configured to pump a fluid including:
                   an elongate element; and
20                 an impeller disposed at a distal end of the elongate element, and
           configured to pump the fluid by rotating;
           a thermal flow sensor configured to measure flow of the pumped fluid, the
   thermal flow sensor including an upstream temperature sensor, a heating element, and
   a downstream temperature sensor disposed sequentially along a portion of a length of
25 the elongate element,
           the elongate element including a housing that is configured to house the
   thermal flow sensor, and that is configured such that flow of the fluid through the
   housing is substantially in a direction parallel to a local longitudinal axis of the
   elongate element.
30         For some applications, the housing includes a portion of an outer surface of the
   elongate element that is shaped to define an indentation therein, and the upstream
                                                 29

   temperature sensor, the heating element, and the downstream temperature sensor are
   disposed sequentially along the indentation.
            For some applications, a ratio of a length of the indentation to a width of the
   indentation is greater than 4:1.
 5          For some applications, the apparatus further includes a cover coupled to the
   elongate element and disposed such as to cover the thermal sensor.
            For some applications, the housing includes a housing disposed on an outer
   surface of the elongate element, and the upstream temperature sensor, the heating
   element, and the downstream temperature sensor are disposed sequentially along an
10 inside of the housing.
            For some applications, the housing includes a compressible tube disposed on
   the outer surface of the elongate element.
            For some applications, a ratio of a length of the housing to a width of the
   housing is greater than 4:1. For some applications, a ratio of the length of the housing
15 to a height of the housing is greater than 4:1.
            There is further provided, in accordance with some applications of the present
   invention, a method for use with a plurality of tributary veins that supply a main vein,
   including:
            mechanically isolating blood within the plurality of veins into a compartment
20 that is separated from blood flow within the main vein; and
            controlling blood flow from the plurality of veins to the major vein by
   pumping blood from the compartment to the main vein.
            For some applications, the method further includes performing ultrafiltration
   on the pumped blood.
25          For some applications,
            isolating the plurality of veins includes:
                    placing into the main vein a blood-impermeable sleeve and a helical
            support element disposed around the sleeve, and
                    coupling the sleeve to a wall of the main vein using the helical support
30          element; and
                                                 30

            pumping blood from the compartment to the main vein includes guiding a
   distal portion of a blood pump into the compartment using the helical support element
   and pumping the blood using the blood pump.
            For some applications:
 5          isolating the plurality of veins includes:
                    placing into the main vein a blood-impermeable sleeve and a helical
            portion of a blood pump that is disposed around the sleeve and configured to
            support the sleeve, and
                    coupling the sleeve to a wall of the main vein; and
10          pumping blood from the compartment to the main vein includes pumping
   blood into inlet holes of the blood pump that are defined by the helical portion of the
   blood pump.
            For some applications:
            isolating blood within the plurality of veins into a compartment that is
15 separated from blood flow within the main vein includes isolating blood in renal veins
   of the subject into a compartment that is separated from blood flow within a vena cava
   of the subject by placing a blood-impermeable sleeve in the subject's vena cava, such
   that a downstream end of the sleeve is coupled to a wall of the vena cava at a first
   location that is downstream of all of the renal veins of the subject, and such that an
20 upstream end of the sleeve is coupled to the wall of the vena cava at a second location
   that is upstream of all the renal veins of the subject; and
            pumping blood from the compartment to the main vein includes operating a
   pump to pump blood from the compartment to a location that is in fluid
   communication with an interior of the sleeve.
25          For some applications, pumping blood from the compartment includes
   drawing blood in a downstream direction through the renal veins.
            For some applications, placing the sleeve in the vena cava includes placing the
   sleeve in the vena cava for less than one week, and operating the pump includes
   operating the pump for less than one week.
                                                 31

            For some applications, the method further includes identifying the subject as a
   subject suffering from a condition selected from the group consisting of: cardiac
   dysfunction, congestive heart failure, reduced renal blood flow, increased renal
   vascular resistance, arterial hypertension, and kidney dysfunction, and operating the
 5 pump includes, in response to identifying the subject as suffering from the condition,
   reducing blood pressure within the subject's renal veins by operating the pump.
            For some applications, placing the sleeve in the subject's vena cava includes
   anchoring the sleeve to the vena cava by causing the vena cava to constrict around at
   least a portion of the sleeve, by operating the pump.
10          For some applications,      operating the pump to pump blood from the
   compartment to the location that is in fluid communication with an interior of the
   sleeve includes operating the pump to pump blood from the compartment to a site of
   the vena cava that is upstream of the sleeve.
            For some applications,      operating the pump to pump blood from the
15 compartment to the location that is in fluid communication with an interior of the
   sleeve includes operating the pump to pump blood from the compartment to a site of
   the vena cava that is downstream of the sleeve.
            For some applications, placing the sleeve in the vena cava includes placing
   into the vena cava:
20          a stent shaped to define widened upstream and downstream ends thereof that
   are widened relative to a central portion of the stent, and
            a blood-impermeable sleeve coupled to the stent, the sleeve defining flared
   upstream and downstream ends thereof that are coupled, respectively, to the widened
   upstream and downstream ends of the stent; and
25          coupling the stent to the blood vessel such that:
                    in response to blood pressure on a first side of at least one of the flared
            ends of the sleeve being greater than blood pressure on a second side of the at
            least one flared end of the sleeve, blood flows between an outside of the at
            least one flared end of the sleeve and an inner wall of the blood vessel, and
30                  in response to blood pressure on the first side of the at least one flared
            end of the sleeve being less than blood pressure on the second side of the at
                                                32

           least one flared end of the sleeve, the at least one flared end of the sleeve
           occludes blood flow between the outside of the at least one flared end of the
           sleeve and the inner wall of the blood vessel by contacting the inner wall of
           the blood vessel.
 5         For some applications, placing the sleeve in the vena cava includes placing
   into the vena cava:
           a sleeve that is shaped to define flared ends thereof, and a narrow central
   portion between the flared ends, and
           a stent shaped to define:
10                 a sleeve-supporting frame that is shaped to define widened ends
           thereof, and a narrow central portion between the widened ends that is
           narrower than the widened ends of the stent, the sleeve being coupled to the
           sleeve-supporting frame of the stent; and
                   a vessel-wall-supporting frame coupled to the narrow central portion of
15         the sleeve-supporting frame and radially protruding from the sleeve-supporting
           frame.
           For some applications, pumping blood from the compartment includes
   pumping blood from a site between an outside of the sleeve and an inner wall of the
   vena cava.
20         For some applications, the method further includes inserting the pump into the
   compartment via an opening in the sleeve through which the pump is insertable.
           For some applications, inserting the pump through the opening includes
   inserting the pump through an opening having a diameter that is between 2 mm and
   10 mm.
25         For some applications, inserting the pump through the opening includes
   inserting the pump through the opening such that the opening forms a seal around the
   pump.
           For some applications, the method further includes inserting the pump into the
   compartment via a pump-accommodating sleeve that protrudes from the sleeve.
                                              33

            For some applications, inserting the pump into the compartment via the pump
   accommodating sleeve includes inserting the pump into the compartment via a pump
   accommodating sleeve having a diameter that is between 2 mm and 10 mm.
            For some applications, inserting the pump into the compartment via the pump
 5 accommodating sleeve includes inserting the pump into the compartment via the
   pump-accommodating sleeve such that the pump-accommodating sleeve forms a seal
   around the pump.
            There is further provided, in accordance with some applications of the present
   invention, apparatus, including:
10          a blood-impermeable sleeve;
            at least one support structure configured to couple first and second ends of the
   sleeve to a blood vessel of a subject; and
            a pump configured to pump blood from an exterior of the sleeve to a location
   that is in fluid communication with an interior of the sleeve.
15          For some applications, the pump is configured to perform ultrafiltration on the
   blood.
            For some applications, the pump is configured to anchor the structure to the
   blood vessel by causing the blood vessel to constrict around at least a portion of the
   structure.
20          For some applications,
            the structure includes a stent shaped to define widened ends thereof that are
   widened relative to a central portion of the stent, and
            the sleeve includes a sleeve that is coupled to the stent,
                    the sleeve defining flared ends thereof that are coupled to the widened
25          ends of the stent,
                    at least one of the flared ends of the sleeve being configured to act as a
            valve by at least partially separating from widened end of the stent to which it
            is coupled in response to pressure being applied to the flared end of the sleeve.
            For some applications:
                                                 34

            the support structure includes a helical support element disposed around the
   sleeve, and
            a distal portion of the blood pump is configured to be guided such as to be
   disposed around the exterior of the sleeve using the helical support element.
 5          For some applications:
            the support structure includes a helical portion of the blood pump that is
   disposed around the sleeve and configured to support the sleeve, and
            the pump is configured to pump blood from the exterior of the sleeve by
   pumping blood into inlet holes of the pump that are defined by the helical portion of
10 the blood pump.
            For some applications:
            the sleeve is shaped to define flared ends thereof, and a narrow central portion
   between the flared ends;
            the structure includes a stent shaped to define:
15                  a sleeve-supporting frame that is shaped to define widened ends
            thereof, and a narrow central portion between the widened ends that is
            narrower than the widened ends of the stent, the sleeve being coupled to the
            sleeve-supporting frame of the stent; and
                    a vessel-wall-supporting frame coupled to the narrow central portion of
20          the sleeve-supporting frame and radially protruding from the sleeve-supporting
            frame.
            For some applications, the pump is configured to pump blood from a site
   between an outside of the sleeve and an inner wall of the blood vessel by being placed
   between the outside of the sleeve and the vessel-wall-supporting frame.
25          For some applications, the structure is configured to isolate blood in a renal
   vein of the subject into a compartment that is separated from blood flow within a vena
   cava of the subject, by coupling a downstream end of the sleeve to a wall of the vena
   cava at a first location that is downstream of all renal veins of the subject, and by
   coupling an upstream end of the sleeve to a wall of the vena cava at a second location
30 that is upstream of all renal veins of the subject.
                                                35

            For some applications, the sleeve is configured to be coupled to the vena cava
   for less than one week, and the pump is configured to operate for less than one week.
            For some applications, the pump is configured to reduce blood pressure within
   the subject's renal veins by pumping blood.
 5          For some applications, the pump is configured to pump blood from the
   compartment to a site within the vena cava.
            For some applications, the pump is configured to pump blood from the
   compartment to a site of the vena cava that is upstream of the sleeve.
            For some applications, the pump is configured to pump blood from the
10 compartment to a site of the vena cava that is downstream of the sleeve.
            For some applications, the sleeve is shaped to define an opening through
   which the pump is insertable.
            For some applications, a diameter of the opening is between 2 mm and 10 mm.
            For some applications, the opening is sized such as to form a seal around the
15 pump.
            For some applications, the apparatus further includes a pump-accommodating
   sleeve protruding from the blood-impermeable sleeve, the pump accommodating
   sleeve being configured to accommodate insertion of the pump therethrough to the
   exterior of the blood impermeable sleeve.
20          For some applications, an inner diameter of the pump-accommodating sleeve
   is between 2 mm and 10 mm.
            For some applications, the pump-accommodating sleeve is sized such as to
   form a seal around the pump.
            There is additionally provided, in accordance with some applications of the
25 present invention, a method including:
            placing a stent inside a blood vessel at a placement location of the stent; and
            at least partially anchoring the stent to the blood vessel at the placement
   location by causing the blood vessel to constrict around at least a portion of the stent,
   by applying a suctioning force within the blood vessel.
                                                36

            For some applications, the blood vessel includes a blood vessel having a given
   diameter at the placement location, and placing the stent inside the blood vessel
   includes placing inside the blood vessel a stent having a diameter that is less than the
   given diameter.
 5          For some applications, causing the blood vessel to constrict around at least the
   portion of the stent includes reducing an extent to which the stent is anchored to the
   blood vessel by virtue of oversizing of the stent, relative to if the blood vessel were
   not caused to constrict around at least the portion of the stent.
            There is further provided, in accordance with some applications of the present
10 invention, apparatus including:
            a stent configured to be placed inside a blood vessel at a placement location of
   the stent;
            a pump configured to anchor the stent to the blood vessel at the placement
   location by causing the blood vessel to constrict around at least a portion of the stent,
15 by applying a suctioning force within the blood vessel.
            For some applications, the blood vessel includes a blood vessel having a given
   diameter at the placement location, and the stent includes a stent having a diameter
   that is less than the given diameter.
            There is additionally provided, in accordance with some applications of the
20 present invention, apparatus including:
            a stent configured to be placed inside a blood vessel, the stent being shaped to
   define widened ends thereof that are widened relative to a central portion of the stent;
   and
            a blood-impermeable sleeve coupled to the stent,
25                  the sleeve defining flared ends thereof that are coupled to the widened
            ends of the stent,
                    at least one of the flared ends of the sleeve being configured to act as a
            valve by at least partially separating from widened end of the stent to which it
            is coupled in response to pressure being applied to the flared end of the sleeve.
                                                 37

           There is further provided, in accordance with some applications of the present
   invention, a method including:
           placing into a blood vessel of a subject:
                   a stent shaped to define widened upstream and downstream ends
 5         thereof that are widened relative to a central portion of the stent, and
                   a blood-impermeable sleeve coupled to the stent, the sleeve defining
           flared upstream and downstream ends thereof that are coupled, respectively, to
           the widened upstream and downstream ends of the stent; and
           coupling the stent to the blood vessel such that:
10                 in response to blood pressure on a first side of at least one of the flared
           ends of the sleeve being greater than blood pressure on a second side of the at
           least one flared end of the sleeve, blood flows between an outside of the at
           least one flared end of the sleeve and an inner wall of the blood vessel, and
                   in response to blood pressure on the first side of the at least one flared
15         end of the sleeve being less than blood pressure on the second side of the at
           least one flared end of the sleeve, the at least one flared end of the sleeve
           occludes blood flow between the outside of the at least one flared end of the
           sleeve and the inner wall of the blood vessel by contacting the inner wall of
           the blood vessel.
20         There is additionally provided, in accordance with some applications of the
   present invention, apparatus including:
           a blood-impermeable sleeve defining flared ends thereof, and a narrow central
   portion between the flared ends; and
           a stent configured to be placed inside a blood vessel, the stent being shaped to
25 define:
                   a sleeve-supporting frame that is shaped to define widened ends
           thereof, and a narrow central portion between the widened ends that is
           narrower than the widened ends of the stent, the sleeve being coupled to the
           sleeve-supporting frame of the stent; and
30                 a vessel-wall-supporting frame coupled to the narrow central portion of
           the sleeve-supporting frame and radially protruding from the sleeve-supporting
           frame.
                                               38

           For some applications, the apparatus further includes a blood pump, the blood
   pump being configured to pump blood from between an outside of the sleeve and an
   inner wall of the blood vessel by being placed between the outside of the sleeve and
   the vessel-wall-supporting frame.
 5         For some applications, a diameter of the narrow central portion of the sleeve is
   between 8 mm and 35 mm.
           For some applications, a maximum diameter of the flared ends of the sleeve is
   between 10 mm and 45 mm.
           For some applications, a ratio of a maximum diameter of the flared ends of the
10 sleeve, and a diameter of the narrow central portion of the sleeve is between 1.1:1 and
   2:1.
           For some applications, a maximum diameter of the vessel-wall-supporting
   frame is between 10 mm and 50 mm.
           For some applications, a ratio of a maximum diameter of the wall-supporting
15 frame to a diameter of the narrow central portion of the sleeve-supporting frame is
   between 1.1:1 and 5:1. For some applications, the ratio is greater than 1.5:1.
           For some applications, a length of the sleeve is greater than 6 mm. For some
   applications, the length of the sleeve is less than 80 mm. For some applications, a
   length of each one of the flared ends of the sleeve is greater than 3 mm. For some
20 applications, the length of each one of the flared ends of the sleeve is less than 40 mm.
   For some applications, a length of the narrow central portion of the sleeve is greater
   than 3 mm. For some applications, the length of the narrow central portion of the
   sleeve is less than 70 mm.
           There is additionally provided, in accordance with some applications of the
25 present invention, a method including:
           placing into a blood vessel of a subject:
                   a blood-impermeable sleeve defining flared ends thereof, and a narrow
           central portion between the flared ends, and
                   a stent shaped to define:
                                               39

                           a sleeve-supporting frame that is shaped to define widened ends
                   thereof, and a narrow central portion between the widened ends that is
                   narrower than the widened ends, the sleeve being coupled to the sleeve
                   supporting frame of the stent; and
 5                         a vessel-wall-supporting frame coupled to the narrow central
                   portion of the sleeve-supporting frame and radially protruding from the
                   sleeve-supporting frame; and
           coupling the stent to the blood vessel such that the vessel-wall-supporting
   frame of the stent holds open the blood vessel by supporting the wall of the blood
10 vessel, and the sleeve-supporting frame supports the sleeve within the blood vessel.
           For some applications, the method further includes pumping blood from a site
   between an outside of the sleeve and an inner wall of the blood vessel by placing a
   pump between the outside of the sleeve and the vessel-wall-supporting frame.
           For some applications, placing the sleeve into the blood vessel includes
15 placing the sleeve into the blood vessel, a diameter of the narrow central portion of
   the sleeve being between 8 mm and 35 mm.
           For some applications, placing the sleeve into the blood vessel includes
   placing the sleeve into the blood vessel, a maximum diameter of the flared ends of the
   sleeve being between 10 mm and 45 mm.
20         For some applications, placing the sleeve into the blood vessel includes
   placing the sleeve into the blood vessel, a ratio of a maximum diameter of the flared
   ends of the sleeve, and a diameter of the narrow central portion of the sleeve being
   between 1.1:1 and 2:1.
           For some applications, placing the stent into the blood vessel includes placing
25 the stent into the blood vessel, a maximum diameter of the vessel-wall-supporting
   frame being between 10 mm and 50 mm.
           For some applications, placing the stent into the blood vessel includes placing
   the stent into the blood vessel, a ratio of a maximum diameter of the wall-supporting
   frame to a diameter of the narrow central portion of the sleeve-supporting frame being
30 between 1.1:1 and 5:1. For some applications, placing the stent into the blood vessel
   includes placing the stent into the blood vessel, the ratio being greater than 1.5:1.
                                               40

           For some applications, placing the sleeve into the blood vessel includes
   placing the sleeve into the blood vessel, a length of the sleeve being greater than 6
   mm. For some applications, placing the sleeve into the blood vessel includes placing
   the sleeve into the blood vessel, the length of the sleeve being less than 80 mm. For
 5 some applications, placing the sleeve into the blood vessel includes placing the sleeve
   into the blood vessel, a length of each one of the flared ends of the sleeve being
   greater than 3 mm. For some applications, placing the sleeve into the blood vessel
   includes placing the sleeve into the blood vessel, the length of each one of the flared
   ends of the sleeve being less than 40 mm. For some applications, placing the sleeve
10 into the blood vessel includes placing the sleeve into the blood vessel, a length of the
   narrow central portion of the sleeve being greater than 3 mm. For some applications,
   placing the sleeve into the blood vessel includes placing the sleeve into the blood
   vessel, the length of the narrow central portion of the sleeve being less than 70 mm.
           There is further provided, in accordance with some applications of the present
15 invention, a method for operating a blood pump disposed inside a blood vessel of a
   subject, the method including:
           placing an occlusion element in the blood vessel, the occlusion element having
   an occluding state thereof, in which the occlusion element occludes the blood vessel,
   and a non-occluding state thereof in which the occlusion element does not occlude the
20 blood vessel;
           drawing blood in a downstream direction from a site that is in fluid
   communication with an upstream side of the occlusion element;
           pumping blood into a site of the subject's vasculature that is in fluid
   communication with a downstream side of the occlusion element,
25         the pumping of the blood into the subject's vasculature being performed in a
   manner that maintains the occlusion element in an occluding state thereof, in which
   state the occlusion element occludes the blood vessel.
           For some applications, the method further includes performing ultrafiltration
   on the blood prior to pumping the blood into the site of the subject's vasculature.
30         For some applications, placing the occlusion element in the blood vessel
   includes placing the occlusion element in the blood vessel for less than one week, and
                                              41

   pumping the blood includes pumping the blood into the vasculature for less than one
   week.    For some applications, placing the occlusion element in the blood vessel
   includes placing the occlusion element in the blood vessel for more than one week,
   and pumping the blood includes pumping the blood into the vasculature for less than
 5 one week.
           For some applications, the method further includes identifying the subject as a
   subject suffering from a condition selected from the group consisting of: cardiac
   dysfunction, congestive heart failure, reduced renal blood flow, increased renal
   vascular resistance, arterial hypertension, and kidney dysfunction, the blood vessel
10 includes a renal vein of the subject, and drawing blood in the downstream direction
   from the site that is in fluid communication with the upstream side of the occlusion
   element includes, in response to identifying the subject as suffering from the
   condition, reducing blood pressure within the subject's renal vein by drawing the
   blood in the downstream direction.
15         For some applications, pumping the blood into the subject's vasculature in the
   manner that maintains the occlusion element in the occluding state thereof includes
   pumping the blood into the subject's vasculature such that hydrodynamic pressure of
   the blood that is pumped into the subject's vasculature maintains the occlusion
   element in the occluding state thereof.
20         For some applications, placing the occlusion element in the blood vessel
   includes placing within the blood vessel a valve having valve leaflets, and pumping
   the blood into the subject's vasculature such that hydrodynamic pressure of the blood
   that is pumped into the subject's vasculature maintains the occlusion element in the
   occluding state thereof includes pumping the blood into the subject's vasculature such
25 that the blood that is pumped into the subject's vasculature directly impacts
   downstream sides of the valve leaflets.
           For some applications, placing the valve within the blood vessel includes
   placing the valve within the blood vessel such that:
           in response to blood pressure on an upstream side of the valve leaflets
30 exceeding pressure on the downstream side of the valve leaflets, blood flows in an
                                              42

   antegrade direction between cusps of the valve leaflets and an inner wall of the blood
   vessel, and
            in response to blood pressure on the downstream side of the valve leaflets
   exceeding pressure on the upstream side of the valve leaflets, the valve occludes
 5 retrograde blood flow by the cusps of the valve leaflets contacting the inner wall of
   the blood vessel.
            For some applications, pumping the blood into the subject's vasculature such
   that the blood that is pumped into the subject's vasculature directly impacts
   downstream sides of the valve leaflets includes reducing blood clots at the valve
10 leaflets, by flushing the valve leaflets.
            For   some    applications,    the method    further  includes    pumping    an
   anticoagulation agent into the subject's vasculature together with the blood that is
   pumped into the subject's vasculature, such that the anticoagulation agent directly
   impacts the valve leaflets.
15          For some applications, placing the valve in the blood vessel includes
   maintaining portions of the valve leaflets in contact with a wall of the blood vessel by
   inflating a balloon.
            For some applications, placing the valve in the blood vessel includes
   maintaining portions of the valve leaflets in contact with a wall of the blood vessel by
20 expanding portions of a slit tube radially outwardly.
            For some applications, pumping the blood such that the blood directly impacts
   the downstream sides of the valve leaflets includes pumping the blood into the
   subject's vasculature via holes that are shaped to direct the blood toward the
   downstream sides of the valve leaflets.
25          For some applications, pumping the blood such that the blood directly impacts
   the downstream sides of the valve leaflets includes pumping the blood into the
   subject's vasculature via a pump catheter that is shaped to define a radial protrusion
   therefrom that is concavely curved toward a distal end of the catheter, the radial
   protrusion being configured to direct blood that is pumped into the vasculature toward
30 the valve leaflets.
                                               43

            For some applications, pumping the blood such that the blood directly impacts
   the downstream sides of the valve leaflets includes pumping the blood into the
   subject's vasculature via holes that are disposed adjacent to bases of the valve leaflets.
            For some applications, pumping the blood such that the blood directly impacts
 5 the downstream sides of the valve leaflets includes pumping the blood into the
   subject's vasculature via holes that are disposed adjacent to a location along lengths of
   the valve leaflets that is below midway between cusps of the leaflets and bases of the
   leaflets.
            There is further provided, in accordance with some applications of the present
10 invention, apparatus for use with a blood vessel of a subject, the apparatus including:
            an occlusion element configured to be placed in a the blood vessel, the
   occlusion element having an occluding state thereof, in which the occlusion element
   occludes the blood vessel, and a non-occluding state thereof in which the occlusion
   element does not occlude the blood vessel;
15          a blood pump configured to:
                   draw blood in a downstream direction from a site that is in fluid
            communication with an upstream side of the occlusion element, and
                   pump blood into the subject's vasculature at a site that is in fluid
            communication with a downstream side of the occlusion element, the pump
20          being configured to perform the pumping of the blood into the blood vessel in
            a manner that maintains the occlusion element in the occluding state thereof.
            For some applications, the blood pump is configured to perform ultrafiltration
   of the blood prior to pumping the blood into the subject's vasculature.
            For some applications, the occlusion element is configured to be placed in the
25 blood vessel for less than one week, and the pump is configured to pump blood into
   the vasculature for less than one week. For some applications, the occlusion element
   is configured to be placed in the blood vessel for more than one week, and the pump
   is configured to pump blood into the vasculature for less than one week.
            For some applications, the pump is configured to perform the pumping of the
30 blood into the subject's vasculature in the manner that maintains the occlusion element
   in the occluding state thereof, by pumping the blood into the subject's vasculature
                                               44

   such that hydrodynamic pressure of the blood that is pumped into the subject's
   vasculature maintains the occlusion element in the occluding state thereof.
            For some applications, the occlusion element includes a valve having valve
   leaflets, and the pump is configured to pump the blood into the subject's vasculature
 5 such that the hydrodynamic pressure of the blood maintains the occlusion element in
   the occluding state thereof by pumping the blood into the subject's vasculature such
   that the blood that is pumped into the subject's vasculature directly impacts
   downstream sides of the valve leaflets.
            For some applications, the valve is configured such that:
10          in response to blood pressure on an upstream side of the valve leaflets
   exceeding pressure on the downstream side of the valve leaflets, blood flows in an
   antegrade direction between cusps of the valve leaflets and an inner wall of the blood
   vessel, and
            in response to blood pressure on the downstream side of the valve leaflets
15 exceeding pressure on the upstream side of the valve leaflets, the valve closes by the
   cusps of the valve leaflets contacting the inner wall of the blood vessel.
            For some applications, the pump, by pumping the blood into the subject's
   vasculature such that the blood that is pumped into the subject's vasculature directly
   impacts downstream sides of the valve leaflets, is configured to reduce blood clots at
20 the valve leaflets by flushing the valve leaflets.
            For some applications, the apparatus is for use with an anticoagulation agent,
   and the pump is configured to pump the anticoagulation agent into the subject's
   vasculature together with the blood that is pumped into the subject's vasculature, such
   that the anticoagulation agent directly impacts the valve leaflets.
25          For some applications, the apparatus further includes a balloon configured to
   maintain portions of the valve leaflets in contact with a wall of the blood vessel by
   being inflated.
            For some applications, the apparatus further includes a slit tube configured to
   be inserted into the blood vessel and to maintain portions of the valve leaflets in
30 contact with a wall of the blood vessel by portions of the slit tube between the slits
   being expanded radially outwardly.
                                               45

           For some applications, the blood pump is configured to be coupled to the
   valve, the blood pump includes outlet holes via which the blood is pumped into the
   subject's vasculature, and the outlet holes are shaped such that when the blood pump
   is coupled to the valve, the outlet holes direct the blood toward the downstream sides
 5 of the valve leaflets.
           For some applications, the blood pump is configured to be coupled to the
   valve, the blood pump includes a blood pump catheter that defines a radial protrusion
   therefrom that is concavely curved toward a distal end of the catheter, the radial
   protrusion being configured such that, when the blood pump is coupled to the valve,
10 the radial protrusion directs blood that is pumped into the vasculature toward the
   valve leaflets.
           For some applications, the blood pump is configured to be coupled to the
   valve, the blood pump includes outlet holes via which the blood is pumped into the
   subject's vasculature, and the outlet holes are disposed on the blood pump such that,
15 when the blood pump is coupled to the valve, the holes are disposed adjacent to bases
   of the valve leaflets.
           For some applications, the outlet holes are disposed on the blood pump such
   that, when the blood pump is coupled to the valve, the outlet holes are disposed
   adjacent to a location along lengths of the valve leaflets that is below midway
20 between cusps of the leaflets and bases of the leaflets.
           There is further provided, in accordance with some applications of the present
   invention, apparatus for use with a blood vessel of a subject, the apparatus including:
           a blood pump configured to draw blood in a downstream direction through the
   blood vessel into the pump; and
25         a valve including rigid portions thereof, the rigid portions being configured to
   couple the valve to the blood vessel, the valve being configured to be coupled to a
   distal portion of the blood pump and to prevent blood from flowing past the valve in a
   retrograde direction.
           For some applications, the valve further includes flexible valve leaflets that are
30 coupled to the rigid portions of the valve.
                                               46

           There is additionally provided, in accordance with some applications of the
   present invention, a method including:
           providing a prosthetic valve that defines valve leaflets; and
           placing the valve in a blood vessel such that:
 5                  in response to blood pressure on the upstream side of the valve leaflets
           exceeding pressure on the downstream side of the valve leaflets, blood flows
           in an antegrade direction between cusps of the valve leaflets and an inner wall
           of the blood vessel, and
                    in response to blood pressure on the downstream side of the valve
10         leaflets exceeding pressure on the upstream side of the valve leaflets, the valve
           closes by the cusps of the valve leaflets contacting the inner wall of the blood
           vessel.
           There is further provided, in accordance with some applications of the present
   invention, apparatus including:
15         a prosthetic valve that includes flexible valve leaflets and a rigid valve frame,
   the valve leaflets being coupled to the valve frame such that:
           in response to pressure on a first side of the valve leaflets exceeding pressure
   on a second side of the valve leaflets, the leaflets open by cusps of the valve leaflets
   separating from the rigid frame, and
20         in response to blood pressure on the second side of the valve leaflets
   exceeding pressure on the first side of the valve leaflets, the valve closes by the cusps
   of the leaflets contacting the rigid frame.
           There is additionally provided, in accordance with some applications of the
   present invention, apparatus including:
25         a blood pump, including:
                    a tube;
                    first and second unidirectional     valves disposed, respectively,     at
           proximal and distal ends of the tube;
                     a membrane coupled to the inside of the tube such as to partition the
30         tube into a first compartment that is in fluid communication with the valves,
                                               47

           and a second compartment that is not in fluid communication with the valves;
           and
                   a pumping mechanism configured to pump fluid through the tube by
           increasing and subsequently decreasing the size of the first compartment by
 5         moving the membrane with respect to the tube.
           For some applications, the tube includes a stent, and material disposed on the
   stent.
           For some applications, the occlusion element is configured to be placed in a
   blood vessel for less than one week.
10         For some applications, one of the valves is configured to prevent backflow of
   blood from the tube into the blood vessel and a second one of the valves is configured
   to prevent backflow of blood from the blood vessel into the tube.
           For some applications, the blood pump is configured to be placed in a renal
   vein of a subject and to pump blood in a downstream direction from the renal vein to a
15 vena cava of the subject.
           For some applications, the blood pump is configured to occlude backflow of
   blood from the vena cava to the renal vein.
           There is additionally provided, in accordance with some applications of the
   present invention, a method, including:
20         coupling a tube to an inner wall of a blood vessel of a subject,
                   first and second unidirectional valves being disposed, respectively, at
           proximal and distal ends of the tube, and
                    a membrane being coupled to the inside of the tube, such as to
           partition the tube into a first compartment that is in fluid communication with
25         the valves, and a second compartment that is not in fluid communication with
           the valves; and
           operating a pumping mechanism to pump blood through the tube by increasing
   and subsequently decreasing the size of the first compartment, by moving the
   membrane with respect to the tube.
                                               48

            For some applications, the tube includes a stent and material disposed on a
   stent, and coupling the tube to the inner wall of the blood vessel includes coupling the
   stent and the material to the inner wall of the blood vessel.
            For some applications, coupling the tube to the inner wall of the blood vessel
 5 includes coupling the tube to the inner wall of the blood vessel for less than one week.
            For some applications, operating the pumping mechanism includes operating
   the pumping mechanism such that one of the valves prevents backflow of blood from
   the tube into the blood vessel and a second one of the valves prevents backflow of
   blood from the blood vessel into the tube.
10          For some applications, coupling the tube to the inner wall of the blood vessel
   includes coupling the tube to an inner wall of a renal vein of a subject, and operating
   the pumping mechanism includes pumping blood in a downstream direction from the
   renal vein to a vena cava of the subject.
            For some applications, coupling the tube to the inner wall of the renal vein
15 includes occluding backflow of blood from the vena cava to the renal vein.
            For some applications, the method further includes identifying the subject as a
   subject suffering from a condition selected from the group consisting of: cardiac
   dysfunction, congestive heart failure, reduced renal blood flow, increased renal
   vascular resistance, arterial hypertension, and kidney dysfunction, and operating the
20 pump includes, in response to identifying the subject as suffering from the condition,
   reducing blood pressure within the subject's renal vein by operating the pump to pump
   blood in the downstream direction from the renal vein to the vena cava.
            There is further provided, in accordance with some applications of the present
   invention, a method including:
25          operating a blood pump to pump blood in a downstream direction through a
   first vein, the first vein being a tributary of a second vein and forming a junction with
   the second vein; and
            preventing backflow of blood from the second vein to the first vein by
   covering an ostium at the junction with an ostium-covering umbrella disposed in the
30 second vein.
                                                 49

            For some applications, operating the blood pump includes performing
   ultrafiltration on the pumped blood.
            For some applications, the ostium-covering umbrella includes an ostium
   covering umbrella having a diameter of more than 6 mm when in an open
 5 configuration, and covering the ostium with the umbrella includes covering the ostium
   with the umbrella having a diameter of more than 6 mm.
            For some applications, operating the blood pump includes causing the ostium
   covering umbrella to become sealed against a wall of the second vein surrounding the
   ostium.
10          For some applications, the first vein includes a renal vein of the subject, and
   the second vein includes a vena cava of the subject, and pumping blood in the
   downstream direction includes pumping blood in a downstream direction from the
   renal vein toward the vena cava.
            For some applications, preventing backflow of blood from the second vein to
15 the first vein includes preventing backflow of blood from the vena cava to the renal
   vein.
            For some applications, the method further includes identifying the subject as a
   subject suffering from a condition selected from the group consisting of: cardiac
   dysfunction, congestive heart failure, reduced renal blood flow, increased renal
20 vascular resistance, arterial hypertension, and kidney dysfunction, and operating the
   pump includes, in response to identifying the subject as suffering from the condition,
   reducing blood pressure within the subject's renal vein by operating the pump to pump
   blood in the downstream direction from the renal vein to the vena cava.
            There is further provided, in accordance with some applications of the present
25 invention, apparatus for use with a first vein of a subject, the first vein being a
   tributary of a second vein and forming a junction with the second vein, the apparatus
   including:
            a catheter configured to be placed in the first vein, a distal end of the catheter
   being configured to pump blood in a downstream direction through the first vein and
30 into the catheter; and
                                               50

           an ostium-covering umbrella disposed around the outside of the catheter and
   configured to be placed within the second vein at the junction such that the umbrella
   prevents backflow of blood from the second vein to the first vein by the ostium
   occluding umbrella covering an ostium at the junction from a location within the
 5 second vein.
           For some applications, the catheter, by pumping the blood is configured to
   cause the ostium-covering umbrella to become sealed against a wall of the second
   vein surrounding the ostium.
           For some applications, the ostium-covering umbrella has a diameter of more
10 than 6 mm, when in an open configuration.
           For some applications, the first vein includes a renal vein of the subject, and
   the second vein includes a vena cava of the subject, and the catheter is configured to
   pump blood by pumping blood in a downstream direction from the renal vein.
           For some applications, the ostium-covering umbrella is configured to prevent
15 backflow of blood from the vena cava to the renal vein by the ostium-occluding
   umbrella covering an ostium at a junction of the renal vein and the vena cava, from a
   location within the vena cava.
           There is further provided, in accordance with some applications of the present
   invention, apparatus including:
20         a catheter;
           a pumping mechanism configured to suction fluid into a distal end of the
   catheter; and
           an ostium-covering umbrella disposed around the outside of the catheter, the
   umbrella having a diameter of at least 6 mm when in an open configuration thereof.
25         For some applications, the diameter of the ostium-covering umbrella is
   between 10 mm and 20 mm. For some applications, the diameter of the ostium
   covering umbrella is between 15 mm and 25 mm.
           There is additionally provided, in accordance with some applications of the
   present invention, a method for measuring flow in a blood vessel including:
30         occluding the blood vessel with an occlusion element;
                                              51

           pumping blood from an upstream side of the occlusion element to a
   downstream side of the occlusion element;
           measuring blood pressure on the upstream and downstream sides of the
   occlusion element;
 5         modulating the pumping such that pressure on the downstream side of the
   occlusion element is equal to pressure on the upstream side of the occlusion element;
           measuring a flow rate of blood through the pump when the pressure on the
   downstream side of the occlusion element is equal to pressure on the upstream side of
   the occlusion element;
10         designating the measured flow rate as a baseline flow rate; and
           subsequently, measuring a flow rate of blood through the pump relative to the
   baseline flow rate.
           For some applications, the method further includes, in response to designating
   the baseline flow rate, designating a baseline measure of vascular resistance of the
15 subject, and subsequently, measuring vascular resistance of the subject relative to the
   baseline vascular resistance.
           The present invention will be more fully understood from the following
   detailed description of embodiments thereof, taken together with the drawings, in
   which:
20
                                              52

                      BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
           Figs. 1A-B are schematic illustrations of a healthy subject's right heart during
   diastole and systole respectively;
           Fig. 1C is a set of graphs showing a healthy subject's central venous flow
 5 velocity profile and central venous pressure profile with respect to the subject's ECG
   cycle;
           Figs. 2A-B are schematic illustrations of the right heart of a subject suffering
   from congestive heart failure, during diastole and systole respectively;
           Fig. 2C is a set of graphs showing the central venous flow velocity profile and
10 central venous pressure profile of the subject suffering from congestive heart failure,
   with respect to the subject's ECG cycle;
           Fig. 3A is a schematic illustration of blood flowing back toward the kidneys of
   a subject suffering from congestive heart failure;
           Fig. 3B is a set of graphs showing the central venous flow velocity profile and
15 renal vein pressure profile of the subject suffering from congestive heart failure, with
   respect to the subject's ECG cycle;
           Fig. 4A is a schematic illustration of a pump and an occlusion element placed
   in left and right renal veins of a subject suffering from congestive heart failure, in
   accordance with some applications of the present invention;
20         Fig. 4B is a set of graphs showing the central venous flow velocity profile and
   renal vein pressure profile of the subject suffering from congestive heart failure, with
   respect to the subject's ECG cycle, subsequent to placement of a blood pump in the
   subject's left and right renal veins, and activation of the blood pump, in accordance
   with some applications of the present invention;
25         Figs. 5A-D are schematic illustrations of an inverted valve disposed around a
   blood pump catheter, in accordance with some applications of the present invention;
           Figs. 6A-G are schematic illustrations of configurations of the blood pump
   catheter that are used with the inverted valve, in accordance with some applications of
   the present invention;
                                               53

           Figs. 7A-B are schematic illustrations of a blood pump catheter and a non
   inverted valve placed in the renal vein, when the non-inverted valve is, respectively,
   in closed and open states thereof, in accordance with some applications of the present
   invention;
 5         Figs. 8A-B are schematic illustrations of respective views of a blood pump in
   accordance with some applications of the present invention;
           Figs. 9A-D are schematic illustrations of respective stages of a cycle of
   operation of the blood pump of Figs. 8A-B, in accordance with some applications of
   the present invention;
10         Figs. 1OA-D are schematic illustrations of a sleeve configured to occlude
   blood flow from a subject's vena cava to the subject's renal veins, in accordance with
   some applications of the present invention;
           Figs. 10E-F are schematic illustrations of a sleeve coupled to the vena cava
   using a helical support element that is configured to occlude blood flow from a
15 subject's vena cava to the subject's renal veins, in accordance with some applications
   of the present invention;
           Fig. lOG is a schematic illustration a sleeve coupled to a helical blood pump
   catheter, the sleeve and the blood pump catheter being configured to occlude blood
   flow from a subject's vena cava to the subject's renal veins, in accordance with some
20 applications of the present invention;
           Figs. 1 1A-C are schematic illustrations of a blood pump catheter being placed
   in a subject's renal vein, such that an ostium-covering umbrella disposed around the
   outside of the catheter covers the ostium at the junction between the subject's vena
   cava and the renal vein, in accordance with some applications of the present
25 invention;
           Figs 12Ai-ii, and 12B-E are schematic illustrations of a blood pump that
   includes an impeller disposed inside a radially-expandable cage, in accordance with
   some applications of the present invention;
                                              54

           Figs. 13A-D are schematic illustrations of respective stages in a method of
   manufacture of an impeller for a blood pump, in accordance with some applications of
   the present invention;
           Figs. 14A-B are schematic illustrations of sutures tied around a portion of a
 5 frame of an impeller, in accordance with some applications of the present invention;
           Fig. 15 is a schematic illustration of an impeller for a blood pump, in
   accordance with some applications of the present invention;
           Figs. 16A-B are schematic illustrations of a three-bladed impeller for a blood
   pump, in accordance with some applications of the present invention;
10         Fig. 17 is a schematic illustration of a radially-expandable cage for use with an
   impeller-based blood pump, in accordance with some applications of the present
   invention
           Figs. 18Ai-18Aiii are schematic illustrations of respective views and/or
   configurations of a frame of an impeller, in accordance with some applications of the
15 present invention;
           Figs. 18Bi-18Biii are schematic illustrations of respective views and/or
   configurations of a frame of an impeller, the impeller frame of Figs. 18B1-18Biii
   being configured to define blades that span a larger transverse area than those of the
   impeller frame shown in Figs. 18Ai-18Aiii, in accordance with some applications of
20 the present invention;
           Fig. 18C is a schematic illustration of a radially-expandable cage that includes
   struts having undulated portions thereof, in accordance with some applications of the
   present invention;
           Fig. 18D is a schematic illustration of end views of radially expanded cages, in
25 accordance with some applications of the present invention;
           Figs. 19A-B are schematic illustrations of an impeller cage that is shaped to
   define a generally cylindrical central portion in the absence of any force being applied
   to the cage, in accordance with some applications of the present invention;
           Fig. 20 is a schematic illustration of an impeller cage that is configured to be
30 placed inside a blood vessel, such as to cause the diameter of a portion of the blood
                                               55

   vessel to be expanded relative to the diameter of the portion of the blood vessel in the
   absence of the impeller cage, in accordance with some applications of the present
   invention;
           Fig. 21A is a schematic illustration of impeller-based blood pumps inserted
 5 into a subject's left and right renal veins via the subject's femoral vein, in accordance
   with some applications of the present invention;
           Fig. 21B is a schematic illustration of impeller-based blood pumps inserted
   into a subject's left and right renal veins via the subject's subclavian vein, in
   accordance with some applications of the present invention;
10         Figs. 22Ai-ii, 22Bi-ii, and 22Ci-ii are schematic illustrations of a thermal flow
   sensor and a housing that houses the thermal flow sensor, in accordance with some
   applications of the present invention; and
           Fig. 23 shows graphs indicating the results of experiments that were
   performed on a pig, using an impeller-based blood pump, in accordance with some
15 applications of the present invention.
                                                56

                         DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF EMBODIMENTS
            Reference is now made to Figs. 1A-B, which are schematic illustrations of a
   healthy subject's heart during diastole and systole respectively. As shown in Fig. 1A,
   during diastole, blood flows from the subject's right atrium (RA) 20 to the subject's
 5 right ventricle (RV) 22. As shown in Fig. 1B, during systole, the tricuspid valve 24,
   which separates the right ventricle from the right atrium, closes, as the right ventricle
   pumps blood toward the subject's lungs. During systolic long-axis contraction of the
   right ventricle, the right atrium fills with blood from the vena cava 26, the right atrium
   expanding such as to draw blood into the right atrium.
10          Fig. 1C is a set of graphs showing the central venous flow velocity profile and
   central venous pressure profile of a healthy subject with respect to the subject's ECG
   cycle. The flow velocity profile is characterized by biphasic forward flow, with flow
   during systole being greater than that during diastole.       Typically, there is a small
   amount of reverse flow AR, during atrial contraction. The central venous pressure
15 profile is characterized by relatively low pressure over the duration of the cardiac
   cycle, with the A-wave (i.e., the pressure during atrial contraction), typically being
   greater than the V-wave (i.e., the pressure during systole).
            Reference is now made to Figs. 2A-B, which are schematic illustrations of the
   heart of a subject suffering from congestive heart failure, during diastole and systole
20 respectively. As shown in Fig. 2A, as with the healthy heart, during diastole, blood
   flows from the subject's right atrium 20 to the subject's right ventricle 22. As shown
   in Fig. 2B, during systole, due to right atrial pressure being too high, filling of the
   subject's right atrium is cut short, causing there to be an increase in pressure in the
   vena cava 26, as the high atrial pressure is transmitted to the vena cava. In some cases
25 (e.g., in cases of very high right atrial pressure, tricuspid regurgitation, or atrial
   fibrillation), there may be retrograde flow of blood from the right atrium into the vena
   cava 26, and/or tributaries of the vena cava, due to the filling of the right atrium being
   cut short.
            Fig. 2C is a set of graphs showing the central venous flow velocity profile and
30 central venous pressure profile of the subject suffering from congestive heart failure,
   with respect to the subject's ECG cycle. The flow velocity profile is characterized by
                                                 57

   increased retrograde flow AR at the end of diastole, and by antegrade flow during
   systole being less than that during diastole.   For example, in some subjects there is
   zero flow, or reverse flow during systole.      The central venous pressure profile is
   characterized by relatively high pressure over the duration of the cardiac cycle with
 5 the V-wave being particularly high relative to that of a healthy heart, and relative to
   the subject's A-wave.
            Reference is now made to Fig. 3A, which is a schematic illustration of blood
   flowing back toward the kidneys 30 of a subject suffering from congestive heart
   failure, via the subject's left and right renal veins 32.   Fig. 3B is a set of graphs
10 showing the central venous flow velocity profile and renal vein pressure profile of the
   subject suffering from congestive heart failure, with respect to the subject's ECG
   cycle. It is noted that the graphs shown in Fig. 3B are the same as those shown in Fig.
   2C, except that the pressure profile shown in Fig. 3B is that of the renal vein, whereas
   the pressure profile shown in Fig. 2C is the central venous pressure profile.         As
15 shown, typically, in the absence of a device placed in the renal vein (as performed, in
   accordance with some applications of the present invention), and assuming that the
   renal vein is at the same height as the central venous system, the renal venous
   pressure profile is identical to the central venous pressure profile.    The renal vein
   pressure profile is characterized by relatively high pressure over the duration of the
20 cardiac cycle, with the V-wave being particularly high relative to that of a healthy
   heart.
            Reference is now made to Fig. 4A, which is a schematic illustration of a blood
   pump 34 and an occlusion element 36 placed in left and right renal veins 32 of a
   subject suffering from congestive heart failure, in accordance with some applications
25 of the present invention. The pump and the occlusion element are typically placed
   inside the subject's renal veins in order to provide acute treatment of a subject
   suffering from cardiac dysfunction, congestive heart failure, low renal blood flow,
   high renal vascular resistance, arterial hypertension, and/or kidney dysfunction. For
   example, the pump and the occlusion element may be placed inside the subject's renal
30 veins for a period of more than one hour (e.g., more than one day), less than one week
   (e.g., less than four days), and/or between one hour and one week (e.g., between one
   day and four days). For some applications, the pump and the occlusion element are
                                              58

   chronically placed inside the subject's renal veins in order to provide chronic
   treatment of a subject suffering from cardiac dysfunction, congestive heart failure,
   low renal blood flow, high renal vascular resistance, arterial hypertension, and/or
   kidney dysfunction.     For some applications, a course of treatment is applied to a
 5 subject over several weeks, several months, or several years, in which the pump and
   the occlusion element are intermittently placed inside the subject's renal veins, and the
   subject is intermittently treated in accordance with the techniques described herein.
   For example, the subject may be intermittently treated at intervals of several days,
   several weeks, or several months.
10         The occlusion element is configured to occlude the renal vein at an occlusion
   site. The pump is configured to pump blood in a downstream direction, from a site
   that is in fluid communication with the upstream side of the occlusion element to a
   site that is in fluid communication with a downstream side of the occlusion element.
   In doing so, the pump reduces pressure in the renal vein. The occlusion element is
15 configured to protect the renal vein from backflow of blood from the vena cava to the
   renal vein.
           Typically, due to the reduction in pressure in the renal vein that is caused by
   the pumping of the blood in the downstream direction, perfusion of the kidney
   increases. In turn, this may cause pressure in the renal veins to rise relative to the
20 pressure in the renal veins immediately subsequent to initiation of the pumping, due to
   increased blood flow into the renal vein. Typically, even after perfusion of the kidney
   increases, the pump is configured to maintain the pressure in the renal vein at a lower
   value than the pressure in the renal vein before the initiation of the pumping.      For
   some applications, in addition to lowering the subject's renal vein pressure, and/or
25 increasing perfusion of the subject's kidney, the blood pump performs ultrafiltration
   on the subject's blood.
           It is noted that, for some applications, due to the reduction in pressure in the
   renal vein that is caused by the pumping of the blood in the downstream direction, the
   subject's renal vascular resistance decreases, in accordance with physiological
30 mechanisms that are described, for example, in an article by Haddy et al., entitled
   "Effect of elevation of intraluminal pressure on renal vascular resistance" (Circulation
   Research, 1956), which is incorporated herein by reference. It is further noted that a
                                               59

   treatment of the subject that increases renal perfusion by increasing blood pressure in
   the subject's renal arteries would typically not effect the aforementioned physiological
   mechanisms.
           Typically, when blood pumps as described herein are used to reduce pressure
 5 in the subject's renal veins, it is expected that there will be an improved
   responsiveness by the subject to administration of diuretics to the subject, due to the
   reduction in renal venous pressure.       Therefore, for some applications, a reduced
   dosage of diuretics may be administered to the subject relative to a dosage of diuretics
   that would be administered to the subject in the absence of performing the techniques
10 described herein. Alternatively, a regular dosage of diuretics may be administered to
   the subject, but the diuretics may have a greater effect on the subject, due to the
   reduction in renal venous pressure.
           High central venous pressure leads to a high level of blood pressure within the
   heart, which in turn leads to the release of atrial natriuretic peptide (ANP) and B-type
15 natriuretic peptide (BNP) by the subject, both of which act as natural diuretics.
   Typically, when blood pumps as described herein are used to reduce pressure in the
   subject's renal veins, there is expected to be an improved responsiveness by the
   subject to the release of the natural diuretics by the subject, due to the reduction in
   renal venous pressure.       For some applications, since the subject's central venous
20 pressure is not lowered by using the blood pumps described herein, it is expected that
   the subject will continue to release atrial natriuretic peptide (ANP) and B-type
   natriuretic peptide (BNP), even while the subject's renal venous pressure is reduced
   by the use of the blood pumps described herein. Thus, for some applications, using
   the blood pumps described herein may result in the subject continuing to release atrial
25 natriuretic peptide (ANP) and B-type natriuretic peptide (BNP), as well as resulting in
   the effectiveness of the aforementioned natural diuretics being greater than the
   effectiveness of the diuretics in the absence of the use of the blood pumps.
           For some applications, pressure and/or flow sensors are disposed at the distal
   end of the catheter, and the suction pressure that is applied to the renal vein by the
30 pump is modulated in response to feedback from the pressure and/or flow sensors.
   For example, a first pressure sensor 35 may be disposed on the side of the occlusion
   element that is closer to the kidney, and a second pressure sensor 37 may be disposed
                                               60

   the side of the occlusion element that is closer to the vena cava. When the pumping
   of the pump is initiated, the flow rate of the pumping is modulated (e.g., automatically
   modulated, or manually modulated), such as to cause the pressure measured by the
   first sensor (which is indicative of the pressure in the renal vein) to be equal to the
 5 pressure measured by the second sensor (which is indicative of the central venous
   pressure). When the pressure measured at the first sensor is equal to that measured at
   the second sensor, the pump control unit interprets the flow rate of the pumping to be
   indicative of the native blood flow rate from the subject's renal vein to the subject's
   vena cava, since before the occlusion element were inserted into the renal vein, the
10 renal vein pressure was equal to the central venous pressure. For some applications,
   the pump control unit designates the aforementioned measured flow rate as a baseline
   flow rate. Subsequently, when the pump is activated to lower the pressure in the renal
   vein relative the central venous pressure, the pump control unit measures the flow rate
   of the pumped blood relative the designated baseline flow rate.
15         For some applications, a third sensor (e.g., a non-invasive blood pressure
   sensor, or an invasive blood pressure sensor) is used to measure the subject's arterial
   blood pressure. As described above, when the pumping of the pump is initiated, the
   flow rate of the pumping is modulated, such as to cause the pressure measured by the
   first sensor to be equal to the pressure measured by the second sensor. When the
20 pressure measured at the first sensor is equal to that measured at the second sensor,
   the pump control unit determines a baseline measure of the subject's renal vascular
   resistance by measuring the difference between the measured arterial and venous
   pressures and dividing the difference by the baseline flow rate. Subsequently, when
   the pump is activated to lower the pressure in the renal vein relative the central venous
25 pressure, the pump control unit measures the current renal vascular resistance (based
   upon the current difference between the measured arterial and venous pressures and
   the current flow rate) relative the designated baseline renal vascular resistance.
           Fig. 4B is a set of graphs showing the central venous flow velocity profile and
   renal vein pressure profile of the subject suffering from congestive heart failure, with
30 respect to the subject's ECG cycle, subsequent to placement of blood pump 34 and
   occlusion element 36 in the subject's left and right renal veins 32. The renal venous
   pressure graph shows the original venous pressure profile as a dashed curve, and
                                                61

   shows two curves showing the renal venous pressure, subsequent to placement of the
   pumps and the occlusion elements in the veins, and activation of the pumps.
   Typically, subsequent to placement of the pumps and the occlusion elements in the
   veins and activation of the pumps, the height of the venous pressure curve depends on
 5 the rate of pumping that the operator applies to the renal veins via the pumps.
   Therefore, two curves are shown for the renal venous pressure, subsequent to
   placement of the pumps and the occlusion elements in the veins, and activation of the
   pumps. As shown, placement of the pumps and the occlusion elements in the veins,
   and activation of the pumps, typically causes a lowering and flattening of the renal
10 vein pressure profile, even though the subject's central venous pressure is elevated.
   For some applications, the renal vein pressure profile is not completely flattened,
   since although the pump applies a constant suction pressure to the renal veins
   throughout the duration of the subject's cardiac cycle, small cyclical variations in
   blood pressure are transmitted to the renal veins via the renal capillary system.
15 Alternatively, subsequent to placement of the pumps and the occlusion elements in the
   veins, and activation of the pumps, the renal vein pressure profile is flattened.
           Reference is now made to Figs. 5A-D, which are schematic illustrations of an
   inverted valve 40 disposed around a blood pump catheter 42, in accordance with some
   applications of the present invention. Inverted valve 40 is an example of occlusion
20 element 36 described hereinabove with reference to Figs. 4A-B, and blood pump
   catheter 42 is an example of blood pump 34 described hereinabove with reference to
   Figs. 4A-B.
           Inverted valve 40 typically includes a rigid frame 44, which is configured to
   anchor the inverted valve to renal vein 32. (In Figs. 5A-B, inverted valve 40 is shown
25 inside the left renal vein, but the scope of the present invention includes placing
   inverted valve 40 and blood pump catheter 42 in the right renal vein, and, as is
   typically the case, placing inverted valve 40 and blood pump catheter 42 in each of
   the subject's renal veins.)    Inverted valve 40 also includes valve leaflets 46.     In
   response to blood pressure on the upstream side of the valve leaflets exceeding
30 pressure on the downstream side of the valve leaflets, the valve leaflets are configured
   to open by separating from the wall of the blood vessel (and typically by separating
   from the rigid frame of the valve), such that blood flows in an antegrade direction
                                              62

   between cusps of the valve leaflets and an inner wall of the blood vessel.        In this
   sense, the inverted valve is inverted with respect to regular blood vessel valves, the
   leaflets of which are configured to open by the cusps of the leaflets separating from
   one another in order to allow blood flow between the leaflets, in response to blood
 5 pressure on the upstream side of the valve leaflets exceeding pressure on the
   downstream side of the valve leaflets. Furthermore, a typical blood vessel valve is
   disposed within the blood vessel such that the valve leaflets converge toward each
   other in the downstream direction, whereas, as shown in Figs. 5A-B, leaflets 46 of
   valve 40 diverge from each other in the downstream direction.
10          Fig. 5A shows the inverted valve in an open state, arrows 48 indicating blood
   flow in an antegrade direction between cusps of the valve leaflets and an inner wall of
   the renal vein 32. Typically, when inverted valve 40 and blood pump catheter 42 are
   placed inside the renal vein, and the blood pump catheter is not activated, the valve
   leaflets will open, such as to permit blood flow from the renal vein to the vena cava,
15 in response to blood pressure within the renal vein exerting pressure on the upstream
   side of leaflets 46.
            Fig. 5B shows inverted valve 40 in the closed state. As shown, in the closed
   state of the valve, the valve occludes blood flow from the renal vein to the vena cava,
   by the cusps of valve leaflets 46 contacting the inner wall of the renal vein at an
20 occlusion site 49. For some applications, in the occluding state of the valve, the cusps
   of the valve leaflets contact a portion of the rigid frame of the valve. Typically, the
   valve closes in response to blood pressure on the downstream side of the valve leaflets
   exceeding pressure on the upstream side of the valve leaflets.       When the catheter
   blood pump is activated, the pump draws blood in a downstream direction from a site
25 that is in fluid communication with the upstream side of the valve, and pumps blood
   back into the venous system at a site that is in fluid communication with a
   downstream side of the valve, such as a site within the vena cava or a site within the
   renal vein. For example, the catheter blood pump may define inlet holes 50, which
   are in fluid communication with an upstream side of the valve, and through which
30 blood is pumped into the pump, and the catheter blood pump may further define outlet
   holes 52, which are disposed in fluid communication with the downstream side of the
   valve, and through which blood is pumped into the renal vein or the vena cava. For
                                              63

   some applications, the catheter blood pump pumps blood using an impeller 54
   disposed inside a lumen 56 defined by the catheter blood pump, as shown.
           For some applications, blood pump catheter 42 is coupled to frame 44 of valve
   40 before blood pump catheter 42 and valve 40 are inserted into the subject's body.
 5 The pump is coupled to the valve frame such that, upon being placed inside the renal
   vein, inlet holes 50 are in fluid communication with an upstream side of valve leaflets
   46, and outlet holes 52 are disposed in fluid communication with the downstream side
   of the valve. For some applications, valve 40 and blood pump catheter 42 are inserted
   into the subject's renal vein separately. For example, the valve may be inserted into
10 the renal vein, and subsequently the blood pump catheter may be inserted through the
   valve, such that the blood pump catheter becomes coupled to valve frame 44.
   Alternatively the blood pump catheter may be inserted into the renal vein, and
   subsequently, the valve may be inserted into the renal vein over the blood pump
   catheter. Typically, the blood pump catheter and the valve frame define a coupling
15 mechanism that couples the blood pump catheter to the valve frame such that inlet
   holes 50 are in fluid communication with an upstream side of valve leaflets 46, and
   such that outlet holes 52 are disposed in fluid communication with the downstream
   side of the valve.
           Typically, blood pump catheter 42 is configured to pump blood into the renal
20 vein in a manner that causes inverted valve 40 to assume an occluding state thereof
   and/or a manner that maintains inverted valve 40 in an occluding state thereof. For
   example, the blood pump catheter may be configured to pump blood out of outlet
   holes 52 in such a manner that blood flowing out of the outlet holes directly impacts
   the downstream sides of valve leaflets 46, thereby causing the cusps of the leaflets to
25 assume and/or maintain contact with the inner wall of the renal vein.            Thus,
   hydrodynamic pressure of the blood that is pumped into the subject's vasculature
   causes the cusps of the leaflets to assume and/or maintain contact with the inner wall
   of the renal vein.      For some applications, blood pump catheter is structurally
   configured to pump blood out of the outlet holes in the aforementioned manner, for
30 example, in accordance with the applications of the present invention described
   hereinbelow with reference to Figs. 6B-D.       Typically, valve 40 and blood pump
   catheter 42 are configured such that, in response to blood pump catheter 42 becoming
                                              64

   inactive (e.g., due to a loss of power to the pump), valve leaflets 46 will open to allow
   blood flow from the renal vein to the vena cava, in response to pressure being exerted
   on the upstream side of the valve leaflets by blood in the subject's renal vein.
            As described above, for some applications, blood pump catheter 42 is
 5 configured to pump blood out of outlet holes 52 in such a manner that blood flowing
   out of the outlet holes directly impacts the downstream sides of valve leaflets 46. For
   some applications, pumping the blood directly against the downstream sides of the
   valve leaflets has an antithrombogenic effect, by the blood that is pumped against the
   leaflets flushing the leaflets, and reducing the build-up of blood clots and/or tissue
10 growth on the valve leaflets, relative to if the blood were not pumped directly against
   the valve leaflets. Alternatively or additionally, the blood pump catheter pumps an
   anti-coagulation agent directly toward the leaflets together with the blood that is
   pumped directly toward the leaflets.       For some applications, by pumping an anti
   coagulation agent directly toward the leaflets, a higher dose of the anticoagulation
15 agent is provided to the leaflets than, for example, if the anticoagulation agent were to
   be systemically administered to the subject.      Thus, the dose of the anticoagulation
   agent that is administered to the subject may be lowered relative to if the
   anticoagulation agent were to be systemically administered to the subject, and/or the
   anticoagulation agent may be more effective at reducing blood clots and/or tissue
20 growth at the leaflets relative to if the anticoagulation agent were to be systemically
   administered to the subject. For some applications, the valve leaflets define small
   holes therethrough that are configured to permit the flow of the anticoagulation agent
   to the upstream sides of the valve leaflets.
            In accordance with the description of Figs. 5A-B, the combination of inverted
25 valve 40 and blood pump catheter 42 is thus configured such that (a) when the blood
   pump is inactive, the inverted valve opens, in response to pressure exerted on the
   upstream sides of the valve leaflets by blood in the renal vein, and (b) when the blood
   pump is active, the pumping of blood into the renal vein on the downstream side of
   leaflets 46 maintains the valve in an occluding state thereof.
30          Figs. 5C-D are schematic illustrations of views of the upstream ends of
   inverted valve 40 and blood pump catheter 42, when the valve is, respectively, in a
   non-occluding, and an occluding state thereof. As shown in Fig. 5C, when the valve
                                                65

   is in the non-occluding state thereof, cusps 58 of leaflets 46 separate from the valve
   frame, such as to allow blood flow between the cusps of the valve leaflets and the
   inner wall of the blood vessel (blood vessel not shown). It is noted that, for some
   applications, the structure of the valve frame is different from that shown in Figs. 5C
 5 D. For example, the valve frame may have a structure as shown in Figs. 5A-B, such
   that even when the valve is in the occluding state thereof, the cusps of the leaflets are
   not in direct contact with a portion of the valve frame, but are in contact with the inner
   wall of the blood vessel.
            Reference is now made to Figs. 6A-G, which are schematic illustrations of
10 configurations of blood pump catheter that 42 are used with inverted valve 40, in
   accordance with some applications of the present invention.
            Fig. 6A shows pump control unit 60, which is used to control pumping of
   blood pump catheter 42. The dashed boxes 62 indicate locations of the blood pump
   motor, in accordance with respective applications of the invention.            For some
15 applications, the blood pump motor is disposed at the location indicated by box 62A,
   outside of the subject's body, in the vicinity of the pump control unit (e.g., within the
   same housing as the pump control unit).         For some applications, the motor being
   disposed outside the subject's body allows the use of a smaller diameter catheter for
   the blood pump catheter than would be required if the motor were to be disposed
20 inside the catheter. Alternatively, the blood pump motor is disposed at the location
   indicated by box 62B, such that when the distal end of the blood pump catheter is
   disposed inside renal vein 32, the motor is disposed in the vena cava.          For some
   applications, the motor being disposed in the portion of the catheter that is disposed in
   the vena cava, allows the distal portion of the catheter that is placed inside the renal
25 vein to be smaller than would be required if the motor were to be disposed inside the
   distal portion of the catheter. Further alternatively, the blood pump motor is disposed
   at the location indicated by box 62C, within the distal portion of the catheter that is
   placed inside the renal vein. For some applications, the blood pump motor is disposed
   in the vicinity of impeller 54 (e.g., at the location indicated by box 62C) in order for
30 the pump motor to more efficiently impart rotational motion to the impeller, relative
   to if the blood pump motor were disposed at a greater distance from impeller 54.
                                                66

            Figs. 6B-D are schematic illustrations of blood pump catheter 42, the pump
   being structurally configured to pump blood out of outlet holes 52, in a manner that
   maintains inverted valve 40 in an occluding state thereof.
            As shown in Fig. 6B, for some applications, the outlet holes are located such
 5 that when the blood pump catheter is placed through (e.g., coupled to) the valve and
   inlet holes 50 are disposed in fluid communication with the upstream side of the
   valve, the outlet holes are disposed adjacent to the bases 64 of valve leaflets 46. For
   example, the outlet holes of the pump may be disposed adjacent to a location along
   the length of the valve leaflets that is below midway between cusps 58 of the leaflets
10 and bases 64 of the leaflets. Typically, due to the disposition of the outlet holes with
   respect to the valve leaflets, blood flowing out of the outlet holes flows against the
   downstream sides of valve leaflets 46, thereby causing the cusps of the leaflets to
   maintain contact with the inner wall of the renal vein, i.e., thereby maintaining the
   valve in an occluding (i.e., closed) state.
15          For some applications, the blood pump catheter is shaped to define a radial
   protrusion 66 therefrom that is concavely curved toward a distal end of the catheter, as
   shown in Fig. 6C. The curvature and disposition of protrusion 66 is typically such
   that a first end of the protrusion, which is coupled to the catheter, is disposed
   proximally to outlet holes 52, and the other end of the radial protrusion is disposed
20 distally to the outlet holes. Typically, blood flowing out of the outlet holes is directed
   toward the downstream sides of valve leaflets 46 by radial protrusion 66, thereby
   causing the cusps of the leaflets to maintain contact with the inner wall of the renal
   vein, i.e., thereby maintaining the valve in an occluding (i.e., closed) state.
            For some applications, outlet holes 52 are shaped such as to direct blood out of
25 the holes in a distal direction (i.e., toward the upstream end of the catheter pump).
   For example, as shown in Fig. 6D, surfaces 68 that define the holes may be curved
   toward the distal end of the pump catheter. Thus, the blood flowing out of the outlet
   holes is directed toward downstream sides of valve leaflets 46, thereby causing the
   cusps of the leaflets to maintain contact with the inner wall of the renal vein, i.e.,
30 thereby maintaining the valve in an occluding (i.e., closed) state.
                                                67

            Figs. 6E-G show support structures that are used to support inverted valve 40
   within the renal vein as an alternative to, or in addition to frame 40 (shown in Figs.
   5A-D, for example).
            For some applications, valve 40 is a tri-leaflet valve. Alternatively the valve
 5 may be a bi-leaflet valve, or may have more than three leaflets.          The leaflets are
   maintained in contact with the renal vein at commissures of the valve leaflets.
   Between the commissures of the valve leaflets, when the valve is in the occluding
   state of the valve, the cusps of the valve leaflets contact the renal vein wall, and when
   the valve is in the non-occluding state of the valve, the cusps of the valve leaflets
10 separate from the renal vein wall, such as to permit blood flow between the valve
   leaflets and the renal vein wall.
            For some applications (shown in Figs. 5A-D, for example), the leaflets are
   coupled to valve frame 48 at the commissures of the valve leaflets, and the valve
   frame maintains the commissures of the valve leaflets in contact with the renal vein
15 wall. Alternatively or additionally, as shown in Fig. 6E, a slit tube 72 is advanced
   over blood pump catheter 42. The tube is configured such that when the distal end of
   the tube is pushed toward the distal end of the catheter, the portions of the tube
   between the slits expand radially outwardly. The radially-expanded portions of the
   tube are configured to maintain commissures of the valve leaflets in contact with the
20 renal vein wall.
            Further alternatively or additionally, a balloon 74 having a star-shaped cross
   section (e.g., a three-pointed star cross section, as shown) is disposed around the
   portion of the blood pump catheter 42 that is disposed inside valve 40. Respective
   views of balloon 74, blood pump catheter 42, and valve 40 are shown in Figs. 6F-G.
25 For some applications, the three-dimensional shape of balloon 74, when the balloon is
   in an inflated state thereof, is similar to the shape of a carambola (i.e., a star-fruit).
   Typically, the balloon is inflated such that at the points of the star of the balloon's
   cross-section, the balloon maintains the commissures of the valve leaflets in contact
   with the renal vein wall.
30          As described hereinabove, typically, inverted valve 40 and blood pump
   catheter 42 are used to apply an acute treatment to a subject.          For example, the
                                               68

   inverted valve and the blood pump catheter may be placed inside the subject's renal
   veins for a period of more than one hour (e.g., more than one day), less than one week
   (e.g., less than four days), and/or between one hour and one week (e.g., between one
   day and four days).     For some applications, using the slit tube 72 or balloon 74 to
 5 maintain the valve commissures in contact with the renal vein wall facilitates removal
   of the valve from the renal vein, subsequent to the termination of the treatment. For
   example, in order to remove the valve from the renal vein, the slit tube may be
   retracted such that the radially-expanded portions of the tube radially constrict, and
   the valve leaflets are no longer maintained in contact with the renal vein wall, and/or
10 balloon 74 may be deflated such that the valve leaflets are no longer maintained in
   contact with the renal vein wall.
            Reference is now made to Figs. 7A-B, which are schematic illustrations of
   blood pump catheter 42 and a non-inverted valve 80, when the non-inverted valve is,
   respectively, in occluding and non-occluding states thereof, in accordance with some
15 applications of the present invention. In some applications, as an alternative to being
   placed through an inverted valve, blood pump catheter 42 is inserted through a non
   inverted valve, as shown in Figs. 7A-B.        Non-inverted valve 80 is an example of
   occlusion element 36 described hereinabove with reference to Figs. 4A-B.           Non
   inverted valve typically includes a rigid frame 82 and valve leaflets 84.
20          Typically, blood pump catheter 42 is used to pump blood in a downstream
   direction from a site that is in fluid communication with an upstream side of valve
   leaflets 84 to a site of the venous system that is in fluid communication with a
   downstream side of the valve leaflets, such as a site within the vena cava or a site
   within the renal vein. Valve 80 is configured to prevent backflow of blood by the
25 cusps 86 of the valve leaflets contacting the catheter in response to pressure on the
   downstream side of the valve leaflets exceeding pressure on the upstream side of the
   valve leaflets. Valve 80 is further configured, in response to pressure on the upstream
   side of the valve leaflets exceeding the pressure on the downstream side of the valve
   leaflets, to allow the flow of blood across the valve, by the cusps of the leaflets
30 separating from the catheter, thereby allowing blood to flow between the leaflets and
   the blood pump catheter in the direction of arrow 88 (Fig. 7A).
                                               69

           For some applications, initially, a combination of a valve (e.g., an inverted
   valve, as shown in Figs. 5A-D, and 6A-G, or a non-inverted valve, as shown in Figs.
   7A-B) and a pump is used to treat the subject. Subsequently (e.g., after a period of
   more than one hour, less than one week, and/or between one hour and one week), the
 5 pump is removed from the subject's renal vein, and the valve is left in place within the
   renal vein.   Even in the absence of the pump, the valve is configured to reduce
   pressure in the subject's renal vein relative to renal pressure in the subject's renal vein
   in the absence of the valve, by preventing backflow of blood from the subject's vena
   cava into the subject's renal vein and permitting the flow of blood from the subject's
10 renal vein to the subject's vena cava. Thus, for some applications, the valve is left
   inside the renal vein in order to provide chronic treatment to the subject, even after the
   acute treatment of the subject (using the pump in combination with the valve) has
   terminated.
           Reference is now made to Figs. 8A-B, which are schematic illustrations of
15 respective views of a blood pump 90 in accordance with some applications of the
   present invention. Pump 90 is an example of both occlusion element 36 and pump 34
   described hereinabove with reference to Figs. 4A-B, since pump 90, when placed
   within the subject's renal vein, is configured to both occlude the renal vein and to
   pump blood downstream from a site in fluid communication with an upstream side of
20 the pump to a site that is in fluid communication with a downstream side of the pump.
           Pump 90 includes an outer tube 92, the outer surface of the tube being
   configured to be in contact with the inner wall of the renal vein. Typically, outer tube
   92 comprises a stent with material (typically, a blood-impermeable material) disposed
   thereon. First and second unidirectional valves 94 and 96 are disposed at respective
25 ends of the tube, the valves only permitting blood to flow into and out of the tube in
   the downstream direction. A membrane 98 is coupled to the inside of the tube, such
   that the membrane partitions the tube into a first compartment 100, which is in fluid
   communication with the valves, and a second compartment 102, which is not in fluid
   communication      with    the   valves.    A    pumping    mechanism      104,   e.g.,  an
30 electromagnetically-driven pumping mechanism, cyclically drives the membrane to
   move with respect to the tube such that the relative sizes of the first and second
   compartments change.
                                                70

            Reference is now made to Figs. 9A-D, which are schematic illustrations of
   respective stages of a cycle of operation of blood pump 90, in accordance with some
   applications of the present invention. Fig. 9A shows the blood pump at an arbitrary
   starting point in the cycle of operation of the blood pump, at which point both valve
 5 94 and valve 96 are closed. As shown in the transition from Fig. 9A to Fig. 9B, and
   Fig. 9B to Fig. 9C, pump mechanism 104 causes membrane 98 to move such that the
   volume of first compartment 100 increases, e.g., by the pumping mechanism pumping
   fluid (e.g., air, or saline) out of the second compartment. The increase in the volume
   of the first compartment causes the pressure inside the first compartment to decrease
10 relative to the pressure on the upstream side of the first valve 94, causing valve 94 to
   open and blood to be drawn into the first compartment. Subsequently, the pumping
   mechanism moves the membrane such as to increase the volume of the second
   compartment, e.g., by pumping fluid into the second compartment, as shown in the
   transition from Fig. 9C to Fig. 9D, and from Fig. 9D to Fig. 9A. The movement of
15 the membrane causes the volume of the first compartment to decrease, and pressure in
   the first compartment to increase. The pressure in the first compartment causes valve
   94 to close, and causes valve 96 to open and for blood that was inside the first
   compartment to flow to the downstream side of pump 90.
            Reference is now made to Figs. 1OA-D, which are schematic illustrations of a
20 blood-impermeable sleeve 110 configured to occlude blood flow from a subject's vena
   cava 26 to the subject's renal veins 32, in accordance with some applications of the
   present invention. Typically, the sleeve is placed within the vena cava such that a
   downstream end 112 of the sleeve is coupled to the wall of the vena cava at a first
   location 114 that is downstream of all renal veins of the subject (e.g., left and right
25 renal vein in a typical subject that has two renal veins), and such that an upstream end
   116 of the sleeve is coupled to a wall of the vena cava at a second location 118 that is
   upstream of all renal veins of the subject. Thus, the sleeve isolates the blood in the
   renal veins into a compartment that is separated from blood flow through the vena
   cava. Typically, a rigid structure, e.g., a stent 120 as shown, is configured to couple
30 the upstream and downstream ends of the sleeve to the vena cava.
            A pump 122 is configured to pump blood from a location that is exterior to
   sleeve 110 (i.e., from the isolated compartment) to a location that is in fluid
                                                71

   communication with the interior of the sleeve (e.g., a location within the vena cava
   upstream or downstream of the sleeve).         Thus, the pump pumps blood out of the
   subject's renal veins and into the subject's vena cava. The sleeve prevents backflow of
   blood from the vena cava into the renal veins.
 5         For some applications, as shown, stent 120 defines flared ends thereof. Sleeve
   110 also defines flared ends thereof. The flared ends of the sleeve are configured to
   occlude the flow of blood from the vena cava to the renal veins by contacting the wall
   of the vena cava, if pressure in the vena cava is greater than or equal to pressure in the
   renal veins. For some applications, at least one of the flared ends of the sleeve is
10 configured to act as a valve, e.g., by providing blood flow from outside the sleeve to
   the vena cava in order to relieve pressure and/or an overflow of blood outside the
   sleeve. In response to blood pressure in the renal veins exceeding blood pressure in
   the vena cava, the flared end of the sleeve is configured to at least partially separate
   from the wall of the vena cava, such that blood flows between the outside of the flared
15 end of the sleeve and the inner wall of the vena cava. For some applications, the
   upstream and the downstream ends of the sleeve are configured to act as a valve in the
   aforementioned manner, mutatis mutandis.         Fig. 10A shows the sleeve when the
   upstream and downstream ends of the sleeve are closed such as to occlude the flow of
   blood between the outside of the sleeve and the wall of the vena cava.          Fig. 10B
20 shows the sleeve, when the upstream and downstream ends of the sleeve are open,
   such as to allow the flow of blood from the renal veins to the vena cava, between the
   outside of the sleeve and the wall of the vena cava.
           As shown in Figs. 10A-B and Fig. 10D, for some applications, a pump
   accommodating sleeve 124 protrudes from the outside of one of the flared ends of
25 sleeve 110 (e.g., the downstream flared end of sleeve 110, as shown).         The pump
   accommodating sleeve is shaped such as to facilitate insertion of pump 122
   therethrough. The pump-accommodating sleeve is configured to form a seal around
   the pump, such that there is minimal or zero blood flow between the outside of the
   pump and the inside of the pump-accommodating sleeve. For some applications (not
30 shown), rather than using pump-accommodating sleeve to form a seal around the
   outside of the pump, the flared end of the sleeve defines an opening (e.g., a hole)
                                                72

   through which the pump is inserted, the opening being sized such that the interface
   between the outside of the pump and flared distal end of the sleeve is sealed.
           It is noted that, although pump-accommodating sleeve is shown protruding
   from the outside of the flared upstream end of the sleeve, for some applications the
 5 pump is inserted through the downstream flared end of the sleeve, and the
   downstream flared end of the sleeve defines a pump-accommodating sleeve, or a hole
   through which the pump is inserted. In general, the scope of the present invention
   includes inserting the blood pumps and the occluding elements that are described
   herein toward the renal veins by approaching the renal veins via the vena cava, from
10 above the renal veins, or from below the renal veins.    For example, the renal veins
   may be approached through the vena cava from the upstream direction, via the
   femoral vein, or from the downstream direction, via the jugular vein.
           In accordance with respective applications, pump 122 pumps blood into the
   vena cava at a site that is upstream or downstream of the sleeve.              For some
15 applications, the pump pumps the blood into the vena cava at a site that is downstream
   of the sleeve such as to reduce the flow of blood through the sleeve relative to if the
   pump were to pump the blood into the vena cava at a site that is upstream of the
   sleeve. For some applications, it is advantageous to reduce the flow of blood through
   the sleeve in the aforementioned manner, since the sleeve acts as a resistor to blood
20 flow through the sleeve. As described hereinabove, and as shown for example in Fig.
   10D, for some applications, the pump pumps blood into the vena cava at a site that is
   upstream of the sleeve.
           For some applications, sleeve 110 and stent 120 are inserted into the subject's
   vena cava, while a guidewire 126 is disposed inside pump-accommodating sleeve
25 124. Subsequent to anchoring sleeve 110 and stent 120 to the vena cava, pump 122 is
   inserted through the pump-accommodating sleeve, by advancing the pump over the
   guidewire.
           As shown in Fig. 10C, for some applications stent 120 is shaped to define a
   sleeve-supporting frame 128, which is generally shaped to match the shape of the
30 sleeve. Typically, the sleeve-supporting frame is shaped to define widened ends 130
   and a narrow central portion 132 extending between the widened ends, the flared ends
                                             73

   extending from the ends of the of narrow central portion. In addition, the stent defines
   a vessel-wall-supporting frame 134, which is coupled to narrow central portion of the
   sleeve-supporting frame, and which protrudes radially outwardly from the sides of the
   narrow central portion of the sleeve-supporting frame.
 5          For some applications, pumping of blood by pump 122 from outside of the
   sleeve causes the walls of the vena cava to be pulled inwardly.              Vessel-wall
   supporting frame 134 supports the inner wall of the vena cava, and prevents the inner
   wall of the vena cava from collapsing around narrow central portion 132 of sleeve
   supporting frame 128 of the stent. Typically, during operation of the pump, the pump
10 head, including inlet holes 125 of the pump head, is disposed in the gap between the
   narrow central portion of the sleeve-supporting frame of the stent (which supports the
   sleeve) and the vessel-wall-supporting frame (which supports the wall of the vena
   cava).
            As described hereinabove, for some applications, pumping of blood by pump
15 122 from outside of the sleeve causes the walls of the vena cava to constrict by being
   pulled inwardly. For some applications, the pump is configured to anchor stent 120 to
   the vena cava by causing the vena cava to constrict around at least a portion of the
   stent, by applying a suctioning force to the vena cava. For some applications, a stent
   that is not substantially oversized with respect to the vena cava, and/or a stent having
20 a diameter that is less than the diameter of the vena cava is anchored to the vena cava
   by virtue of the vena cava constricting around at least a portion of the stent, due to the
   suctioning force applied to the vena cava by the pump.
            As described hereinabove, typically, sleeve-supporting frame 128 is shaped to
   generally match the shape of the sleeve. The sleeve and the sleeve-supporting frame
25 define a narrow central portion diameter D1 (Fig. 10C), and a maximum diameter D2
   at the ends of the flared distal ends of the sleeve. For some applications, D1 is greater
   than 8 mm, less than 35 mm, and/or between 8 and 35 mm. For some applications,
   D2 is greater than 10 mm, less than 45 mm, and/or between 10 and 45 mm. For some
   applications, a ratio of D2:D1 is greater than 1.1:1, less than 2:1, and/or between 1.1:1
30 and 2:1. For some applications, a total length Li of the sleeve is greater than 6 mm,
   less than 80 mm, and/or between 6 and 80 mm. For some applications, a length L2 of
   the flared ends of the sleeve (i.e., the length from the location at which the sleeve
                                                74

   begins to flare, until the end of the sleeve) is greater than 3 mm, less than 40 mm,
   and/or between 3 and 40 mm. For some applications, a length L3 of the narrow
   central portion of the sleeve and the sleeve-supporting frame is greater than 3 mm,
   less than 70 mm, and/or between 3 and 70 mm.
 5         For some applications, a maximum diameter D3 of vessel-wall-supporting
   frame 134 of stent 120 is greater than 10 mm, less than 50 mm, and/or between 10 and
   50 mm. For some applications, a ratio of D3:D1 is greater than 1.1:1 (e.g., greater
   than 1.5:1, or greater than 2:1), less than 5:1, and/or between 1.1:1 and 5:1.
           For some applications,        an inner diameter     D4 (Fig.    10A)   of pump
10 accommodating sleeve 124 is greater than 2 mm, less than 10 mm, and/or between 2
   and 10 mm. For applications in which sleeve 110 defines an opening through which
   pump 122 is inserted, the diameter of the opening through which the pump is inserted
   is typically greater than 2 mm, less than 10 mm, and/or between 2 and 10 mm.
           For some applications, pump 122 is generally similar to catheter blood pump
15 42 described hereinabove, for example with reference to Figs. 5A-D. For example, as
   shown in Fig. 10D, the blood pump may include an impeller 123 to pump blood.
   Blood is drawn into the catheter from the renal veins via inlet holes 125, which are
   disposed between the outside of the sleeve and the wall of the vena cava, and blood is
   pumped into the vena cava via outlet holes 127 disposed in the vena cava, for example
20 at a location upstream of the sleeve, as shown in Fig. 10D.
           Reference is now made to Figs. 10E-F, which are schematic illustrations of a
   blood-impermeable sleeve 135 coupled to vena cava 26 using a helical support
   element 136 that is configured to occlude blood flow from the subject's vena cava to
   the subject's renal veins 32, in accordance with some applications of the present
25 invention. In accordance with respective applications the helical support element is
   an inflatable helical support element (e.g., a helical balloon), or a helical support
   element that is made from a shape-memory alloy, such as nitinol.           Typically, the
   helical support element becomes coupled to the vena cava such that a downstream end
   of the helical support element is coupled to the wall of the vena cava at first location
30 114 that is downstream of all renal veins of the subject (e.g., left and right renal vein
   in a typical subject that has two renal veins), and such that an upstream end of the
                                                75

   helical support element is coupled to a wall of the vena cava at second location 118
   that is upstream of all renal veins of the subject. Thus, the helical support element
   isolates the blood in the renal veins into a compartment outside the sleeve that is
   separated from blood flow through the vena cava. It is noted that sleeve 135 does not
 5 necessarily have flared ends that are configured to occlude blood flow from the vena
   cava to the renal veins by contacting wall of the vena cava. Rather, as shown, the
   helical support element may occlude the flow of blood from the vena cava to the renal
   veins by contacting the wall of the vena cava.            Alternatively, sleeve 135 has a
   generally similar shape to sleeve 110 described hereinabove with reference to Figs.
10 1OA-D, the sleeve defining flared ends that are configured to contact the wall of the
   vena cava.
           Typically, a blood pump catheter 137 is inserted into the vena cava via a
   delivery device 138 (Fig. 10F). As shown in the transition from Fig. 10E to Fig. 10F,
   for some applications, the blood pump catheter is guided into the compartment outside
15 the sleeve by being advanced over the helical support element. For some applications,
   a distal portion of the blood pump catheter is configured to assume a helical shape
   automatically upon being advanced out of the delivery device.              Alternatively, by
   being advanced over the helical support element, the distal portion of the blood pump
   catheter is made to assume a helical shape.           Typically, the blood pump catheter
20 defines inlet holes 139 along most of the length (e.g., more than 50 percent, or more
   than 75 percent of the length) of the distal portion of the blood pump catheter (i.e., the
   portion of the blood pump catheter that is placed inside the compartment outside the
   sleeve by being advanced over the helical support element). The blood pump catheter
   pumps blood out of the compartment outside the sleeve (i.e., out of the renal veins)
25 into the inlet holes. The blood pump typically defines outlet holes (not shown) that
   are configured to be disposed in the vena cava in fluid communication with the
   interior of the sleeve (e.g., at a location of the vena cava that is upstream of the sleeve,
   or a location of the vena cava that is downstream of the sleeve). The pump pumps
   blood into the vena cava via the outlet holes.
30         Reference is now made to Fig. 10G, which is a schematic illustration a blood
   impermeable sleeve 141 coupled to a helical blood pump catheter 143, the sleeve and
   the blood pump catheter being configured to occlude blood flow from the subject's
                                                 76

   vena cava 26 to the subject's renal veins 32, in accordance with some applications of
   the present invention.     Typically sleeve 141 is shaped to define flared ends 145
   thereof, as shown. Typically, sleeve 141 has a generally similar shape to sleeve 110
   described hereinabove with reference to Figs. 1OA-D, the sleeve defining flared ends
 5 that are configured to contact the wall of the vena cava.
            Sleeve 141 and blood pump catheter 143 are inserted into the vena cava via a
   delivery device 149. A distal end of the catheter 143 (i.e., the end of the catheter that
   is furthest from an insertion location via which the catheter is inserted into the
   subject's body) is coupled to a distal end of the sleeve (e.g., a downstream end of the
10 sleeve, as shown) at a coupling location 147. The blood pump catheter is pre-shaped
   such that, upon being advanced out of the distal end of the insertion device, a distal
   portion of the catheter assumes a helical shape that is disposed around the outside of
   the sleeve. Typically, by assuming the helical shape, the distal portion of the catheter
   axially holds open the sleeve (i.e., prevents the sleeve from collapsing axially). For
15 some applications, a ring 151 made of a shape memory material (such as nitinol) is
   coupled to the proximal end of the sleeve and is configured to support the proximal
   end of the sleeve. Typically, the blood pump catheter defines inlet holes 153 along
   most of the length (e.g., more than 50 percent, or more than 75 percent of the length)
   of the distal portion of the blood pump catheter (i.e., the helical portion of the blood
20 pump catheter that is disposed around the sleeve). The blood pump catheter pumps
   blood out from outside the sleeve (i.e., out of the renal veins) into the inlet holes.
   Typically the sleeve is placed in the vena cava such that a downstream end of the
   sleeve is coupled to the wall of the vena cava at a first location 114 that is downstream
   of all renal veins of the subject (e.g., left and right renal vein in a typical subject that
25 has two renal veins), and such that an upstream end of the sleeve is coupled to a wall
   of the vena cava at a second location 118 that is upstream of all renal veins of the
   subject. Further typically, the pumping of the blood into the inlet holes causes the
   vena cava to constrict around the outside of the sleeve such that blood in the renal
   veins becomes isolated into a compartment outside the sleeve that is separated from
30 blood flow through the vena cava.
            The blood pump typically defines outlet holes (not shown) that are configured
   to be disposed in the vena cava in fluid communication with the interior of the sleeve
                                                 77

   (e.g., at a location of the vena cava that is upstream of the sleeve, or a location of the
   vena cava that is downstream of the sleeve). The pump pumps blood into the vena
   cava via the outlet holes.
            It is noted that although in Figs. 1OE-G the blood pump is shown being
 5 inserted to outside the sleeve from the upstream end of the sleeve, for some
   applications the pump is inserted to outside the sleeve from the downstream end of the
   sleeve.    In general, the scope of the present invention includes inserting the blood
   pumps and the occluding elements that are described herein toward the renal veins by
   approaching the renal veins via the vena cava, from above the renal veins, or from
10 below the renal veins. For example, the renal veins may be approached through the
   vena cava from the upstream direction, via the femoral vein, or from the downstream
   direction, via the jugular vein.
            Reference is now made to Figs. 11A-C, which are schematic illustrations of
   blood pump catheter 42 being placed in a subject's renal vein 32, such that an ostium
15 covering umbrella 140 disposed around the outside of the catheter, and disposed
   within the vena cava, covers an ostium at a junction 142 between the subject's vena
   cava 25 and the renal vein 32, in accordance with some applications of the present
   invention. It is noted that although the ostium-covering umbrella is described as an
   "umbrella," the scope of the present invention includes covering the ostium with any
20 ostium-covering element that is configured to be disposed around the outside of the
   catheter and that is made of flexible portions (e.g., flexible tissue portions), and rigid
   support elements that provide shape and structure to the ostium-covering element.
   Ostium-covering umbrella 140 is an example of occlusion element 36 described
   hereinabove with reference to Figs. 4A-B, and blood pump catheter 42 is an example
25 of blood pump 34 described hereinabove with reference to Figs. 4A-B. (In Figs. 1 1A
   C, ostium-covering umbrella 140 is shown covering the left renal vein ostium, but the
   scope of the present invention includes covering the right renal vein ostium with
   ostium-covering umbrella 140, and, as is typically the case, placing an ostium
   covering umbrella at the ostia of the junctions of the vena cava with each of the left
30 and right renal veins.)
            As shown in Figs. 1 1A-C, blood pump catheter 42 and ostium-covering
   umbrella 140 are inserted into vena cava 26 via an insertion device 144. During the
                                                78

   insertion, the ostium-covering umbrella is typically in a closed state thereof. The
   blood pump catheter and the ostium-covering umbrella are advanced out of the
   insertion device, the ostium-covering umbrella opening in response being advanced
   out of the distal end of the insertion device (Fig. 11B). The ostium-covering umbrella
 5 is placed in the vicinity of junction 142. Blood pump catheter is activated to pump
   blood downstream through the renal vein into inlet holes 50 at the distal end of the
   blood pump catheter.      Typically, due to the suction force of the blood pump, the
   ostium-covering umbrella is pulled against the walls of the vena cava surrounding the
   ostium at junction 142 (Fig. 1 1C).
10          Typically, ostium-covering umbrella 140 occludes backflow of blood from the
   vena cava to the renal vein, by being pushed against the walls of the vena cava
   surrounding the ostium at junction 142, in response to blood flowing from the vena
   cava to the renal vein. Further typically, while blood pump is active, ostium-covering
   umbrella occludes blood flow both from the renal vein to the vena cava and from the
15 vena cava to the renal vein, by the ostium-covering umbrella becoming sealed against
   the walls of the vena cava surrounding the ostium at junction 142, due to the suction
   force generated by the blood pump. In response to pump 42 becoming inactive (e.g.,
   due to a loss of power to the pump), surrounding the ostium at junction umbrella
   allows blood to flow from the renal vein to the vena cava in the direction of arrows
20 146 (Fig. 11 B), since when the pump is inactive the umbrella is not sealed against the
   walls of the vena cava surrounding the ostium at junction 142.
            For some applications, a diameter D5 of ostium-covering umbrella 140, when
   the ostium-covering umbrella is in an open state thereof is greater than 5 mm (e.g.,
   greater than 10 mm, or greater than 20 mm), less than 30 (e.g., less than 25 mm, or
25 less than 20 mm), and/or between 5 and 30 mm (e.g., between 10 and 20 mm, or
   between 15 and 25 mm).
            Reference is now made to Fig. 12Ai-ii and 12-B, which are schematic
   illustrations of a blood pump 150 that includes an impeller 152 disposed inside a
   radially-expandable impeller cage 154, in accordance with some applications of the
30 present invention. Figs. 12Ai and 12Aii show respective views of blood pump 150.
   Reference is further made to Figs. 12C-D, which show side views of blood pump 150
   disposed inside renal vein 32, when cage 154 is, respectively, in relatively radially
                                               79

   expanded and radially-compressed configurations thereof, in accordance with some
   applications of the present invention.      Reference is also made to Fig. 12E, which
   shows an end view of impeller 152 combined with a cross-sectional view of struts 204
   of cage 154 and a cross-sectional view of renal vein 32, when blood pump 150 is
 5 disposed inside renal vein 32, in accordance with some applications of the present
   invention.
           It is noted that the term "impeller" is used herein to denote a bladed rotor, as
   shown in Figs. 12Ai-E. When the bladed rotor is placed inside a blood vessel (such as
   renal vein 32) and rotated, the bladed rotor functions as an impeller, by increasing the
10 flow of blood through the blood vessel, and/or by generating a pressure difference
   between the upstream end and the downstream end of the impeller.
           For some applications, blood pump 150 is placed one or both (or all) of a
   subject's renal veins and is used to pump blood in a downstream direction through the
   renal veins toward the vena cava, such as to reduce renal vein pressure, and/or to
15 enhance perfusion of the subject's kidneys.
           Blood pump 150 is typically placed inside the subject's renal veins in order to
   provide acute treatment of a subject suffering from cardiac dysfunction, congestive
   heart failure,    low renal blood flow, high renal vascular resistance,           arterial
   hypertension, and/or kidney dysfunction.        For example, the pump may be placed
20 inside the subject's renal veins for a period of more than one hour (e.g., more than one
   day), less than one week (e.g., less than four days), and/or between one hour and one
   week (e.g., between one day and four days).         For some applications, the pump is
   chronically placed inside the subject's renal veins in order to provide chronic
   treatment of a subject suffering from cardiac dysfunction, congestive heart failure,
25 low renal blood flow, high renal vascular resistance, arterial hypertension, and/or
   kidney dysfunction.     For some applications, a course of treatment is applied to a
   subject over several weeks, several months, or several years, in which the pump is
   intermittently placed inside the subject's renal veins, and the subject is intermittently
   treated in accordance with the techniques described herein. For example, the subject
30 may be intermittently treated at intervals of several days, several weeks, or several
   months.
                                                80

            Typically, the effect of pumping blood through the renal veins of a subject
   suffering from cardiac dysfunction, congestive heart failure, low renal blood flow,
   high renal vascular resistance, arterial hypertension, and/or kidney dysfunction is
   generally similar to that described with reference to Fig. 4B. Namely, the pumping
 5 causes a lowering and flattening of the subject's renal vein pressure profile, even
   though the subject's central venous pressure is elevated.        In accordance with the
   description of Fig. 4B hereinabove, the renal venous pressure graph shows the
   original venous pressure profile as a dashed curve, and shows two curves showing the
   renal venous pressure, subsequent to activation of the blood pump. Typically, during
10 pumping of the blood through the renal vein, the height of the venous pressure curve
   depends on the amount of pumping that the operator applies to the renal vein via the
   pump, as indicated by the two solid curves shown in Fig. 4B, the curves representing
   renal venous pressure profiles at respective rates of pumping of blood pump 150. For
   some applications, as shown, the renal vein pressure profile is not completely
15 flattened, since small cyclical variations in blood pressure are transmitted to the renal
   veins via the renal capillary system.
            Typically, due to the reduction in pressure in the renal vein that is caused by
   the pumping of the blood in the downstream direction by pump 150, perfusion of the
   kidney increases. In turn, this may cause pressure in the renal veins to rise relative to
20 the pressure in the renal veins immediately subsequent to initiation of the pumping,
   due to increased blood flow into the renal vein. Typically, even after perfusion of the
   kidney increases, the pump is configured to maintain the pressure in the renal vein at a
   lower value than the pressure in the renal vein before the initiation of the pumping.
   For some applications, in addition to lowering the subject's renal vein pressure, and/or
25 increasing perfusion of the subject's kidney, the blood pump performs ultrafiltration
   on the subject's blood.
            It is noted that, for some applications, due to the reduction in pressure in the
   renal vein that is caused by the pumping of the blood in the downstream direction by
   pump 150, the subject's renal vascular resistance decreases, in accordance with
30 physiological mechanisms that are described, for example, in an article by Haddy et
   al., entitled "Effect of elevation of intraluminal pressure on renal vascular resistance"
   (Circulation Research, 1956), which is incorporated herein by reference. It is further
                                                81

   noted that a treatment of the subject that increases renal perfusion by increasing blood
   pressure in the subject's renal arteries would typically not effect the aforementioned
   physiological mechanisms.
           As described hereinabove, typically, when blood pump 150 is used to reduce
 5 pressure in the subject's renal veins, it is expected that there will be an improved
   responsiveness by the subject to administration of diuretics to the subject, due to the
   reduction in renal venous pressure.       Therefore, for some applications, a reduced
   dosage of diuretics may be administered to the subject relative to a dosage of diuretics
   that would be administered to the subject in the absence of performing the techniques
10 described herein. Alternatively, a regular dosage of diuretics may be administered to
   the subject, but the diuretics may have a greater effect on the subject, due to the
   reduction in renal venous pressure.
           High central venous pressure leads to a high level of blood pressure within the
   heart, which in turn leads to the release of atrial natriuretic peptide (ANP) and B-type
15 natriuretic peptide (BNP) by the subject, both of which act as natural diuretics.
   Typically, when blood pump 150 is used to reduce pressure in the subject's renal
   veins, there is expected to be an improved responsiveness by the subject to the release
   of the natural diuretics by the subject, due to the reduction in renal venous pressure.
   For some applications, since the subject's central venous pressure is not lowered by
20 using blood pump 150, it is expected that the subject will continue to release atrial
   natriuretic peptide (ANP) and B-type natriuretic peptide (BNP), even while the
   subject's renal venous pressure is reduced by the use of the blood pump 150. Thus,
   for some applications, using blood pump 150 may result in the subject continuing to
   release atrial natriuretic peptide (ANP) and B-type natriuretic peptide (BNP), as well
25 as resulting in the effectiveness of the aforementioned natural diuretics being greater
   than the effectiveness of the diuretics in the absence of the use of blood pump 150.
           It is noted that, typically, blood pump 150 pumps blood in a manner that
   enhances the rate of flow of blood flow through the renal veins and into the vena cava,
   but does not cause a substantial change in the direction of the blood flow relative to
30 the natural direction of flow through the renal veins, or from the renal veins to the
   vena cava (i.e., relative to blood flow in the absence of pumping by the pump). That
   is to say that the blood pump pumps blood in the downstream direction through the
                                                82

   renal veins and then directly into the portion of the vena cava that is adjacent to the
   renal veins, rather than, for example, pumping the blood from the renal veins into a
   different portion of the subject's veins (such as, an upstream location within the vena
   cava). Further typically, blood pump 150 enhances blood flow through the renal veins
 5 without removing blood from the subject's venous system into a non-venous
   receptacle, such as an artificial lumen of a blood pump.
           Typically,    cage    154    defines    a  non-constrained,    radially-expanded
   configuration thereof, which the cage assumes in the absence of any force being
   applied to the cage, and a radially-compressed configuration, which the cage assumes
10 when the cage is axially elongated. Similarly, typically, impeller 152 defines a non
   constrained, radially-expanded configuration thereof, which the impeller assumes in
   the absence of any force being applied to the impeller, and a radially-compressed
   configuration, which the impeller assumes when the impeller is axially elongated.
           Typically, during insertion of cage 154 and impeller 152 into the subject's
15 renal vein, the cage and the impeller are crimped by axially elongating the cage and
   the impeller, such that the cage and the impeller become radially compressed.        The
   cage and the impeller are inserted into the renal vein, while the cage and the impeller
   are maintained in radially-compressed configurations by an insertion device 155, e.g.,
   a catheter.   The cage and the impeller are advanced out of the distal end of the
20 insertion device into the renal vein. In response to being advanced out of the distal
   end of the insertion device, the cage and the impeller automatically radially expand,
   and axially contract.
           Typically, cage 154 is configured to hold open the inner wall of the renal vein
   and to separate the inner wall of the renal vein from the impeller, such that the renal
25 vein does not become injured by the impeller.        Further typically, blood pump 150
   includes an engagement mechanism 156 that is configured to engage the impeller with
   respect to the cage.     For example, as shown in Fig. 12B, which shows a cross
   sectional view of the impeller and the cage, proximal and distal bearings 250P and
   250D are disposed adjacent to the proximal and distal ends of impeller 152, and are
30 configured to impart rotational motion to the impeller. Engagement mechanism 156
   is disposed between a ring 202 (described hereinbelow with reference to Fig. 17)
   disposed at the distal end of the cage and a surface 252 of distal bearing 250P, such
                                                83

   that when ring 202 moves distally, the ring pushes the engagement mechanism
   distally, which, in turn, pushes the distal bearing distally.       The distal bearing is
   coupled to a distal ring 164 (described hereinbelow with reference to Figs. 13A-D) of
   the impeller, such that the distal motion of the distal bearing pulls the distal ring of the
 5 impeller distally, thereby axially elongating the impeller.
            The engagement mechanism thus engages the impeller with respect to the cage
   such that, in response to the cage becoming radially contracted and axially elongated
   (e.g., in response to the renal vein exerting radial pressure on the cage), the impeller
   axially elongates and radially contracts. For example, as shown in the transition from
10 Fig. 12C to Fig. 12D, in response to the renal vein exerting pressure P on cage 154,
   the cage becomes partially radially compressed, causing the cage to elongate, e.g., by
   the distal end of the cage moving in the direction of arrow 160.              Engagement
   mechanism 156 causes the impeller to become elongated in response to the cage
   becoming elongated. The elongation of the impeller causes the impeller to radially
15 contract.
            Engagement mechanism 156 is typically configured such that, even at a
   circumferential location at which a separation S1 (Figs. 12C and 12D) between the
   impeller and the inner surface of the cage is smallest, a separation between the
   impeller and the inner surface of the cage is maintained (i.e., impeller and the inner
20 surface of the cage are still separated from each other), even if the cage radially
   contracts.   A fortiori, even at the circumferential location at which a separation S2
   between the impeller and the outer surface of the cage is smallest, the engagement
   mechanism maintains the separation between the impeller and the outer surface of the
   cage (i.e., impeller and the outer surface of the cage are still separated from each
25 other), even if the cage radially contracts.   Since the inner wall of the renal vein is
   supported by the outer surface of the cage, separation S2 between the impeller and the
   outer surface of the cage is typically also the separation between the impeller and the
   inner wall of the renal vein at the location at which the inner wall of the renal vein is
   closest to the impeller.    Thus, the engagement mechanism maintains a separation
30 between the between the impeller and the inner wall of the renal vein, even at the
   location at which the inner wall of the renal vein is closest to the impeller, and even
   when the renal vein exerts pressure on the cage such that the cage radially contracts.
                                               84

           It is noted that, in response to the renal vein exerting pressure P on cage 154
   and causing the cage to radially contract, separation S1 between the impeller and the
   inner surface of the cage, and/or separation S2 between the impeller and the outer
   surface of the cage, may decrease. However, the engagement mechanism is such as to
 5 cause the impeller and the inner surface of the cage to remain separated from each
   other, even if the cage radially contracts. In this manner, the cage protects the renal
   vein from being injured by the impeller even if the renal vein contracts. It is further
   noted that, although the inner wall of the renal vein is supported by the outer surface
   of the cage, the cage typically includes struts that defines cells, and the wall of the
10 renal vein typically can protrude through the cells to inside the cage. By maintaining
   separation S 1 between the impeller and the inner surface of the cage, the engagement
   mechanism protects the inner wall of the renal vein from the impeller even if the inner
   wall of the renal vein protrudes to inside the cage.
           When blood pump 150 is deployed inside a blood vessel, such as renal vein
15 32, cage 154 expands against the inner wall of the blood vessel, such that the cage
   becomes rotationally fixed with respect to the inner wall of the blood vessel. While
   the cage is rotationally fixed with respect to the wall of the blood vessel, impeller 152
   rotates such as to pump blood through the blood vessel. Engagement mechanism 156
   is configured to engage the impeller with respect to the cage such that (a) when the
20 cage is radially compressed, the impeller becomes radially compressed, (b) when the
   cage is axially elongated, the impeller becomes axially elongated, but (c) the impeller
   is able to rotate, even though the cage is rotationally fixed in position.            The
   engagement mechanism is configured to permit rotation of the impeller even though
   the cage is rotationally fixed in position, by the engagement mechanism permitting
25 rotation of distal bearing 250D within the engagement mechanism.
           Typically, in order to insert the cage and the impeller into the blood vessel, the
   cage is placed inside insertion device 155 in a crimped configuration.         Typically,
   crimping the cage such that the cage assumes an axially-elongated configuration
   automatically causes the impeller to assume an axially-elongated configuration, since
30 the engagement mechanism imparts the longitudinal motion of the distal end of the
   cage to the distal end of the impeller, in the manner described hereinabove.
                                                85

           As shown, for example, in Fig. 12C-D, for some applications, pressure sensors
   157 and 159 are disposed on upstream and downstream sides of blood pump 150.
   When blood pump 150 is disposed inside a renal vein, as shown in Figs. 12C-D for
   example, the pressure measured by upstream pressure sensor 157 is indicative of
 5 blood pressure upstream of the blood pump in the renal vein, and the pressure
   measured by downstream pressure senor 159 is indicative of central venous pressure.
   For some applications, one or more further sensors 161 are disposed on the blood
   pump (e.g., on a downstream side of the blood pump, as shown in Fig. 12C-D, or on
   an upstream side of the blood pump), and are configured to measure one or more
10 additional parameters, such as flow through the renal vein, and/or oxygen-saturation
   within the renal vein. Alternatively or additionally, a thermal flow sensor is used to
   measure flow through the renal vein.      For example, a thermal flow sensor 260, as
   described hereinbelow with reference to Figs. 22Ai-Cii, may be used to measure flow
   through the subject's renal vein.
15         Fig. 12E shows an end view of impeller 152 combined with a cross-sectional
   view of struts 204 of cage 154 and a cross-sectional view of renal vein 32, when blood
   pump 150 is disposed inside renal vein 32, in accordance with some applications of
   the present invention. The cross-sectional view of the cage and the renal vein is in a
   plane that is perpendicular to a longitudinal axis 222 of the cage at a longitudinal
20 location at the center of the longitudinal axis of the cage. Typically, at this location,
   the diameter of the cage, perpendicular to the longitudinal axis of the cage, is at its
   maximum. Further typically, at this location a span of the impeller SP, perpendicular
   to a longitudinal axis 224 of the impeller, is also at its maximum.            For some
   applications, the outer edge of the impeller and the inner surfaces of struts of the cage
25 are minimally separated from one another at this longitudinal location, and the outer
   edge of the impeller and the outer surfaces of struts of the cage are minimally
   separated from one another at this longitudinal location.
           Since the cage comprises struts 204, which are shaped to define cells, the cage
   typically allows blood flow therethrough, by allowing blood flow through the cells
30 defines by the cage. As shown in Fig. 12E, typically, when the cage and the impeller
   assume radially-expanded configurations thereof inside a blood vessel, such as renal
   vein 32, there is a minimum separation S1 between the outer edge of the impeller and
                                              86

   struts 204, and a minimum separation S2 between the outer edge of the impeller and
   the outer surface of the struts 204 of the cage (which is typically also the minimum
   separation between the outer edge of the impeller and the inner wall of the blood
   vessel). Further typically, there is space between blades of the impeller. Typically,
 5 even if the impeller is not actively pumping blood through the blood vessel, blood is
   able to flow through the blood pump by flowing through the cells defined by the cage,
   and by flowing through the separations between the impeller and the cage, through the
   separations between the impeller and the blood vessel wall, and/or through the
   separation between the blades of the impeller.
10         It is noted that blood pump 150 typically does not include an occlusion
   element (such as a sealing element) for preventing retrograde flow of blood through
   the blood pump. For some applications, while blood pump is pumping blood in an
   antegrade direction, there is some retrograde flow of blood through the separations
   between the impeller and the cage, through the separations between the impeller and
15 the blood vessel wall, and/or through the separation between the blades of the
   impeller (e.g., in the vicinity of the center of the impeller).          Alternatively or
   additionally, while blood pump is pumping blood in a downstream direction, there is
   antegrade flow of blood through the separations between the impeller and the cage,
   through the separations between the impeller and the blood vessel wall, and/or
20 through the separation between the blades of the impeller (e.g., toward the center of
   the impeller).   Typically, whether the flow of blood through the aforementioned
   regions is in a retrograde or an antegrade direction, the flow of blood through these
   regions reduces a likelihood of blood stagnating within these regions.
           For some applications, when the impeller is in a non-constrained, radially
25 expanded configuration thereof (as shown in Fig. 12E), a span SP of the impeller in a
   direction perpendicular to a longitudinal axis of the impeller is greater than 8 mm, less
   than 15 mm, and/or between 8 and 15 mm. For example, span SP may be greater than
   8 mm, less than 12 mm, and/or between 8 mm and 12 mm. Or, span SP may be
   greater than 10 mm, less than 15 mm, and/or between 10 mm and 15 mm.
30         Reference is now made to Figs. 13A-D, which are schematic illustrations of
   respective stages of a method of manufacture of impeller (i.e., bladed rotor) 152, in
   accordance with some applications of the present invention. For some applications, a
                                              87

   tube 162 (e.g., a nitinol, a stainless steel, or a plastic tube) is cut (e.g., laser cut) along
   the dashed lines shown in Fig. 13A, such that the cut tube (Fig. 13B) defines a
   structure 165 having first and second end portions, e.g., rings 164, at ends of the
   structures, the rings being connected to each other by a plurality of (e.g., two as
 5 shown in Fig. 13B, or more than two) elongate elements 166 (e.g., elongate strips, as
   shown).      The first and second ends of each of the elongate elements are typically
   disposed at an angle alpha from one another with respect to the circumference of the
   rings. Typically, angle alpha is greater than 5 degrees (e.g., greater than 50 degrees,
   greater than 70 degrees, or greater than 90 degrees), less than 360 degrees (e.g., less
10 than 180 degrees, less than 150 degrees, or less than 110 degrees), and/or between 5
   and 360 degrees (e.g., between 50 and 180 degrees, between 70 and 150 degrees, or
   between 90 and 110 degrees).
             It is noted that, although elongate elements 166 are described and shown as
   strips, the scope of the present invention includes using elongate elements having
15 other structures, such as elongate tubular structures, elongate rod structures, etc.,
   mutatis mutandis.
             Structure 165 is axially compressed, e.g., by pushing the two rings toward one
   another, such that elongate elements 166 radially expand, as shown in the transition
   from Fig. 13B to Fig. 13C. Typically, before the structure is axially compressed (i.e.,
20 in the axially elongated configuration of the structure), a length L4 of the structure,
   measured along the longitudinal axis of the structure, is greater than 15 mm, less than
   25 mm, and/or between 15 and 25 mm. Before the structure is axially compressed
   (i.e., in the axially elongated configuration of the structure), a length L5 of each of the
   elongate elements, measured along the longitudinal axis of the structure, is greater
25 than 14 mm, less than 22 mm, and/or between 14 and 22 mm.                     Typically, when
   impeller 152 is axially elongated, the lengths of impeller 154 and of elongate elements
   166, measured along the longitudinal axis of the impeller, are the same as,
   respectively, lengths L4 and L5.        Further typically, when impeller 152 is axially
   elongated, the lengths of impeller blades 168, measured along the longitudinal axis of
30 the impeller, are the same as L5.
             Typically, the structure is shape set in the axially-compressed state of the
   structure. Structure 165 forms the frame of the impeller 152. Further typically, in the
                                                 88

   axially-compressed state of the structure, each of elongate elements 166 of structure
   165 forms a helical shape. Each of the helical elongate elements originates from a
   first one of the end portions (e.g., rings 164) and terminates at the second one of the
   end portions (e.g., rings 164). The pitches of each of the helical elongate elements are
 5 typically within 20 percent of one another, the helical elongate elements typically
   having the same pitch as one another. For some applications, the pitch of the helical
   elongate elements varies along the length of the helical elongate elements. The radii
   of each of the helical elongate elements are typically within 20 percent of one another,
   and, typically, the helical elongate elements have the same radius as one another. For
10 some applications, the helices defined by the two elongate elements are not
   symmetrical with respect to one another. The longitudinal axis of each one of the
   helical elongate elements is typically parallel to the longitudinal axis of the other one
   of the helical elongate elements, and is typically parallel to the longitudinal axis of the
   impeller. For some applications, each of the elongate elements defines more than one
15 eighth of a winding of a helix, and/or less than half a winding of a helix, e.g., between
   one eighth of a winding and half a winding of a helix.
           It is noted that although each of the elongate elements is described as being
   helical, for some applications,         the elongate elements     do not define precise
   mathematical helices, but each of the elongate elements defines a generally helical
20 shape in that the elongate element spirals radially outwardly from a first one of end
   portions (e.g., rings) while extending axially away from the first one of the end
   portions, and then spirals radially inwardly toward the second one of the end portions
   while extending axially toward the second one of the end portions.
           It is noted that, typically, cutting tube 162 such that angle alpha is as described
25 hereinabove, facilitates the shaping of elongate elements 166 into desired helical
   shapes.     For some applications, the tube is cut such that angle alpha is not as
   described hereinabove, and nevertheless elongate elements 166 are shaped into
   desired helical shapes by twisting structure 165, while applying a shape setting
   treatment to structure 165. Typically, ceteris paribus, cutting tube 162 such that angle
30 alpha is as described hereinabove, facilitates the shaping of elongate elements 166 in
   desired helical shapes, while reducing stress on elongate elements 166, relative to
   stress on the elongate elements if the elongate elements are shaped into the desired
                                                  89

   helical shapes without cutting the tube such that angle alpha is as described
   hereinabove.
           Typically, in the axially-compressed configuration of the structure, a length L6
   of the structure, measured along the longitudinal axis of the structure, is greater than 8
 5 mm, less than 18 mm, and/or between 8 and 18 mm. Further typically, in the axially
   compressed configuration of the structure, a length L7 of each of the elongate
   elements, measured along the longitudinal axis of the structure, is greater than 5 mm,
   less than 14 mm, and/or between 5 and 14 mm. Typically, when impeller 152 is in its
   non-compressed, radially-expanded configuration, the lengths of impeller 154 and of
10 elongate elements 166, measured along the longitudinal axis of the impeller, are the
   same as, respectively, lengths L6 and L7. Further typically, when impeller 152 is in
   its non-constrained, radially-expanded configuration, the lengths of impeller blades
   168, measured along the longitudinal axis of the impeller, are typically the same as
   L7.
15         Subsequent to axially compressing structure 165, a material 168 (e.g., a
   flexible polymeric material, such as silicone, polyurethane, and/or polyester) is
   coupled to at least a portion of structure 165, e.g., to the helical elongate elements of
   structure 165. Typically, material 168 is coupled to the portion of structure 165 by
   structure 165 being dipped into material 168, while material 168 is in a liquid state
20 thereof. For example, structure 165 may be dipped into liquid silicone, a silicone
   based elastomer, and/or a different elastomer.      Subsequently, the material is dried
   (e.g., by a curing and/or a polymerization process), such that a film of the material
   forms that is supported by the helical elongate elements of structure 165. For some
   applications, techniques are used to facilitate the formation of a film on structure 165
25 and/or coupling of the material to the helical elongate elements of structure 165, as
   described hereinbelow.     For some applications, during the drying of material 168,
   structure 165 is rotated about its longitudinal axis, such as to facilitate the formation
   of a film of material 168 having a uniform thickness. For some applications, material
   168 is coupled to structure 165 in a different manner to the above-described manner,
30 e.g., via suturing and/or electrospinning a flexible polymeric material (such as
   silicone, polyurethane, and/or polyester) to the helical elongate elements of structure
   165.
                                               90

           The helical elongate elements 166 with the material coupled thereto define the
   impeller blade. To form impeller 152 with a single blade, as shown in Fig. 13D, tube
   162 is cut to define a structure that defines two helical elongate elements between
   rings 164.    (It is noted that the impeller shown in Fig. 13D may alternatively be
 5 described as a two-bladed impeller, each of these elongate elements with the material
   coupled thereto defining a blade. For example, in the end view of the impeller, shown
   in Fig. 18Ai, the portions of the impeller on respective sides of ring 164 may each be
   viewed as blade. Nevertheless, in the context of the present application, an impeller
   that includes two helical elongate elements, as shown in Fig. 13D, is described as
10 having a single blade.) For some applications, a three-bladed impeller is formed by
   cutting tube 162 to define a structure that defines three elongate elements between
   rings 164, such that when the structure is axially compressed the structure defines
   three helical elongate elements, e.g., as described hereinbelow with reference to Figs.
   16A-B.     Alternatively or additionally, an impeller having a different number of
15 blades, e.g., 4-8 blades, is used.
           Typically, material 168 is coupled to structure 165 such that the material forms
   a continuous layer (e.g., a continuous film) between the elongate elements 166. It is
   further noted that typically material 168 is shaped to form one or more blades, by
   virtue of the material being supported by helical elongate elements 166 while the
20 material is dried (e.g., by a curing or a polymerization process), and without requiring
   the use of any instrument, such as a shaping mandrel, that is configured to impart
   shape to the blades
           As shown in Fig. 13D, the impeller blade is typically formed of a continuous
   film of material 168 that is supported by helical elongate elements 166, the helical
25 elongate elements typically forming the outer edges of the blade of the impeller. It is
   noted that, typically, the impeller does not include an axial support member (such as a
   shaft) along the axis of the impeller between the proximal and distal ends of the
   helical elongate elements, for providing support to the film of material.           More
   generally, the impeller typically does not include any support member (such as a
30 shaft) between the proximal and distal ends of the helical elongate elements for
   providing support to the film of material 168. Thus, typically there is no supporting
   member that breaks up the continuity of the film of material disposed between the
                                                91

   helical elongate elements.      Furthermore, rotational motion is imparted from the
   proximal end portion (e.g., proximal ring 164) of the impeller to the distal end portion
   (e.g., distal ring 164) of the impeller via the helical elongate elements of the impeller
   (e.g., substantially solely via the helical elongate elements), and not via an axial
 5 support member (such as a shaft).
            During insertion of the impeller via insertion device 155 (Fig. 12Ai), the
   impeller is radially compressed by axially elongating structure 165, such that helical
   elongate elements 166 become straightened.          Typically, the film of material 168
   conforms with the shape changes that the helical elongate elements undergo during
10 the axial elongation of structure 165, since there is no additional supporting member
   providing support to material 168 between the proximal and distal ends of the helical
   elongate elements.     Further typically, ceteris paribus, the lack of an axial support
   member (such as a shaft) between the proximal and distal ends of the helical elongate
   elements facilitates radial compression of the impeller such that the maximum
15 diameter of the impeller when the impeller is in a maximally-radially-compressed
   configuration thereof is less than that of an impeller that is similar in all other aspects,
   but that includes an axial support member, i.e., the impeller is configured to be
   radially compressible to a smaller diameter than if the impeller were to comprise an
   additional supporting member for supporting the material between the proximal and
20 distal ends of the helical elongate elements. .
            For some applications, ceteris paribus, due to the lack of an axial support
   member (such as a shaft) between the proximal and distal ends of the helical elongate
   elements, the impeller is more flexible than an impeller that is similar in all other
   aspects, but that includes an axial support member (such as a shaft).           During the
25 insertion into the renal vein, the impeller and the cage are typically inserted through
   junctions of blood vessels that form relatively acute angles with each other (e.g.,
   angles of more than 70 degrees), and that are disposed at relatively short distances
   from one another. For example, the impeller and the cage may be passed through the
   femoral vein, the iliac vein, into the vena cava, and then into the renal vein.
30 Flexibility of the impeller typically facilitates insertion of the impeller into the renal
   vein.
                                                92

            Furthermore, ceteris paribus, the lack of an axial support member (such as a
   shaft) between the proximal and distal ends of the helical elongate elements facilitates
   axial elongation of the impeller by a given length using less force than would be
   required to axially elongate by the given length an impeller that includes an axial
 5 support member (such as a shaft) between the proximal and distal ends of the helical
   elongate elements, since axial elongation of an impeller that includes an axial support
   member would typically require axial elongation of the axial support member (e.g.,
   via axial stretching of the support member).       Similarly, ceteris paribus, if a given
   force is applied to the impeller such as to cause the impeller to axially elongate, the
10 axial elongation of the impeller is greater than the axial elongation that a generally
   similar impeller that includes an axial support member (such as a shaft) between the
   proximal and distal ends of the helical elongate elements would undergo.
            For some alternative applications of the present invention, material 168 of the
   impeller itself is molded such as to facilitate the insertion of an axial support member
15 therethrough.     For example, an elastomer (such as silicone or a silicone-based
   elastomer) may be used as material 168, and the elastomer may be molded to form a
   hollow central lumen therethrough. An axial support member may be coupled to the
   impeller by being passed through the hollow central lumen defined by the elastomer.
            Reference is now made to Figs. 14A-B, which are schematic illustrations of
20 structure 165 from which impeller 152 is formed, the structure having sutures 170 tied
   around a portion of the structure, in accordance with some applications of the present
   invention. Reference is also made to Fig. 15, which is a schematic illustration of an
   impeller 152, in accordance with some applications of the present invention.
            As described hereinabove, typically, material 168 is coupled to at least a
25 portion of structure 165 by structure 165 being dipped into material 168, while
   material 168 is in a liquid state thereof. For example, structure 165 may be dipped
   into liquid silicone. Subsequently, the material is dried (e.g., by a curing and/or a
   polymerization process), such that a film of the material forms that is supported by the
   helical elongate elements of structure 165.         For some applications, in order to
30 facilitate the formation of a film of material 168 on structure 165, and/or in order to
   facilitate coupling of material 168 to helical elongate elements 166, sutures 170 are
   tied around a portion of structure 165. For example, the sutures may be tied around
                                               93

   helical elongate elements 166 of structure 165, as shown in Fig. 14A, which shows
   sutures 170 tied around helical elongate elements 166 before material 168 has been
   coupled to structure 165.
           For some applications, the sutures increase the surface area with which
 5 material 168 comes into contact, while material 168 is in its liquid state. Alternatively
   or additionally, the surface of the sutures is more rough and/or porous than that of
   elongate elements 166 (which are typically made of nitinol). Therefore, material 168
   becomes coupled to the sutures with a greater coupling strength than that of the
   coupling between material 168 and elongate elements 166. For some applications, the
10 sutures act as mediators between a material from which the elongate elements are
   made, which typically has a relatively high stiffness (and is typically nitinol), and
   material 168, which is typically an elastomer having a relatively low stiffness. The
   sutures thereby enhance the strength of the coupling between material 168 and helical
   elongate elements 166, when the material dries. For some applications, by enhancing
15 the strength of the coupling between material 168 and helical elongate elements 166,
   the sutures prevent gaps from forming between the material and helical elongate
   elements 166, during and/or after the drying of material 168.        In this manner, the
   sutures facilitate the formation of a continuous film of material 168 between the
   helical elongate elements. Fig. 14B shows impeller 152, subsequent to the formation
20 of a film of material 168 on structure 165, the film being supported by helical
   elongate elements 166 of structure 165.
           Alternatively or additionally, in order to facilitate the formation of a film of
   material 168 on structure 165, the edges of the end portions (e.g., rings 164) of
   structure 165 that are closest to helical elongate elements 166 define notches 180
25 therein, as shown in Fig. 15. As described hereinabove, typically, material 168 is
   coupled to at least a portion of structure 165 by structure 165 being dipped into
   material 168, while material 168 is in a liquid state thereof. For example, structure
   165 may be dipped into liquid silicone. Typically, some of the liquid material enters
   into notches 180 in the end portions (e.g., rings 164), such that the area of contact
30 between the material and structure is increased relative to if the end portions did not
   define notches. Thus, the strength of the coupling of the material to structure 165 is
   strengthened, when the material is subsequently dried.
                                              94

           Reference is now made to Figs. 16A-B, which are schematic illustrations of
   impeller 152, the impeller defining three blades 190, in accordance with some
   applications of the present invention. Typically, impeller 152 is manufactured to have
   three blades, using a generally similar technique to that described hereinabove with
 5 reference to the impeller described with reference to Figs. 13A-D.       However, rather
   than cutting tube 162 (Fig. 13A) to define two elongate elements 166 (Fig. 13B), tube
   162 is cut define three elongate elements. The tube is then axially compressed, such
   that the elongate elements form three helical shapes, and the tube is shape set in the
   axially compressed configuration. Material 168 is then coupled to at least a portion of
10 structure 165. Typically, the material is coupled to at least a portion of structure 165
   by structure 165 being dipped into material 168, while material 168 is in a liquid state
   thereof. For example, structure 165 may be dipped into liquid silicone. Typically the
   material is dried (e.g., by curing, and/or polymerization) onto the helical elongate
   elements such that the helical elongate elements with the material coupled thereto
15 forms a three-bladed impeller, as shown in Fig. 16A-B.
           It is noted that, typically, the three-bladed impeller shown in Figs. 16A-B does
   not include an axial support member (such as a shaft) between the proximal and distal
   ends of the helical elongate elements and along the axis of the impeller, for providing
   support to material 168. More generally, typically, the impeller does not include a
20 support member (such as a shaft) for providing support to material 168 in addition to
   the helical elongate elements, between the proximal and distal ends of the helical
   elongate elements. Furthermore, rotational motion is imparted from the proximal end
   portion (e.g., proximal ring 164) of the impeller to the distal end portion (e.g., distal
   ring 164) of the impeller via the helical elongate elements of the impeller (e.g.,
25 substantially solely via the helical elongate elements), and not via an axial support
   member (such as a shaft).
           During insertion of the impeller via insertion device 155 (Fig. 12Ai), the
   impeller is radially contracted by axially elongating the impeller, such that helical
   elongate elements 166 become straightened. Typically, material 168 conforms with
30 the shape changes that the helical elongate elements undergo during the axial
   elongation of structure 165, since there is no additional supporting member (such as a
   shaft) providing support to material 168 between the proximal and distal ends of the
                                                 95

   helical elongate elements.     Further typically, ceteris paribus, the lack of an axial
   support member (such as a shaft) between the proximal and distal ends of the helical
   elongate elements facilitates radial compression of the impeller such that the
   maximum diameter of the impeller when the impeller is in a maximally-radially
 5 compressed configuration thereof is less than that of an impeller that is similar in all
   other aspects, but that includes an axial support member , i.e., the impeller is
   configured to be radially compressible to a smaller diameter than if the impeller were
   to comprise an additional supporting member for supporting the material between the
   proximal and distal ends of the helical elongate elements. .
10          For some applications, ceteris paribus, due to the lack of an axial support
   member (such as a shaft) between the proximal and distal ends of the helical elongate
   elements the impeller is more flexible than an impeller that is similar in all other
   aspects, but that includes an axial support member (such as a shaft).          During the
   insertion into the renal vein, the impeller and the cage are typically inserted through
15 junctions of blood vessels that form relatively acute angles with each other (e.g.,
   angles of more than 70 degrees), and that are disposed at relatively short distances
   from one another. For example, the impeller and the cage may be inserted into the
   renal vein by being passed through the femoral vein, the iliac vein, into the vena cava,
   and then into the renal vein. Flexibility of the impeller typically facilitates insertion
20 of the impeller into the renal vein.
            Furthermore, as described hereinabove, the lack of an axial support member
   (such as a shaft) between the proximal and distal ends of the helical elongate elements
   facilitates axial elongation of the impeller by a given length using less force than
   would be required to axially elongate by the given length an impeller that includes an
25 axial support member (such as a shaft) between the proximal and distal ends of the
   helical elongate elements. Similarly, ceteris paribus, if a given force is applied to the
   impeller such as to cause the impeller to axially elongate, the axial elongation of the
   impeller is greater than the axial elongation that a generally similar impeller that
   includes an axial support member (such as a shaft) between the proximal and distal
30 ends of the helical elongate elements would undergo.
            For some alternative applications of the present invention, material 168 of the
   impeller itself is molded such as to facilitate the insertion of an axial support member
                                               96

   therethrough.    For example, an elastomer (such as silicone or a silicone-based
   elastomer) may be used as material 168, and the elastomer may be molded to form a
   hollow central lumen therethrough. An axial support member may be coupled to the
   impeller by being passed through the hollow central lumen defined by the elastomer.
 5         Reference is now made to Fig. 17, which is a schematic illustration of
   protective cage 154 of blood pump 150, in accordance with some applications of the
   present invention.    Typically, the cage comprises proximal and distal rings 202.
   Between the proximal and distal rings, the cage comprises struts 204, which are
   shaped to define cells.      For some applications, in a non-compressed, radially
10 expanded configuration of the cage (i.e., in the absence of any force being applied to
   the cage), between the proximal and distal rings, the cage defines a generally spherical
   or ovoid shape, as shown in Fig. 17.          Engagement mechanism 156 (Fig. 12B)
   typically engages the impeller with respect to cage 154 via rings 164 (Figs. 13A-D) of
   the impeller, rings 202 of the cage, and distal bearing 250D (Fig. 12B).
15         For   some    applications,  when    cage    154  is in   its radially-expanded
   configuration, a length L8 of the cage, measured along the longitudinal axis of the
   cage, and including rings 202 of the cage, is greater than 17 mm, less than 26 mm,
   and/or between 17 and 26 mm.          A length L9 of the cage, measured along the
   longitudinal axis of the cage, and not including rings 202 of the cage, is greater than
20 12 mm, less than 21 mm, and/or between 12 and 21 mm. For some applications,
   when the cage is axially elongated, and radially compressed, by being crimped
   (configuration not shown), the length of the cage, measured along the longitudinal
   axis of the cage, and including rings 202 of the cage, is greater than 22 mm, less than
   35 mm, and/or between 22 and 35 mm. Typically, for such applications, when the
25 cage is axially elongated by being crimped (configuration not shown), the length of
   the cage, measured along the longitudinal axis of the cage, and excluding rings 202 of
   the cage is greater than 18 mm, less than 30 mm, and/or between 18 and 30 mm. For
   some applications, when cage 154 is in its radially-expanded configuration, a diameter
   D7 of the cage is greater than 8 mm, less than 20 mm, and/or between 8 and 20 mm.
30 For example, diameter D7 may be greater than 8 mm, less than 15 mm, and/or
   between 8 mm and 15 mm. Or, diameter D7 may be greater than 13 mm, less than 19
   mm, and/or between 13 mm and 19 mm.
                                              97

           The cage is typically inserted into a blood vessel (e.g., into the renal vein),
   while in a crimped configuration thereof (i.e., while the cage is axially elongated and
   radially compressed with respect to the non-compressed configuration of the cage).
   As described hereinabove, during insertion of the impeller into the blood vessel, the
 5 impeller is radially contracted by axially elongating structure 165, such that helical
   elongate elements 166 become straightened.         Typically, the film of material 168
   conforms with the shape changes that the helical elongate elements undergo during
   the elongation of the impeller. Further typically, during insertion of the blood pump
   into the blood vessel, impeller 152 is already disposed inside the cage. Thus, during
10 insertion of blood pump 150 into the blood vessel, impeller 152 is disposed inside the
   cage, while the cage is in a crimped configuration thereof, and while the impeller is in
   an axially-elongated configuration thereof, in which the helical elongate elements of
   the impeller are straightened.     Typically, in response to being released from the
   insertion device inside the blood vessel, the cage automatically assumes the non
15 compressed, radially-expanded configuration of the cage.         Similarly, the impeller
   typically automatically radially expands inside the cage such as to assume a non
   compressed, radially-expanded configuration thereof, in response to the cage and the
   impeller being released from the insertion device.
           Reference is now made to Figs. 18Ai-18Aiii, which are schematic illustrations
20 of examples of structure 165 which forms the frame of impeller 152, in accordance
   with some applications of the present invention.
           As indicated by inner dashed circle 194, which is the same size in both Fig.
   18Ai-18Aiii, the impellers shown in each of Figs. 18Ai and 18Bi rotate such as to
   encompass a circular area having the same size. Thus, as indicated by outer dashed
25 circle 196, which is the same size in both Fig. 18Ai-18Aiii, the impellers shown in
   each of Figs. 18Ai and 18Bi are suitable for being placed inside a blood vessel having
   a given cross sectional area, such that there a separation between the inner wall of the
   blood vessel and the impeller, as described hereinabove. (The outer dashed circle is
   representative of the cross-section of the inner wall of blood vessel into which the
30 impeller is placed.) Despite being suitable for being placed in similarly sized blood
   vessels, structure 165 of the impeller shown in Figs. 18Bi-18Biii is configured such
   that the blades of the impeller formed from the structure span a larger transverse area
                                               98

   than the impeller blades formed by structure 165 as shown in Figs. 18Ai-18Aiii. In
   other words, when viewed from an end of the impeller (as shown in Figs. 18Ai and
   18Bi), then the blades of the impeller frame shown in Figs. 18Bi-18Biii span a
   transverse area (i.e., an area transverse to the axis of the impeller), that is greater than
 5 the transverse area that is spanned by the blades of the impeller frame shown in Figs.
   18Ai-18Aiii. Similarly, when viewed from an end of the impeller (as shown in Figs.
   18Ai and 18Bi), then each of the blades of the impeller frame shown in Figs. 18Bi
   18Biii defines an angle theta about the longitudinal axis of the impeller that is less
   than that defined by each of the blades of the impeller frame shown in Figs. 18Ai
10 18Aiii.
           Typically, ceteris paribus, for an impeller that is placed inside a blood vessel
   having a given diameter, the propulsion of blood through the blood vessel at a given
   rotation rate of the impeller is greater (and, therefore, the efficiency of the impeller is
   greater), the greater the transverse area of the blood vessel (i.e., the area of the blood
15 transverse to the longitudinal axis of the blood vessel) that the blades of the impeller
   span. For an impeller as shown in Figs. 18Ai-iii and 18Bi-iii, the efficiency of the
   impeller is typically greater, the greater the angle theta defined by the impeller blade
   about each side of the longitudinal axis of the impeller. Thus, with reference to Figs.
   18Ai-18Aiii and 18Bi-18Biii, ceteris paribus, the impeller shown in Figs. 18Bi-18Biii
20 would typically pump blood more efficiently than that shown in Figs. 18Ai-18Aiii.
   However, as is explained in greater detail hereinbelow, when the impellers are axially
   elongated, then, ceteris paribus, an impeller that defines blades spanning a larger
   transverse area, will typically be longer than an impeller that defines blades spanning
   a smaller transverse area.
25         It is noted that, for some applications, a single-bladed impeller as described
   herein is used, and the value of theta (i.e., the angle defined by the blade of the
   impeller about each side of the longitudinal axis of the impeller) is greater than 5
   degrees (e.g., greater than 50 degrees, greater than 70 degrees, or greater than 90
   degrees), less than 360 degrees (e.g., less than 180 degrees, less than 150 degrees, or
30 less than 110 degrees), and/or between 5 and 360 degrees (e.g., between 50 and 180
   degrees, between 70 and 150 degrees, or between 90 and 110 degrees).
                                                99

           During insertion of blood pump 150 into the blood vessel, impeller 152 is
   typically disposed inside cage 154, while the cage is in an axially-elongated, crimped
   configuration thereof, and while the impeller is in an axially-elongated, crimped
   configuration thereof.     Therefore, the length that the impeller defines when the
 5 impeller is in its axially-elongated, crimped configuration is typically less than the
   length of the cage when the cage is in its axially-elongated, crimped configuration. In
   turn, the dimensions of the cage are limited, since the diameter of the cage in the
   radially-expanded configuration of the cage is limited based upon the size of the blood
   vessel into which the blood pump is to be placed.
10         For some applications, the cage is configured to include struts 204 that have
   are shape set such as to include undulating portions 210, as shown in Fig. 18C (which
   is described in further detail hereinbelow). Typically, the level of undulation of the
   undulated portions of the struts of the cage when the cage is in its radially-expanded
   configuration, is greater than the level of undulation of the undulated portions of the
15 struts when the cage is in its axially elongated configuration. For some applications,
   by including struts that have undulating portions, a cage that has a given diameter
   and/or outer profile in its radially-expanded configuration can be elongated to define a
   greater length when the cage is elongated than a cage having a similar diameter and/or
   outer profile that does not include struts that have undulating portions.        In this
20 manner, the cage (a) is able to accommodate an impeller which in its axially
   elongated configuration is longer (and which, in its radially-expanded configuration,
   therefore defines a larger transverse area), than a cage that did not include struts that
   have undulating portions would be able to accommodate, but (b) the diameter and/or
   outer profile of the cage in its radially-expanded configuration is generally similar to
25 the cage that does not include struts that have the undulating portions.
           There follows a more detailed description of Figs. 18Ai-18C.
           As described hereinabove, structure 165 of the impeller shown in Figs. 18Bi
   18Biii is configured such that the blades of the impeller formed from the structure
   span a larger transverse area than the impeller blades formed by structure 165 as
30 shown in Figs. 18Ai-18Aiii.        Figs. 18Aii and 18Bii show side views of the two
   example of structure 165, and Figs. 18Aiii and 18Biii show views of the examples of
   structure 165 in the axially-elongated configurations of the structures, in which the
                                               100

   helical elongate elements       of the structures    are straightened.      As described
   hereinabove, during insertion of blood pump 150 into the blood vessel, the impeller is
   typically in the axially-elongated configuration, as shown in Figs. 18Aiii and 18Biii.
   In order for the impeller blades to span a larger transverse area (as shown in Fig.
 5 18Bi), the lengths of elongate elements 166 typically are longer than those of an
   impeller having blades that span a smaller transverse area (as shown in Fig. 18Ai).
   Therefore, when the impellers are in the axially-elongated configurations thereof,
   length LB of impeller shown in Figs. 18Bi-18Biii is greater than length LA of the
   impeller shown in Figs. 18Ai-18Aiii.
10         Reference is now made to Fig. 18C, which is a schematic illustration of cage
   154 the cage including at least some struts 204 that have undulated portions 210
   thereof, in accordance with some applications of the present invention. Reference is
   also made to Fig. 18D, which is a schematic illustration of end views of radially
   expanded cages 154, one of which includes struts 204 having undulated portions 210
15 thereof (the left cage), and the other one of which does not include struts having
   undulated portions thereof (the middle cage), in accordance with some applications of
   the present invention. On the right of Fig. 18D, the cage that includes struts having
   undulated portions thereof is overlaid on the cage that does not include struts having
   undulated portions thereof, with the struts that include undulated portions shown with
20 solid lines, and the corresponding struts of the second cage that do not include
   undulated portions being shown with dashed lines. As may be observed in the portion
   of the Fig. 18D that shows the overlaid cages, the inclusion of undulated portions in
   some of the struts does not change the outer profile of the cage.           However, the
   undulated portions of the struts add length to the struts, such that, ceteris paribus, the
25 total axially-elongated length of the stent that includes the struts having the undulated
   portions is greater than the total axially-elongated length of the stent that does not
   include the struts having the undulated portions.
            As described hereinabove, typically, the length of the impeller when the
   impeller is in its axially-elongated, crimped configuration is less than the length of the
30 cage when the cage is in its axially-elongated, crimped configuration, such that the
   crimped cage can accommodate the axially-elongated impeller.                 In turn, the
   dimensions of the cage are limited, since the diameter of the cage in the radially
                                               101

   expanded configuration of the cage is limited based upon the size of the blood vessel
   into which the blood pump is to be placed. For cages having structures as shown in
   Fig. 17, then a cage that has a longer crimped length, typically expands to have a
   greater maximum diameter inside the blood vessel, which may be undesirable.
 5         For some applications, in order to increase the axially-elongated length of the
   cage, without increasing the diameter of the cage in the radially-expanded
   configuration of the cage, a cage as shown Fig. 18C is used. The cage shown in Fig.
   18C includes some struts that comprise undulated portions 210. During crimping of
   the cage, the undulated portions are configured to become at least partially
10 straightened, thereby adding to the crimped length of the cage relative to if portions
   210 were not undulated. When the cage radially expands inside the blood vessel, the
   undulated portions become undulated, but do not add to the diameter of the cage, or
   otherwise change the outer profile of the cage relative to if the undulated portions
   were straight. Thus, in general, the extra length that is provided to the cage by the
15 undulated portions when the cage is in a crimped configuration thereof, does not add
   to the diameter of the cage when the cage expands inside the blood vessel.
           As described, during insertion of the cage into the renal vein, the undulated
   portions of the struts of the cage are at least partially straightened.     Upon the cage
   assuming its radially-expanded configuration inside the renal vein, the level of
20 undulation of the undulated portions of the struts of the cage increases.         For some
   applications, for each of the struts that defines the undulated portions, the strut is
   configured such that a ratio of:
           (a) the shortest distance from a first longitudinal end of the strut to a second
   longitudinal end of the strut when the cage is its axially-elongated configuration (i.e.,
25 when the undulated portion is at least partially straightened),
           to
           (b) the shortest distance from the first longitudinal end of the strut to the
   second longitudinal end of the strut when the cage is its radially-expanded
   configuration (i.e., when the undulated portion is at the level of undulation to which
30 the strut was shape set),
           is greater than 1.05:1, e.g., greater than 1.15:1, or greater than 1.2:1.
                                                102

           For some applications, the aforementioned ratio is less than 1.4:1, for example,
   the ratio may be between 1.05:1 and 1.4:1, between 1.15:1 and 1.4:1, or between 1.2:1
   and 1.4:1.
           Reference is now made to Figs. 19A-B, which are schematic illustrations of
 5 impeller cage 154, the cage being shaped to define a central portion having a
   generally cylindrical shape, in the absence of any force being applied to the cage, in
   accordance with some applications of the present invention. The outer surface of the
   cage at the generally cylindrical portion of the cage is parallel to longitudinal axis 222
   of the cage. Fig. 19A shows the cage by itself, and Fig. 19B shows the cage disposed
10 inside a blood vessel, e.g., renal vein 32.
           Fig. 19B shows cage 154, the cage having radially expanded inside the blood
   vessel (e.g., inside renal vein 32), such that the cage is anchored to the blood vessel.
   As described hereinabove, impeller 152 of blood pump 150 (Fig. 12Ai) is configured
   to pump blood axially through the blood vessel, by rotating inside the blood vessel.
15 Typically, in order to for the impeller to efficiently pump blood through the blood
   vessel, it is desirable that a longitudinal axis 224 of the impeller be aligned with a
   longitudinal axis 226 of the blood vessel. Further typically, rings 164 of impeller 152
   are aligned with rings 202 of cage 154, such that the longitudinal axes of the impeller
   and the cage are aligned with one another. For example, as shown in Fig. 12B, the
20 longitudinal axes of the impeller and the cage may be aligned with one another by (a)
   placing the proximal rings of both the impeller and the cage around a first support
   element (such as proximal bearing 250P), such that the proximal rings of the impeller
   and the cage are aligned with one another, and (b) placing the distal rings of both the
   impeller and the cage around a second support element (such as distal bearing 250D),
25 such that the distal rings of the impeller and the cage are aligned with one another.
           As shown in Fig. 19B, generally-cylindrical central portion 220 of cage 154,
   becomes anchored to the blood vessel, such that the longitudinal axis of the cage is
   aligned with the longitudinal axis of the blood vessel. Since the longitudinal axes of
   the impeller and the cage are aligned with one another, the generally-cylindrical
30 central portion of the cage causes the impeller to be disposed within the blood vessel
   such that the longitudinal axis of the impeller is aligned with the longitudinal axis of
   the blood vessel.
                                               103

           As used in the present application, including in the claims, a "longitudinal
   axis" of a structure is the set of all centroids of cross-sectional sections of the structure
   along the structure. Thus the cross-sectional sections are locally perpendicular to the
   longitudinal axis, which runs along the structure. (If the structure is circular in cross
 5 section, the centroids correspond with the centers of the circular cross-sectional
   sections.)
           Reference is now made to Fig. 20, which is a schematic illustration of impeller
   cage 154, the cage being configured to be placed inside a blood vessel (e.g., renal vein
   32), such as to cause the diameter of a portion of the blood vessel to increase relative
10 to the diameter of the blood vessel in the absence of the impeller cage. As shown in
   Fig. 20, for some applications the cage is configured to expand a blood vessel that has
   a diameter D6 in the absence of the cage, such that a portion of the blood vessel has a
   diameter that is greater than D6. For example, the cage may widen the blood vessel,
   such that, when the blood vessel is widened, the diameter of the blood vessel is more
15 than 105 percent, e.g., more than 110 percent, or more than 115 percent of diameter
   D6. For some applications, the cage widens the blood vessel, such that, when the
   blood vessel is widened, the diameter of the blood vessel is less than 125 percent of
   diameter D6. For example, the widened diameter may be 105-125 percent, 110-125
   percent, and/or 115-125 percent, of diameter D6. For some applications, impeller 152
20 of blood pump 150 is configured to span a diameter that is at least equal to diameter
   D6 of the blood vessel.       Typically, all other factors being equal, the greater the
   diameter that the impeller spans, the greater the flow rate at which the impeller is able
   to pump blood through the blood vessel.
           Reference is now made to Fig. 21A, which is a schematic illustration of
25 impeller-based blood pumps 150 inserted into a subject's left and right renal veins 32
   via the subject's femoral vein 230, in accordance with some applications of the present
   invention. It is noted that details of blood pump 150 are not shown in Fig. 21A, but
   the pump is generally as described hereinabove.           Typically, the blood pumps are
   inserted into the left and right renal veins via respective catheters 155, and the
30 catheters are both inserted via the femoral vein. Alternatively (not shown), the blood
   pumps are inserted via a single catheter that passes from a femoral access point to the
   subject's vena cava.
                                                 104

           Typically, the impellers of the blood pumps 150 are coupled to motors 232,
   which impart rotational motion to the impellers.        In accordance with respective
   applications, the motors are disposed outside of the subject's body (as shown) or are
   placed inside the subject's body (not shown). Typically, a control unit 234 and a user
 5 interface 236 are disposed outside the subject's body. Further typically, the control
   unit receives inputs from pressure sensors 157 and 159, which are disposed on
   upstream and downstream sides of the blood pumps, as described hereinabove with
   respect to Fig. 12C-D.     When blood pump 150 is disposed inside a renal vein (as
   shown in Fig. 21A, for example), the pressure measured by upstream pressure sensor
10 157 is indicative of blood pressure upstream of the blood pump, inside the renal vein,
   and the pressure measured by downstream pressure sensor 159 is indicative of central
   venous pressure.    For some applications, the control unit receives an input from
   additional sensor 161 (such as a flow sensor and/or an oxygen-saturation sensor),
   which is disposed on the blood pump (e.g., on a downstream side of the blood pump,
15 as shown in Fig. 12Ai).     Alternatively or additionally, the control unit receives an
   input from a thermal flow sensor, such as thermal flow sensor 260 described
   hereinbelow with reference to Figs. 22Ai-Cii.
           For some applications, control unit 234 controls rotation of impeller 152, by
   controlling motor 232, responsively to one or more of the above-described inputs.
20 Typically, user interface 236 displays the subject's current renal venous pressure and
   central venous pressure, based upon the pressures measured by sensors 157 and 159.
   Typically, based upon the current values of the subject's renal venous pressure and
   central venous pressure, a user (such as a healthcare professional) inputs a target value
   for the subject renal venous pressure, via the user interface.      In response thereto,
25 control unit 234 controls the speed of the rotation of the impeller, such that the
   impeller pumps through the renal vein and toward the vena cava at a flow rate that is
   such as to reduce the renal venous pressure toward the target level, as indicated by the
   user. For some applications, in response a signal received from downstream sensor
   159 indicating that the central venous pressure is at the target renal venous pressure,
30 the control unit stops the impeller rotating.     In general, the control unit typically
   controls the speed of the rotation of the impeller responsively to inputs from pressure
   sensors 157 and 159. For some applications, the control unit controls the speed of the
                                              105

   rotation of the impeller responsively to an input from additional sensor 161, and/or
   thermal flow sensor 260 (shown in Figs. 22Ai-22Cii).
           It is noted that a "control unit" as described in the present application, in the
   description and the claims, includes any type of processor (such as a computer
 5 processor) configured to execute the actions described herein.       A "user interface"
   includes any type of user interface configured to receive inputs from a user and/or to
   provide outputs to the user. For example, the user interface may include one or more
   input devices (such as a keyboard, a mouse, a trackball, a joystick, a touchscreen
   monitor, a touchpad, a voice-command interface, a smartphone, a tablet computer,
10 and/or other types of input devices that are known in the art), and/or one or more
   output devices (such as a monitor, an audio output device, a smartphone, a tablet
   computer, and/or other types of output devices that are known in the art).
           Reference is now made to Fig. 21B, which is a schematic illustration of
   impeller-based blood pumps 150 inserted into a subject's left and right renal veins 32
15 via the subject's subclavian vein 240, in accordance with some applications of the
   present invention. It is noted that the details of blood pump 150 are not shown in Fig.
   21B, but the pump is generally as described hereinabove. Typically, the blood pumps
   are inserted into the left and right renal veins via respective catheters, and the
   catheters are both inserted via the subclavian vein. Alternatively (not shown), the
20 blood pumps are inserted via a single catheter then passes from a subclavian access
   point to the subject's vena cava. Apart from being inserted into the renal veins via a
   different vein, blood pumps 150 as shown in Fig. 21B are generally similar to blood
   pumps 150 as shown in Fig. 21A, in all other respects.
           Reference is now made to Figs. 22Ai-Cii, which are schematic illustrations of
25 a thermal flow sensor 260 for use with blood pump 150, in accordance with some
   applications of the present invention. The thermal flow sensor typically includes an
   upstream temperature sensor 262, a downstream temperature sensor 264, and a
   heating element 266 disposed between the upstream and downstream temperature
   sensors. As shown by the flow arrows shown in the enlarged drawing of the thermal
30 flow sensor in Fig. 22Ai, blood flows past the upstream temperature sensor to the
   heating element. The heating element heats the blood, as the blood flows past the
   heating element. The heated blood then flows to the downstream temperature sensor.
                                               106

   The extent to which blood flowing past the downstream temperature sensor has been
   heated by the heating element is dependent upon the flow rate of the blood.
   Therefore, the thermal flow sensor measures a change in the temperature of the blood
   between the upstream and the downstream temperature sensors, and determines the
 5 flow of the blood responsively thereto.
            As described with reference to Figs. 21A-B, for some applications, the control
   unit controls the speed of the rotation of the impeller responsively to an input from
   thermal flow sensor 260. Typically, it is of interest to measure the component of the
   blood flow through the renal vein that is in the axial direction, i.e., the axial
10 component of the blood flow that is parallel to the local longitudinal axis of the renal
   vein, since this determines the rate of flow of blood away from the subject's kidney.
   However, due to the rotation of the impeller, blood flow downstream of the impeller
   typically includes components other than the axial component (e.g., rotational and
   radial components). For some applications, the thermal flow sensor is disposed inside
15 a housing 268 that is configured such that blood flow through housing is substantially
   in the axial direction, and such that components other than the axial component of the
   blood flow (e.g., rotational and radial components) are reduced relative to blood flow
   through the renal vein outside the housing.
            Reference is now made to Figs. 22Ai and 22Aii, which are schematic
20 illustrations of, respectively, a cross-sectional view and a top view of thermal flow
   sensor 260 and housing 268, in accordance with some applications of the present
   invention. Typically, impeller 152 and cage 154 of blood pump 150 are disposed at
   the end of an elongate element 270 (e.g., a tube) of the blood pump.              For some
   applications, elongate element 270 defines an indentation, and the thermal flow sensor
25 is housed inside the indentation, the outer surface of elongate element 170 that defines
   the indentation thus comprising housing 168.          Upstream temperature sensor 262,
   heating element 266, and downstream temperature sensor 264 are typically disposed
   sequentially along the length of the indentation, as shown.        Typically, the ratio of
   length LI of the indentation to a width WI of the indentation is greater than 4:1, and/or
30 less 8:1, e.g., between 4:1 and 8:1. The ratio of length LI to width WI is typically
   such that blood flow through the indentation is substantially in the direction that is
   parallel to the local longitudinal axis of the renal vein (and that is parallel to the local
                                               107

   longitudinal axis of the elongate element), and such that components other than the
   axial component of the blood flow (e.g., rotational and radial components) are
   reduced relative to blood flow through the renal vein outside the housing. Since the
   thermal sensor is housed inside the indentation, the thermal flow sensor measures the
 5 blood flow that is substantially in the direction that is parallel to the local longitudinal
   axis of the renal vein (and that is parallel to the local longitudinal axis of the elongate
   element).
            For some applications (not shown), a single thermistor is used to measure
   flow, and the single thermistor is placed inside a housing that is typically such that
10 blood flow through the housing is substantially in the direction that is parallel to the
   local longitudinal axis of the renal vein (and that is parallel to the local longitudinal
   axis of the elongate element), and such that components other than the axial
   component of the blood flow (e.g., rotational and radial components) are reduced
   relative to blood flow through the renal vein outside the housing, e.g., using
15 techniques as described with respect to Figs. 22Ai-22Cii, mutatis mutandis. For such
   applications, a ratio of a length of the housing to the width of the housing is typically
   greater than 1:1, e.g., greater than 4:1, and/or less 8:1, e.g., between 4:1 and 8:1. For
   such applications, when a housing as shown in Fig. 22Ci-ii is used, the ratio of the
   length of the housing to the height of the housing is typically greater than 1:1, e.g.,
20 greater than 4:1, and/or less 8:1, e.g., between 4:1 and 8:1.
            Reference is now made to Figs. 22Bi and 22Bii, which are schematic
   illustrations of, respectively, a cross-sectional view and a top view of thermal flow
   sensor 260 and housing 268, in accordance with some applications of the present
   invention.    Housing 268 as shown in Figs. 22Bi-22Bii is generally similar to that
25 shown in Figs. 22Ai-22Aii, except that the thermal sensor shown in Figs. 22Bi-ii in
   covered by a cover 272 in addition to being housed inside the indentation in elongate
   element 270.     In other aspects, thermal sensor and housing 268 are generally as
   described with reference to Figs. 22Ai-22Aii.
            Reference is now made to Figs 22Ci-22Cii, which are schematic illustrations
30 of respective cross-sectional views of thermal flow sensor 260 and housing 268, in
   accordance with some applications of the present invention. For some applications,
   housing 268, which houses thermal sensor 260, includes a housing, such as a tube,
                                                108

   that is coupled to the outer surface of elongate element 270 of blood pump 150.
   Typically, the housing is compressible, such that the housing may be compressed
   during insertion of blood pump 150 into the subject's blood vessel via insertion device
   155.
 5          Upstream temperature sensor 262, heating element 266, and downstream
   temperature sensor 264 are typically disposed sequentially along the length of the
   housing, within the housing, as shown. Typically, the ratio of a length LH of the
   housing to a width WH of the housing is greater than 4:1, and/or less 8:1, e.g.,
   between 4:1 and 8:1. Further typically, the ratio of a length LH of the housing to a
10 height HH of the housing is greater than 4:1, and/or less 8:1, e.g., between 4:1 and
   8:1.   The ratios of length LH to width WH, and of length LH to height HH, are
   typically such that blood flow through the housing is substantially in the direction that
   is parallel to the local longitudinal axis of the renal vein (and that is parallel to the
   local longitudinal axis of the elongate element), and such that components other than
15 the axial component of the blood flow (e.g., rotational and radial components) are
   reduced relative to blood flow through the renal vein outside the housing. Since the
   thermal sensor is housed inside the indentation, the thermal flow sensor measures the
   blood flow that is substantially in the direction that is parallel to the local longitudinal
   axis of the renal vein (and that is parallel to the local longitudinal axis of the elongate
20 element).
            It is noted that in Fig. 22Cii, the inside of elongate element 270 is shaded, for
   illustrative purposes.      However, typically, elongate element 270 houses control
   mechanisms for controlling motion of impeller 152 and cage 154.
   Experimental Results
25          Reference is now made to Fig. 23, which shows graphs indicating the results
   of experiments that were performed on a healthy pig, using an impeller-based blood
   pump      150, in accordance      with some applications of the present invention.
   Throughout the experiment, left renal venous pressure of the pig was measured
   directly using a pressure sensor disposed in the pig's left renal vein. In addition, right
30 renal venous pressure of the pig was measured, using a pressure sensor in the inferior
   vena cava at the level of the renal vein. Baseline levels of left renal blood flow, and
                                                 109

   urine output from the left and right kidneys were also measured, and the
   aforementioned parameters were again measured at certain points in time during the
   experiment.
            A balloon was inflated in the pig's vena cava downstream of the junctions
 5 between the vena cava and both left and right renal veins. The balloon was inflated
   such as to cause an increase in the blood pressure within the pig's vena cava
   downstream of the renal veins, by partially obstructing blood flow through the vena
   cava downstream of the renal veins.        At the same time as the balloon was inflated
   inside the pig's vena cava, an impeller-based blood pump, as described herein, was
10 activated to pump blood through the pig's left renal vein, while no assistance was
   provided to the flow of blood through the pig's right renal vein. While the balloon
   was still in an inflated state, the blood pump within the left renal vein was temporarily
   switched off for a period of time, before being switched on again. Subsequently, the
   balloon within the vena cava was deflated, and the blood pump was switched off.
15          The top graph in Fig. 23 indicates left renal venous pressure, indicated by the
   solid curve, and right renal venous pressure, indicated by the dashed curve, as
   measured during the experiment. It is noted that, in order to more clearly show the
   left and right renal venous pressure measurements, where the left and right renal
   venous pressure measurements were identical (e.g., between approximately 12:35 and
20 13:28), the two curves have been separated slightly. In addition small variations in
   venous pressure have been ignored. As shown, initially, during the baseline period,
   the left and right renal venous pressures were similar to one another, at approximately
   8 mmHg. Subsequently, at 13:28, the balloon was inflated, and the impeller-based
   blood pump was activated in the left renal vein. As a result of the balloon being
25 inflated, the pressure in the vena cava rose, and therefore the right renal venous
   pressure rose to approximately 22 mmHg.           Despite the pressure in the vena cava
   rising, the left renal venous pressure did not increase, due to the pumping of blood
   through the left renal vein. At approximately 14:10, the blood pump within the left
   renal vein was switched off, and, as a result, the left renal venous pressure rose to the
30 level of the venous pressure within the vena cava. Subsequently, at approximately
   14:40, the pump was switched on again, and, as a result, the pressure in the left renal
   vein dropped.      Subsequently, at 15:24, the balloon was deflated and the venous
                                                110

   pressure in the vena cava, and therefore, the right renal venous pressure dropped.
   These results indicate that an impeller-based blood pump as described herein may
   effectively reduce renal venous pressure, even if a subject's central venous pressure is
   elevated.
 5          The middle graph of Fig. 23 shows the renal blood flow as measured in the left
   renal vein.      As shown the baseline value of the left renal blood flow was
   approximately 360 ml/min. The left renal blood flow was again measured when the
   balloon had been inflated in the vena cava and the blood pump was operating in the
   left renal vein.    As shown, left renal blood flow had risen to approximately 440
10 ml/min, due to the pumping of the blood by the blood pump. Subsequently, left renal
   blood flow was measured while the balloon was inflated within the vena cava, and
   while the blood pump had been switched off, and the renal blood flow had fallen to
   approximately 380 ml/min. Subsequently, left renal blood flow was again measured
   when the blood pump had been switched back on, and the left renal blood flow had
15 again risen to approximately 340 ml/min.           These results indicate that an impeller
   based blood pump as described herein may effectively increase renal blood flow, even
   if a subject's central venous pressure is elevated.
            It is noted that, for illustrative purposes, changes in renal blood flow between
   one data point and the next data point are shown on the graph as having occurred at a
20 constant rate. However, the inventors hypothesize that the changes in renal blood
   flow were substantially due to the blood pump being switched on and off inside the
   left renal vein, and/or due to inflation of the balloon inside the vena cava, such that
   most of the changes in the renal blood flow would have occurred, pursuant to the
   occurrences of the aforementioned events.
25          The bottom graph of Fig. 23 shows urine output measured at the pig's left
   kidney (indicated by the solid curve) and right kidney (indicated by the dashed curve)
   at certain times during the experiment. It is noted that, in general, it is known that the
   rate of blood flow through the kidney has an effect on the rate of urine output. As
   shown, when measured during the baseline period, urine production from the left and
30 right kidneys was approximately 21 ml per 10 minutes. Subsequently, urine output
   was measured at approximately 14:00, while the balloon was inflated inside the vena
   cava, and while the blood pump was operating inside the left renal vein. As shown,
                                                  111

   urine output from the left kidney had risen, while urine production from the right
   kidney had fallen. These result indicates that, even when central venous pressure is
   elevated, which may lead to reduced urine output (as indicated by the urine output
   from the right kidney), increasing renal blood flow by pumping blood using a blood
 5 pump (as performed within the left renal vein) may increase urine output.
           Subsequently, urine output from the left and right kidneys was measured while
   the balloon was still inflated inside the vena cava, but while the blood pump was
   switched off, at approximately 14:35.        At this point, urine production at the right
   kidney had continued to fall, while urine output from the left kidney had also fallen.
10 Subsequently, after the blood pump had been switched on again, while the vena cava
   balloon had still been inflated, the urine output from the right kidney had plateaued at
   approximately 14 ml per 10 minutes, while the urine output from the right kidney had
   risen substantially to 48 ml per 10 minutes.
           It is noted that, for illustrative purposes, changes in urine production between
15 one data point and the next data point are shown on the graph as having occurred at a
   constant rate.     However, the inventors hypothesize that the changes in urine
   production were substantially due to the blood pump being switched on and off inside
   the left renal vein, and/or due to inflation of the balloon inside the vena cava, such
   that most of the changes in the urine production would have occurred, pursuant to the
20 occurrences of the aforementioned events.
           In a further experiment, an impeller-based blood pump as described herein
   was used to pump blood through the renal vein of a different pig over a continuous
   period of three hours. During this time period, no incidences of either thrombi, or
   abnormal levels of haemolysis occurred. This indicates that an impeller-based blood
25 pump as described herein may be used to increase blood flow through a subject's renal
   vein, thereby reducing pressure in renal vein, without causing a risk of thrombi and/or
   abnormal levels of haemolysis. It is noted that during the aforementioned experiment,
   an anticoagulant was administered to the pig.          Nevertheless, since in a typically
   procedure that is performed on a human subject using an impeller-based blood pump
30 as described herein, the subject would be administered an anticoagulant, it is still the
   case that this result indicates that an impeller-based blood pump as described herein
                                                 112

   may be used to increase blood flow through a subject's renal vein, thereby reducing
   pressure in renal vein, without causing a risk of haemolysis and/or thrombi.
           In general, in the above-described experiments, as well as in additional
   experiments that were performed by the inventors of the present application using
 5 blood pump 150 in pigs, the following observations were made:
           1. Blood pump 150 was smoothly deployed and retrieved within a minute or
   less.
           2. Renal venous pressure was effectively and continuously reduced from about
   20 mmHg to a pre-selected target value of 8 mmHg within minimal margins of
10 variation.
           3. Elevation of venous pressure in the vena cava caused a drop in urine output,
   creatinine clearance, and fractional sodium excretion in the untreated kidney, but not
   in the kidney that was treated using blood pump 150. These results indicate that use
   of blood pump 150 has a favorable impact on glomerular and tubular renal function.
15         4. Use of blood pump 150 preserved and restored renal blood flow, urine
   output, and sodium excretion, even when venous pressure in the vena cava was
   elevated.
           5. Blood pump 150 was successfully operated in a closed-looped mode, under
   which pressure in the renal vein was kept constant for more than 3 hours.
20         6. No thrombi were observed on any part of the blood pump, or the catheter.
           7. No clinically significant haemolysis was observed over 3 hours of the pump
   being operated.
           It is noted that although some of the pumps and/or occlusion elements
   described herein are shown as being inserted into a given one of the subject's renal
25 veins, the scope of the present invention includes inserting the pumps and occlusion
   elements into either a left or right renal vein, or both renal veins of a subject.
   Furthermore the scope of the present invention includes inserting the pumps and
   occlusion elements into more than two renal veins of a subject who has more than two
   renal veins, as is the case with some people.
                                              113

           It is noted that although some of the pumps and/or occlusion elements
   described herein are shown as being inserted into subject's renal veins, the scope of
   the present invention includes inserting the pumps and occlusion elements into other
   blood vessels of a subject, mutatis mutandis. For example, inverted valve 40 (Figs.
 5 5A-D, and 6A-F) could be placed in a subject's hepatic vein, intestinal vein, or adrenal
   vein, in order to reduce venous pressure in the vein and/or reduce pressure in an organ
   from which the vein draws blood (e.g., to reduce liver congestion).
           Alternatively or additionally, blood pump 90 (Figs. 8A-B and 1OA-D) could
   be placed in a subject's hepatic vein, intestinal vein, or adrenal vein, in order to reduce
10 venous pressure in the vein and/or reduce pressure in an organ from which the vein
   draws blood (e.g., to reduce liver congestion). Or, blood pump 90 could be placed in
   a fluid-filled chamber inside the brain in order to reduce intracranial pressure by
   draining cerebrospinal fluid from the chamber. Alternatively or additionally, blood
   pump 90 could be used as a left ventricular assist device by being placed in the
15 subject's aorta and pumping blood away from the left ventricle. Further alternatively
   or additionally, blood pump 90 could be placed in the urethra, such as to hold open
   the subject's prostate, and to drain the subject's bladder.
           In general, sleeve 110 (Figs. 10A-C) may be used to isolate into a separate
   compartment from blood flow within a main vein, blood that is within a plurality of
20 tributary veins that supply the main vein, and pump 122 may then be used to control
   the flow of blood from the compartment to the main vein.
           For some applications, ostium-covering umbrella 140 (Figs. 1 1A-C) is used to
   cover an ostium at a junction between a subject's hepatic vein, intestinal vein, or
   adrenal vein and another vein, and blood pump catheter 42 is used to control the flow
25 of blood from the hepatic vein, intestinal vein, or adrenal vein to the other vein, in
   order to reduce venous pressure in the vein and/or reduce pressure in an organ from
   which the vein draws blood (e.g., to reduce liver congestion).
           For some applications, blood pump 150 (Figs. 12Ai-E) is placed in an artery
   that supplies a peripheral limb such as to enhance perfusion of the peripheral limb, for
30 example in order to treat a gangrenous limb.        Alternatively or additionally, a blood
   pump, such as blood pump 150 is placed in an artery, such as the descending aorta in
                                               114

   order to propel blood away from the heart, such as to reduce afterload, and/or
   otherwise improve cardiac function.
            In general, in the specification and in the claims of the present application, the
   term "proximal" and related terms, when used with reference to a device or a portion
 5 thereof, should be interpreted to mean an end of the device or the portion thereof that,
   when inserted into a subject's body, is typically closer to a location through which the
   device is inserted into the subject's body. The term "distal" and related terms, when
   used with reference to a device or a portion thereof, should be interpreted to mean an
   end of the device or the portion thereof that, when inserted into a subject's body, is
10 typically further from the location through which the device is inserted into the
   subject's body.
            In general, in the specification and in the claims of the present application, the
   term "downstream" and related terms, when used with reference to a blood vessel, or
   with reference to a portion of a device that is configured to be placed inside a blood
15 vessel, should be interpreted to mean a location within the blood vessel, or a portion
   of the device that is intended for placement at a location within the blood vessel, that
   is downstream, with respect to the direction of antegrade blood flow through the
   blood vessel, relative to a different location within the blood vessel.          The term
   "upstream" and related terms, when used with reference to a blood vessel, or with
20 reference to a portion of a device that is configured to be placed inside a blood vessel,
   should be interpreted to mean a location within the blood vessel, or a portion of the
   device that is intended for placement at a location within the blood vessel, that is
   upstream with respect to the direction of antegrade blood flow through the blood
   vessel, relative to a different location within the blood vessel.
25          There is therefore provided the following inventive concepts, in accordance
   with some applications of the present invention:
   Inventive concept 1. A method for use with a plurality of tributary veins that supply a
   main vein, comprising:
            mechanically isolating blood within the plurality of veins into a compartment
30 that is separated from blood flow within the main vein; and
                                                115

            controlling blood flow from the plurality of veins to the major vein by
   pumping blood from the compartment to the main vein.
   Inventive concept 2. The        method    according   to inventive    concept   1, further
   comprising performing ultrafiltration on the pumped blood.
 5 Inventive concept 3.      The method according to inventive concept 1,
            wherein isolating the plurality of veins comprises:
                    placing into the main vein a blood-impermeable sleeve and a helical
            support element disposed around the sleeve, and
                    coupling the sleeve to a wall of the main vein using the helical support
10          element; and
            wherein pumping blood from the compartment to the main vein comprises
   guiding a distal portion of a blood pump into the compartment using the helical
   support element and pumping the blood using the blood pump.
   Inventive concept 4.      The method according to inventive concept 1, wherein:
15          isolating the plurality of veins comprises:
                    placing into the main vein a blood-impermeable sleeve and a helical
            portion of a blood pump that is disposed around the sleeve and configured to
            support the sleeve, and
                    coupling the sleeve to a wall of the main vein; and
20          pumping blood from the compartment to the main vein comprises pumping
   blood into inlet holes of the blood pump that are defined by the helical portion of the
   blood pump.
   Inventive concept 5.      The method according to any one of inventive concepts 1-4,
   wherein:
25          isolating blood within the plurality of veins into a compartment that is
   separated from blood flow within the main vein comprises isolating blood in renal
   veins of the subject into a compartment that is separated from blood flow within a
   vena cava of the subject by placing a blood-impermeable sleeve in the subject's vena
   cava, such that a downstream end of the sleeve is coupled to a wall of the vena cava at
30 a first location that is downstream of all of the renal veins of the subject, and such that
                                                116

   an upstream end of the sleeve is coupled to the wall of the vena cava at a second
   location that is upstream of all the renal veins of the subject; and
           pumping blood from the compartment to the main vein comprises operating a
   pump to pump blood from the compartment to a location that is in fluid
 5 communication with an interior of the sleeve.
   Inventive concept 6.    The method according to inventive concept 5, wherein pumping
   blood from the compartment comprises drawing blood in a downstream direction
   through the renal veins.
   Inventive concept 7.    The method according to inventive concept 5, wherein placing
10 the sleeve in the vena cava comprises placing the sleeve in the vena cava for less than
   one week, and wherein operating the pump comprises operating the pump for less
   than one week.
   Inventive concept 8.    The   method     according    to  inventive  concept  5,  further
   comprising identifying the subject as a subject suffering from a condition selected
15 from the group consisting of: cardiac dysfunction, congestive heart failure, reduced
   renal blood flow, increased renal vascular resistance, arterial hypertension, and kidney
   dysfunction, and wherein operating the pump comprises, in response to identifying the
   subject as suffering from the condition, reducing blood pressure within the subject's
   renal veins by operating the pump.
20 Inventive concept 9.    The method according to inventive concept 5, wherein placing
   the sleeve in the subject's vena cava comprises anchoring the sleeve to the vena cava
   by causing the vena cava to constrict around at least a portion of the sleeve, by
   operating the pump.
   Inventive concept 10. The method        according    to inventive concept 5, wherein
25 operating the pump to pump blood from the compartment to the location that is in
   fluid communication with an interior of the sleeve comprises operating the pump to
   pump blood from the compartment to a site of the vena cava that is upstream of the
   sleeve.
   Inventive concept 11. The method        according    to inventive concept 5, wherein
30 operating the pump to pump blood from the compartment to the location that is in
   fluid communication with an interior of the sleeve comprises operating the pump to
                                               117

   pump blood from the compartment to a site of the vena cava that is downstream of the
   sleeve.
   Inventive concept 12. The method according to inventive concept 5, wherein placing
   the sleeve in the vena cava comprises placing into the vena cava:
 5         a stent shaped to define widened upstream and downstream ends thereof that
   are widened relative to a central portion of the stent, and
           a blood-impermeable sleeve coupled to the stent, the sleeve defining flared
   upstream and downstream ends thereof that are coupled, respectively, to the widened
   upstream and downstream ends of the stent; and
10         coupling the stent to the blood vessel such that:
                   in response to blood pressure on a first side of at least one of the flared
           ends of the sleeve being greater than blood pressure on a second side of the at
           least one flared end of the sleeve, blood flows between an outside of the at
           least one flared end of the sleeve and an inner wall of the blood vessel, and
15                 in response to blood pressure on the first side of the at least one flared
           end of the sleeve being less than blood pressure on the second side of the at
           least one flared end of the sleeve, the at least one flared end of the sleeve
           occludes blood flow between the outside of the at least one flared end of the
           sleeve and the inner wall of the blood vessel by contacting the inner wall of
20         the blood vessel.
   Inventive concept 13. The method according to inventive concept 5, wherein placing
   the sleeve in the vena cava comprises placing into the vena cava:
           a sleeve that is shaped to define flared ends thereof, and a narrow central
   portion between the flared ends, and
25         a stent shaped to define:
                   a sleeve-supporting frame that is shaped to define widened ends
           thereof, and a narrow central portion between the widened ends that is
           narrower than the widened ends of the stent, the sleeve being coupled to the
           sleeve-supporting frame of the stent; and
30                 a vessel-wall-supporting frame coupled to the narrow central portion of
           the sleeve-supporting frame and radially protruding from the sleeve-supporting
           frame.
                                               118

   Inventive concept 14. The method according to inventive concept 13,              wherein
   pumping blood from the compartment comprises pumping blood from a site between
   an outside of the sleeve and an inner wall of the vena cava.
   Inventive concept 15. The      method    according   to  inventive   concept  5,  further
 5 comprising inserting the pump into the compartment via an opening in the sleeve
   through which the pump is insertable.
   Inventive concept 16. The method according to inventive concept 15,              wherein
   inserting the pump through the opening comprises inserting the pump through an
   opening having a diameter that is between 2 mm and 10 mm.
10 Inventive concept 17. The method according to inventive concept 15,              wherein
   inserting the pump through the opening comprises inserting the pump through the
   opening such that the opening forms a seal around the pump.
   Inventive concept 18. The      method    according   to  inventive   concept  5,  further
   comprising inserting the pump into the compartment via a pump-accommodating
15 sleeve that protrudes from the sleeve.
   Inventive concept 19. The method according to inventive concept 18,              wherein
   inserting the pump into the compartment via the pump-accommodating sleeve
   comprises inserting the pump into the compartment via a pump-accommodating
   sleeve having a diameter that is between 2 mm and 10 mm.
20 Inventive concept 20. The method according to inventive concept 18,              wherein
   inserting the pump into the compartment via the pump-accommodating sleeve
   comprises inserting the pump into the compartment via the pump-accommodating
   sleeve such that the pump-accommodating sleeve forms a seal around the pump.
   Inventive concept 21. Apparatus, comprising:
25          a blood-impermeable sleeve;
            at least one support structure configured to couple first and second ends of the
   sleeve to a blood vessel of a subject; and
            a pump configured to pump blood from an exterior of the sleeve to a location
   that is in fluid communication with an interior of the sleeve.
                                               119

   Inventive concept 22. The apparatus according to inventive concept 21, wherein the
   pump is configured to perform ultrafiltration on the blood.
   Inventive concept 23. The apparatus according to inventive concept 21, wherein the
   pump is configured to anchor the structure to the blood vessel by causing the blood
 5 vessel to constrict around at least a portion of the structure.
   Inventive concept 24. The apparatus according to inventive concept 21,
           wherein the structure comprises a stent shaped to define widened ends thereof
   that are widened relative to a central portion of the stent, and
           wherein the sleeve comprises a sleeve that is coupled to the stent,
10                 the sleeve defining flared ends thereof that are coupled to the widened
           ends of the stent,
                   at least one of the flared ends of the sleeve being configured to act as a
           valve by at least partially separating from widened end of the stent to which it
           is coupled in response to pressure being applied to the flared end of the sleeve.
15 Inventive concept 25. The apparatus according to inventive concept 21, wherein:
           the support structure comprises a helical support element disposed around the
   sleeve, and
           a distal portion of the blood pump is configured to be guided such as to be
   disposed around the exterior of the sleeve using the helical support element.
20 Inventive concept 26. The apparatus according to inventive concept 21, wherein:
           the support structure comprises a helical portion of the blood pump that is
   disposed around the sleeve and configured to support the sleeve, and
           the pump is configured to pump blood from the exterior of the sleeve by
   pumping blood into inlet holes of the pump that are defined by the helical portion of
25 the blood pump.
   Inventive concept 27. The apparatus according to any one of inventive concepts 21
   24, wherein:
           the sleeve is shaped to define flared ends thereof, and a narrow central portion
   between the flared ends;
30         the structure comprises a stent shaped to define:
                                                120

                    a sleeve-supporting frame that is shaped to define widened ends
            thereof, and a narrow central portion between the widened ends that is
            narrower than the widened ends of the stent, the sleeve being coupled to the
            sleeve-supporting frame of the stent; and
 5                  a vessel-wall-supporting frame coupled to the narrow central portion of
            the sleeve-supporting frame and radially protruding from the sleeve-supporting
            frame.
   Inventive concept 28. The apparatus according to inventive concept 27, wherein the
   pump is configured to pump blood from a site between an outside of the sleeve and an
10 inner wall of the blood vessel by being placed between the outside of the sleeve and
   the vessel-wall-supporting frame.
   Inventive concept 29. The apparatus according to any one of inventive concepts 21
   26, wherein the structure is configured to isolate blood in a renal vein of the subject
   into a compartment that is separated from blood flow within a vena cava of the
15 subject, by coupling a downstream end of the sleeve to a wall of the vena cava at a
   first location that is downstream of all renal veins of the subject, and by coupling an
   upstream end of the sleeve to a wall of the vena cava at a second location that is
   upstream of all renal veins of the subject.
   Inventive concept 30. The apparatus according to inventive concept 29, wherein the
20 sleeve is configured to be coupled to the vena cava for less than one week, and
   wherein the pump is configured to operate for less than one week.
   Inventive concept 31. The apparatus according to inventive concept 29, wherein the
   pump is configured to reduce blood pressure within the subject's renal veins by
   pumping blood.
25 Inventive concept 32. The apparatus according to inventive concept 29, wherein the
   pump is configured to pump blood from the compartment to a site within the vena
   cava.
   Inventive concept 33. The apparatus according to inventive concept 32, wherein the
   pump is configured to pump blood from the compartment to a site of the vena cava
30 that is upstream of the sleeve.
                                               121

   Inventive concept 34. The apparatus according to inventive concept 32, wherein the
   pump is configured to pump blood from the compartment to a site of the vena cava
   that is downstream of the sleeve.
   Inventive concept 35. The apparatus according to any one of inventive concepts 21
 5 26, wherein the sleeve is shaped to define an opening through which the pump is
   insertable.
   Inventive concept 36. The apparatus according to inventive concept 35, wherein a
   diameter of the opening is between 2 mm and 10 mm.
   Inventive concept 37. The apparatus according to inventive concept 35, wherein the
10 opening is sized such as to form a seal around the pump.
   Inventive concept 38. The apparatus according to any one of inventive concepts 21
   26, further comprising a pump-accommodating sleeve protruding from the blood
   impermeable      sleeve,   the  pump    accommodating     sleeve   being    configured   to
   accommodate insertion of the pump therethrough to the exterior of the blood
15 impermeable sleeve.
   Inventive concept 39. The apparatus according to inventive concept 38, wherein an
   inner diameter of the pump-accommodating sleeve is between 2 mm and 10 mm.
   Inventive concept 40. The apparatus according to inventive concept 38, wherein the
   pump-accommodating sleeve is sized such as to form a seal around the pump.
20 Inventive concept 41. A method comprising:
            placing a stent inside a blood vessel at a placement location of the stent; and
            at least partially anchoring the stent to the blood vessel at the placement
   location by causing the blood vessel to constrict around at least a portion of the stent,
   by applying a suctioning force within the blood vessel.
25 Inventive concept 42. The method according to inventive concept 41, wherein the
   blood vessel includes a blood vessel having a given diameter at the placement
   location, and wherein placing the stent inside the blood vessel comprises placing
   inside the blood vessel a stent having a diameter that is less than the given diameter.
   Inventive concept 43. The method according to inventive concept 41, wherein causing
30 the blood vessel to constrict around at least the portion of the stent comprises reducing
                                               122

   an extent to which the stent is anchored to the blood vessel by virtue of oversizing of
   the stent, relative to if the blood vessel were not caused to constrict around at least the
   portion of the stent.
   Inventive concept 44. Apparatus comprising:
 5         a stent configured to be placed inside a blood vessel at a placement location of
   the stent;
           a pump configured to anchor the stent to the blood vessel at the placement
   location by causing the blood vessel to constrict around at least a portion of the stent,
   by applying a suctioning force within the blood vessel.
10 Inventive concept 45. The apparatus according to inventive concept 44, wherein the
   blood vessel includes a blood vessel having a given diameter at the placement
   location, and wherein the stent comprises a stent having a diameter that is less than
   the given diameter.
   Inventive concept 46. Apparatus comprising:
15         a stent configured to be placed inside a blood vessel, the stent being shaped to
   define widened ends thereof that are widened relative to a central portion of the stent;
   and
           a blood-impermeable sleeve coupled to the stent,
                    the sleeve defining flared ends thereof that are coupled to the widened
20         ends of the stent,
                    at least one of the flared ends of the sleeve being configured to act as a
           valve by at least partially separating from widened end of the stent to which it
           is coupled in response to pressure being applied to the flared end of the sleeve.
   Inventive concept 47. A method comprising:
25         placing into a blood vessel of a subject:
                    a stent shaped to define widened upstream and downstream ends
           thereof that are widened relative to a central portion of the stent, and
                    a blood-impermeable sleeve coupled to the stent, the sleeve defining
           flared upstream and downstream ends thereof that are coupled, respectively, to
30         the widened upstream and downstream ends of the stent; and
                                                 123

           coupling the stent to the blood vessel such that:
                   in response to blood pressure on a first side of at least one of the flared
           ends of the sleeve being greater than blood pressure on a second side of the at
           least one flared end of the sleeve, blood flows between an outside of the at
 5         least one flared end of the sleeve and an inner wall of the blood vessel, and
                   in response to blood pressure on the first side of the at least one flared
           end of the sleeve being less than blood pressure on the second side of the at
           least one flared end of the sleeve, the at least one flared end of the sleeve
           occludes blood flow between the outside of the at least one flared end of the
10         sleeve and the inner wall of the blood vessel by contacting the inner wall of
           the blood vessel.
   Inventive concept 48. Apparatus comprising:
           a blood-impermeable sleeve defining flared ends thereof, and a narrow central
   portion between the flared ends; and
15         a stent configured to be placed inside a blood vessel, the stent being shaped to
   define:
                   a sleeve-supporting frame that is shaped to define widened ends
           thereof, and a narrow central portion between the widened ends that is
           narrower than the widened ends of the stent, the sleeve being coupled to the
20         sleeve-supporting frame of the stent; and
                   a vessel-wall-supporting frame coupled to the narrow central portion of
           the sleeve-supporting frame and radially protruding from the sleeve-supporting
           frame.
   Inventive concept 49. The apparatus according to inventive concept 48, further
25 comprising a blood pump, the blood pump being configured to pump blood from
   between an outside of the sleeve and an inner wall of the blood vessel by being placed
   between the outside of the sleeve and the vessel-wall-supporting frame.
   Inventive concept 50. The apparatus according to inventive concept 48, wherein a
   diameter of the narrow central portion of the sleeve is between 8 mm and 35 mm.
30 Inventive concept 51. The apparatus according to inventive concept 48, wherein a
   maximum diameter of the flared ends of the sleeve is between 10 mm and 45 mm.
                                               124

   Inventive concept 52. The apparatus according to inventive concept 48, wherein a
   ratio of a maximum diameter of the flared ends of the sleeve, and a diameter of the
   narrow central portion of the sleeve is between 1.1:1 and 2:1.
   Inventive concept 53. The apparatus according to inventive concept 48, wherein a
 5 maximum diameter of the vessel-wall-supporting frame is between 10 mm and 50
   mm.
   Inventive concept 54. The apparatus according to any one of inventive concepts 48
   53, wherein a ratio of a maximum diameter of the wall-supporting frame to a diameter
   of the narrow central portion of the sleeve-supporting frame is between 1.1:1 and 5:1.
10 Inventive concept 55. The apparatus according to inventive concept 54, wherein the
   ratio is greater than 1.5:1.
   Inventive concept 56. The apparatus according to any one of inventive concepts 48
   53, wherein a length of the sleeve is greater than 6 mm.
   Inventive concept 57. The apparatus according to inventive concept 56, wherein the
15 length of the sleeve is less than 80 mm.
   Inventive concept 58. The apparatus according to inventive concept 56, wherein a
   length of each one of the flared ends of the sleeve is greater than 3 mm.
   Inventive concept 59. The apparatus according to inventive concept 58, wherein the
   length of each one of the flared ends of the sleeve is less than 40 mm.
20 Inventive concept 60. The apparatus according to inventive concept 56, wherein a
   length of the narrow central portion of the sleeve is greater than 3 mm.
   Inventive concept 61. The apparatus according to inventive concept 60, wherein the
   length of the narrow central portion of the sleeve is less than 70 mm.
   Inventive concept 62. A method comprising:
25          placing into a blood vessel of a subject:
                    a blood-impermeable sleeve defining flared ends thereof, and a narrow
            central portion between the flared ends, and
                    a stent shaped to define:
                                               125

                          a sleeve-supporting frame that is shaped to define widened ends
                  thereof, and a narrow central portion between the widened ends that is
                  narrower than the widened ends, the sleeve being coupled to the sleeve
                   supporting frame of the stent; and
 5                         a vessel-wall-supporting frame coupled to the narrow central
                  portion of the sleeve-supporting frame and radially protruding from the
                   sleeve-supporting frame; and
           coupling the stent to the blood vessel such that the vessel-wall-supporting
   frame of the stent holds open the blood vessel by supporting the wall of the blood
10 vessel, and the sleeve-supporting frame supports the sleeve within the blood vessel.
   Inventive concept 63. The method       according   to inventive concept 62, further
   comprising pumping blood from a site between an outside of the sleeve and an inner
   wall of the blood vessel by placing a pump between the outside of the sleeve and the
   vessel-wall-supporting frame.
15 Inventive concept 64. The method according to inventive concept 62, wherein placing
   the sleeve into the blood vessel comprises placing the sleeve into the blood vessel, a
   diameter of the narrow central portion of the sleeve being between 8 mm and 35 mm.
   Inventive concept 65. The method according to inventive concept 62, wherein placing
   the sleeve into the blood vessel comprises placing the sleeve into the blood vessel, a
20 maximum diameter of the flared ends of the sleeve being between 10 mm and 45 mm.
   Inventive concept 66. The method according to inventive concept 62, wherein placing
   the sleeve into the blood vessel comprises placing the sleeve into the blood vessel, a
   ratio of a maximum diameter of the flared ends of the sleeve, and a diameter of the
   narrow central portion of the sleeve being between 1.1:1 and 2:1.
25 Inventive concept 67. The method according to inventive concept 62, wherein placing
   the stent into the blood vessel comprises placing the stent into the blood vessel, a
   maximum diameter of the vessel-wall-supporting frame being between 10 mm and 50
   mm.
   Inventive concept 68. The method according to any one of inventive concepts 62-67,
30 wherein placing the stent into the blood vessel comprises placing the stent into the
   blood vessel, a ratio of a maximum diameter of the wall-supporting frame to a
                                              126

   diameter of the narrow central portion of the sleeve-supporting frame being between
   1.1:1 and 5:1.
   Inventive concept 69. The method according to inventive concept 68, wherein placing
   the stent into the blood vessel comprises placing the stent into the blood vessel, the
 5 ratio being greater than 1.5:1.
   Inventive concept 70. The method according to any one of inventive concepts 62-67,
   wherein placing the sleeve into the blood vessel comprises placing the sleeve into the
   blood vessel, a length of the sleeve being greater than 6 mm.
   Inventive concept 71. The method according to inventive concept 70, wherein placing
10 the sleeve into the blood vessel comprises placing the sleeve into the blood vessel, the
   length of the sleeve being less than 80 mm.
   Inventive concept 72. The method according to inventive concept 70, wherein placing
   the sleeve into the blood vessel comprises placing the sleeve into the blood vessel, a
   length of each one of the flared ends of the sleeve being greater than 3 mm.
15 Inventive concept 73. The method according to inventive concept 72, wherein placing
   the sleeve into the blood vessel comprises placing the sleeve into the blood vessel, the
   length of each one of the flared ends of the sleeve being less than 40 mm.
   Inventive concept 74. The method according to inventive concept 70, wherein placing
   the sleeve into the blood vessel comprises placing the sleeve into the blood vessel, a
20 length of the narrow central portion of the sleeve being greater than 3 mm.
   Inventive concept 75. The method according to inventive concept 74, wherein placing
   the sleeve into the blood vessel comprises placing the sleeve into the blood vessel, the
   length of the narrow central portion of the sleeve being less than 70 mm.
   Inventive concept 76. A method for operating a blood pump disposed inside a blood
25 vessel of a subject, the method comprising:
           placing an occlusion element in the blood vessel, the occlusion element having
   an occluding state thereof, in which the occlusion element occludes the blood vessel,
   and a non-occluding state thereof in which the occlusion element does not occlude the
   blood vessel;
                                              127

            drawing blood in a downstream direction from a site that is in fluid
   communication with an upstream side of the occlusion element;
            pumping blood into a site of the subject's vasculature that is in fluid
   communication with a downstream side of the occlusion element,
 5          the pumping of the blood into the subject's vasculature being performed in a
   manner that maintains the occlusion element in an occluding state thereof, in which
   state the occlusion element occludes the blood vessel.
   Inventive concept 77. The method      according    to inventive concept 76,       further
   comprising performing ultrafiltration on the blood prior to pumping the blood into the
10 site of the subject's vasculature.
   Inventive concept 78. The method according to inventive concept 76, wherein placing
   the occlusion element in the blood vessel comprises placing the occlusion element in
   the blood vessel for less than one week, and wherein pumping the blood comprises
   pumping the blood into the vasculature for less than one week.
15 Inventive concept 79. The method according to inventive concept 76, wherein placing
   the occlusion element in the blood vessel comprises placing the occlusion element in
   the blood vessel for more than one week, and wherein pumping the blood comprises
   pumping the blood into the vasculature for less than one week.
   Inventive concept 80. The method      according    to inventive concept 76,       further
20 comprising identifying the subject as a subject suffering from a condition selected
   from the group consisting of: cardiac dysfunction, congestive heart failure, reduced
   renal blood flow, increased renal vascular resistance, arterial hypertension, and kidney
   dysfunction, wherein the blood vessel includes a renal vein of the subject, and
   wherein drawing blood in the downstream direction from the site that is in fluid
25 communication with the upstream side of the occlusion element comprises, in
   response to identifying the subject as suffering from the condition, reducing blood
   pressure within the subject's renal vein by drawing the blood in the downstream
   direction.
   Inventive concept 81. The method according to any one of inventive concepts 76-80,
30 wherein pumping the blood into the subject's vasculature in the manner that maintains
   the occlusion element in the occluding state thereof comprises pumping the blood into
                                             128

   the subject's vasculature such that hydrodynamic pressure of the blood that is pumped
   into the subject's vasculature maintains the occlusion element in the occluding state
   thereof.
   Inventive concept 82. The method according to inventive concept 81, wherein placing
 5 the occlusion element in the blood vessel comprises placing within the blood vessel a
   valve having valve leaflets, and wherein pumping the blood into the subject's
   vasculature such that hydrodynamic pressure of the blood that is pumped into the
   subject's vasculature maintains the occlusion element in the occluding state thereof
   comprises pumping the blood into the subject's vasculature such that the blood that is
10 pumped into the subject's vasculature directly impacts downstream sides of the valve
   leaflets.
   Inventive concept 83. The method according to inventive concept 82, wherein placing
   the valve within the blood vessel comprises placing the valve within the blood vessel
   such that:
15          in response to blood pressure on an upstream side of the valve leaflets
   exceeding pressure on the downstream side of the valve leaflets, blood flows in an
   antegrade direction between cusps of the valve leaflets and an inner wall of the blood
   vessel, and
            in response to blood pressure on the downstream side of the valve leaflets
20 exceeding pressure on the upstream side of the valve leaflets, the valve occludes
   retrograde blood flow by the cusps of the valve leaflets contacting the inner wall of
   the blood vessel.
   Inventive concept 84. The method according to inventive concept 82, wherein
   pumping the blood into the subject's vasculature such that the blood that is pumped
25 into the subject's vasculature directly impacts downstream sides of the valve leaflets
   comprises reducing blood clots at the valve leaflets, by flushing the valve leaflets.
   Inventive concept 85. The method       according   to inventive concept 82, further
   comprising pumping an anticoagulation agent into the subject's vasculature together
   with the blood that is pumped into the subject's vasculature, such that the
30 anticoagulation agent directly impacts the valve leaflets.
                                             129

   Inventive concept 86. The method according to inventive concept 82, wherein placing
   the valve in the blood vessel comprises maintaining portions of the valve leaflets in
   contact with a wall of the blood vessel by inflating a balloon.
   Inventive concept 87. The method according to inventive concept 82, wherein placing
 5 the valve in the blood vessel comprises maintaining portions of the valve leaflets in
   contact with a wall of the blood vessel by expanding portions of a slit tube radially
   outwardly.
   Inventive concept 88. The method according to inventive concept 82, wherein
   pumping the blood such that the blood directly impacts the downstream sides of the
10 valve leaflets comprises pumping the blood into the subject's vasculature via holes
   that are shaped to direct the blood toward the downstream sides of the valve leaflets.
   Inventive concept 89. The method according to inventive concept 82, wherein
   pumping the blood such that the blood directly impacts the downstream sides of the
   valve leaflets comprises pumping the blood into the subject's vasculature via a pump
15 catheter that is shaped to define a radial protrusion therefrom that is concavely curved
   toward a distal end of the catheter, the radial protrusion being configured to direct
   blood that is pumped into the vasculature toward the valve leaflets.
   Inventive concept 90. The method according to inventive concept 82, wherein
   pumping the blood such that the blood directly impacts the downstream sides of the
20 valve leaflets comprises pumping the blood into the subject's vasculature via holes
   that are disposed adjacent to bases of the valve leaflets.
   Inventive concept 91. The method according to inventive concept 90, wherein
   pumping the blood such that the blood directly impacts the downstream sides of the
   valve leaflets comprises pumping the blood into the subject's vasculature via holes
25 that are disposed adjacent to a location along lengths of the valve leaflets that is below
   midway between cusps of the leaflets and bases of the leaflets.
   Inventive concept 92. Apparatus for use with a blood vessel of a subject, the
   apparatus comprising:
           an occlusion element configured to be placed in a the blood vessel, the
30 occlusion element having an occluding state thereof, in which the occlusion element
                                               130

   occludes the blood vessel, and a non-occluding state thereof in which the occlusion
   element does not occlude the blood vessel;
           a blood pump configured to:
                  draw blood in a downstream direction from a site that is in fluid
 5         communication with an upstream side of the occlusion element, and
                  pump blood into the subject's vasculature at a site that is in fluid
           communication with a downstream side of the occlusion element, the pump
           being configured to perform the pumping of the blood into the blood vessel in
           a manner that maintains the occlusion element in the occluding state thereof.
10 Inventive concept 93. The apparatus according to inventive concept 92, wherein the
   blood pump is configured to perform ultrafiltration of the blood prior to pumping the
   blood into the subject's vasculature.
   Inventive concept 94. The apparatus according to inventive concept 92, wherein the
   occlusion element is configured to be placed in the blood vessel for less than one
15 week, and the pump is configured to pump blood into the vasculature for less than one
   week.
   Inventive concept 95. The apparatus according to inventive concept 92, wherein the
   occlusion element is configured to be placed in the blood vessel for more than one
   week, and the pump is configured to pump blood into the vasculature for less than one
20 week.
   Inventive concept 96. The apparatus according to any one of inventive concepts 92
   95, wherein the pump is configured to perform the pumping of the blood into the
   subject's vasculature in the manner that maintains the occlusion element in the
   occluding state thereof, by pumping the blood into the subject's vasculature such that
25 hydrodynamic pressure of the blood that is pumped into the subject's vasculature
   maintains the occlusion element in the occluding state thereof.
   Inventive concept 97. The apparatus according to inventive concept 96, wherein the
   occlusion element comprises a valve having valve leaflets, and wherein the pump is
   configured to pump the blood into the           subject's vasculature  such that the
30 hydrodynamic pressure of the blood maintains the occlusion element in the occluding
   state thereof by pumping the blood into the subject's vasculature such that the blood
                                             131

   that is pumped into the subject's vasculature directly impacts downstream sides of the
   valve leaflets.
   Inventive concept 98. The apparatus according to inventive concept 97, wherein the
   valve is configured such that:
 5          in response to blood pressure on an upstream side of the valve leaflets
   exceeding pressure on the downstream side of the valve leaflets, blood flows in an
   antegrade direction between cusps of the valve leaflets and an inner wall of the blood
   vessel, and
            in response to blood pressure on the downstream side of the valve leaflets
10 exceeding pressure on the upstream side of the valve leaflets, the valve closes by the
   cusps of the valve leaflets contacting the inner wall of the blood vessel.
   Inventive concept 99. The apparatus according to inventive concept 97, wherein the
   pump, by pumping the blood into the subject's vasculature such that the blood that is
   pumped into the subject's vasculature directly impacts downstream sides of the valve
15 leaflets, is configured to reduce blood clots at the valve leaflets by flushing the valve
   leaflets.
   Inventive concept 100.          The apparatus     according to inventive concept 97,
   wherein the apparatus is for use with an anticoagulation agent, and wherein the pump
   is configured to pump the anticoagulation agent into the subject's vasculature together
20 with the blood that is pumped into the subject's vasculature, such that the
   anticoagulation agent directly impacts the valve leaflets.
   Inventive concept 101.          The apparatus     according to inventive concept 97,
   further comprising a balloon configured to maintain portions of the valve leaflets in
   contact with a wall of the blood vessel by being inflated.
25 Inventive concept 102.          The apparatus     according to inventive concept 97,
   further comprising a slit tube configured to be inserted into the blood vessel and to
   maintain portions of the valve leaflets in contact with a wall of the blood vessel by
   portions of the slit tube between the slits being expanded radially outwardly.
   Inventive concept 103.          The apparatus     according to inventive concept 97,
30 wherein the blood pump is configured to be coupled to the valve, wherein the blood
   pump comprises outlet holes via which the blood is pumped into the subject's
                                                132

   vasculature, and wherein the outlet holes are shaped such that when the blood pump is
   coupled to the valve, the outlet holes direct the blood toward the downstream sides of
   the valve leaflets.
   Inventive concept 104.         The apparatus     according to inventive concept 97,
 5 wherein the blood pump is configured to be coupled to the valve, wherein the blood
   pump comprises a blood pump catheter that defines a radial protrusion therefrom that
   is concavely curved toward a distal end of the catheter, the radial protrusion being
   configured such that, when the blood pump is coupled to the valve, the radial
   protrusion directs blood that is pumped into the vasculature toward the valve leaflets.
10 Inventive concept 105.         The apparatus     according to inventive concept 97,
   wherein the blood pump is configured to be coupled to the valve, wherein the blood
   pump comprises outlet holes via which the blood is pumped into the subject's
   vasculature, and wherein the outlet holes are disposed on the blood pump such that,
   when the blood pump is coupled to the valve, the holes are disposed adjacent to bases
15 of the valve leaflets.
   Inventive concept 106.         The apparatus according to inventive concept 105,
   wherein the outlet holes are disposed on the blood pump such that, when the blood
   pump is coupled to the valve, the outlet holes are disposed adjacent to a location along
   lengths of the valve leaflets that is below midway between cusps of the leaflets and
20 bases of the leaflets.
   Inventive concept 107.         Apparatus for use with a blood vessel of a subject, the
   apparatus comprising:
           a blood pump configured to draw blood in a downstream direction through the
   blood vessel into the pump; and
25         a valve comprising rigid portions thereof, the rigid portions being configured
   to couple the valve to the blood vessel, the valve being configured to be coupled to a
   distal portion of the blood pump and to prevent blood from flowing past the valve in a
   retrograde direction.
   Inventive concept 108.         The apparatus according to inventive concept 107,
30 wherein the valve further comprises flexible valve leaflets that are coupled to the rigid
   portions of the valve.
                                              133

   Inventive concept 109.          A method comprising:
           providing a prosthetic valve that defines valve leaflets; and
           placing the valve in a blood vessel such that:
                    in response to blood pressure on the upstream side of the valve leaflets
 5         exceeding pressure on the downstream side of the valve leaflets, blood flows
           in an antegrade direction between cusps of the valve leaflets and an inner wall
           of the blood vessel, and
                    in response to blood pressure on the downstream side of the valve
           leaflets exceeding pressure on the upstream side of the valve leaflets, the valve
10         closes by the cusps of the valve leaflets contacting the inner wall of the blood
           vessel.
   Inventive concept 110.          Apparatus comprising:
           a prosthetic valve that comprises flexible valve leaflets and a rigid valve
   frame, the valve leaflets being coupled to the valve frame such that:
15         in response to pressure on a first side of the valve leaflets exceeding pressure
   on a second side of the valve leaflets, the leaflets open by cusps of the valve leaflets
   separating from the rigid frame, and
           in response to blood pressure on the second side of the valve leaflets
   exceeding pressure on the first side of the valve leaflets, the valve closes by the cusps
20 of the leaflets contacting the rigid frame.
   Inventive concept 111.          Apparatus comprising:
           a blood pump, comprising:
                    a tube;
                    first and second unidirectional     valves disposed, respectively, at
25         proximal and distal ends of the tube;
                     a membrane coupled to the inside of the tube such as to partition the
           tube into a first compartment that is in fluid communication with the valves,
           and a second compartment that is not in fluid communication with the valves;
           and
                                               134

                   a pumping mechanism configured to pump fluid through the tube by
           increasing and subsequently decreasing the size of the first compartment by
           moving the membrane with respect to the tube.
   Inventive concept 112.          The apparatus according to inventive concept 111,
 5 wherein the tube comprises a stent, and material disposed on the stent.
   Inventive concept 113.          The apparatus according to inventive concept 111,
   wherein the occlusion element is configured to be placed in a blood vessel for less
   than one week.
   Inventive concept 114.          The apparatus according to inventive concept 111,
10 wherein one of the valves is configured to prevent backflow of blood from the tube
   into the blood vessel and a second one of the valves is configured to prevent backflow
   of blood from the blood vessel into the tube.
   Inventive concept 115.          The apparatus according to any one of inventive
   concepts 111-114, wherein the blood pump is configured to be placed in a renal vein
15 of a subject and to pump blood in a downstream direction from the renal vein to a
   vena cava of the subject.
   Inventive concept 116.          The apparatus according to inventive concept 115,
   wherein the blood pump is configured to occlude backflow of blood from the vena
   cava to the renal vein.
20 Inventive concept 117.          A method, comprising:
           coupling a tube to an inner wall of a blood vessel of a subject,
                   first and second unidirectional valves being disposed, respectively, at
           proximal and distal ends of the tube, and
                    a membrane being coupled to the inside of the tube, such as to
25         partition the tube into a first compartment that is in fluid communication with
           the valves, and a second compartment that is not in fluid communication with
           the valves; and
           operating a pumping mechanism to pump blood through the tube by increasing
   and subsequently decreasing the size of the first compartment, by moving the
30 membrane with respect to the tube.
                                              135

   Inventive concept 118.          The method      according   to inventive concept     117,
   wherein the tube includes a stent and material disposed on the stent, and wherein
   coupling the tube to the inner wall of the blood vessel comprises coupling the stent
   and the material to the inner wall of the blood vessel.
 5 Inventive concept 119.          The method      according   to inventive concept     117,
   wherein coupling the tube to the inner wall of the blood vessel comprises coupling the
   tube to the inner wall of the blood vessel for less than one week.
   Inventive concept 120.          The method      according   to inventive concept     117,
   wherein operating the pumping mechanism comprises operating the pumping
10 mechanism such that one of the valves prevents backflow of blood from the tube into
   the blood vessel and a second one of the valves prevents backflow of blood from the
   blood vessel into the tube.
   Inventive concept 121.          The method according to any one of inventive concepts
   117-120, wherein coupling the tube to the inner wall of the blood vessel comprises
15 coupling the tube to an inner wall of a renal vein of a subject, and wherein operating
   the pumping mechanism comprises pumping blood in a downstream direction from
   the renal vein to a vena cava of the subject.
   Inventive concept 122.          The method      according   to inventive concept     121,
   wherein coupling the tube to the inner wall of the renal vein comprises occluding
20 backflow of blood from the vena cava to the renal vein.
   Inventive concept 123.          The method according to inventive concept 121, further
   comprising identifying the subject as a subject suffering from a condition selected
   from the group consisting of: cardiac dysfunction, congestive heart failure, reduced
   renal blood flow, increased renal vascular resistance, arterial hypertension, and kidney
25 dysfunction, wherein operating the pump comprises, in response to identifying the
   subject as suffering from the condition, reducing blood pressure within the subject's
   renal vein by operating the pump to pump blood in the downstream direction from the
   renal vein to the vena cava.
   Inventive concept 124.          A method comprising:
                                               136

            operating a blood pump to pump blood in a downstream direction through a
   first vein, the first vein being a tributary of a second vein and forming a junction with
   the second vein; and
            preventing backflow of blood from the second vein to the first vein by
 5 covering an ostium at the junction with an ostium-covering umbrella disposed in the
   second vein.
   Inventive concept 125.           The method       according  to inventive concept    124,
   wherein operating the blood pump comprises performing ultrafiltration on the pumped
   blood.
10 Inventive concept 126.           The method       according  to inventive concept    124,
   wherein the ostium-covering umbrella includes an ostium-covering umbrella having a
   diameter of more than 6 mm when in an open configuration, and wherein covering the
   ostium with the umbrella comprises covering the ostium with the umbrella having a
   diameter of more than 6 mm.
15 Inventive concept 127.           The method       according  to inventive concept    124,
   wherein operating the blood pump comprises causing the ostium-covering umbrella to
   become sealed against a wall of the second vein surrounding the ostium.
   Inventive concept 128.           The method according to any one of inventive concepts
   124-127, wherein the first vein includes a renal vein of the subject, and the second
20 vein includes a vena cava of the subject, and wherein pumping blood in the
   downstream direction comprises pumping blood in a downstream direction from the
   renal vein toward the vena cava.
   Inventive concept 129.           The method       according  to inventive concept    128,
   wherein preventing backflow of blood from the second vein to the first vein comprises
25 preventing backflow of blood from the vena cava to the renal vein.
   Inventive concept 130.           The method according to inventive concept 128, further
   comprising identifying the subject as a subject suffering from a condition selected
   from the group consisting of: cardiac dysfunction, congestive heart failure, reduced
   renal blood flow, increased renal vascular resistance, arterial hypertension, and kidney
30 dysfunction, wherein operating the pump comprises, in response to identifying the
   subject as suffering from the condition, reducing blood pressure within the subject's
                                                137

   renal vein by operating the pump to pump blood in the downstream direction from the
   renal vein to the vena cava.
   Inventive concept 131.         Apparatus for use with a first vein of a subject, the first
   vein being a tributary of a second vein and forming a junction with the second vein,
 5 the apparatus comprising:
           a catheter configured to be placed in the first vein, a distal end of the catheter
   being configured to pump blood in a downstream direction through the first vein and
   into the catheter; and
           an ostium-covering umbrella disposed around the outside of the catheter and
10 configured to be placed within the second vein at the junction such that the umbrella
   prevents backflow of blood from the second vein to the first vein by the ostium
   occluding umbrella covering an ostium at the junction from a location within the
   second vein.
   Inventive concept 132.         The apparatus according to inventive concept 131,
15 wherein the catheter, by pumping the blood is configured to cause the ostium
   covering umbrella to become sealed against a wall of the second vein surrounding the
   ostium.
   Inventive concept 133.         The apparatus according to inventive concept 131,
   wherein the ostium-covering umbrella has a diameter of more than 6 mm, when in an
20 open configuration.
   Inventive concept 134.         The apparatus according to any one of inventive
   concepts 131-133, wherein the first vein includes a renal vein of the subject, and the
   second vein includes a vena cava of the subject, and wherein the catheter is
   configured to pump blood by pumping blood in a downstream direction from the renal
25 vein.
   Inventive concept 135.         The apparatus according to inventive concept 134,
   wherein the ostium-covering umbrella is configured to prevent backflow of blood
   from the vena cava to the renal vein by the ostium-occluding umbrella covering an
   ostium at a junction of the renal vein and the vena cava, from a location within the
30 vena cava.
                                             138

   Inventive concept 136.          Apparatus comprising:
           a catheter;
           a pumping mechanism configured to suction fluid into a distal end of the
   catheter; and
 5         an ostium-covering umbrella disposed around the outside of the catheter, the
   umbrella having a diameter of at least 6 mm when in an open configuration thereof.
   Inventive concept 137.          The apparatus according to inventive concept 136,
   wherein the diameter of the ostium-covering umbrella is between 10 mm and 20 mm.
   Inventive concept 138.          The apparatus according to inventive concept 136,
10 wherein the diameter of the ostium-covering umbrella is between 15 mm and 25 mm.
   Inventive concept 139.          A method for measuring flow in a blood vessel
   comprising:
           occluding the blood vessel with an occlusion element;
           pumping blood from an upstream side of the occlusion element to a
15 downstream side of the occlusion element;
           measuring blood pressure on the upstream and downstream sides of the
   occlusion element;
           modulating the pumping such that pressure on the downstream side of the
   occlusion element is equal to pressure on the upstream side of the occlusion element;
20         measuring a flow rate of blood through the pump when the pressure on the
   downstream side of the occlusion element is equal to pressure on the upstream side of
   the occlusion element;
           designating the measured flow rate as a baseline flow rate; and
           subsequently, measuring a flow rate of blood through the pump relative to the
25 baseline flow rate.
   Inventive concept 140.          The method according to inventive concept 139, further
   comprising, in response to designating the baseline flow rate, designating a baseline
   measure of vascular resistance of the subject, and subsequently, measuring vascular
   resistance of the subject relative to the baseline vascular resistance.
30         It will be appreciated by persons skilled in the art that the present invention is
   not limited to what has been particularly shown and described hereinabove. Rather,
                                                139

  the scope of the present invention includes both combinations and subcombinations of
  the various features described hereinabove, as well as variations and modifications
  thereof that are not in the prior art, which would occur to persons skilled in the art
  upon reading the foregoing description.
5
                                             140

                                                  141
CLAIMS
1.    Apparatus comprising:
        an impeller, comprising:
        an impeller frame that comprises proximal and distal end portions and a plurality of
helical elongate elements that wind from the proximal end portion to the distal end portion, the
helical elongate elements defining proximal and distal ends thereof; and
        a material that is coupled to the helical elongate elements, such that the helical elongate
elements with the material coupled thereto define at least one blade of the impeller,
        the helical elongate elements defining the outer edges of the at least one blade of the
impeller and being configured to support the material between the proximal and distal ends of
the helical elongate elements, and
        the impeller not comprising any additional supporting member for supporting the
material between the proximal and distal ends of the helical elongate elements.
2.     The apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the impeller comprises a biocompatible
impeller that is configured to be inserted into a blood vessel of a subject.
3.     The apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the plurality of elongate elements comprise a
plurality of helical strips.
4.     The apparatus according to claim 1, wherein at least one of the helical elongate elements
has a variable pitch, the pitch of the at least one of the elongate elements varying along a length
of the helical elongate element.
5.     The apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the impeller is configured to be placed inside
a blood vessel of a subject and to pump blood through the blood vessel by rotating with respect
to the blood vessel, the apparatus further comprising a radially expandable cage configured to be
disposed between the impeller and an inner wall of the blood vessel and to separate the blood
vessel wall from the impeller.
6.     The apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the proximal and distal end portions
comprises proximal and distal rings.

                                                  142
7.    The apparatus according to claim 1, wherein at least one of the proximal and distal end
portions defines a notch in an edge thereof, the notch being configured to facilitate coupling of
the material to the helical elongate elements.
8.    The apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the impeller further comprises sutures tied
around the helical elongate elements, the sutures being configured to facilitate coupling of the
material to the helical elongate elements.
9.    The apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the plurality of helical elongate elements
comprises three helical elongate elements that wind from the proximal end portion to the distal
end portion.
10.   The apparatus according to any one of claims 1-9, wherein, when the impeller is in a non
constrained configuration thereof, a length of each of the helical elongate elements, measured
along a longitudinal axis of the impeller, is greater than 5 mm.
11.   The apparatus according to claim 10, wherein, when the impeller is in the non-constrained
configuration thereof, the length of each of the helical elongate elements, measured along the
longitudinal axis of the impeller, is less than 14 mm.
12.   The apparatus according to any one of claims 1-9, wherein, when the impeller is in a non
constrained configuration thereof, a span of the impeller in a direction perpendicular to a
longitudinal axis of the impeller is greater than 8 mm.
13.   The apparatus according to claim 12, wherein the span of the impeller is greater than 10
mm.
14.   The apparatus according to claim 13, wherein the span of the impeller is less than 15 mm.
15.   The apparatus according to claim 12, wherein the span of the impeller is less than 15 mm.
16.   The apparatus according to claim 15, wherein the span of the impeller is less than 12 mm.

                                                 143
17.    The apparatus according to any one of claims 1-8, wherein the plurality of helical elongate
elements comprises two helical elongate elements that wind from the proximal end portion to the
distal end portion.
18.    The apparatus according to claim 17, wherein radii of each of the two helical elongate
elements are within 20 percent of one another.
19.    The apparatus according to claim 17, wherein radii of each of the two helical elongate
elements are similar to one another.
20.    The apparatus according to claim 17, wherein pitches of each of the two helical elongate
elements are within 20 percent of one another.
21.    The apparatus according to claim 17, wherein pitches of each of the two helical elongate
elements are similar to one another.
22.    The apparatus according to claim 17, wherein longitudinal axes of each of the two helical
elongate elements are parallel to each other and parallel to a longitudinal axis of the impeller.
23.    The apparatus according to claim 17, wherein the material comprises a continuous film of
material that is supported by the helical elongate elements.
24.    The apparatus according to any one of claims 1-9, wherein each of the helical elongate
elements defines more than one eighth of a winding of a helix.
25.    The apparatus according to claim 24, wherein each of the helical elongate elements defines
less than half a winding of a helix.
26.    The apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the impeller is configured such that rotational
motion is imparted from the proximal end portion of the impeller to the distal end portion of the
impeller substantially solely via the helical elongate elements of the impeller.
27.    The apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the impeller, by not comprising any additional
supporting member for supporting the material between the proximal and distal ends of the
helical elongate elements, is configured to be radially compressible to a smaller diameter than if

                                                 144
the impeller were to comprise an additional supporting member for supporting the material
between the proximal and distal ends of the helical elongate elements.
28.    The apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the impeller, by not comprising any additional
supporting member for supporting the material between the proximal and distal ends of the
helical elongate elements, is configured to be more flexible than if the impeller were to comprise
an additional supporting member for supporting the material between the proximal and distal
ends of the helical elongate elements.
29.    The apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the impeller, by not comprising any additional
supporting member for supporting the material between the proximal and distal ends of the
helical elongate elements, is configured such that a force that is required to axially elongate the
impeller by a given amount is less than would be required if the impeller were to comprise an
additional supporting member for supporting the material between the proximal and distal ends
of the helical elongate elements.
30.   A method, comprising:
        manufacturing an impeller by:
        cutting a tube such that the cut tube defines a structure having first and second end
portions at proximal and distal ends of the structure, the end portions being connected to one
another by a plurality of elongate elements;
        causing the elongate elements to radially expand and form helical elongate elements, by
axially compressing the structure, the helical elongate elements defining proximal and distal ends
thereof; and
        coupling a material to the helical elongate elements, such that:
        the helical elongate elements with the material coupled thereto define at least one blade
of the impeller,
        the helical elongate elements define the outer edges of the at least one blade of the
impeller, and
        between the proximal and distal ends of the helical elongate elements, the material is
supported by the helical elongate elements, in an absence of any additional supporting member
between the proximal and distal ends of the helical elongate elements for supporting the material.

                                                 145
31.     The method according to claim 30, wherein cutting the tube comprises laser cutting the
tube.
32.     The method according to claim 30, wherein manufacturing the impeller comprises
manufacturing a biocompatible impeller that is configured to be inserted into a blood vessel of a
subject.
33.     The method according to claim 30, wherein cutting the tube comprises cutting the tube
such that the cut tube defines a structure having first and second end portions at proximal and
distal ends of the structure, the end portions being connected to one another by a plurality of
strips.
34.     The method according to claim 30, wherein causing the elongate elements to radially
expand and form helical elongate elements comprises causing at least one of the helical elongate
elements to have a variable pitch, the pitch of the at least one of the elongate elements varying
along a length of the helical elongate element.
35.     The method according to claim 30, wherein cutting the tube such that the cut tube defines a
structure having first and second end portions at proximal and distal ends of the structure
comprises cutting the tube such that the cut tube defines a structure having first and second rings
at proximal and distal ends of the structure.
36.     The method according to claim 30, wherein cutting the tube further comprises forming a
notch in an edge of at least one of the end portions, the notch being configured to facilitate
coupling of the material to the helical elongate elements.
37.     The method according to claim 30, further comprising tying sutures around the helical
elongate elements, the sutures being configured to facilitate coupling of the material to the
helical elongate elements.
38.     The method according to claim 30, wherein cutting the tube comprises cutting the tube
such that the cut tube defines a structure having first and second end portions at proximal and
distal ends of the structure, the end portions being connected to one another by three elongate
elements, and wherein causing the elongate elements to radially expand and form helical

                                                   146
elongate elements comprises causing the elongate elements to form three helical elongate
elements.
39.    The method according to any one of claims 30-38, wherein cutting the tube comprises
cutting the tube such that, in an absence of axial compression being applied to the structure, the
structure has a length, measured along a longitudinal axis of the structure, of greater than 15 mm.
40.    The method according to claim 39, wherein cutting the tube comprises cutting the tube
such that, in the absence of axial compression being applied to the structure, the length of the
structure, measured along the longitudinal axis of the structure, is less than 25 mm.
41.    The method according to any one of claims 30-38, wherein cutting the tube comprises
cutting the tube such that, in an absence of axial compression being applied to the structure, each
of the elongate elements has a length, measured along a longitudinal axis of the structure, of
greater than 14 mm.
42.    The method according to claim 41, wherein cutting the tube comprises cutting the tube
such that, in the absence of axial compression being applied to the structure, the length of each of
the elongate elements, measured along the longitudinal axis of the structure, is less than 22 mm.
43.    The method according to any one of claims 30-38, wherein axially compressing the
structure comprises axially compressing the structure such that the structure defines a length,
measured along a longitudinal axis of the structure, of greater than 8 mm.
44.    The method according to claim 43, wherein axially compressing the structure comprises
axially compressing the structure such that the length, measured along the longitudinal axis of
the structure, is less than 18 mm.
45.    The method according to any one of claims 30-38, wherein axially compressing the
structure comprises axially compressing the structure such that each of the elongate elements
defines a length, measured along a longitudinal axis of the structure, of greater than 5 mm.
46.    The method according to claim 45, wherein axially compressing the structure comprises
axially compressing the structure such that the length of each of the elongate elements, measured
along the longitudinal axis of the structure, is less than 14 mm.

                                                  147
47.    The method according to any one of claims 30-38, wherein axially compressing the
structure comprises axially compressing the structure such that a span of the structure in a
direction perpendicular to a longitudinal axis of the structure is greater than 8 mm.
48.    The method according to claim 47, wherein axially compressing the structure comprises
axially compressing the structure such that the span of the structure is greater than 10 mm.
49.    The apparatus according to claim 48, wherein axially compressing the structure comprises
axially compressing the structure such that the span of the structure is less than 15 mm.
50.    The apparatus according to claim 47, wherein axially compressing the structure comprises
axially compressing the structure such that the span of the structure is less than 15 mm.
51.    The apparatus according to claim 50, wherein axially compressing the structure comprises
axially compressing the structure such that the span of the structure is less than 12 mm.
52.    The method according to any one of claims 30-37, wherein coupling the material to the
helical elongate elements comprises dipping at least a portion of the structure into the material,
while the material is in a liquid state thereof, and drying the material, while the material is being
supported by the helical elongate elements.
53.    The method according to claim 52, wherein drying the material comprises curing the
material.
54.    The method according to claim 52, wherein cutting the tube comprises cutting the tube
such that the cut tube defines a structure having first and second end portions at proximal and
distal ends of the structure, the end portions being connected to one another by two elongate
elements, and wherein causing the elongate elements to radially expand and form helical
elongate elements comprises causing the elongate elements to form two helical elongate
elements.
55.    The method according to claim 54, wherein drying the liquid material while the material is
being supported by the helical elongate elements comprises causing the material to form a
continuous film between the helical elongate elements, the continuous film being supported by
the helical elongate elements.

                                                 148
56.    The method according to any one of claims 30-37, wherein cutting the tube comprises
cutting the tube such that the cut tube defines a structure having first and second end portions at
proximal and distal ends of the structure, the end portions being connected to one another by two
elongate elements, and wherein causing the elongate elements to radially expand and form
helical elongate elements comprises causing the elongate elements to form two helical elongate
elements.
57.    The method according to claim 56, wherein causing the elongate elements to form the two
helical elongate elements comprises causing the elongate elements to form two helical elongate
elements both of which originate at the first end portion, and terminate at the second end portion,
radii of the helical elongate elements being similar to one another.
58.    The method according to claim 56, wherein causing the elongate elements to form the two
helical elongate elements comprises causing the elongate elements to form two helical elongate
elements both of which originate at the first end portion, and terminate at the second end portion,
radii of the helical elongate elements being within 20 percent of one another.
59.    The method according to claim 56, wherein causing the elongate elements to form the two
helical elongate elements comprises causing the elongate elements to form two helical elongate
elements both of which originate at the first end portion, and terminate at the second end portion,
pitches of the helical elongate elements being similar to one another.
60.    The method according to claim 56, wherein causing the elongate elements to form the two
helical elongate elements comprises causing the elongate elements to form two helical elongate
elements both of which originate at the first end portion, and terminate at the second end portion,
pitches of the helical elongate elements being within 20 percent of one another.
61.    The method according to claim 56, wherein causing the elongate elements to form the two
helical elongate elements comprises causing the elongate elements to form two helical elongate
elements, longitudinal axes of both of the helical elongate elements being parallel to each other
and parallel to a longitudinal axis of the impeller.
62.    The method according to claim 56, wherein causing the elongate elements to form the two
helical elongate elements comprises causing the elongate elements to form two helical elongate

                                                 149
elements, each of the helical elongate elements defining more than one eighth of a winding of a
helix.
63.    The method according to claim 62, wherein causing the elongate elements to form the two
helical elongate elements comprises causing the elongate elements to form two helical elongate
elements, each of the helical elongate elements defining less than half a winding of a helix.
64.    The method according to any one of claims 30-38, wherein cutting the tube comprises
cutting the tube such that the cut tube defines a structure having first and second rings at
proximal and distal ends of the structure, and such that first and second ends of each of the
elongate elements are disposed at an angle from one another with respect to circumferences of
the rings, the angle being greater than 50 degrees.
65.    The method according to claim 64, wherein cutting the tube comprises cutting the tube
such that the first and second ends of each of the elongate elements are disposed at an angle from
one another with respect to circumferences of the rings, the angle being greater than 70 degrees.
66.    The method according to claim 65, wherein cutting the tube comprises cutting the tube
such that the first and second ends of each of the elongate elements are disposed at an angle from
one another with respect to circumferences of the rings, the angle being greater than 90 degrees.
67.    The method according to any one of claims 30-38, wherein cutting the tube comprises
cutting the tube such that the cut tube defines a structure having first and second rings at
proximal and distal ends of the structure, and such that first and second ends of each of the
elongate elements are disposed at an angle from one another with respect to circumferences of
the rings, the angle being less than 180 degrees.
68.    The method according to claim 67, wherein cutting the tube comprises cutting the tube
such that the first and second ends of each of the elongate elements are disposed at an angle from
one another with respect to circumferences of the rings, the angle being less than 150 degrees.
69.    The method according to claim 68, wherein cutting the tube comprises cutting the tube
such that the first and second ends of each of the elongate elements are disposed at an angle from
one another with respect to circumferences of the rings, the angle being less than 110 degrees.

                                                 150
70.    The method according to claim 37, wherein coupling the material to the helical elongate
elements in the absence of any additional supporting member between the proximal and distal
ends of the helical elongate elements for supporting the material comprises configuring the
impeller such that rotational motion is imparted from the proximal end portion to the distal end
portion substantially solely via the helical elongate elements of the impeller.
71.    The method according to claim 37, wherein coupling the material to the helical elongate
elements in the absence of any additional supporting member between the proximal and distal
ends of the helical elongate elements for supporting the material comprises configuring the
impeller to be radially compressible to a smaller diameter than if the impeller were to comprise
an additional supporting member for supporting the material between the proximal and distal
ends of the helical elongate elements.
72.    The method according to claim 37, wherein coupling the material to the helical elongate
elements in the absence of any additional supporting member between the proximal and distal
ends of the helical elongate elements for supporting the material comprises configuring the
impeller to be more flexible than if the impeller were to comprise an additional supporting
member for supporting the material between the proximal and distal ends of the helical elongate
elements.
73.    The method according to claim 37, wherein coupling the material to the helical elongate
elements in the absence of any additional supporting member between the proximal and distal
ends of the helical elongate elements for supporting the material comprises configuring the
impeller such that a force that is required to axially elongate the impeller by a given amount is
less than would be required if the impeller were to comprise an additional supporting member for
supporting the material between the proximal and distal ends of the helical elongate elements.
                                       Magenta Medical Ltd.
                     Patent Attorneys for the Applicant/Nominated Person
                                    SPRUSON & FERGUSON

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
