Abstract
   A stabilizing agent for treating chromium contaminated soil and an
application thereof, the stabilizing agent comprises a crystal-volume expanding
agent, a precipitating agent, a flocculating agent and a pH regulator, wherein
the crystal-volume expanding agent is one of cement or clay materials or a
combination thereof; the precipitating agent is one of sulfide, polysulfide, sulfite
or pyrosulfite or a combination thereof, said agents can remarkably reduce the
leaching concentration of chromium in the soil without damaging the property
of the soil.

      Stabilizing Agent for Treating Chromium Contaminated Soil and
                               Application thereof
Technical Field
   The present disclosure relates to the field of remediation of contaminated
soil, and in particular to a stabilizing agent for treating hexavalent
chromium-contaminated soil, waste residue and sludge in order to stabilize
hexavalent chromium therein so as to reduce the migration and toxicity of
hexavalent chromium.
Background Art
   Among environmental chemical pollutants, hexavalent chromium is one of
the most common pollutants that can endanger and cause serious health
effects for nearby residents. Especially with the development of modern
industrial production, the contamination of the environment by hexavalent
chromium has become more and more serious. The two sources of hexavalent
chromium contamination are: (1) improper stacking of chromium-containing
waste residues; (2) unreasonable discharge of wastewater and sludge from
tanning and electroplating companies, etc.
   Hexavalent chromium pollutants have strong migration and high toxicity,
strong oxidative properties, are highly corrosive, and have a strong corrosion
effect on human skin leading to skin burns and ulcers. Long term exposure
may lead to diseases such as sarcoma, squamous cell carcinoma, and
adenocarcinoma; corneal damage may be caused after eyes come into
contact with hexavalent chromium; and hexavalent chromium can enter the
body through the digestive tract, respiratory tract or skin, where it is potentially
carcinogenic. Hexavalent chromium in contaminated soil can come into
contact with and enter a human body along with dust, a soil solution or the like,
thus hexavalent chromium-contaminated soil causes very serious harm to
human health and environment. Practitioners of environmental protection in
China and abroad attach great importance to the treatment of hexavalent
chromium-contaminated          soil.      The    treatment       of     hexavalent
chromium-contaminated soil is also one of the hot research topics within the
environmental science research community in China and abroad.
   Current technologies for remediating hexavalent chromium-contaminated
soil include soil flushing method, soil washing method, in situ chemical
reduction method, microbial remediation method, stabilization and
solidification remediation method, etc. In the prior remediation projects of
hexavalent chromium-contaminated soil that have been completed in China,
the mostly widely used technology has been stabilization and solidification
technology.      Agents    for      stabilizing and      solidifying    hexavalent
chromium-contaminated soil that are commercially available are relatively

expensive, and can cause great damage to the soil structure after the soil is
treated, primarily by having a large "volume enlargement ratio" of higher than
1:1.
Technical Problems
   In the prior art, the stabilizing and solidification agents for treating
hexavalent chromium-contaminated soil have been relatively expensive, and
have done great damage to the soil structure after the soil is treated due to
having a large "volume enlargement ratio" of higher than 1:1.
Technical Solutions
   In order to solve the above technical problems, reduce the remediation cost,
reduce the damage to the soil structure caused by the agent, and reduce the
"volume enlargement ratio" of the treated soil, the present disclosure provides
an agent having low cost and stable stabilizing and solidification effects,
allowing the treated soil to have a small "volume enlargement ratio". In addition,
the agent has been successfully applied to a project for remediation of
chromium contaminated soil within China.
   A stabilizing agent for treating chromium contaminated soil provided by the
present disclosure comprises: a crystal-volume expanding agent, a
precipitating agent, a flocculating agent, and a pH regulator;
   Wherein the crystal-volume expanding agent is one of cement and a clay
material, or a combination thereof; and the precipitating agent is one of sulfide,
polysulfide, sulfite and pyrosulfite, or a combination thereof.
   Preferably, the mass ratio between the crystal-volume expanding agent, the
flocculating agent and the precipitating agent is 0.1 -3: 0.1 -3: 0.1-1.
   Preferably, the flocculating agent is one of a water-soluble aluminum salt
and sodium tetraborate, or a combination thereof; and the clay material is one
of bentonite, kaolin, attapulgite or sepiolite, or a combination thereof.
   Further, the flocculating agent is one of aluminum potassium sulfate,
aluminum chloride, polyaluminium chlorideor sodium tetraborate, or a
combination thereof; and the precipitating agent is one of sodium sulfide,
sodium polysulfide, calcium sulfide, calcium polysulfide, sodium sulfite or
sodium pyrosulfite, or a combination thereof.
   More preferably, the flocculating agent is a mixture of aluminum potassium
sulfate and sodium tetraborate in a weight ratio of 1:0.8-1; and the precipitating
agent is a mixture of sodium sulfide and sodium sulfite in a weight ratio of 1:
0.5-1.
   The pH regulator displays basicity and may be sodium hydroxide, calcium
hydroxide, calcium oxide, or so forth.
                                           2

    Preferably, the crystal-volume expanding agent is a mixture of cement and
bentonite in a weight ratio of 1:1.
   The present disclosure provides a method for treating chromium
contaminated soil with the stabilizing agent described above, comprising steps
of:
    (1) adding the crystal-volume expanding agent and the flocculating agent to
the chromium contaminated soil and stirring the mixture;
    (2) preparing an aqueous solution with the precipitating agent and the pH
regulator, adding the aqueous solution to the mixture obtained in step (1) so
that the pH regulator adjusts a pH value to 6- 9, and stirring and maintaining
the mixture.
    Preferably, in the aqueous solution of step (2), the mass percent
concentration of the precipitating agent is 1%-10%, and the mass percent
concentration of the pH regulator is 0.1%-10%.
    Preferably, the maintaining of the soil treatment is carried out for 1-10 days.
Beneficial Effects
   The present disclosure can achieve the following technical effects:
   The stabilizing agent for treating chromium contaminated soil provided by
the present disclosure has low cost, good stabilizing and solidifying effects
(having a stabilization rate of 90% or more), allows chromium contaminated
soil treated therewith to have a "volume enlargement ratio" of not more than
1:1, and will not damage the structure of the soil.
Detailed Description of Embodiments
   The present disclosure will be further described below with reference to
specific embodiments so that those skilled in the art can better understand and
implement the present disclosure, but the given embodiments are not intended
to limit the present disclosure.
   Soil samples were taken from a chromium-contaminated site in Hubei
Province of China, the soil was subjected to a leaching treatment using the
Solid Waste Leaching Toxicity and Leaching Method-Sulfuric Acid & Nitric Acid
Method (HJ/T200-2007), and hexavalent chromium was leached from the soil
at a concentration of 133.35 mg/L.
    Example 1:
   The soil to be tested was passed through a 1 cm-sieve, bentonite of 1 wt%
of the soil, aluminum potassium sulfate of 0.5 wt% of the mass of the soil, and
sodium tetraborate of 0.5 wt% of the soil were added to the soil and stirred
                                          3

uniformly. An aqueous solution of sodium sulfide and sodium hydroxide equal
to 40% of the soil in mass was then applied, wherein in the aqueous solution of
sodium sulfide and sodium hydroxide, the amount of sodium sulfide added was
1% of the mass of the soil, and the amount of sodium hydroxide added was
0.5% of the mass of the soil (to adjust the pH of the chromium contaminated
soil to 8), the soil was maintained for 6 days, and the leaching concentration of
hexavalent chromium in the soil after treatment was detected to be 11.30 mg/L,
and the hexavalent chromium in the soil was stabilized by the agent at a rate of
91.52%. The treated soil had a "volume enlargement ratio" of 1.03.
   Example 2
   The soil to be tested was passed through a 1 cm-sieve, bentonite of 1 wt%
of the soil, aluminum potassium sulfate of 0.5 wt% of the soil, and sodium
tetraborate of 0.5 wt% of the soil were added to the soil and stirred uniformly.
An aqueous solution of sodium sulfide and sodium hydroxide equal to 40% of
the soil in mass was applied, wherein in the aqueous solution of sodium sulfide
and sodium hydroxide, the amount of sodium sulfide added was 1% of the
mass of the soil, and the amount of sodium hydroxide added was 0.3% of the
mass of the soil (to adjust the pH of the chromium contaminated soil 7). The
soil was maintained for 6 days, and the leaching concentration of hexavalent
chromium in the soil after treatment was detected to be 7.27 mg/L, and the
hexavalent chromium in the soil was stabilized by the agent at a rate of 94.55%.
The treated soil had a "volume enlargement ratio" of 1.03.
   Example 3
   The soil to be tested was passed through a 1 cm-sieve, bentonite of 1 wt%
of the soil, aluminum potassium sulfate of 0.5 wt% of the soil, and sodium
tetraborate of 0.5 wt% of the soil were added to the soil and stirred uniformly.
An aqueous solution of sodium sulfide and sodium hydroxide equal to 40% of
the soil in mass was then applied, wherein the aqueous solution of sodium
sulfide and sodium hydroxide, the amount of sodium sulfide added was 1% of
the mass of the soil, and the amount of sodium hydroxide added was 0.1% of
the mass of the soil (to adjust the pH of the chromium contaminated soil to 7),
the soil was maintained for 6 days, and the leaching concentration of
hexavalent chromium in the soil after treatment was detected to be 5.39 mg/L,
and the hexavalent chromium in the soil was stabilized by the agent at a rate of
95.96%. The treated soil had a "volume enlargement ratio" of 1.03.
   Example 4
   The soil to be tested was passed through a 1 cm-sieve, cement of 1 wt% of
the soil, aluminum potassium sulfate of 0.5 wt% of the soil, and sodium
tetraborate of 0.5 wt% of the soil were added to the soil and stirred uniformly.
An aqueous solution of sodium sulfide and sodium hydroxide equal to 40% of
the soil in mass was applied, wherein in the aqueous solution of sodium sulfide
                                          4

and sodium hydroxide, the amount of sodium sulfide added was 1% of the
mass of the soil, and the amount of sodium hydroxide added was 0.1% of the
mass of the soil (to adjust the pH of the chromium contaminated soil to 7), the
soil was maintained for 6 days, and the leaching concentration of hexavalent
chromium in the soil after treatment was detected to be 6.72 mg/L, and the
hexavalent chromium in the soil was stabilized by the agent at a rate of 94.96%.
The treated soil had a "volume enlargement ratio" of 1.08.
   Example 5
   The soil to be tested was passed through a 1 cm-sieve, cement of 0.5 wt%
of the soil and bentonite of 0.5 wt% of the soil, aluminum potassium sulfate of
0.5 wt% of the soil, and sodium tetraborate of 0.5 wt% of the soil were added to
the soil and stirred uniformly, An aqueous solution of sodium sulfide and
sodium hydroxide equal to 40% of the soil in mass was then applied, wherein
in the aqueous solution of sodium sulfide and sodium hydroxide, the amount of
sodium sulfide added was 1% of the mass of the soil, and the amount of
sodium hydroxide added was 0.3% of the mass of the soil (to adjust the pH of
the chromium contaminated soil to 7), the soil was maintained for 6 days, and
the leaching concentration of hexavalent chromium in the soil after treatment
was detected to be 4.84 mg/L, and the hexavalent chromium in the soil was
stabilized by the agent at a rate of 96.37%. The treated soil had a "volume
enlargement ratio" of 1.08.
   Example 6
   The soil to be tested was passed through a 1 cm-sieve, cement of 0.05 wt%
of the soil and bentonite of 0.05 wt% of the soil, aluminum potassium sulfate of
0.05 wt% of the soil, and sodium tetraborate of 0.05 wt% of the soil were
added to the soil and stirred uniformly. An aqueous solution of sodium sulfide
and sodium hydroxide equal to 40% of the soil in mass was applied, wherein in
the aqueous solution of sodium sulfide and sodium hydroxide, the amount of
sodium sulfide added was 1% of the mass of the soil, and the amount of
sodium hydroxide added was 0.3% of the mass of the soil (to adjust the pH of
the chromium contaminated soil to 7), the soil was maintained for 6 days, and
the leaching concentration of hexavalent chromium in the soil after treatment
was detected to be 8.26 mg/L, and the hexavalent chromium in the soil was
stabilized by the agent at a rate of 93.8%. The treated soil had a "volume
enlargement ratio" of 1.01.
   Example 7
   The soil to be tested was passed through a 1 cm-sieve, cement of 0.15 wt%
of the soil and bentonite of 0.15 wt% of the soil, aluminum potassium sulfate of
0.15 wt% of the soil, and sodium tetraborate of 0.15 wt% of the soil were
added to the soil and stirred uniformly. An aqueous solution of sodium sulfide
and sodium hydroxide equal to 40% of the soil in mass was applied, wherein in
                                        5

the aqueous solution of sodium sulfide and sodium hydroxide, the amount of
sodium sulfide added was 1% of the mass of the soil, and the amount of
sodium hydroxide added was 0.3% of the mass of the soil (to adjust the pH of
the chromium contaminated soil to 7), the soil was maintained for 6 days, and
the leaching concentration of hexavalent chromium in the soil after treatment
was detected to be 4.85 mg/L, and the hexavalent chromium in the soil was
stabilized by the agent at a rate of 96.4%. The treated soil had a "volume
enlargement ratio" of 1.03.
   Example 8
   The soil to be tested was passed through a 1 cm-sieve, cement of 0.15 wt%
of the soil and bentonite of 0.15 wt% of the soil, aluminum potassium sulfate of
0.15 wt% of the soil, and sodium tetraborate of 0.15 wt% of the soil were
added to the soil and stirred uniformly. An aqueous solution of sodium sulfide
and sodium hydroxide equal to 40% of the soil in mass was then applied,
wherein in the aqueous solution of sodium sulfide and sodium hydroxide, the
amount of sodium sulfide added was 0.1% of the mass of the soil, and the
amount of sodium hydroxide added was 0.3% of the mass of the soil (to adjust
the pH of the chromium contaminated soil to 7), the soil was maintained for 6
days, and the leaching concentration of hexavalent chromium in the soil after
treatment was detected to be 8.95 mg/L, and the hexavalent chromium in the
soil was stabilized by the agent at a rate of 93.3%. The treated soil had a
"volume enlargement ratio" of 1.03.
   Example 9
   The soil to be tested was passed through a 1 cm-sieve, cement of 0.5 wt%
of the soil and bentonite of 0.5 wt% of the soil, aluminum potassium sulfate of
0.5 wt% of the soil, and sodium tetraborate of 0.4 wt% of the soil were added to
the soil and stirred uniformly. An aqueous solution of sodium sulfide and
sodium hydroxide equal to 40% of the soil in mass was then applied, wherein
in the aqueous solution of sodium sulfide and sodium hydroxide, the amount of
sodium sulfide added was 1% of the mass of the soil, and the amount of
sodium hydroxide added was 0.3% of the mass of the soil (to adjust the pH of
the chromium contaminated soil to 7), the soil was maintained for 6 days, and
the leaching concentration of hexavalent chromium in the soil after treatment
was detected to be 6.02 mg/L, and the hexavalent chromium in the soil was
stabilized by the agent at a rate of 95.5%. The treated soil had a "volume
enlargement ratio" of 1.05.
   Example 10
   The soil to be tested was passed through a 1 cm-sieve, cement of 0.5 wt%
of the soil, bentonite of 0.5 wt% of the soil, and aluminum potassium sulfate of
1 wt% of the soil were added to the soil and stirred uniformly. An aqueous
solution of sodium sulfide and sodium hydroxide equal to 40% of the soil in
                                         6

mass was then applied, wherein in the aqueous solution of sodium sulfide and
sodium hydroxide, the amount of sodium sulfide added was 1% of the mass of
the soil, and the amount of sodium hydroxide added was 0.3% of the mass of
the soil (to adjust the pH of the chromium contaminated soil to 7), the soil was
maintained for 6 days, and the leaching concentration of hexavalent chromium
in the soil after treatment was detected to be 8.43 mg/L, and the hexavalent
chromium in the soil was stabilized by the agent at a rate of 93.7%. The treated
soil had a "volume enlargement ratio" of 1.08.
   Example 11
   The soil to be tested was passed through a 1 cm-sieve, cement of 0.5 wt%
of the mass of the soil, bentonite of 0.5 wt% of the mass of the soil, and
sodium tetraborate of 1 wt% of the mass of the soil were added to the soil and
stirred uniformly.An aqueous solution of sodium sulfide and sodium hydroxide
equal to 40% of the soil in mass was then applied, wherein in the aqueous
solution of sodium sulfide and sodium hydroxide, the amount of sodium sulfide
added was 1% of the mass of the soil, and the amount of sodium hydroxide
added was 0.3% of the mass of the soil (to adjust the pH of the chromium
contaminated soil to 7), the soil was maintained for 6 days, and the leaching
concentration of hexavalent chromium in the soil after treatment was detected
to be 8.67 mg/L, and the hexavalent chromium in the soil was stabilized by the
agent at a rate of 93.5%. The treated soil had a "volume enlargement ratio" of
1.08.
   Example 12
   The soil to be tested was passed through a 1 cm-sieve, cement of 0.5 wt%
of the mass of the soil and kaolin of 0.5 wt% of the mass of the soil, aluminum
chloride of 0.5 wt% of the mass of the soil, and aluminum sulfate of 0.5 wt% of
the mass of the soil were added to the soil and stirred uniformly. An aqueous
solution of sodium sulfite and sodium hydroxide equal to 40% of the soil in
mass was then applied, wherein in the aqueous solution of sodium sulfite and
sodium hydroxide, the amount of sodium sulfite added was 1% of the mass of
the soil, and the amount of sodium hydroxide added was 0.3% of the mass of
the soil (to adjust the pH of the chromium contaminated soil to 7), the soil was
maintained for 7 days, and the leaching concentration of hexavalent chromium
in the soil after treatment was detected to be 7.42 mg/L, and the hexavalent
chromium in the soil was stabilized by the agent at a rate of 94.43%. The
treated soil had a "volume enlargement ratio" of 1.05.
   Example 13
   The soil to be tested was passed through a 1 cm-sieve, cement of 0.5 wt%
of the mass of the soil and bentonite of 0.5 wt% of the mass of the soil,
aluminum potassium sulfate of 0.5 wt% of the mass of the soil, and sodium
tetraborate of 0.5 wt% of the mass of the soil were added to the soil and stirred
                                         7

uniformly. An aqueous solution of sodium sulfide, sodium sulfite and sodium
hydroxide equal to 40% of the soil in mass was applied, wherein in the
aqueous solution of sodium sulfide, sodium sulfite and sodium hydroxide, the
amount of sodium sulfide added was 0.5% of the mass of the soil, the amount
of sodium sulfite added was 0.5% of the mass of the soil, and the amount of
sodium hydroxide added was 0.3% of the mass of the soil (to adjust the pH of
the chromium contaminated soil to 7), the soil was maintained for 7 days, and
the leaching concentration of hexavalent chromium in the soil after treatment
was detected to be 3.56 mg/L, and the hexavalent chromium in the soil was
stabilized by the agent at a rate of 97.33%. The treated soil had a "volume
enlargement ratio" of 1.02.
   Example 14
   The soil to be tested was passed through a 1 cm-sieve, cement of 0.5 wt%
of the mass of the soil and bentonite of 0.5 wt% of the mass of the soil,
aluminum potassium sulfate of 0.5 wt% of the mass of the soil, and sodium
tetraborate of 0.5% of the mass of the soil were added to the soil and stirred
uniformly. An aqueous solution of sodium sulfide, sodium sulfite and sodium
hydroxide equal to 40% of the soil in mass was then applied, wherein in the
aqueous solution of sodium sulfide, sodium sulfite and sodium hydroxide, the
amount of sodium sulfide added was 0.6% of the mass of the soil, the amount
of sodium sulfite added was 0.3% of the mass of the soil, and the amount of
sodium hydroxide added was 0.3% of the mass of the soil (to adjust the pH of
the chromium contaminated soil to 7), the soil was maintained for 7 days, and
the leaching concentration of hexavalent chromium in the soil after treatment
was detected to be 3.87 mg/L, and the hexavalent chromium in the soil was
stabilized by the agent at a rate of 97.0%. The treated soil had a "volume
enlargement ratio" of 1.02.
   Example 15
   The soil to be tested was passed through a 1 cm-sieve, kaolin of 0.5 wt% of
the soil and attapulgite of 0.5 wt% of the soil, polyaluminium chloride of 0.5
wt% of the soil, and aluminum sulfate of 0.5 wt% of the soil were added to the
soil and stirred uniformly. An aqueous solution of sodium disulfide sodium
pyrosulfite and sodium hydroxide equal to 40% of the soil in mass was applied,
wherein in the aqueous solution of Na2 S, sodium pyrosulfite and sodium
hydroxide, the amount of sodium sulfide added was 0.5% of the mass of the
soil, the amount of sodium pyrosulfite added was 0.5% of the mass of the soil,
and the amount of sodium hydroxide added was 0.3% of the mass of the soil
(to adjust the pH of the chromium contaminated soil to 7), the soil was
maintained for 7 days, and the leaching concentration of hexavalent chromium
in the soil after treatment was detected to be 7.83 mg/L, and the hexavalent
chromium in the soil was stabilized by the agent at a rate of 94.13%. The
treated soil had a "volume enlargement ratio" of 1.04.
                                        8

  The embodiments described above are only the currently preferred
embodiments given for full explanation of the present disclosure, and the
scope of protection of the present disclosure is not limited to the
aforementioned embodiments. Equivalent substitutions or changes made by
those skilled in the art based on the present disclosure are all included within
the scope of protection of the present disclosure. The scope of protection of
the present disclosure is defined by these claims.
                                        9

Claims:
1. A stabilizing agent for treating chromium contaminated soil, characterized
    by comprising: a crystal-volume expanding agent, a precipitating agent, a
    flocculating agent, and a pH regulator;
          wherein the crystal-volume expanding agent is one of cement and a
    clay material, or a combination thereof; and the precipitating agent is one
    of sulfide, polysulfide, sulfite and pyrosulfite, or a combination thereof.
2.  The stabilizing agent according to claim 1, characterized in a mass ratio
    between the crystal-volume expanding agent, the flocculating agent and
    the precipitating agent is 0.1 -3: 0.1-3: 0.1-1.
3.  The stabilizing agent according to claim 1, characterized in that the
    flocculating agent is either a water-soluble aluminum salt, sodium
    tetraborate, or a combination thereof; and the clay material is one of
    bentonite, kaolin, attapulgite, sepiolite, or a combination thereof.
4.  The stabilizing agent according to claim 1, characterized in that the
    flocculating agent is one of aluminum potassium sulfate, aluminum
    chloride, polyaluminium chloride, sodium tetraborate, or a combination
    thereof; and the precipitating agent is one of sodium sulfide, sodium
    polysulfide, calcium sulfide, calcium polysulfide, sodium sulfite, sodium
    pyrosulfite, or a combination thereof.
5.  The stabilizing agent according to claim 4, characterized in that the
    flocculating agent is a mixture of aluminum potassium sulfate and sodium
    tetraborate in a weight ratio of 1: 0.8-1; and the precipitating agent is a
    mixture of sodium sulfide and sodium sulfite in a weight ratio of 1: 0.5-1.
6.  The stabilizing agent according to claim 1, characterized in that the pH
    regulator displays basicity.
7.  The stabilizing agent according to claim 1, characterized in that the
    crystal-volume expanding agent is a mixture of cement and bentonite in a
    weight ratio of 1:1.
8.  A method for treating chromium contaminated soil with the stabilizing
    agent according to any one of claims 1 to 7, characterized by comprising
    steps of:
          (1) adding the crystal-volume expanding agent and the flocculating
    agent to the chromium contaminated soil and stirring;
          (2) preparing an aqueous solution with the precipitating agent and
    the pH regulator, adding the aqueous solution to mixture obtained in step
    (1) so that the pH regulator adjusts a pH value to 6-9, and stirring the
    mixture and maintaining.
                                          10

9.  The method according to claim 8, characterized in that in the aqueous
    solution of step (2), a mass percent concentration of the precipitating
    agent is 1%-10%, and a mass percent concentration of the pH regulator is
    0.1%-10%.
10. The method according to claim 8, characterized in that the maintaining is
    carried out for between 1 and 10 days.
                                      11

