ABSTRACT
A method of collecting information related to a lockout event occurring on an industrial
vehicle comprising: defining at least one lock out condition associated with an industrial
vehicle that is distinct from normal operator authorization operations where the lockout
condition is a select one of an error that occurs during performing a checklist, or where the
lockout condition is an operator action that reserves the industrial vehicle by locking the
industrial vehicle for a predetermined amount of time; detecting an occurrence of the lockout
condition by a processor executing on the industrial vehicle; locking out the industrial vehicle
so that the industrial vehicle cannot be driven from its locked location; wirelessly
communicating to the server application, an indication that the lockout condition occurred on
the industrial vehicle, and location based data associated with the locked out industrial
vehicle; and displaying on a display screen of the industrial vehicle, an indication as to why
the lockout condition occurred.

                INFORMATION SYSTEM FOR INDUSTRIAL VEHICLES
                                   RELATED APPLICATION
This application is a divisional application of Australian patent application number
<removed-apn>, itself a divisional of Australian patent application number 2015202906, which
in turn is a divisional application of Australian patent application number 2010232704. The
disclosures of each application is incorporated herein by reference.
                                              FIELD
The invention relates to a method of collecting information related to a lockout event
occurring on an industrial vehicle.
                                        BACKGROUND
In order to move items about the operator' s facility, workers often utilize industrial vehicles,
including for example, forklift trucks, hand and motor driven pallet trucks, and/or other
materials handling vehicles. However, disruptions in the operation of such industrial vehicles
impact the ability of the management system and corresponding wireless strategy to obtain
peak operating efficiency. Moreover, conventional enterprise software, including the above
described customized software applications, do not account for, track, communicate with or
otherwise provide insight into the availability, health, status or suitability of the industrial
vehicles to perform the required work.          Still further, conventional enterprise software,
including corresponding management systems do not provide tools to manage access to, and
operation of, the available industrial vehicles within the facility in an efficient and integrated
manner.
                              SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
According to an aspect of the present invention, there is provided a method of collecting
information related to a lockout event occurring on an industrial vehicle comprising: defining
at least one lock out condition associated with an industrial vehicle that is distinct from
normal operator authorization operations where the lockout condition is a select one of an
error that occurs during performing a checklist, or where the lockout condition is an operator
action that reserves the industrial vehicle by locking the industrial vehicle for a predetermined
amount of time; detecting an occurrence of the lockout condition by a processor executing on
the industrial vehicle; locking out the industrial vehicle so that the industrial vehicle cannot be
                                                  1
                                                                           9988015_1 (GHMatters) P88218.AU.3 2110212018

driven from its locked location; wirelessly communicating to the server application, an
indication that the lockout condition occurred on the industrial vehicle, and location based
data associated with the locked out industrial vehicle; and displaying on a display screen of
the industrial vehicle, an indication as to why the lockout condition occurred.
In an embodiment, communicating location based data to the server comprises providing at
least one of: identification of the closest access point, global positioning system (GPS) data,
data from an RFID tag, and data computed from triangulation of multiple access points.
In an embodiment, communicating location based data to the server comprises providing
identification of the closest access point.
In an embodiment, the method according further comprises: receiving a command to unlock
the industrial vehicle; wirelessly transmitting to the server application, information that
designates the identity of a person who unlocked the industrial vehicle; and storing the
identity of the person who unlocked the industrial vehicle in a database associated with the
server application.
In an embodiment, the method according further comprises sounding an alarm in response to
locking out the industrial vehicle, wherein the alarm comprises initiating an audible alarm
sound that is different from a horn of the locked out industrial vehicle.
In an embodiment, the method according further comprises initiating an alarm in response to
locking out the industrial vehicle, wherein the alarm comprises initiating a visual alarm that is
different from one or more operating lights of the locked out industrial vehicle.
In an embodiment, the method according further comprises performing, in response to
locking out the industrial vehicle, an action of unlocking the industrial vehicle by sending an
unlock command from the server to the industrial vehicle.
In an embodiment, the method according further comprises, upon detecting that the override
has been initiated, communicating across the vehicle network bus to perform at least one of
reducing functionality of at least one vehicle process, and enabling only a limited number of
vehicle capabilities less than the full vehicle capability.
                                                  2
                                                                          9988015_1 (GHMatters) P88218.AU.3 21/02/2018

In an embodiment, the method according further comprises providing an override such that
when entered, temporarily enables the industrial vehicle for a limited amount of time.
In an embodiment, the method according further comprises, upon detecting that the override
has been initiated, communicating across the vehicle network bus to perform at least one of
reducing functionality of at least one vehicle process, and enabling only a limited number of
vehicle capabilities less than the full vehicle capability.
                           BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF DRAWINGS
The following detailed description of various embodiments of the present invention can be
best understood when read in conjunction with the following drawings, where like structure is
indicated with like reference numerals, and in which:
Fig. 1 is a schematic illustration of a wireless communication system that allows mobile
devices, such as forklift trucks and other industrial vehicles to wirelessly communicate with a
server;
Fig. 2 is an illustration of an information linking device capable of wirelessly communicating
data between an industrial vehicle and a corresponding server;
Fig. 3 is a block diagram of an information linking device and corresponding vehicle features
according to various aspects and embodiments of the present invention;
Fig. 4 illustrates an exemplary graphical user interface screen that may be provided in an
industrial vehicle application server software application, for managing input/output pin
settings of an information linking device installed on an industrial vehicle according to
various aspects and embodiments of the present invention;
Figs. 5-7 illustrate exemplary graphical user interface screens that may be provided in an
industrial vehicle application server software application, for setting up hour meters to record
usage of industrial vehicles capable of data communication with the server software
according to various aspects and embodiments of the present invention; and
                                                  3
                                                                         9988015_1 (GHMatters) P88218.AU.3 21/02/2018

Fig. 8 is a block diagram of a system that integrates features of a manufacturer' s computing
system with a fleet operator' s enterprise computingsystem according to various aspects and
embodiments of the present invention.
                                              4
                                                                      9988015_1 (GHMatters) P88218.AU.3 21/02/2018

                    MODES FOR CARRYING OUT THE INVENTION
In the detailed description, reference is made to the accompanying drawings that form a part
hereof, and in which is shown by way of illustration, and not by way of limitation, specific
embodiments in which the invention may be practiced.            It is to be understood that other
embodiments may be utilized and that changes may be made without departing from the spirit
and scope of various embodiments of the present invention.
                                        System Architecture
Aspects of the present invention comprise systems that enable industrial vehicles, or mobile
assets, to wirelessly communicate with one or more software applications, e.g., which may be
deployed in an enterprise computing environment, and/or other remote computing systems,
examples of which are described in greater detail herein. Exemplary industrial vehicles and
mobile assets may include for example, forklift trucks, reach trucks, turret trucks, walkie
stacker trucks, tow tractors, pallet trucks, and/or other materials handling vehicles.
Referring now to the drawings and particularly to Fig. 1, an exemplary computing
environment     10   is  illustrated,   which   includes   components     that        support           wireless
communication capabilities. A plurality of mobile assets 12, (shown by way of illustration as
a fleet of forklift trucks for convenience of discussion) wirelessly communicate with a
processing device, such as an industrial vehicle application server 14. The industrial vehicle
application server 14 may further interact with a data resource 16, e.g., one or more databases,
data stores or other sources of information, to facilitate interaction with the mobile assets 12.
The computing environment 10 may further support additional processing devices 18, which
may comprise for example, servers provided to execute other enterprise applications such as
email, a warehouse management system (WMS), an Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP)
application, etc.
The additional processing devices 18 may also comprise personal computers, notebook
computers, transactional systems, appliance or pervasive computing devices such as personal
data assistants (PDA), palm computers, cellular access processing devices, special purpose
computing devices, network storage device and/or other devices capable of interacting with
the computing environment 10.           One or more of the processing devices 18 may also
                                                  5
                                                                           9988015_1 (GHMatters) P88218.AU.3 21/02/2018

communicate with the mobile assets 12 and/or the industrial vehicle application server 14
across the computing environment 10.
The wireless communication architecture may be based upon a standard wireless fidelity (Wi
Fi) infrastructure, such as may be deployed using a standard 802.11 a/b/g wireless network
communications protocol. In this regard, Wi-Fi certification may be obtained to demonstrate
interoperability with other 802.11 a/b/g products that may be utilized within the computing
environment 10. Moreover, communication over the wireless network may utilize security
encryption, such as may be implemented using WPA2-PSK, WPA2-MSCHAPv0, WPA2
TLS, and/or other standard or proprietary encryption techniques. However, any other suitable
communication protocol and/or security techniques may alternatively be implemented.
In an exemplary arrangement, one or more wireless access points 20 may be utilized to relay
data between a wireless transceiver of each mobile asset 12 and one or more wired devices of
the computing environment 10, e.g., the industrial vehicle application server 14. The number
of access points 20 and the placement thereof may be determined based upon the specific
implementation. For example, in a relatively large site, e.g., a large warehouse, distribution
facility, retail outlet, etc., numerous access points 20 may be required to provide wireless
communications coverage across a designated area in which the mobile assets 12 are to be
operated.
Moreover, the computing environment 10 may be supported by one or more networking
components 22 that interconnect the various hardware and/or software processing devices,
including for example, hubs, routers, firewalls, network interfaces and corresponding
interconnections.      The particular networking components provided in the computing
environment 10 may thus be selected to support one or more intranets, extranets, local area
networks (LAN), wide area networks (WAN), wireless networks (Wi-Fi), the Internet,
including the world wide web, and/or other arrangements for enabling communication across
the computing environment 10, either real time or otherwise, e.g., via time shifting, batch
processing, etc.
The networking components 22 further allow integration of wireless capability of mobile
assets 12 across an entire enterprise 26 of a fleet operator. As schematically illustrated, each
enterprise 26 represents a computing system of an independent entity, such as a warehouse
                                                6
                                                                       9988015_1 (GHMatters) P88218.AU.3 21/02/2018

owner, retailer, distributor, manufacturer or other entity that operates a fleet of mobile assets
12. The fleet of mobile assets 12 associated with each fleet operator and correspondingly,
each computer enterprise 26, may be maintained in a local computing environment 10 or the
enterprise may be organized into a distributed enterprise architecture, for example, wherein
several local computing environments are connected across a network, such as a LAN, WAN,
the Internet, etc. Each local computing environment may represent, for example, one physical
location, e.g., a warehouse, which collectively form a larger computing enterprise 26, where
the enterprise 26 provides some form of common network control or supervision over the
associated local computing environments.
For example, a fleet operator may have operations at multiple distinct physical site locations,
yet the computing systems at each site are interconnected, capable of communication or are
otherwise integrated.    Under this configuration, each site may maintain its own industrial
vehicle application server 14, or the enterprise 26 may manage each site 1-n from a
centralized location. As such, the industrial vehicle application server 14 need not reside in
the same physical location as the mobile assets 12. Rather, data links can be set up using
combinations of access points 20 and networking components 22 to distribute the fleet of
mobile assets 12 across the physical locations, e.g., multiple warehouse facilities of the entity
enterprise.
In yet another exemplary implementation, one or more computing environments 10 and/or
computing enterprises 26 may further communicate with a remote server 30, such as across a
network 32, such as the Internet. The remote server 30 may comprise, for example, a third
party server that interacts with the mobile assets 12, the industrial vehicle application server
14 and/or other processing devices 18 of the computing environment(s) 10 / computing
enterprise(s) 26.   The remote server 30 may further interact with one or more back-end
servers 34 and/or data resource 36, e.g., one or more databases, data stores or other sources of
information.
Thus, the remote server 30 may interact with multiple computing enterprises 26, where each
computing enterprise 26 may have one or more sites, e.g., local computing environments as
described above.    This allows, for example, a third party such as the manufacturer of the
mobile assets 12 to electronically communicate with participating computer enterprises 26,
including communications with select mobile assets 12, a select industrial vehicle application
                                                7
                                                                         9988015_1 (GHMatters) P88218.AU.3 21/02/2018

server 14, a select data resource 16 and/or other processing device 18 within a corresponding
enterprise 26.
Depending upon the particular implementation, data processed, gathered, detected, monitored
or otherwise wirelessly transmitted by mobile assets 12 may be locally maintained, e.g., at a
particular site such as a local computing environment, e.g., as stored by an instance of the
industrial vehicle application server 14. This data may also be shared across distinct physical
sites of a larger computing enterprise 26.       Still further, this data may be shared between
sites/enterprises 26, etc., and remote server(s) 30, which may be maintained by a trusted third
party, such as an industrial vehicle manufacturer, or multiple trusted third parties.
Conceptually, at least three general classes of interface may be provided for interacting with
the wireless communication systems illustrated in FIG. 1.           The first class of interface is
provided at a mobile asset 12. The second class of interface is provided at an intra-enterprise
fixed location and the third class of interface is provided at an inter-enterprise location.
An "intra-enterprise fixed location" corresponds to a fixed location processing device (not
installed on a mobile asset 12) that is under the control and/or supervision of an entity
associated with a corresponding enterprise 26. As an example, the second (intra-enterprise)
class of interface may be implemented by a software client that is executed on a personal
computer, laptop, etc., within a corresponding local computing environment 10 or is
otherwise part of the enterprise 26, which is logged into the mobile asset application server
14. The software client may alternatively be logged into a processing device 18, such as a
warehouse management system application that interacts with one or more mobile assets 12
and/or the mobile asset application server 14, etc.
An     "inter-enterprise"    location  corresponds      to   a   remote    location           outside            the
control/supervision of a computing environment 10 or associated enterprise 26. For example,
a third (inter-enterprise) class of interface may be implemented by a software client that is
executed on a remote location processing device, such as a personal computer, laptop, etc.,
logged into the remote server 30, which may be operated by a trusted third party, such as an
equipment manufacturer.        The inter-enterprise interface may enable interaction with data
stored in a corresponding data resource 34, which was obtained via communication with one
or more mobile asset information servers 14 and/or mobile assets 12 from one or more
                                                  8
                                                                           9988015_1 (GHMatters) P88218.AU.3 21/02/2018

enterprises 26.     The inter-enterprise interface may also/alternatively enable interaction
between the remote server 30 and one or more of the mobile assets 12 or the mobile asset
application servers 14 across one or more corresponding computing environments 10 /
enterprises 26. A Web-browsing style of client may be utilized to implement one or more of
the various classes of interface.
The role of the user at a particular interface may influence how that user interacts with the
system according to various aspects of the present invention. For example, an enterprise user
who wishes to interact with the system at a mobile asset interface may assume the role of a
mobile asset operator, an intra-enterprise authorized user who may not be the asset operator,
such as a supervisor/manager, an information technology support person, a mechanic/service
person, etc. Likewise, a third party user may access the system via a mobile asset interface,
such as when implementing the role of an asset/component/accessory/peripheral supplier or
manufacturer, technician, support person, sales representative, etc.     Each user may have
different needs, goals, capabilities, limitations and requirements when interacting with the
wireless communication system from the mobile asset interface, examples of which are
described herein.
Likewise, an enterprise user at an intra-enterprise fixed location interface of the wireless
communication system, e.g., a user at a computer logged into a corresponding mobile asset
application server 14, may implement any number of roles, including for example: an intra
enterprise authorized user, such as a supervisor/manager;         an information technology
administrator or support person; a mechanic/service person; an asset operator who is not
currently operating a mobile asset, etc. Again, each user may have different needs, goals,
capabilities, limitations and requirements when interacting with the wireless communication
system from the intra-enterprise fixed location interface.
The inter-enterprise (remote) interface may be utilized, for example, by a trusted third party,
such as an asset manufacturer, supplier, maintenance provider, sales representative, etc.
Similarly, asset component and asset peripheral manufacturers, suppliers, maintenance
providers, sales representatives, etc., may also interact with the wireless communications
system, e.g., via an inter-enterprise remote interface.    Whether or not an inter-enterprise
remote interface/remote server 30 can interact with a particular enterprise 26 will likely
depend upon the        specific   implementation   of the  various aspects        of the           wireless
                                                 9
                                                                      9988015_1 (GHMatters) P88218.AU.3 21/02/2018

communications system described in greater detail herein.
                                       The Vehicle Interface
Referring to Fig. 2, an exemplary information linking device 38 is illustrated that provides the
wireless interface to the mobile assets 12. The information linking device 38 may also serve
as an interface that facilitates interaction with the user at the mobile asset 12, and is enabled
by hardware and software. The illustrated information linking device 38 includes, in general,
an antenna 40 that couples to a transceiver for wireless communication. The antenna 40 may
be internal to the information linking device housing, or the antenna 40 may comprise a
detachable or permanently installed external antenna.         Moreover, the antenna 40 may be
implemented as two or more antennae, e.g., a twin antenna configuration so as to implement
dual diversity capabilities.
The information linking device 38 may also include a display 41 and controls 42 for
interacting with a user. The information linking device 38 may further include additional
features, such as a reading device 43, e.g., a proximity reader or other device for
electronically obtaining operator login information. Operator login procedures are described
in greater detail herein.
In addition to the information linking device 38 being a separate component that can be
coupled with a mobile asset 12, the information linking device 38 may alternatively be
integrated with (e.g., built into or otherwise connected with or to) a corresponding mobile
asset 12. As an example, the information linking device 38 may be integrated into a work
area, e.g., a console of an operator' s compartment. Regardless of whether the information
linking device 38 is attached to an existing mobile asset 12 or built into a corresponding
mobile asset 12, the features of the information linking device 38, described more fully
herein, can be in communication with other existing vehicle features and functions.
Within a given computing enterprise 26, site 10, or other suitable computing environment,
each information linking device 38 is assigned or otherwise derives a unique identifier that is
known or made known to the corresponding industrial vehicle application server 14. Thus,
using the known identifiers, the industrial vehicle application server 14 may conduct targeted
communications with specific industrial vehicle information linking devices 38, or broadcast
                                                 10
                                                                         9988015_1 (GHMatters) P88218.AU.3 21/02/2018

information to groups or all of the industrial vehicle information linking devices 38 that are
associated with that industrial vehicle application server 14.
According to an aspect of the present invention, to initiate communication between the
industrial   vehicle application server     14 and an information linking device 38,                             an
acknowledgment sequence is implemented. For example, the industrial vehicle application
server 14 may listen for information linking device(s) 38 to identify themselves as being
available for communication with the industrial vehicle application server 14. Alternatively,
the industrial vehicle application server 14 can send out a request or ping a specific
information linking device 38 on a mobile asset 12. If the pinged information linking device
38 responds, an exchange of information between the information linking device 38 and the
industrial vehicle application server 14 may occur.
According to various aspects of the present invention, the industrial vehicle application server
14 may be used to store, maintain, distribute, host or otherwise deploy wireless security
settings to the information linking device 38. By way of illustration, the industrial vehicle
application server 14 may push security and/or other features to the information linking
device 38, e.g., so as to avoid manual entry of the security feature(s) directly from the
interface of the information linking device 38, e.g., the display 41 and controls 42.
Referring to Fig. 3, a block diagram illustrates select features of an exemplary implementation
of an information linking device 38 that has been coupled to or integrated with a
corresponding mobile asset 12.      The illustrated information linking device 38 comprises a
display control module 44 for controlling the display 41 and an input/output control module
45 that is associated with the controls 42.        The information linking device 38 further
comprises a transceiver 46, a monitoring input/output module 48, a wireless communications
interface controller 50 and vehicle power enabling/conditioning circuitry 52.
The transceiver 46 may provide, for example, two-way wireless communication with
processing devices, including server computers such as the industrial vehicle application
server 14 across the corresponding computing environment.           The monitoring input/output
module 48 may be utilized to receive sensor and control inputs and/or to control outputs such
as horns, buzzers, lights and other asset components and/or devices. As just a few exemplary
illustrations, the monitoring input/output module 48 may interface with analog sensors 54,
                                                11
                                                                          9988015_1 (GHMatters) P88218.AU.3 2110212018

switches 56, encoders and other similar input devices 58, impact sensor(s) 60, meter input(s)
62 and any other analog or digital inputs and/or outputs 64 to integrate such information into
the wireless communications system. The monitoring input/output module 48 allows data
logging capabilities which can be used, for example, to monitor travel usage meters, hydraulic
usage meters, steering usage meters, operator usage meters, miscellaneous sensor inputs and
other types of asset related data.
Information detected by the monitoring input/output module 48 may be temporarily stored,
collected, maintained, manipulated and/or otherwise processed, e.g., by a processor and
corresponding memory in the interface controller 50 or other suitable processor and memory,
which may be provided as part of the vehicle electronics. Further, the collected information
may be communicated to a corresponding industrial vehicle application server 14, for
example, using the transceiver 46.
The interface controller 50 may comprise a suitable processor, memory, software, resident
firmware, etc., to control the functions of the information linking device 38. Moreover, the
processor of the interface controller 50 may be configured to communicate with the
transceiver 46 for wireless communication across the wireless computing environment to a
corresponding server computer, e.g., the industrial vehicle application server 14. The power
enabling circuitry 52, where applicable, allows power to be provided to the information
linking device 38, even when the corresponding mobile asset 12 is powered down. Moreover,
the power enabling circuitry 52 can be tied to the vehicle ignition to prevent industrial vehicle
startup unless certain conditions are met, or to force the industrial vehicle to shut down, as
schematically represented by the switch shown within box 52. As an example, industrial
vehicle startup conditions may be evaluated by the interface controller 50 of the information
linking device 38 or other suitable processor before allowing the mobile asset 12 to be
powered up and fully functional for operation.
In an illustrative implementation where a mobile asset 12 comprises for example, a forklift
truck, the components of the information linking device 38 may be coupled to and/or
communicate with other industrial vehicle system components via a suitable industrial vehicle
network system 68, e.g., a vehicle network bus. The industrial vehicle network system 68 is
any wired or wireless network, bus or other communications capability that allows electronic
components of the mobile asset 12 to communicate with each other. As an example, the
                                               12
                                                                         9988015_1 (GHMatters) P88218.AU.3 21/02/2018

industrial vehicle network system 68 may comprise a controller area network (CAN) bus,
ZigBee, Bluetooth, Local Interconnect Network (LIN), time-triggered data-bus protocol
(TTP) or other suitable communication strategy. Utilization of the industrial vehicle network
system 68 enables integration of the components of the information linking device 38 into the
native electronics including controllers of the mobile asset 12 and optionally, any electronics
peripherals associated with the mobile asset 12 that integrate with and can communicate over
the network system 68.
Thus, as an example, a processor provided on an industrial vehicle, e.g., as provided within
the interface controller 50 or otherwise integrated into the industrial vehicle, may be
configured to implement at least one function by wirelessly communicating with the
application server via the transceiver 46 and by interacting with at least one component of the
industrial vehicle across the vehicle network bus, such as by communicating with at least one
native control module 70, 72, 74, 76, 78, 80, 82 of the industrial vehicle across the vehicle
network system 68.       Integration is further achieved where the event codes and other
communications across the vehicle network bus are well understood by the information
linking device 38, thus enabling interaction between the industrial vehicle application server
14, the information linking device 38 and the industrial vehicle at the machine component
level.
For example, the processor provided within the interface controller 50 or otherwise integrated
into the mobile asset 12 may communicate configuration information from the industrial
vehicle application server 14 to at least one component of the mobile asset 12 across the
vehicle network bus. The processor provided within the interface controller 50 or otherwise
integrated into the mobile asset 12 may also and/or alternatively receive operational
information from one or more components of the mobile asset 12 across the vehicle network
system 68 that is conveyed to the industrial vehicle application server 14. The processor may
also filter, manipulate or otherwise process information communicated across the vehicle
network bus/vehicle network system 68.
As another example, the information linking device 38 may communicate with input/output
controls and corresponding I/O controller 72, such as for controlling switches, buttons, levers,
handles, pedals, etc., that are assigned to functions of the industrial vehicle. The information
linking device 38 may also communicate with a vehicle control module (VCM) 74 that
                                                13
                                                                          9988015_1 (GHMatters) P88218.AU.3 21/02/2018

controls the electronic capabilities of the industrial vehicle, a motor control module 76 that
controls the drive wheels of the vehicle, a hydraulics control module 78 that controls the
hydraulics, e.g., the lift of the vehicle, and any other controllers/modules and other electronics
80 that are associated with the industrial vehicle. Still further, the information linking device
38 may communicate with other miscellaneous devices such as a keyless entry fob reader 82
or any other devices that are attached to the mobile asset 12.
The controllers/modules and other electronics 80, 82 may also include scanning technologies
such as bar code scanners, RFID and other tag reading technologies, hardware for supporting
warehouse management systems and other enterprise software, printers and other output
devices as well as other technologies that an operator may currently utilize as separate
components.
As an alternative to communication over the network system 68, components may be
communicably coupled to the information linking device 38 via one of the inputs and/or
outputs 64 coupled to the monitoring input/output module 48 or via other suitable input to the
interface controller 50, such as where a given separate component, e.g., a tag reader, cannot
communicate across the CAN bus or other suitable vehicle network system 68 of the mobile
asset 12.
Regardless of whether various components communicate over the network system 68, e.g.,
vehicle components, or via the inputs and/or outputs 64 of the information linking device 38,
the various components of the mobile asset 12, e.g., the I/O controller 72, the VCM 74, motor
control module 76, hydraulics control module 78 and other controllers 80 can be included in
an enterprise infrastructure by utilizing the information linking device 38 to merge all
information flowing into or out of the mobile asset 12 into a wirelessly communicated data
stream(s) that interacts with other enterprise resources.
According to various aspects of the present invention, certain parameters of I/O may be
customized.    For example, referring to Fig. 4, a graphical user interface screen shot 100
illustrates a management screen for setting up and/or managing I/O settings, e.g., which may
affect the monitoring I/O module 48.           In practice, the software can take other and/or
alternative organizational approaches and need not include tabbed views as illustrated.
                                                  14
                                                                          9988015_1 (GHMatters) P88218.AU.3 21/02/2018

Moreover, the logical/hierarchical       and other organizational mechanisms provided for
organizing the data displayed by the server software can vary from that shown.
As illustrated, the industrial vehicle application server 14 may be utilized to monitor and/or
configure certain pin assignments of the monitoring I/O module 48 provided on each mobile
asset 12. As such, each mobile asset 12 may be custom configured to accommodate particular
monitoring needs. Moreover, according to various aspects of the present invention, changes
may be implemented from the server software. For example, using a graphical user interface
screen such as that illustrated in Fig. 4, an operator of the industrial vehicle application server
14 may be able to turn I/O pins on or off at 102, name I/O pins at 104 and/or dynamically
adjust parameters and functions implemented by the pins at 106. Once the data is adjusted
within the software, the settings may be communicated wirelessly to the corresponding
mobile asset 12 for configuration thereof.
                                          Data Collection
Information detected by the monitoring input/output module 48 or otherwise obtained by
accessing the network system 68 may be temporarily stored, collected, maintained,
manipulated and/or otherwise processed, e.g., by a processor and corresponding memory in
the interface controller 50 or other suitable processor and memory, which may be provided as
part of the industrial vehicle electronics.        Further, the collected information may be
communicated to the industrial vehicle application server 14, for example, using the
transceiver 46.     Thus, the information linking device 38 may be used to facilitate the
coupling of data logging from the mobile asset 12 to the industrial vehicle application server
14. This approach can be used to create a history of operational data that may vary over time,
such as speed, temperature, battery state of charge, proprietary service codes, height, weight
and other measurable parameters.
Moreover, data can flow from the industrial vehicle application server 14 to the processor in
the interface controller 50 of the information linking device 38 via the transceiver 46. Still
further, the processor 50 on the vehicle may be configured to implement special processing
based upon parameters defined by the industrial vehicle application server 14, e.g., to collect
special types of data, to collect data only under specific instances, to require the vehicle to
implement certain defined functions, etc.
                                                 15
                                                                           9988015_1 (GHMatters) P88218.AU.3 21/02/2018

As an example, the exchange of information across the vehicle network system 68 of an
industrial vehicle may be monitored. Part of the functionality that may be provided as part of
the industrial vehicle electronics is the detection or recognition of different events associated
with the mobile asset 12 or subcomponents of the industrial vehicle (e.g., occurrence of an
impact to the vehicle, hydraulics control module status, vehicle control module status, etc.).
If a predetermined event associated with the mobile asset 12 is detected, the processor
provided within the interface controller 50 or otherwise integrated into the mobile asset 12
may be configured to implement a function in response to detecting the predetermined event.
That implemented function can include wirelessly communicating information associated
with the event between a server computer, e.g., the industrial vehicle application server 14
and the mobile asset 12 via the transceiver 46. The processor of the interface controller 50
may also interact with at least one component of the mobile asset 12 across the vehicle
network system 68 in response to the event to implement the function.
Thus, the data collection capabilities of the information linking device 38 may be utilized to
implement event driven data archival activities.           For example, the detection of a
predetermined event may trigger the processor of the interface controller 50 to begin logging
certain data, end logging certain data, archive a predetermined window of collected data
and/or otherwise perform other prescribed operation(s).      The information linking device 38
may also continually or periodically monitor certain vehicle parameters.               If all monitored
parameters are within prescribed tolerances,         such logged data may be subsequently
summarized, deleted, sent to the industrial vehicle application server 14, etc.
                                      OperatorAuthorization
The wireless communication system may be utilized to facilitate industrial vehicle operator
authorization and/or operator license/certification management. Under this arrangement, the
industrial vehicle operator is required to accomplish a valid login before a corresponding
mobile asset 12, e.g., a forklift truck, may be operated. In order to successfully log onto the
mobile asset 12, the login operation may consider any number of factors, conditions and
circumstances.
For example, before a user can log onto the mobile asset 12, e.g., a forklift truck, the user
must be included in a list of authorized users associated with that mobile asset 12 (a forklift
truck in the current example).     The list of authorized users may be provided to the mobile
                                                 16
                                                                          9988015_1 (GHMatters) P88218.AU.3 21/02/2018

asset 12 by the mobile asset application server 14, which builds, modifies, maintains or
otherwise supports the authorized user lists. The mobile asset application server 14 may build
or modify lists based upon a manually initiated process, or the mobile asset application server
14 may periodically build or modify authorized user lists, such as based upon the detection of
predetermined events including changes in the status of operators, mobile assets, etc., based
upon predetermined intervals, or based upon other conditions or circumstances.
To build a list of authorized users for the mobile asset 12, the mobile asset application server
14 may process through a list of operators, such as may be maintained in a database, table or
other suitable format stored within the data resource 16 associated with the mobile asset
application server 14. For example, the application server 14 may consider each user from a
list of users, such as be examining the next user in a list of users. In order to be an authorized
user for a given mobile asset 12, an operator may be required to meet certain predetermined
requirements and/or conditions.
For example, the mobile asset application server 14 may consider factors such as the location
of the mobile asset in determining whether a given user should be considered an authorized
user for a corresponding mobile asset. As an example, a warehouse may include a bonded
area that a given user may not have authorization to work in. If a corresponding mobile asset
12 is located in the bonded area, then the user may not be an authorized user. Alternatively, if
the same mobile asset is outside the bonded area, then the user may be an authorized user. As
another example, a user may not be authorized to drive a forklift truck on a loading dock.
Accordingly, that user may be an authorized user, unless the corresponding mobile asset is on
the loading dock. Alternatively, there may be multiple sites within an enterprise, and a user
may only be authorized at a specific site location. Thus, a user that is authorized to operate a
forklift truck at site 1 may not be authorized to operate the same forklift truck or same type of
forklift truck at other sites.
As still further examples, a user may be authorized to operate only specific types, classes,
etc., of mobile assets 12.     As an example, a user may be authorized to operate sit-down
counter balanced forklift trucks, but not rider reach trucks. Accordingly, that user may be an
authorized user only in lists associated with sit-down counter balanced forklift trucks. Still
further, a user may be authorized only for specific mobile assets within a given type or class
of mobile asset. As an example, a user may only be authorized to operate a specific forklift
                                                 17
                                                                          9988015_1 (GHMatters) P88218.AU.3 21/02/2018

truck, which is identified by a specific unique identifier such as a serial number. Accordingly,
that user would only be an authorized user for a list associated with the corresponding forklift
truck having the associated serial number. Other factors, such as time, day, date, etc., may
also be considered.      For example, the end of a work shift could automatically trigger a
workflow that causes the mobile asset application server 14 to build a new list of authorized
asset users for select (or all) mobile assets 12 having authorized user lists corresponding to
users working the new shift. This updated list can then be automatically communicated to the
corresponding mobile assets 12. As yet a further example, lists of authorized users may be
adjusted based upon obtained/updated certifications, training, etc.
Also, a check can be performed to ascertain whether any license(s)/certificate(s) for that
authorized user are required, and if required, whether they are still valid. In this regard, the
mobile asset application server 14 may maintain a license/certification file that tracks
licenses/certifications and their expiration dates (or range of valid dates) for each user.
Accordingly, the server software may verify that each operator's licenses/certifications are
valid (where applicable) by consulting the appropriate file(s). If a select user is an otherwise
authorized user, but their license(s)/certification(s) have expired, a suitable workflow may be
triggered such as by sending an e-mail notification or otherwise generating a notice of the
license/certificate expiration. Further, the operator having the expired (or nonexistent) license
or certification may be excluded from the updated list of authorized users. In this regard, the
application server 14 may further monitor license/certificate expiration dates and trigger
workflows such as for license/certificate renewal where the expiration date is within a
predetermined range of dates so that appropriate actions can be taken to avoid such
expirations.
As an alternative, the wireless communications interface controller 50 of the mobile asset
information linking device 38 of the mobile asset 12 may, from time to time, communicate
with the mobile asset application server 14 to request updates of its list of approved asset
operators.    Still further, the mobile asset information linking device 38 may receive new
authorized user lists that replace the existing authorized user list, or the mobile asset
application server 14 may communicate only the changes to the corresponding authorized
user list, in which case, the wireless communications interface controller 50 may modify its
currently stored authorized user list based upon the data received from the mobile asset
application server 14. Notably, in one exemplary implementation, the mobile asset 12 only
                                                  18
                                                                          9988015_1 (GHMatters) P88218.AU.3 21/02/2018

stores a list of authorized users, despite the fact that the mobile asset application server 14
may have considered numerous factors in determining who those authorized users are for that
mobile asset.
At some point after the mobile asset 12 has been programmed with a list of authorized users,
an operator may be required to provide an operator identification. Accordingly, the operator
may present login information, such as by entering a personal identification number (PIN) or
other suitable login information. The login information can be entered, for example, using
controls 42 that interact with the input/output control module 45.         The login information
received by the input/output control module 45 is communicated to the interface controller
50, where it can be processed against the list of authorized users stored, for example, in the
memory of the interface controller 50.
As an alternative, the operator may utilize a fob that interacts with the device reader 43, or the
operator may present a keyless entry fob that interacts with the fob reader 82 (if provided).
Under this configuration, the fob reader 82 communicates the login information to the
interface controller 50, such as across the CAN bus or other mobile asset network system 68,
via an input 64 coupled to the monitoring input/output module 48 of the mobile asset
information linking device 38 or via other suitable input to the interface controller 50. Still
further, other techniques, including biometric input technologies may be utilized to
communicate login information to the interface controller 50.
When a login is received, the interface controller 50 verifies whether the presented login
information identifies an operator that is authorized to operate the forklift truck. For example,
the interface controller 50 may compare the received identification information, such as an
operator ID, against the list of authorized user Operator IDs communicated to the mobile asset
12 by the application server 14. The interface controller 50 may further timestamp and record
the attempted login, regardless of whether the login attempt was successful or failed. If the
login attempt failed, the interface controller 50 may provide an error message, such as by
writing a suitable message to the display 41. The failed login attempt may also be recorded
for purposes of data logging. At some convenient time, the mobile asset 12 communicates the
operator identification information and timestamp for successful (and optionally for failed)
login attempts to the application server 14. For example, a login attempts file or other data
file can be transmitted from the mobile asset 12 to the application server 14.
                                                 19
                                                                          9988015_1 (GHMatters) P88218.AU.3 21/02/2018

As noted above, the mobile asset application server 14 keeps track of each mobile asset user
and the corresponding mobile assets that each user is authorized to operate. Authorization by
the mobile asset application server 14 may be contingent upon a user having one or more
valid (non-expired) license/certification, or based upon any number of other factors, including
asset location, asset class/type, asset serial number, day, time, date and other factors. As yet a
further example, mobile assets may be allocated to specific areas, locations, tasks or other
criteria and users may be authorized to those mobile assets only if the user is also associated
with the same criteria.
Further, positioning and other technologies may be utilized by the mobile asset application
server 14 to determine the location of a mobile asset 12 so as to be able to evaluate the
associated criteria as the application dictates. Thus, even for the same mobile asset 12, an
operator may be authorized under a first set of conditions and not authorized under a different
set of conditions.       As an alternative to the above, decision logic, e.g., environmental
conditions, location, time, etc., may be evaluated by the interface controller 50 or other
processing logic of the mobile asset 12 or the information linking device 38, or the decision
logic may be shared between the application server 14 and/or processing capabilities of the
mobile asset 12.
If the license/certification for an asset operator expires, as is tracked by server software
controlled by the mobile asset application server 14, then the mobile asset application server
14, at a suitable time, updates the list of authorized users corresponding to the affected mobile
assets.   This may automatically disable the asset operator's access to the affected mobile
assets upon the detected expiration of the license/certificate and the associated updating of the
authorized users at the corresponding mobile asset information linking device 38 of the
corresponding mobile asset 12.
As noted above, the application server 14 may build authorization lists based upon operator
ID, mobile asset ID/grouping            and license/certification/training and other appropriate
conditions.     Once the application server 14 determines the list, only the corresponding
operator IDs need to be wirelessly communicated to each corresponding mobile asset. Thus,
at the mobile asset side, the only necessary parameter may be whether or not the operator ID
is present in its local list of authorized users.
                                                  20
                                                                           9988015_1 (GHMatters) P88218.AU.3 21/02/2018

Once logged into the mobile asset 12, the asset operator may be able to operate the mobile
asset 12 as necessary, or further procedures may be required, such as the completion of a
checklist as described herein. Even though an operator is successfully logged into a mobile
asset 12 for operation, the wireless communications interface controller 50 may automatically
log that operator off, e.g., where asset monitored activities have been idle for a specific period
of time or where it has been determined that the operator exited the vehicle.
Numerous techniques may be used to detect operator exit. For example, the system can
monitor traction, hydraulics and other mobile asset parameters and determine periods of
inactivity.  Additionally, sensors may be provided on the seat and/or other appropriate
locations on the mobile asset that may be used to determine whether or not the operator is still
on the mobile asset.
Moreover, the wireless communications interface controller 50 may be programmed, e.g.,
from the mobile asset interface, such as by using controls 42 or from the mobile asset
application server 14, to allow a mobile asset 12 to be temporarily "locked" for a specific
amount of time. For example, an asset operator may temporarily lock a mobile asset 12 to
reserve that asset prior to the asset operator being ready for immediate asset usage.                          As
another example, a mobile asset may be temporarily locked, e.g., by a supervisor or
maintenance person to designate the asset as being unavailable.
                                  Pre-Use Inspection Checklist
An inspection may be desired or required, such as before using a mobile asset 12 or at other
appropriate times. In an illustrative implementation, after an operator successfully logs into a
mobile asset 12 as described more fully herein, the operator is required to complete a
checklist having a plurality of checklist items before the system determines whether to enable
the mobile asset 12 for normal operation, e.g., by presenting a series of checklist items to the
operator via the display 41 or other vehicle display, verbally or otherwise. The operator may
respond to the checklist items and record the appropriate results via the controls 42 provided
on the industrial vehicle information linking device 38.
The mobile asset 12 may be locked out from operation or reduced in functionality of
operation as a result of one or more answers provided to the checklist. Moreover, a lockout
                                                21
                                                                         9988015_1 (GHMatters) P88218.AU.3 21/02/2018

may remain in force until a determination has been reached that the mobile asset 12 is in
proper operating condition.
                                  Checklist OverrideSequence
Situations may arise where there is not enough time to complete an entire log in a checklist
procedure. Situations may further arise where there is no need to run through the checklist,
e.g., where the vehicle is being moved for servicing or to move the vehicle for non
operational reasons. In this regard, in accordance with the invention, a predetermined login
sequence may be implemented where the operator is not required to step through the checklist
procedure. For example an override code, such as "811" may be established so that the
mobile asset 12 becomes fully operational and functional upon login only.                      Under this
arrangement, the mobile asset 12 may have a predefined timeout where it is only operational
for a predetermined period of time or, other appropriate terminating events may be triggered
to limit the scope of the override. Additionally, vehicle functionality may be limited by the
override, e.g., operation may be limited to steering and traction control, etc. The override
may be provided, for example, where a time sensitive operation must be performed, such as
moving the mobile asset 12.
According to further aspects of the present invention, when the override code is used to
unlock the mobile asset 12, a message may be communicated to the industrial vehicle
application server 14. The message may include any additional information, such as may be
gathered by the mobile asset 12. Moreover, location based data may also be communicated to
the industrial vehicle application server 14. By way of example, the message to the server
may include the location of the access point 20 closest to the vehicle where the override
sequence was used. Other data, such as location based upon GPS, RFID tags and/or other
sensing technologies may also and/or alternatively be utilized. Still further, access point
triangulation and/or other computational methods may be utilized to locate or approximate the
location of the locked vehicle.
                                        Impact Sensing
Depending upon the mobile asset 12, it may be desirable to implement customizable impact
detection and appropriate post impact actions, such as lockout operations. For example, with
reference to Fig. 3, in some embodiments of the invention, the interface controller 50 may
                                              22
                                                                       9988015_1 (GHMatters) P88218.AU.3 21/02/2018

track minor impacts using appropriate impact sensors 60 and a corresponding monitoring
input/output module 48.
Thus, if a predetermined event comprises detecting an impact on a mobile asset 12, the
processor, e.g., provided by the interface controller 50 or otherwise integrated into the mobile
asset 12 may be configured to respond to the detected impact by classifying the severity of the
detected impact and by wirelessly communicating impact information to the server computer
if it is determined that the detected impact exceeds at least one predetermined impact
condition.
 In an illustrative example, the interface controller 50 may compute or otherwise analyze the
"severity" of impacts, such as to distinguish between minor impacts and major impacts. One
strategy may be to lock out the industrial vehicle upon detecting a major impact and/or
detecting a predetermined number of minor impacts.
 Upon a detected impact that exceeds predetermined              impact conditions, an impact
notification, e.g., alarm, such as a buzzer, horn or light may be activated, e.g., via the
monitoring input/output module 48 until a supervisor clears the alarm. A message may also
be communicated to the industrial vehicle application server 14 so that an appropriate action
may be taken.      In this regard, the alarm, e.g., a flashing light or audible alarm used to
designate an impact may be provided as a separate kit or add/on that integrates with the
information linking device 38 so that the alarm is readily distinguishable from normal
functionality of the mobile asset 12 including vehicle lights, hom, etc.
By way of example, an add-on alarm and light may be mounted to the mobile asset 12. The
alarm and light may be further electrically coupled to the information linking device 38, e.g.,
via the monitoring I/O module 48. Still further, the server software, e.g., as illustrated and
described herein with reference to Fig. 4, of the industrial vehicle application server 14, may
be utilized to customize and configure the pins in the monitoring 1/0 module 48 to operate the
alarm and lights. Alternatively, the alarm and lights may be configured from the information
linking device 38.
Under certain situations, the mobile asset 12 may be shutdown, disabled or otherwise stopped.
The mobile asset 12 may also be able to distinguish a low threshold impact as noted above, in
                                                23
                                                                         9988015_1 (GHMatters) P88218.AU.3 21/02/2018

which case, the tracking of minor incidences may be simply logged/recorded without
initiating an alarm. Still further, as noted above, the system may be configured to allow a
predefined number of low threshold impacts within a predefined set of parameters.                               For
example, if an operator within a single shift experiences a number of impacts having
thresholds that exceed the low impact threshold, and that number of impacts exceeds a
predetermined number of low impacts deemed acceptable, suitable responsive actions may be
implemented, e.g., by initiating an impact notification.
Regardless of the reason for locking out the mobile asset 12, a message may be
communicated to the industrial vehicle application server 14. The message may include any
additional information, such as may be gathered by the mobile asset 12. Moreover, location
based data may also be communicated to the industrial vehicle application server 14. By way
of example, the message to the server may include the location of the access point 20 closest
to the mobile asset 12 where the impact lockout occurred. As with the above example, other
data, such as location based upon GPS, RFID tags and/or other sensing technologies may also
and/or alternatively be utilized. Still further, triangulation of multiple access points 20 and/or
other computational methods may be utilized to locate or approximate the location of the
locked vehicle.
                                              Lockout
As noted above, there are several events that can cause a mobile asset 12 to be locked out. As
a few illustrative examples, the mobile asset 12 may have failed its checklist, or some
problem during the checklist procedure may have triggered a lockout. The mobile asset 12
may have also been locked out as a result of an impact. As a few other illustrative examples,
the interface controller 50 may be programmed, e.g., from the interface of the information
linking device 38, such as by using controls 42 or from the industrial vehicle application
server 14, to allow a mobile asset 12 to be temporarily "locked" for a specific amount of time.
For example, an operator may temporarily lock a mobile asset 12 to reserve that vehicle prior
to the operator being ready for immediate usage. As another example, an industrial vehicle
may be temporarily locked, e.g., by a supervisor or maintenance person to designate the
vehicle as being unavailable.      Again, however, situations may arise where it becomes
necessary to access the locked mobile asset 12.
                                                  24
                                                                           9988015_1 (GHMatters) P88218.AU.3 21/02/2018

In response to a lockout condition, an authorized person may be required to unlock to vehicle,
e.g., either from the industrial vehicle application server 14, or from the mobile asset 12.
However, a supervisor may not be around or otherwise have access to data stored by the
industrial vehicle application server 14 that describes the lockout condition.                     However,
according to aspects of the present invention, the display 41 of the information linking device
38 can provide a display message that indicates information related to the lockout condition.
For example, the display 41 may contain an explanation or coded representation of the reason
why the lockout occurred. Thus, a supervisor that approaches a mobile asset 12 that has been
locked out can obtain sufficient information about the reason for the lockout to take an
appropriate action.
In this regard, the system may further record the supervisor, a time stamp and other desired
information to designate who the supervisor is that released the mobile asset 12 from its
locked state.
                                          Hour Meters
Hour meters provide a convenient mechanism for the assessment of usage of the vehicle.
According to various aspects and embodiments of the present invention, the industrial vehicle
application server 14 may interact with the mobile assets 12 to ascertain hour meter data.
According to further aspects and embodiments of the present invention, each mobile asset 12
may be able to record and report multiple hour meter metrics to the industrial vehicle
application server 14. As a few illustrative examples, the mobile assets 12 may implement a
manufacturer specific time hour meter, an odometer hour meter, a traction system hour meter,
a travel usage hour meter, a hydraulic usage hour meter, a steering usage hour meter, operator
usage hour meter, etc.     In this regard, the actual number of hour meters may vary from
product to product based, for example, upon vehicle features that include a motor, control
module, sensor or other characteristic that is of interest to monitor, e.g., from a time-based
perspective.
According to further aspects and embodiments of the present invention, one or more hour
meters may be user-definable and/or otherwise configurable. For example, referring to Figs.
5-7, screenshots 110 illustrate an exemplary graphical user interface screen that may be
utilized by the industrial vehicle application server 14 for defining features of one or more of
the hour meters. As illustrated, the server software user may be able to select and/or identify
                                                25
                                                                         9988015_1 (GHMatters) P88218.AU.3 21/02/2018

the type of hour meter at 112, and select and/or otherwise associate the hour meter settings to
one or more specific vehicles and/or vehicle types, classes or other logical groupings at 114.
Moreover, for each hour meter, the operator may be able to establish one or more pre
conditions 116, conditions 118 and exclude conditions 120. By way of illustration, and not
by way of limitation, Fig. 5 shows an exemplary approach for setting up a customized
hydraulic hour meter.      Likewise, Fig. 6 shows an exemplary approach for setting up a
customized usage hour meter, and correspondingly, Fig. 7 shows an exemplary approach for
setting up a customized travel hour meter. Although illustrated as pre-conditions, conditions
and exclude conditions or rules, the actual definition of the hour meter logic may be
expressed in other manners. Moreover, the management of customized hour meters may be
displayed to the server operator in other formats and forms.
According to various aspects and embodiments of the present invention, the hour meter
selection and corresponding configuration data is wirelessly transmitted from the industrial
vehicle application server 14 to the associated industrial vehicle(s) 12. The processor 50 or
other suitable logic in each industrial vehicle 12 may then take responsibility of executing the
hour meters according to the defined parameters/configuration data.          Thus, the industrial
vehicles 12 process the rules that define hour meter data for a given type of hour meter
measurement.
Still further, according to various aspects and embodiments of the present invention, one or
more hour meters may be provided as completely programmable and customizable hour
meters.    By way of an illustrative example, the information linking device 38 may be
provided by a first manufacturer. However, the device may be installed on a vehicle provided
by a second manufacturer.       Each manufacturer may have a different but known way of
computing hour meter measurements. As such, a user can customize one or more hour meters
even where the vehicle or components thereof are provided by different manufacturers.
Still further, the operator, either of the industrial vehicle 12 or user interacting with the
industrial vehicle application server 14, can customize meters to record information that may
be non-standard and/or to collect specific types of data for only a limited amount of time.
The customizable hour meters of the preset invention allow the creation of rules to define
such events and/or compute hour measurements on other parameters or combinations of
parameters. In the illustrative example, the industrial vehicle 12 includes a processor in the
                                                26
                                                                       9988015_1 (GHMatters) P88218.AU.3 21/02/2018

interface controller 50 that receives the hour meter specification wirelessly from the industrial
vehicle application server 14 and automatically interprets the hour meter requirements based
upon the specified rules, e.g., pre-conditions 116, conditions 118 and exclusions, i.e., exclude
conditions 120.
The ability to generate different types of hour meter data allow fleet operators the ability to
query data stored by the industrial vehicle application server 14 to generate reports related to
truck equipment usage, which may be utilized for establishing cost of ownership, utilization
statistics, etc. In the above description the phrase "hour meter" has been used to refer to a
general concept of a usage meter based on user-definable conditions and parameters.                              In
addition to measuring usage in terms of "hours", one of ordinary skill will recognize that
other measurement metrics related to usage can alternatively be used without departing from
the scope of the present invention. For example, to measure usage of a bearing for a rotating
shaft, the number of shaft rotations could indicate usage. As another example, for a hydraulic
pump, the cumulative gallons of fluid pumped may be an indication of usage.                        However,
knowing the average revolutions per minute for the rotating shaft or the average gallons per
minute pumped by the pump allows the usage of these example devices to be monitored in
terms of "hours". Thus, in general, the user definable hour meters described above are a way
to monitor or measure the usage of a component or aspect of a mobile asset that satisfies the
preconditions, conditions and exclusions defined by the user.
                                 DataIntegration and Reporting
According to various aspects of the present invention, the data collected by the industrial
vehicle application server 14 can be processed locally, e.g., using monitoring, managing and
reporting tools provided as part of the server software. According to further aspects of the
present invention, the data collected by the industrial vehicle application server 14 may be
exported for use in other applications. For example, data selected from the industrial vehicle
application server software may be downloaded to a generic file format, e.g., comma
separated variable format or any other suitable format that is accessible by other applications.
According to still further aspects of the present invention, data stored in the data resource 16
may be freely exportable.      By way of illustration, the industrial vehicle application server
software may be configured to allow a user to export any of the raw data utilized to generate
management reports within the industrial vehicle application server software. However, in
                                                27
                                                                         9988015_1 (GHMatters) P88218.AU.3 21/02/2018

certain embodiments, the industrial vehicle application server software may maintain control
over certain data contents, such as vehicle event code values or other information that is
deemed proprietary, confidential, or otherwise not intended for general review.
                                        Vertical Integration
According to still further aspects of the present invention, the data in industrial vehicle
application server 14 may be shared electronically with a remote server 30 such as the
industrial vehicle manufacturer' s servers. In thisregard, the manufacturer may be able to
provide insights into the collected data that is not within the capability of the associated
enterprise 26.    For example, the manufacturer may have existing software products for
managing, diagnosing and repairing industrial vehicles. Still further, the manufacturer may
have a built in infrastructure for managing vehicle generated data or for performing fleet
management.
Referring to Fig. 8, the manufacturer may be able to leverage its resources, including
resources obtained from its service centers and branch dealers, to optimize logistics
performance for an enterprise in a manner that is more efficient than that possible by the
enterprise on its own. Still further, the manufacturer may rely on its own knowledge, e.g., of
its equipment and equipment capabilities to provide insight to a fleet operator utilizing the
industrial vehicle application server 14 within their enterprise 26, such as to provide insight
into realized productivity, etc.
By way of illustration and not by way of limitation, the manufacturer may be able to provide
the fleet operator a more accurate estimate of the true cost of logistics by analyzing features
associated with a combination of industrial vehicle data, operator data, and fleet data,
including the applications being performed, e.g., based upon the information collected by the
industrial vehicles 12 and corresponding industrial vehicle application server 14 executing
within a given enterprise 26.
As an example, the fleet operator can farm the data collected by the industrial vehicle
application server 14 to the vehicle manufacturer, who can load the data onto its server 30.
By way of illustration, the industrial vehicle application server software may have integrated
or otherwise associated therewith, a communication service 14A. The communication service
14A may facilitate communication with the manufacturer server 30.               In this regard, the
                                                 28
                                                                        9988015_1 (GHMatters) P88218.AU.3 21/02/2018

communication service 14A may be implemented using any practical technique to facilitate
communication of data. For example, the communication service 14A may be setup by either
the manufacturer or fleet operator to "wake up" at prescribed intervals, e.g., every night at a
certain time, to transfer data, including data collected by the industrial vehicle application
server 14 and/or other desired data to the manufacturer server 30. As another example, the
manufacturer server 30 can poll, contact, or otherwise connect with the industrial vehicle
application server 14. As yet further examples, the manufacturer server 30 can issue queries
to request desired data from the industrial vehicle application server 14 and/or obtain the
necessary data in other manners.
As yet a further illustrative example, the communication service may be implemented as a
Web service.      When the communication service 14A wakes up, it may contact the
manufacturer server 30 to determine what data is desired by the manufacturer server 30. As
another example, a scheduler or other solution may be utilized to establish when the data
exchange takes place.      The server exchange of data may also implement data exchange
efficiencies, such as only conveying data that falls within a certain date range, e.g., as may be
desired by the enterprise operator or as specified by the timestamp of a last data exchange.
In an illustrative example, the manufacturer server 30 can analyze data extracted from the
industrial vehicle application server 14. The manufacturer server 30 can share the results of
the analysis with the enterprise operator and/or implement workflows or other processing
tasks based upon the analyzed results. For example, the manufacturer server 30 may analyze
the data from a maintenance perspective. Based upon the analysis results, the manufacturer
server 30 may trigger additional workflows, e.g., generating work requests for a service center
150, sending information to a branch dealer 152 etc. so that effective maintenance, service,
proactive support etc., may be provided to the enterprise operator. For example, a service
center 150 can schedule the maintenance/repair of industrial vehicles 12 in need of servicing
in a manner that minimizes the intrusion of the downtime on the fleet operator.
According to various aspects of the present invention, productivity metrics can be evaluated
by leveraging the capabilities of the industrial vehicle application server software.                         For
example, the above-described hour meter data may be communicated from the industrial
vehicle application server 14 to the manufacturer server computer 30.              The manufacturer
server computer can analyze the data not only in the context of the collected vehicle data, but
                                                29
                                                                         9988015_1 (GHMatters) P88218.AU.3 21/02/2018

also in the context of fleet management, e.g., using additional/independent software
applications.   Moreover, the results of analyzing the data from using a fleet management
software at the manufacturer server 30 can be communicated back to the associated enterprise
26, e.g., for additional data processing by the industrial vehicle application server software
and/or by other enterprise applications, legacy systems and software.
Having thus described the invention of the present application in detail and by reference to
embodiments thereof, it will be apparent that modifications and variations are possible
without departing from the scope of the invention defined in the appended claims.
It is to be understood that, if any prior art is referred to herein, such reference does not
constitute an admission that such prior art forms a part of the common general knowledge in
the art, in Australia or any other country.
In the claims that follow and in the preceding description of the invention, except where the
context requires otherwise due to express language or necessary implication, the word
''comprise" or variations such as "comprises" or "comprising" is used in an inclusive sense,
i.e. to specify the presence of the stated features but not to preclude the presence or addition
of further features in various embodiments of the invention.
                                                30
                                                                         9988015_1 (GHMatters) P88218.AU.3 21/02/2018

                                             CLAIMS
1. A method of collecting information related to a lockout event occurring on an industrial
vehicle comprising:
        defining at least one lock out condition associated with an industrial vehicle that is
distinct from normal operator authorization operations where the lockout condition is a select
one of an error that occurs during performing a checklist, or where the lockout condition is an
operator action that reserves the industrial vehicle by locking the industrial vehicle for a
predetermined amount of time;
        detecting an occurrence of the lockout condition by a processor executing on the
industrial vehicle;
        locking out the industrial vehicle so that the industrial vehicle cannot be driven from
its locked location;
        wirelessly communicating to the server application, an indication that the lockout
condition occurred on the industrial vehicle, and location based data associated with the
locked out industrial vehicle; and
        displaying on a display screen of the industrial vehicle, an indication as to why the
lockout condition occurred.
2. The method according to claim 1, wherein:
        communicating location based data to the server comprises providing at least one of:
                identification of the closest access point,
                global positioning system (GPS) data,
                data from an RFID tag, and
                data computed from triangulation of multiple access points.
3. The method according to claim 1, wherein:
        communicating location based data to the server comprises providing identification of
the closest access point.
4. The method according to any one of claims 1 to 3 further comprising:
        receiving a command to unlock the industrial vehicle;
        wirelessly transmitting to the server application, information that designates the
                                                 31

identity of a person who unlocked the industrial vehicle; and
        storing the identity of the person who unlocked the industrial vehicle in a database
associated with the server application.
5. The method according to any one of claims 1 to 4 further comprising sounding an alarm in
response to locking out the industrial vehicle, wherein the alarm comprises initiating an
audible alarm sound that is different from a horn of the locked out industrial vehicle.
6. The method according to any one of claims 1 to 4 further comprising initiating an alarm in
response to locking out the industrial vehicle, wherein the alarm comprises initiating a visual
alarm that is different from one or more operating lights of the locked out industrial vehicle.
7. The method according to any one of claims 1 to 3 further comprising performing, in
response to locking out the industrial vehicle, an action of unlocking the industrial vehicle by
sending an unlock command from the server to the industrial vehicle.
8. The method according to any one of claims I to 7 further comprising, upon detecting that
the override has been initiated, communicating across the vehicle network bus to perform at
least one of reducing functionality of at least one vehicle process, and enabling only a limited
number of vehicle capabilities less than the full vehicle capability.
9. The method according to claim 1 further comprising providing an override such that when
entered, temporarily enables the industrial vehicle for a limited amount of time.
10. The method according to claim 9 further comprising, upon detecting that the override has
been initiated, communicating across the vehicle network bus to perform at least one of
reducing functionality of at least one vehicle process, and enabling only a limited number of
vehicle capabilities less than the full vehicle capability.
                                                 32

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
