METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR TESTING SWELLABLE MATERIALS
ABSTRACT
The invention provides a method and apparatus (50) for use in testing the swell characteristics of
swellable components (34) used in downhole exploration or production equipment, such as
swellable packers. A method of measuring a test piece (30) using a testing apparatus with a fluid
chamber (54) and a transducer (70) is described. Measured data can be compared with data
measured from a sample section of a tool to determine a relationship between swell
characteristics. The determined relationships can then be used to calculate or predict swelling
characteristics of swellable components, for example particular packer designs, in specific fluid
samples.

                                             1
     METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR TESTING SWELLABLE MATERIALS
The present invention relates to a method and apparatus for testing of swellable
materials and in particular to a method and apparatus for testing of swell
characteristics of materials and components used in downhole equipment for the
oil and gas exploration and production industries.
Background to the Invention
Swellable materials have been used in a range of oil and gas exploration and
production equipment.      Most notably, swellable materials have been used in
wellbore packers for creating a seal in an annular space between a tubing and a
surrounding wall of a cased hole or openhole well. A typical swellable packer
includes a mantle of swellable elastomeric material formed around a tubular
body. The swellable elastomer is selected to increase in volume on exposure to
at least one triggering fluid, which may be hydrocarbon fluid or an aqueous fluid
or brine. The packer is run to a downhole location in its unexpanded, unswollen
state where it is exposed to a wellbore fluid and caused to swell. The design,
dimensions, and swelling characteristics are selected such that the swellable
mantle creates a fluid seal in the annulus, thereby isolating one wellbore section
from another.    Swellable packers have several advantages over conventional
packers, including passive actuation, simplicity of construction, and robustness in
long term isolation applications.    Examples of swellable packers and suitable
materials are described in GB 2411918.
The swell characteristics of the packer are critical to proper performance of the
packer. Important swell characteristics include the swell rate, the time taken for
the outer surface of the mantle to reach and contact the exterior surface (which
may be referred to generally as "contact time") and the time taken to reach the
point of maximum internal pressure exerted by the packer on the surrounding
surface (which may be referred to generally as "pack-off time").         The swell
characteristics are dependent on various factors including the materials used, the
dimensions and design of the tool, the wellbore conditions (including temperature
and pressure), and the fluid or fluids to which the tool is exposed.

                                              2
It is known in the art to carry out tests on swellable packers by placing a
representative sample of the packer in a fluid. A typical sample packer section is
shown in Figure 1, generally depicted at 10. A swellable mantle 12 is formed on
a pipe or mandrel 14 according to conventional manufacturing techniques and
has a known outer diameter and thus a known mantle thickness. The packer
section 10 is formed by cutting a short length, for example 8 to 15 cm, through
the mantle 12 and the pipe 14. The sample packer section 10 is placed in a fluid
bath (not shown), which contains a hydrocarbon or aqueous fluid or brine used
for the test. The fluid bath is located inside an oven, which can be heated to
typical wellbore temperatures. For example, the oven may be operable to heat
the fluid and packer section 10 to temperature of around 800C to 1500C. The
packer section 10 is left in the fluid bath for the duration of the test (which may be
several days). At regular intervals during the test, the oven is opened, the packer
section is removed, and the outer diameter is measured manually using a calliper
gauge.     The measurement data for such packer sections 10 are generally
considered by the industry to be representative of the swell times of a complete
tool of the same radial dimensions and configuration in a wellbore environment.
Figure 2 is a plot of thickness change, expressed as a percentage of the original
thickness, versus exposure time of a sample packer section 10 with an initial
outer diameter of 5.75 inches (approximately 146mm) on a base pipe having
outer diameter of 4.5 inches (around 114mm).           The packer section 10 of this
example had a swellable mantle 12 formed from ethylene propylene diene M
class rubber (EPDM) rubber and was exposed to Clairsol@ (a hydrocarbon fluid)
at 900C. The data show that the time taken for the sample section to swell to its
maximum volume (with a percentage thickness increase of around 80%) is
around 600 hours or 25 days.
A packer will be deployed in and sealing with a wellbore of known inner diameter.
For example, the packer 10 for the test data of Figure 2 is designed for sealing
with a bore of inner diameter in the range of 6 to 6.8 inches (about 152.4 mm to
172.7 mm).    The measurements of particular interest are the time taken for a
swellable mantle to increase in outer diameter to contact a surrounding surface

                                            3
of a wellbore of a particular inner diameter (the "contact time") and the time taken
for the swellable mantle to exert its maximum internal pressure against a sealing
surface of a particular inner diameter (the "pack-off time").     In the example of
Figure 2, the packer has a contact time of 60 hours with a 6.125 inch (about
155.6 mm) wellbore.
Performing such tests on packer sections requires an oven and a suitable fluid
chamber, which typically lacks portability and takes up valuable space at an
exploration or production installation. Carrying out the tests is labour intensive,
and may be hazardous due to the nature of the fluids used and the elevated
temperatures.     Physical handling of the sample sections may be difficult or
unsafe when the packer sections have been exposed to fluid, particularly at high
temperatures. Measurement of the outer diameter is prone to error, particularly
because the swellable material is soft and may be deformed by the callipers.
Multiple personnel may be required to measure the outer diameter at different
measurement times, and each individual may take a measurement by a slightly
different technique, introducing further uncertainty into the measurement data.
The long swelling times of the sample packer sections are inconvenient for rapid
measurement of swell characteristics.      The long test times also increase the
likelihood of multiple personnel being used to measure the outer diameter, and
therefore increase the likelihood of inconsistent measurements. Long test times
limit the repeatability of the tests, and reduce the practicability of tests being
carried out for multiple fluid samples.     These factors combine to reduce the
quality of the available measurement data.
With packer sample section 10 of the prior art, the ends of the swellable member
12 are exposed to the test fluid, which increases the surface area-to-volume ratio
at each end of the section 10, relative to the surface area-to-volume ratio at its
axial midpoint. This means that the swelling rate of the swellable member at the
end of the sample section 10 is likely to be greater than the swelling rate at its
axial midpoint, causing non-uniform swelling which can have an adverse effect
on the accuracy of the measurements of the outer diameter.
The industry tends to make assumptions about the swell characteristics of

                                             4
swellable materials in different fluids. For example, a simplified model of volume
increase of swellable elastomers assumes that the swell rate of a swellable
material depends primarily on the viscosity of the fluid to which it has exposed.
Accordingly, a sample packer section 10 may be tested in a fluid of low viscosity
(for example 1 cP), with measurements of percentage change in thickness over
time being made.       Measurements may also be made for an identical sample
packer section in a higher viscosity of fluid (for example 100 cP or 100 mPa). In
order to predict the swell characteristics of a packer section in a given wellbore
fluid sample with a different viscosity, the measurement data will be interpolated
or extrapolated rather than repeating the tests in the wellbore fluid sample.
Additionally, in some simplified models, the pack-off time for a particular inner
diameter is assumed to be constant multiplier of the contact time. This simplified
model is flawed, because it does not account for different swelling end points of a
swellable material in different fluid samples.      For example, a packer sample
section exposed to one hydrocarbon fluid with 1 cP viscosity might have a
maximum swelling extent of, for example 75% of the original mantle thickness,
whereas the swelling end point of an identical tool sample in a different
hydrocarbon fluid, also having a viscosity of 1 cP, may have a swelling end point
of 80% of the original thickness of the mantle.       Figure 3 is a plot of swelling
profile of two identical sample sections in different hydrocarbon-based fluids with
the same viscosity (1.5cP). The plot shows that the swell characteristics of the
sample in Fluid 1 (which was the special kerosine Clairsol 350MHF TM) are
different from the swell characteristics of the sample in Fluid 2 (which was a gas
oil) despite the test fluids having the same fluid viscosity. Different swelling end
points have an effect on the contact time and pack-off time, which is not
accounted for in a model which relies on viscosity effects only. This illustrates
that it would be advantageous to account for fluid types when assessing swell
characteristics.
It is amongst the aims and the objects of the invention to provide methods,
testing apparatus, and test pieces which overcome or mitigate the drawbacks of
conventional testing procedures and apparatus.

                                             5
Further aims and objects of the invention will become apparent from the following
description.
Summary of the Invention
According to a first aspect of the invention, there is provided a method of testing
a swellable component for downhole hydrocarbon exploration or production
equipment, the method comprising the steps of:
providing a test piece comprising a swellable material in a fluid chamber of a
testing apparatus;
exposing the test piece to a triggering fluid;
measuring, using a transducer of the testing apparatus, a swell characteristic of
the test piece to provide a test piece measurement data set.
The test piece may be a small, portable test piece which is easy to handle and
which can be tested in a small, portable test apparatus. The swell characteristics
measured may for example be thickness of the test piece (or another dimension)
or a pressure exerted by the test piece during swelling.
The method may comprise the additional step of outputting the measurement
data set to a data processing means. The data processing means may be a
personal computer, or alternatively maybe a dedicated data processing module.
The method may comprise generating a report of the swell characteristic.
Preferably, the measurement data set comprises a time series of a swell
characteristic,   and the    method     comprises   generating     a  report of the
measurement data set as a changing swell characteristic or parameter over time.
The fluid may comprise a hydrocarbon fluid. Alternatively, or in addition, the fluid
may comprise an aqueous fluid or brine. The fluid may be a sample of a fluid to
which downhole equipment will be exposed in a wellbore. Thus, when testing a
swellable material for use in downhole equipment for a particular wellbore
installation, a sample of wellbore fluid used in that installation may be used in the
method to measure a swell characteristic of the sample in that fluid. The fluid

                                             6
may be a drilling mud, a completion fluid, or a production fluid. Other fluids are
within the scope of the invention.
The method may comprise the step of exposing the sample to a second fluid or
to a second fluid mixture. Thus the sample may be exposed to a first fluid for a
period of time, with swell characteristics measured during that period.         The
sample may be exposed to a second fluid, different from the first, for a second
period of time in order to measure the swell characteristic of the sample when
exposed to the second fluid.
The method may comprise the additional step of circulating fluid in the chamber.
Thus, according to one embodiment, the sample may be exposed to a first fluid
for a period of time, following which the first fluid may be circulated out of a
chamber and replaced by a second fluid. After a further period, the first fluid may
be circulated in the chamber to replace the second fluid. Alternatively, a third
fluid may replace the second fluid. According to this embodiment, the method
may simulate the exposure of the sample to different fluids, as might occur during
deployment of downhole equipment, or during the operational lifetime of the
downhole equipment.       For example, the method may be used to monitor the
effect of circulating a completion fluid such as a brine, past the equipment, before
being exposed to hydrocarbon fluid such as a drilling fluid or produced
hydrocarbons.       The method allows a swell characteristic to be measured
throughout exposure to different fluid types.
The method may comprise the step of heating and/or cooling the chamber of the
apparatus.     The method may therefore simulate wellbore conditions, and in
particular may expose the sample to an environment similar to that found in a
downhole wellbore installation. In particular the method may comprise the step of
increasing the temperature of the test piece. Thus the method may simulate an
increasing temperature experienced by downhole equipment during run-in. The
method may comprise the step of introducing a sharp temperature change to the
chamber.      This may simulate the injection of a fluid passed the swellable
apparatus, the fluid being at a different temperature from the ambient conditions
in the wellbore. Such conditions may for example occur during a wellbore clean-

                                           7
up operation.
Changing the temperature profile of the chamber may comprise the step of
circulating a fluid in the chamber at a different temperature.   The method may
include the step of heating or cooling the sample or fluid by a joule heater or
Peltier device.
The method may comprise the additional step of determining a relationship
between a swell characteristic of the test piece and a swell characteristic of a
downhole tool.     The relationship may in particular be a time domain scaling
between the respective time series. The method also may comprise calculating
swelling data for a swellable component of hydrocarbon exploration or production
equipment from       the test piece measurement       data, using a determined
relationship between a test piece swell characteristic and a swellable component
swell characteristic.
The method may comprise providing swellable component configuration data,
and storing the swellable component configuration data in a database with the
determined relationship. The swellable component configuration data is data
about the component, and may for example include at least one of: dimensions
of the swellable component; shape of the swellable component; materials used in
the swellable component; and construction techniques used to form the swellable
component. Therefore a determined relationship can be assigned to or identified
with a particular swellable component.
The method may comprise deriving a ratio of a dimension of the swellable
component to a dimension of the test piece from the swellable component
configuration data.      For example a ratio of the thickness of a swellable
component to the thickness of the swellable material in the test piece may be
derived from the swellable component configuration data.
The method may comprise the steps of:
     a. providing an additional measurement data set comprising measurement
         data corresponding     to  an  additional  swellable   component   swell

                                            8
        characteristic;
    b. comparing the first and additional measurement data sets to determine an
        additional relationship between a test piece swell characteristic and the
        additional swellable component swell characteristic.
Therefore for a single test of a test piece, relationships can be determined with
swellable components of different configurations and stored in a database.
The method as claimed may comprise repeating steps a. and b. for at least one
further swellable component, and storing the plurality of determined relationships
in a database with the swellable component configuration data.
For example, in the context of swellable packers, relationships with swelling
profiles of packers of different sizes can be calculated. This can be repeated,
with the relationships stored in the database.
The method may also comprise deriving a further relationship between the
swellable component configuration        data and the plurality of determined
relationships.    For example, a further relationship between the ratio of the
thickness of a swellable component to the thickness of the swellable material in
the test piece, and the time domain scaling multiplier can be determined. This
allows prediction of swell characteristics of a tool configuration, even where a
specific tool configuration has not been tested.
According to a second aspect of the invention there is provide an apparatus for
testing a swell characteristic of a material used in a swellable component of
downhole hydrocarbon exploration or production equipment, the apparatus
comprising: a fluid chamber configured to receive a fluid and a test piece
comprising a swellable material; and a transducer for measuring a swell
characteristic of the test piece.
The apparatus may comprise an output line for outputting measurement data
from the transducer, which may be operable to measure a dimension of the test
piece, such as a thickness. The transducer may be a non-contact transducer

                                            9
which tracks movement of a target coupled to the test piece.               In one
embodiment, the transducer is an eddy current transducer and is disposed to
measure an eddy current in the target. The target may be configured to move in
correspondence with an increase in volume of the swellable material of the test
piece. Alternatively, the transducer may be a contact transducer.
A movable plate may be provided which may be provided, and may be
configured for movement in a single direction (which is preferably vertical). The
movable plate moves in correspondence to an increase in volume of the
swellable material of the test piece.      Wherein the transducer is a contact
transducer, the movable member is disposed to contact the head of the
transducer.     The movable member may impart a force or pressure on to the
transducer
The apparatus may include a temperature control system, which may have a
heating element operable to heat fluid in the fluid chamber and may comprise a
temperature feedback loop.      The apparatus may comprise an inlet and/or an
outlet for the chamber, and may be configured for the circulation of fluid in the
fluid chamber via the inlet and outlet.
The apparatus may be part of a system of portable components, which may
comprise one or more of a data logging unit, a power supply unit, and/or an
interface for a portable computer.
According to a third aspect of the invention there is provided method of analysing
data obtained from a test of a swellable component of downhole hydrocarbon
exploration or production equipment, the method comprising the steps of:
providing    a first  measurement      data set  comprising    measurement    data
corresponding to a test piece swell characteristic;
providing a second measurement data set comprising measurement data
corresponding to a swellable component swell characteristic;
comparing the first and second measurement data sets to determine a
relationship between a test piece swell characteristic and a swellable component
swell characteristic.

                                            10
The first measurement data set may comprise data corresponding to a thickness
of the test piece, and the second measurement data set may comprise data
corresponding to a dimension of the swellable component. The second
measurement data set may for example be data corresponding to an outer
diameter of the swellable component (which may be a swellable wellbore
packer).
The second measurement data set may be measured from a swellable
component sample, such as a packer section sample or a model of a tool, or may
be from a full scale tool test.
Preferably the data sets are time series, which may be compared to derive a time
domain scaling multiplier for the time values of one of the time series. Thus the
relationship between the respective swell characteristics may be a time scaling
factor. Thus where the swellable component is a packer, the test piece may
comprise a thin piece of swellable material which swells faster than a full size
packer. The time domain multiplier may be applied to the time values for the test
piece to provide a swell profile which matches that of the packer.
In one embodiment, a plurality of determined relationships is obtained for
different swellable components or tool designs, and the determined relationships
may have correlation with parameters or features of the swellable components.
For example, a relationship may be determined between the time-domain scaling
multiplier and the ratio of thickness of the swellable material of the test piece and
the thickness of a mantle of a swellable packer.         This allows prediction or
calculation of a relationship for a tool design from the measured data, which in
turn can be used to predict the swelling characteristics of a tool, even when the
tool design itself has not been tested. A database may be built up from the
determined relationships.
According to a fourth aspect of the invention, there is provided a method of
calculating swelling data for a swellable component of downhole hydrocarbon
exploration or production equipment, the method comprising the steps of:

                                             11
providing a test piece measurement data set, obtained by disposing a test piece
comprising a swellable material in a fluid chamber of a testing apparatus,
exposing the test piece to a fluid, and measuring a test piece swell characteristic;
calculating swelling data for the swellable component from the test piece
measurement data set, using a relationship between a test piece swell
characteristic and a swellable component swell characteristic.
The method may comprise obtaining the test piece measurement data set by
performing a test on the test piece, or the steps of obtaining the data may be
performed separately (at another location) with the data later used in the method
of this aspect of the invention.
A wellbore operation may be simulated, for example by altering one or more of
the fluid composition, the fluid volume, the fluid temperature, or the test piece
temperature during the test. The fluid may be selected to correspond to a fluid to
which the swellable component will be exposed during a downhole operation,
and may be an actual sample of wellbore fluid to which the swellable component
will be exposed during a wellbore operation.
The suitability of the swellable component for a downhole operation may be
assessed, based on the calculated swelling data. The method may be repeated
to calculate swelling data for a plurality of different swellable components using
relationships between a test piece swell characteristic and the respective
swellable component characteristics.
Where the swellable component is a part of a wellbore packer, one or more of
the following parameters may be calculated to assess the performance and/or
suitability of the packer for a particular operation: a time at which the packer will
contact a borehole wall of known dimensions; a time at which the packer will
exert its maximum pressure against a borehole wall; or a pressure differential
rating for the packer in a borehole of known dimensions.
According to a fifth aspect of the invention, there is provided a method of forming
a test piece for a swellable component for downhole exploration or production

                                             12
equipment, the method comprising:
providing a substantially planar substrate of a non-swellable material;
bonding a layer of swellable material selected to increase in volume on exposure
at least one triggering fluid onto the substrate.
Preferably, the test piece is substantially planar. The substrate may be metal,
and most preferably is steel. The substrate may be a disc of metallic material,
having a recess formed in one face of the disc. The swellable material may be
moulded into the recess of the disc.
The swellable material may be bonded to the substrate on the base of the
recess, and may also be bonded on the side walls of the recess.
The disc may have a thickness in the range of 1 mm to 5 mm. The recess may
have a depth in the range of 0.5 mm to 4 mm. The recess preferably has a depth
of approximately 2 mm.           The swellable material     may have a thickness
corresponding to the depth of the recess. The thickness is selected to provide
portability, along with a rapid swelling rate, balanced with reasonably long overall
swelling time to allow sufficient data to be gathered.
According to a sixth aspect of the invention, there is provided a test piece for use
in a method of testing a swelling characteristic of a swellable component for
downhole exploration or production equipment, the test piece comprising a
planar substrate having a recess, and a swellable material selected to increase in
volume on exposure at least one triggering fluid moulded into the recess.
According to a seventh aspect of the invention, there is provided a packer section
for testing a swelling characteristic of a swellable wellbore packer in a controlled
environment, the packer section comprising: a substantially cylindrical body
portion having an outer surface; at least one annular recess defined on the body;
and a swellable material disposed in the annular recess, the swellable material
selected to increase in volume on exposure to at least one triggering fluid;
wherein the outer diameter of the outer surface corresponds to the outer
diameter of an end ring on the wellbore packer, and the outer diameter defined

                                            13
by a base of the recess corresponds to the outer diameter of a base pipe of the
wellbore packer, such that the swellable material defines a swellable body which
corresponds to the radial dimensions of a swellable mantle of the wellbore
packer.
Preferably, the swellable material is bonded to the body portion at the surface
defining the base of the annular recess. The swellable material may alternatively
or in addition be bonded to the body portion at the radially extending side walls
which define the annular recess.
The annular recess may be formed in the body portion by a machining process.
Alternatively, or in addition, the annular recess may be at least partially defined
by a ring upstanding from a cylindrical base member or mandrel of the body
portion.   The ring may be slipped on to the cylindrical base member, or
alternatively may be threaded on to the cylindrical base member.
The swellable material may substantially fill the annular recess such that the
outer surface of the swellable body is flush with the outer cylindrical surface of
the body portion.
The packer model may comprise a plurality of annular recesses. The annular
recesses may be formed to different depths.
The swellable material may be selected to increase in volume on exposure to a
hydrocarbon triggering fluid, an aqueous triggering fluid, or may be a hybrid
swellable material which increases in volume on exposure to either of a
hydrocarbon or aqueous triggering fluid. The swellable material may comprise
an ethylene propylene diene monomer rubber (EPDM).
Embodiments of the different aspects of the invention may comprise optional or
preferred features of any of the other preferred aspect of the invention.

                                              14
Brief Description of the Drawings
To aid a more complete understanding of the invention, example embodiments
will now be described with reference to the following drawings:
Figure 1 is a perspective view of a sample section of a swellable packer;
Figure 2 is a plot of swelling profile of a sample section of a swellable mantle;
Figure 3 is a plot of swelling profile of two identical sample sections in different
hydrocarbon fluids with the same viscosity;
Figures 4A and 4B are respectively perspective and sectional views of a test
piece in accordance with an embodiment of the invention;
Figure 5 is a sectional view of a mould used to form the test piece of Figure 4 in
accordance with an embodiment of the invention;
Figure 6 is a sectional view of a testing apparatus in accordance with an
embodiment of the invention;
Figure 7 is a sectional view of a testing apparatus in accordance with an
alternative embodiment of the invention;
Figure 8 is a plot of thickness change versus time for a test piece of an
embodiment of the invention;
Figure 9 is a sectional view of a part of a testing apparatus in accordance with a
further alternative embodiment of the invention;
Figure 10 is a plot of pressure versus time measured using the apparatus of
Figure 9;
Figure 11 is a block diagram showing schematically the steps of a method of

                                             15
collecting test data in accordance with an embodiment of the invention;
Figure 12 is a block diagram showing schematically the steps of a method of
predicting a swell characteristic of a tool in accordance with an embodiment of
the invention;
Figure 13 is a plot of predicted swell profiles of tools with different configurations;
Figure 14 is a plot of tool measurement data and rescaled test piece
measurement data;
Figure 15 is a plot of scaling multipliers determined by the method of Figure 11
against ratio of tool component thickness to test piece thickness;
Figure 16 is a plot comparing a predicted swell profile of a tool with a measured
swell profile;
Figures 17A and 17B are respectively perspective and sectional views of a
packer sample section in accordance with an embodiment of the invention;
Figure 18 shows components of a portable system in accordance with an
embodiment of the invention; and
Figure 19 is a sectional view of the testing apparatus in accordance with an
alternative embodiment of the invention.
Detailed Description of Preferred Embodiments
Referring to Figures 4A and 4B, there is shown a test piece, generally depicted at
30, in the form of a planar coupon.         The test piece 30 facilitates improved
methods of testing swell characteristics, and may be used with apparatus
according to embodiments of the invention.           The test piece 30 comprises a
substrate 32 which acts as a carrier and support for a swellable material 34. The
substrate 32 is in the form of a planar disc, having a thickness of approximately

                                           16
0.12 inches (3.05 mm). The disc is formed from a suitable metal, such as carbon
steel. A circular recess 36 is formed in a face 38 of the disc to a depth of
approximately 0.085 inches (2.16 mm). The recess 36 is filled with a swellable
material 34, which may be any material used in swellable components of oilfield
equipment which are designed to increase in volume on exposure to a triggering
fluid. In this example, the swellable material is ethylene propylene diene M-class
(EPDM) rubber, typically used for forming the swellable mantle in a downhole
packer. EPDM rubber increases in volume on exposure to a hydrocarbon fluid,
such as produced oil. Other materials which are known to swell in hydrocarbon
or aqueous fluids or brines are known in the art and are within the scope of the
invention.
The substrate 32 is machined, and the test piece 30 is completed in a moulding
process.     Figure 5 shows schematically a section through a mould, generally
depicted at 40, used to form the test piece 30. The substrate 32 is placed inside
a chamber 42 in the mould 40. A bonding agent is applied to the lower surface
and side walls of the recess 36, and the uncured swellable material is injected
into the recess 36. The mould 40 is assembled and pressure will be applied to
the upper surface of the swellable material 34 in order to ensure bonding to the
substrate and to form the test piece 30 into the desired shape. Depending on the
properties of the swellable material used, heat may be applied to cure the
swellable material. The resulting test piece 30 may be finished, for example by
machining, to provide an upper surface 37 of the swellable material which is flush
with the face 38 of the substrate 32. The test piece is bonded to the substrate on
its lower surface and its sides, with one unbonded surface 37.              This is
comparable to the swellable member of a wellbore packer which will typically
bonded to a base pipe on its lower surface and to gauge rings or end rings at the
radially extending surfaces at its opposing ends.
The test piece 30 is convenient for conducting tests of swell characteristics in an
efficient and repeatable manner. The test piece 30 has several advantages over
the packer sections 10 of the prior art (and as shown in Figure 1).    Notably, the
test piece 30 is simple to manufacture. It is compact and uses a small quantity of
swellable material. This facilitates the production and storage of large numbers

                                             17
of test pieces 30, optionally with different swellable materials 34. The test piece
is portable and facilitates use in compact swell testing apparatus. The substrate
provides support to the swellable material and allows consistent production of
samples. It is envisaged that for each batch of swellable material delivered to a
manufacturer of oilfield equipment, a number of test pieces could be created for
testing the swellable       characteristics before    deployment   of manufactured
equipment, or stored for use in post-deployment testing.
Figure 6 shows a testing apparatus in accordance with an embodiment of the
invention. The apparatus, generally shown at 50, is configured for testing a swell
characteristic of a swellable material used in oilfield equipment. The apparatus
has particular application to testing of the test pieces 30 described with reference
to Figures 4A and 4B, but it will be apparent to one skilled in the art that the
testing apparatus 50 may also be used with different test pieces.
The apparatus 50 comprises a substantially cylindrical body with longitudinal axis
A, and is shown in Figure 5 in longitudinal section. The body comprises a base
section 52 and a cap section 56, which together define an internal chamber 54.
The base section 52 and the cap section 56 are formed from a suitable metal
such as stainless steel. The cap section 56 fits onto an annular wall 58 which up
stands from the base section 52 to define the internal chamber 54.               The
apparatus 50 is substantially symmetrical about a longitudinal axis A, with
fasteners 64 circumferentially distributed around the apparatus to fix the cap
section 56 to the base section 52 and close the chamber 54. The fasteners 64
are securing pins which extend through co-aligned bores in the cap section and
the annular bore 58, with threaded portions cooperating with thumb screws 66.
Other securing means can be used in alternative embodiments of the invention.
A central portion 60 of the cap section 56 extends into the inner diameter defined
by the annular wall 58. An o-ring 62 is provided between the upper surface of
the annular wall 58 and the lower surface of the cap section 56 to create a fluid
seal with the interior of the chamber.
The apparatus 50 comprises a transducer 70 extending through a central
aperture in the cap section 56 from the outside of the apparatus into the internal

                                             18
chamber 54.         In this embodiment, the transducer 70 is an eddy current
transducer, such as Micro-Epsilon Group's DT3010-A series of sensors. An o
ring 78 is provided between the transducer body 74 and the cap section 56 to
provide a fluid seal with the chamber 54.
The apparatus 50 is configured to receive a test piece 30 as described with
reference to Figures 4A and 4B in a mounting assembly, generally shown at 79.
The test piece 30 is located on a surface of the base section 52 beneath a target
plate 80, formed in this case from aluminium. The target plate 80 is mounted to
the base section 52 via hexagonal pillars 82, which allow vertical movement of
the plate (in the direction of the axis A) but are keyed with the plate to prevent
relative rotation. The transducer 70 is located at a distance of approximately 5
 10mm from the target plate 80, although the position of the transducer may be
adjusted, for example by a micrometer adjuster (not shown), to take account of
desired operational parameters of the particular eddy current transducer used.
The transducer 70 tracks vertical movement of the target plate through
proportional changes in the eddy current between the transducer sensor head 72
and target plate 80 as the position of the target plate 80 moves upwards in the
direction of the axis A. The transducer 70 outputs this as measurement data via
line 76.
The apparatus comprises an inlet 84 and an outlet 86 to the fluid chamber 54.
The inlet allows delivery of fluid into the chamber 54. The inlet 84 and the outlet
86 are provided with connectors for connection with a suitable fluid delivery
system such as a fluid hose. A fluid inlet and outlet allows continual circulation of
fluid.   This allows a fluid to be exchanged or circulated out of the apparatus
during the measurement process, as will be described below. In an alternative
embodiment, the fluid outlet may be sealed during use, and the fluid inlet may be
in communication with the reservoir to ensure that there is an adequate supply of
fluid to the fluid chamber. In other embodiments, the fluid chamber may be filled
with fluid prior to commencement of the test, with the fluid supply disconnected
and the fluid chamber plugged.

                                             19
The apparatus 50 is also provided with a thermal regulation system 90. In this
embodiment, the thermal regulation system 90 comprises a joule heater 92
disposed in the base section 52 and coupled to a temperature controller 94. The
heater 92 allows the apparatus 52 to be operated at elevated temperatures to
simulate the conditions in a downhole environment. In other embodiments, the
system 90 may include alternative heating and/or cooling elements such as
Peltier devices. Optionally, a temperature sensor such as a thermocouple may
be provided in the chamber 54 for measurement of the internal temperature of
the apparatus. The measured temperature may be fed back to a temperature
controller.  Insulating cladding may also be provided on the exterior of the
apparatus to improve heat retention.
In use, the chamber 54 is filled with a fluid and the test piece 30 is exposed to the
fluid. Any increase in volume of the swellable material in the test sample 30 due
to exposure to the fluid causes the target plate 80 to be displaced vertically. This
displacement is measured by the transducer 70, with the measurement signal
output from the apparatus via line 76. The apparatus therefore allows regular,
automated measurement of the swelling of the swellable material in the test
sample. The swell characteristic is measured in situ, while the test sample is
exposed to the fluid, and avoids the need for interruption of the test.          The
apparatus is capable of measuring an increase in thickness of the test sample
automatically with no manual intervention by a user.             This increases the
consistency of the measurement. The transducer is also capable of measuring
the increase in thickness with a high degree of precision, reducing errors caused
by calliper measurement.      The transducer and measurement system may be
configured for continuous measurement of the transducer, or measurement at
regular sample intervals. This increases the quality of the measurement data.
Figure 7 is a sectional view through a mounting assembly 100 of an apparatus in
accordance with a preferred embodiment of the invention.           The apparatus in
which the mounting assembly 100 is located is similar to, and will be understood
from the arrangement 50 shown in Figure 6. The transducer 70, fluid chamber
54 and lid section (not shown) are substantially identical to the embodiment of
Figure 6. However, the mounting assembly 100 increases the fluid exposure of

                                           20
the test piece 30.
Shown in Figure 7 is a part of the base section 152, which is similar to the base
section 52 of apparatus 50. The base section 152 differs in that it is provided
with a recess 156 in its upper surface 154. The recess 156 is sized to receive a
porous layer 158, which is formed from a metallic mesh material.       An annular
ledge 159 is provided around the perimeter of the recess 156 and supports the
porous layer 158 above the bottom of the recess. The porous layer 158 provides
a support for the test piece 30. The mesh of the porous layer provides a network
of pores which allow fluid flow through the layer 158 and around the recess 156.
As with the embodiment of Figure 6, the target plate 180 is mounted on
hexagonal pillars 82 which permit vertical movement of the support plates, but
prevent relative rotation.
The target plate 180 is provided with a similar recess 162 on its lower surface
160. The recess 162 is sized to receive a porous layer 164, which is supported
from the base of the recess 162 by an annular ledge 166. The arrangement
allows fluid communication from the fluid chamber 54 to the recess 162, via the
porous layer 164.      The upper surface of the swellable layer 34 is therefore
exposed to fluid in the support layer 64 and recess 162, and the recesses and
porous layers provide a complete fluid circulation path around the test piece,
improving fluid access to the swellable material 34.
In an embodiment of the invention, the apparatus of Figures 6 and 7 is used as
follows. The test piece 30 is located in the fluid chamber 54, and the fluid is
delivered to the chamber via the inlet 84. The test piece 30 and the swellable
material 34 in fluid communication with the fluid in the chamber, and depending
on the nature of the swellable material and the type of fluid, this exposure may
trigger a change in volume of the swellable material 34. An increase in volume
will be manifested as a change in thickness and thus the upper surface of the
swellable material 34 will impart a force on to the target plate, which in turn will
be measured by the eddy current transducer 70.          Changes in thickness are
therefore detected by the transducer, and the measurement signal can be output
as a time series via line 76. The time series data is recorded in a data storage

                                            21
means in communication with the apparatus, which forms part of a personal
computer.     Alternatively, or in addition, the data may be directly output to a
display to a user. The apparatus and method therefore enables a series of
measurements of the thickness of the swellable material over time to be
collected.
A typical measurement data set is plotted in Figure 8, with the change in
thickness is plotted as a percentage of the initial thickness (i.e. AT/T, where T is
the initial thickness and AT is the cumulative change in thickness).        The plot
shows an initial increase of the thickness of the material during hours 0 to 5 at a
relatively fast rate, with a gradual reduction of the rate of change during hours 5
to 15 and a levelling off from approximately hour 16.
The testing apparatus described above is configured for the measurement of
thickness data by using a contactless eddy current transducer 70 to measure the
vertical displacement of a target plate. In an alternative embodiment, the testing
apparatus is configured for measurement of a pressure exerted by a support
plate on a transducer.        Figure 9 is a cross-sectional view of a part of an
apparatus 150 in accordance with such an alternative embodiment of the
invention. The testing apparatus 150 is similar to the testing apparatus 50, with
like-parts indicated by like-reference numerals. However, the apparatus differs in
the nature of the transducer, which in apparatus 150 is a pressure transducer
170 which is located at a fixed distance h above the target plate 180 when the
test piece 30 is in an unswelled condition. An example of a suitable transducer is
Impress Sensors & Systems Limited's DMP 343 low pressure transducer. The
distance h is selected to correspond to a separation distance between the outer
surface of a swellable component of a tool before swelling and the surface with
which it seals (i.e. the swelling distance before contact).        In the case of a
swellable packer, this is the radial depth of the annular space between a
swellable tool and a surrounding wall.
As an example, a swellable packer having an initial mantle thickness of 0.6275
inches (about 15.9mm), may be configured to run on a base pipe or mandrel with
outer diameter of 4.5 inches (about 114.3mm), in a wellbore having inner

                                               22
diameter of 6.125 inches (about 155.6 mm).           The annular space between the
mandrel and wellbore therefore has a radial distance of 0.8125 inches (about
20.6 mm), and the required change in thickness of the swellable mantle for
wellbore contact is 0.1875 inches (about 4.8 mm) or around 30% of the original
thickness of the swellable mantle.        For the test configuration of Figure 9, the
separation distance of the support plate and the pressure transducer is
calculated in proportion.    If the initial thickness of the swellable material 34 is
0.080 inches (about 2.0 mm), the distance h is 0.024 inches (about 0.6 mm) for
an equivalent thickness change of 30%.           The distance h is configurable in the
testing apparatus.
In use, the test piece 30 is exposed to a fluid delivered to the chamber. The fluid
triggers an increase in volume of the swellable material 34 and a vertical
displacement of the target plate.        When the support plate has displaced by
distance h, it is brought into contact with the transducer and exerts pressure on
the transducer. The pressure is measured and output via line 76. The data may
be output as a time series of measured pressure data. Continued swelling of the
swellable material will tend to increase the pressure on the transducer, until
further swelling of the material is prevented by a back pressure from the
transducer. The point at which the test sample exerts a maximum pressure on
the transducer (which corresponds to the pack-off time) can be determined from
the measurement data.
Figure 10 is a typical plot of pressure data versus time using the testing
apparatus of Figure 9. Between a time of t = 0 and t = t1 , the pressure measured
by the pressure transducer is zero, because the support plate has not been
brought into contact with the transducer 170. At time t1 , the plate 180 has moved
to the distance h, and the plate contacts the transducer.           As the swellable
material of the test piece continues to swell, the pressure transducer measures
an increase in pressure between times t1 and t2 . The rate of increase of pressure
reduces, until at t2 , a maximum pressure, Pmax has been reached: t2 therefore
represents the pack-off time described above. In practice, it may be preferred to
calculate a "guaranteed pack-off time" which is greater than t2 . A guaranteed
pack-off time may be calculated by multiplying t2 by a factor (for example 1.5) or

                                           23
adding a minimum additional time to t2 .
Measurement data sets collected by the swell tests described above may be
used to predict a swelling characteristic of a swellable component of downhole
equipment.       For example, the test piece data may be compared with
measurement data from the swelling of a packer or packer section to derive a
relationship between the swelling rates of the test piece and the packer. The
relationship can then be used to predict the swell characteristics, such as the
contact time and the maximum pressure) of the packer. Data from a new test on
a test piece, for example using a fluid sample recovered from a wellbore, can be
input into the derived relationship in order to calculate the predicted swell
characteristics of the packer.
Figure 11 is a block diagram which schematically shows a method 200 for
collecting test data for use in analysis of swelling characteristics. In step 210 a
test piece measurement data set is collected from a test piece exposed to a
reference fluid, using the method and apparatus described above. In step 220, a
tool measurement data set is collected by exposing a tool, or a sample section of
a tool, to the same reference fluid used in step 210. It should be noted that in
step 220, the tool measurement data set need not be measurement of data of the
complete tool itself, but may be a measurement of the swell characteristics of a
sample section generally considered to correspond to the swell characteristics of
the tool, for example the sample packer section described with reference to
Figure 1.     In this embodiment the tool is a swellable packer, and the tool
measurement data set is collected by measuring a packer section as described
with reference to Figure 1.
The respective measurement data sets are stored in a database 230 as time
series of measurement data. As described above, the measurement data may
be thickness data or pressure data, or a combination of the two. In step 240, the
measurement data sets are compared, using any of a number of conventional
statistical techniques. The comparison may be performed using software on a
personal computer or in a dedicated processing module.               In step 250 a
relationship between the swell profile of the test piece in the reference fluid and

                                            24
the swell profile of the tool in the reference fluid is determined from the
comparison of data. The determined relationship is stored in a database, for
later use in predicting the swelling characteristics of a tool.
One example of a relationship between a test piece data set and tool data sets is
by a numerical time domain scaling multiplier S.          Such a multiplier may be
applied to a time value of the test piece swell data, such that the swell profiles
match one another. Such an operation is equivalent to rescaling the time axis for
a plot of the percentage thickness change against the time value data. Time
domain scaling multipliers may be calculated by any of a number of statistical or
numerical processing techniques. One simple method involves optimising the
scaling multiplier to minimise a difference between the scaled and unscaled time
series. Any of a number of different optimisation techniques may be used. One
simple method includes the steps of: setting a starting value to a time domain
scaling multiplier; applying it to time values of the test piece data for each data
point; replotting the thickness change data for the test piece against the rescaled
time axis; calculating a difference between the respective swell profiles of the
rescaled test piece data and the tool data; and perturbing the time domain
scaling multiplier. The new time domain scaling multiplier is applied to the time
values of the test-piece data for each data point, and the thickness change data
for the test piece is replotted against scaled time axis. A difference between the
respective swell profiles of the rescaled test piece data and the tool data is
cacluated, and compared with the previously calculated difference. The process
can be repeated until the difference between the respective plots is minimised.
Figure 12 is a block diagram which schematically shows a method 300 that uses
a determined relationship from the method 200 to predict the swell characteristics
of a swellable component or swellable tool.         In step 310, a fluid sample is
selected and provided in the test apparatus 50.         This may be an actual fluid
sample from the wellbore environment in which a tool is planned to be deployed.
Alternatively, it may be a fluid representative of the fluid in the wellbore
environment, for example a synthesised fluid to approximate the fluid conditions
expected in the wellbore. It may also be a combination of fluids, and may be a
number of separate volumes of different fluids to which the test piece will be

                                            25
exposed during different parts of the test, as will be described in more detail
below.
The test piece is subject to the test in step 320 as described with reference to
Figures 6, 7 and/or 9 above, and the test piece measurement data is output as a
time series and recorded in a data storage apparatus 330. Optionally, a display
representative of the swell characteristic from the measurement data set may be
generated and displayed to a user. For example, the test piece swell profile can
be displayed to a user in real time via a graphic display (not shown).
The test piece data set is then used in step 340 to calculate the predicted swell
profile of one or more tools. This is carried out by applying to the measured test
piece data the relationship between a test piece swell profile and a tool swell
profile determined using the method of 200. This may be for example the time
domain scaling multiplier S, as described above.       Synthetic tool datasets 350,
360 are generated for each tool design for which a relationship (or multiplier S)
has been determined.       Each synthetic tool dataset represents the predicted
swelling behaviour of the respective tool in the sample fluid.     Swelling profiles
can be output as a time series of swell data to a data storage apparatus 330,
and/or can be displayed (step 370) to a user via graphical display.            The
information can be used to generate (at step 380) a report on the swelling
behaviour of the specific tool designs in the sample fluid. For example, the report
may include a predicted contact time for a swellable packer and/or a predicted
pack-off time. In certain embodiments of the invention, the report also provides
an expected pack-off pressure, which may be used in conjunction with
information on the surface area of the packer and the expected co-efficient of
friction with the surrounding wall, to derive information representative of the
pressure capability of the packer.
Optionally, the method may include the additional steps of selecting or
recommending a particular tool design, according to desired swell parameters
input into the system at step 390.        For example, an operator may input a
maximum initial outer diameter of a packer, and may specify a minimum contact
time. Alternatively, a user may specify a fixed base pipe size, and/or may require

                                             26
that the tool must have a pack-off time not greater than a particular value. The
system is capable of providing a synthetic swell profile data for a number of
specific tool designs in a sample fluid, and then assisting a user with the
selection of the tool design for the specific application.
Figure 13 shows the predicted swell profiles of a number of different tool designs
calculated using the method 300. Plot A shows schematically the predicted swell
profiles for three wellbore packers having the same initial outer diameter of the
swellable mantle, and different size base pipes. The Figure shows graphically
how the method can be used to select or eliminate particular tool configurations
(which in this case are base pipe diameters) depending on constraints on
swelling time and/or final OD of the packer.
The method 200 can be repeated to obtain a number of different time domain
scaling multipliers S for different tool configurations.      It is then possible to
determine a relationship between the time domain scaling multipliers and various
parameters of the tool configuration. For example, a relationship can be derived
which describes the dependence of time domain scaling multipliers on the ratio of
test piece thickness to test packer element thickness, by plotting calculated
scaling multipliers against the ratios of the packer swellable mantle thickness TP
to the thickness of the test piece T. Using standard statistical techniques, it is
possible to determine a relationship, for example a quadratic relationship in the
form
                      S = aR 2 + bR - c              (Equation 1)
where R is Tp/To, between the scaling multiplier S and the tool parameters.
The invention therefore provides a method by which swell profile information for a
proposed new packer size can be obtained on the basis of the derived
relationships and the measurement data from a test piece.           For the proposed
packer design, the appropriate time domain scaling multiplier can be derived
from of the ratio of the test piece thickness and the thickness of the swellable
member in the packer. This is then applied to the swell test data measured from

                                            27
a test piece to obtain a predicted swell profile of the packer design.
The techniques described above can be applied to a measurement of pressure
exerted by the swellable member during an increase in volume. Again, the time
series pressure data are collected for a test sample, and compared with the time
series of pressure data collected using the conventional testing of a packer
section to derive a relationship between the swelling profiles.
One specific example of the method 200 of the invention is described here. In
this example, a test piece 30 was tested using the apparatus 50 in order to obtain
a time series of test piece data which corresponds to thickness changes of the
swellable material. The test piece 30 was exposed to a fluid sample selected to
approximate the fluid encountered in the wellbore into which it is planned to run a
packer. The temperature of the fluid was maintained at a constant 800C.
A wellbore packer sample section, similar to section 10 shown in Figure 1, was
placed in a fluid bath containing the same reference fluid, also maintained at a
temperature of 800C. The sample section was a packer section having a 4.5
inch (about 114.3mm) base pipe with a swellable mantle which had an outer
diameter of 5.5 inches (about 146.1 mm). Measurements were taken manually
using a calliper gauge over a period of days to obtain a tool measurement data
set. The test piece data set and the tool data set were compared, and it was
determined that the data provided a good match when the test piece data had
applied to it a time domain scaling multiplier S of 35. In other words, for each
data point, a multiplier of 35 was applied to the time value at which the
measurement was taken before plotting on the same scale as the tool
measurement data. Figure 14 plots a percentage thickness change against time
for the tool (dashed line) and the percentage thickness change of the test piece
versus a scaled time, after the time domain multiplier of 35 is applied. The plot
shows a close match between the respective plots.             The method 200 has
therefore been used to determine           a relationship between      the swelling
characteristics of a test piece 30 and the swelling characteristics of a sample
section of a packer.

                                               28
The method 200 was repeated for a number of sample sections of packer
elements having different dimensions. In a second example, the test piece data
was compared with a data set measured from a sample section of a packer
element having a base pipe of 5.5 inches (about 139.7mm) and a swellable
mantle with an initial outer diameter of 8 inches (about 203.2mm). A comparison
of the data sets revealed that a time domain multiplier of 120 led to a
correspondence of the swelling profiles.
Similar tests were carried out on a number of different packer configurations, with
the results as shown in Table 1.
Table 1
  Packer        Base     pipe   Mantle OD   Actual Mantle Test       Piece Tp/To   Scaling
 configuration  OD (inches)     (inches)    Thickness Tp  Thickness     To Ratio   Multiplier
                                            (inches)      (inches)
    7.00 x 8.00     7.00            8.00          0.50          0.08          6.24     20
    7.00 x 8.15     7.00            8.15          0.58          0.08          7.24     30
   4.50 x 5.75      4.50            5.75          0.64          0.08          7.98     35
   4.50 x 5.85      4.50            5.85          0.68          0.08          8.50     39
   6.625 x 8.15    6.625            8.15          0.77          0.08          9.61     52
   5.50 x 8.00      5.50            8.00          1.26          0.08         15.73    120
   5.50 x 8.15      5.50            8.15          1.33          0.08         16.60    135
The numbers in the first column indicate the packer configuration in notation
commonly used in the industry. The outer diameter (OD) of the base pipe and
the outer diameter of the swellable mantle are given in inches in columns two
and three respectively.      The fourth column specifies the actual thickness of the
test packer element in inches, as measured. This is the radial thickness of the
swellable mantle TP, which represents approximately half of the difference
between the dimensions in columns two and three, with the differences due to
engineering tolerances.       In all cases, the test coupon thickness T, was 0.08
inches (column five). The ratio of the radial thickness of the swellable mantle TP
and the test coupon thickness T, is given in column six, and the derived scaling

                                            29
multiplier, which provides a suitable concordance between the swell profile of the
test piece and the swell profile of a packer element, is given in column seven.
From the calculation of the time domain scaling multipliers for different ratios of
test coupon to test packer element thickness, it a relationship was determined
between the time domain scaling multipliers and the ratios.           The calculated
scaling multipliers were plotted against the ratios of the packer swellable mantle
thickness Tp to the thickness of the test piece Te, with the results shown in Figure
15.   Using standard statistical techniques, a relationship between the scaling
multiplier and the thickness ratio was determined to be:
             S = 0.2765R 2 + 4.5989R - 18.94                 (Equation 2)
where S is the scaling multiplier and R is the ratio Tp/To.
An appropriate scaling multiplier for the time domain S can now be determined
from this relationship for a new proposed packer design, on the basis of the ratio
of the test coupon thickness and the thickness of the swellable member in the
packer, even where no previous swelling test has been performed on that packer
configuration. This is then applied to the swell test data measured from a test
piece to obtain a predicted swell profile of the packer design.
Figure 16 is a plot of measured data from a tool test and synthetic data for the
same tool design calculated using the method 300.           In this example, sample
packer section tested had a pre-swollen element OD of 5.755 inches (about
146.2 mm) and a base pipe OD of 4.5 inches (about 114.3 inches). The test
piece has a rubber thickness of 0.080 inches (about 2mm). This means the Tp/To
ratio R is about 7.84, which when input into Equation 2 gives a time domain
multiplier S of about 34.14.    This is the time domain multiplier that is applied to
the test piece measurement data to accurately portray the packer swell profile.
The plot shows a high level of concordance with the predicted swell profile,
shown by the dashed line D, and the actual measured swell profile, shown by the
line E.

                                            30
The present invention also allows the simulation of different wellbore conditions.
For example, during different periods of a swell test, the temperature of the test
piece and/or fluid can be varied. The temperature of the test piece could begin at
an ambient surface temperature (for example 200C) and be gradually increased
to simulate an increase in temperature experienced by a swellable packer as it is
run to a downhole location and as it is exposed to wellbore fluids.              The
temperature could be changed rapidly for periods of the test, which may for
example simulate the exposure of a packer to a different, cooler fluid (such as an
injected fluid stream). Optionally, a temperature sensor such as a thermocouple
is provided in the interior of the fluid chamber, or in thermal contact with the test
sample.     The signal from the temperature sensor may be fed back to the
temperature controller.     The thermal regulation system 90 may operate in a
simple power control mode (similar to a thermostat) or in a continuous variation
mode.
The test apparatus also allows different fluids to be circulated passed the test
piece during the test.        This offers another mechanism for changing the
temperature inside the testing apparatus. For example, a fluid at a temperature
of 900C may be replaced with a fluid at a temperature of 150C for a two hour
period of the test. The measurement data will be continually to be sampled
during the change in temperature.
A fluid of a different nature can be circulated in the testing apparatus.         For
example, the early stages of a test may expose the test sample to an aqueous
fluid or brine, with a later stage of the test exposing the test sample to a drilling
fluid or wellbore clean-up fluid. Subsequent stages of the test may expose the
test sample to hydrocarbon fluids such as are typically be encountered in the
production system.      Numerous variations are possible within the scope of the
invention. The invention allows the simulation of wellbore conditions likely to be
encountered by a typical downhole apparatus.           The conditions may be pre
programmed into the apparatus to automatically simulate a fluid circulation
schedule for a particular well. Throughout the process, the measurement data is
continually taken. Thus the effect on swelling characteristics can be predicted to
obtain a swelling profile for the wellbore conditions a tool will experience. A long

                                             31
period of exposure to a hydrocarbon fluid could be interjected with exposure to
an aqueous fluid (which may be at a lower temperature) to simulate the injection
of a fluid into the wellbore from surface. During such simulation programmes,
due account must be given to the time domain relationship between the swell
profile of the test piece and swelling profile of the packer, for example by dividing
the typical time for which the packer would be exposed to a particular fluid in a
wellbore operation by the time domain scaling multiplier to obtain a time for which
the test piece should be exposed to that fluid during the test.
The above-described         embodiments    of the invention      relate the  swelling
characteristics of a test piece with swelling characteristics of a sample packer
section 10 which is representative of the swelling of a swellable wellbore packer.
Figures 17A and 17B illustrate an alternative sample section which may be used
with certain embodiments of the invention.           The sample section, generally
depicted at 400, comprises a cylindrical base pipe 402 formed from a metal such
as steel. Machined into the outer surface of the base pipe are annular recesses
404, 406. Recess 404 is formed to a first depth, and recess 406 is formed to a
second depth, greater than the first depth. Located in the recesses is swellable
material selected to increase in volume on exposure to the wellbore fluid, which
in this case is EPDM rubber. The swellable material creates swellable bodies
408 and 410 which fill the recesses to provide an outer surface 412 which is flush
with the surface of the pipe 402. The swellable bodies are bonded to the pipe
402 on their lower surfaces and on the radially extending side walls of the
recesses.
The sample section 400 has certain advantages over the sample section 10 of
the prior art. Firstly, the swellable bodies have a swelling behaviour which more
closely resembles the swelling of a swellable member of a wellbore packer. By
bonding the lower and side surfaces of the swellable bodies onto the base pipe,
the swellable bodies resembles the form of a swellable packer, which is typically
bonded on its lower surface to a base pipe, and to gauge rings or end rings
which are upstanding from the base pipe to abut the radially extending surfaces
which define the ends of the swellable member.          In contrast, with the sample
section 10, the ends of the swellable member 12 are exposed to the wellbore

                                           32
fluid, which increases the surface area to volume ratio at the opposing ends of
the sample section        10 and creates non-uniform       swelling which    is  not
characteristic of a typical wellbore packer configuration. The sample section 400
thus more closely resembles the structure of a typical wellbore packer. Forming
the swellable bodies in annular recesses also provides advantages in the
manufacturing process. The swellable material which makes up the swellable
bodies can be applied, moulded, compressed and bonded into the recesses, and
the outer surface of the bodies can be easily machined to be flush with the outer
diameter of the pipe 402.
The recesses 404 and 406 are formed to different depths, to form corresponding
swellable bodies 408, 410 with different thicknesses.          This facilitates the
simultaneously testing of swellable bodies which correspond to packers of
different dimensions. Although two recesses are formed in the sample section
400, a single recess may be provided in an alternative embodiment, and other
embodiments may comprise three or more recesses. Different recesses may be
formed with different depths and/or shapes, and the swellable bodies with
different swellable materials may be provided in different recesses on the same
sample section.     It will also be appreciated that the sample section may be
formed on a solid mandrel, in place of the base pipe 402. The mandrel or base
pipe may be provided with formations to facilitate handling of the sample section.
The invention also contemplates that a measurement data set could be obtained
from a full scale trial of downhole equipment. For example, a full scale packer
could be deployed in a test bore, with regular outer diameter measurements
taken in order to provide reliable measurement data.
A preferred embodiment of the invention is configured as a system of portable
apparatus, as shown in Figure 18. The system 500 comprises an apparatus 50,
an auxiliary unit 510, and a portable computer 520, and a case 530.             The
auxiliary unit 510 contains a power supply for the apparatus 50, and an interface
for data input to and output from the apparatus 50 and the computer 520. The
power supply in this example is a mains adaptor, although in other embodiments
it may comprise a battery pack to increase portability.        A data logger and

                                           33
microcontroller are also included in the auxiliary unit.          The case 530 is
configured to house the apparatus 50 and the auxiliary unit 510, and comprises
receptacles 532, 534 for test pieces 30 and fluid sample containers 536. The
portable computer is capable of analysing and displaying data from the auxiliary
unit, and may also be used to configure the operation of the system. However,
the system may be left to run without being connected to the portable computer
520.
The invention in this aspect allows the apparatus to be taken to a site, such as an
offshore location or laboratory, for performance of the methods of the invention.
The apparatus may be used to test the swell profile of a test piece in a fluid
sample extracted from a wellbore at the drill site. It may be used to demonstrate
performance of a particular swellable tool configuration at a client site.
Figure 19 shows a testing apparatus in accordance with a further alternative
embodiment of the invention, which may be used as an alternative or in addition
to the testing apparatus of Figures 6, 7 or 9. The apparatus, generally shown at
500, is configured for testing the swell characteristic of a swellable material used
in oilfield equipment. The apparatus 500 is similar to and will be understood from
the apparatus 50 of Figure 6, although differs in various structural and functional
features as will be described below.
The apparatus 500 comprises a substantially cylindrical body comprising a base
section 502 and a cap section 506, which together define the internal chamber
504. The base section 502 and the cap section 506 are formed from a suitable
metal such as aluminium or an aluminium alloy. The body is shaped and sized to
be accommodated in a recess 508 in an aluminium block heater 510. The cap
section 506 is fixed to the base section 502 to close the chamber 504. A central
aperture 512 in the cap section 506 accommodates an eddy current transducer
514, which extends through the cap section into the fluid chamber 504. The
eddy current transducer is for example a Micro-Epsilon group DT3010-A series
sensor.
The apparatus 500 comprises a mounting arrangement 516 for a test piece 530.

                                           34
The test piece 530 is similar to test piece 30 and will be understood from Figures
4A and 4B and the corresponding description.         However, the test piece 530
differs in that the substrate 532, which acts as a carrier and support for the
swellable material 534, is formed from aluminium. A recess 536 formed in the
face of the disc is filled with a swellable material 534. In this embodiment, the
swellable material 534 is not moulded into the recess 536. Rather, the swellable
material is a piece of material punched, machined, or cut from a larger body of
swellable material. The swellable material 534 is bonded to the substrate 532 on
its lower surface and its sides, leaving one exposed surface.
In the previous embodiments, the mounting arrangement 516 included a plate
which was moved by the swelling of the test piece, with the position of the plate
(or contact pressure in the case of the embodiment of Figure 9) measured by the
transducer. However, in this embodiment, the test piece 530 is mounted in an
inverted orientation, with the substrate 532 uppermost, and the swellable material
534 lowermost.     The test piece 530 is supported on a support member 518,
which in this case includes a plurality of needle points 520. The needle points
520 provide a number of point contacts for the test piece, while still allowing fluid
circulation and sufficient exposure of the test piece 532 to fluid in the chamber
504.
In use, fluid present in the chamber contacts the swellable material 534 and
causes an increase in volume. This increase in volume imparts an upward force
on the test piece 532, moving the substrate towards the transducer 514. The
transducer    measures     the  displacement   of the    substrate  532    and the
measurement data is recorded.
Omitting a separate plate from the design simplifies the apparatus, reducing its
cost and weight and improving its portability. The mounting arrangement 516 is
preferable to using of a mesh or porous support for the test piece in some
circumstances.      For example, water-swellable elastomers such as those
including Super-Absorbent Polymers (SAPs) may exude a residue which has a
tendency to block pores in a porous or mesh-like support, reducing fluid access
and diminishing the quality of the data. The mounting arrangement 516 offers

                                             35
the advantage that any substance which exudes from the swellable material 534
will pass into the fluid in the chamber 504.
In the foregoing description, the invention is described in the context of testing
swellable packers. However, it will be appreciated by one skilled in the art that
the principles of the invention may be used wherever swellable components are
employed in downhole environments.         For example, swellable components are
used in a variety of seals, anchors and centralisers.              Use of swellable
components has also been proposed in downhole actuation mechanisms, valves
and flow stemming members. Using the principles of the invention, a relationship
may be determined between the swelling of a test piece, and the swelling of a
swellable component having a particular configuration. This can then be used to
predict the swelling profile of the tool in specific fluids, and may be extended to
predict the swelling configuration of components having different dimensions
and/or configurations.
The principles and techniques of the invention may also be used in applications
to testing of oilfield components and apparatus which are used downhole, and
which are not specifically designed to swell. For example, elastomeric materials
which are used downhole in a wide range of apparatus, such as o-ring seals and
components of downhole pumps, may be selected to avoid or limit the swelling
due to fluid exposure where an increase in volume is detrimental to the
performance of the apparatus. The invention in its various aspects may therefore
be applied to testing and/or predicting the swelling characteristics of components
and materials to enable the design and/or specification of oilfield apparatus to
mitigate against undesired swelling.
In embodiments described above, the apparatus 50 comprises an eddy current
transducer. It may be advantageous to use eddy current transducers with fluids
at high temperatures or large variations in temperature.       Other transducer types
may be used in alternative embodiments.                For example non-contacting
transducers such as optical, laser and capacitive transducers may be used. In
another example,        a contacting   linear   transducer capable of      measuring
displacement of a piston relative to a body is used.             One suitable linear

                                             36
transducer 70 is a contacting linear transducer sold by Positek Limited with
product reference number P103.         The transducer is in contact with a support
plate which moves upwards in the direction of the axis A on swelling of the
swellable     material,  and   outputs     the  displacement   measurements      as
measurement data.
The methods described above make the assumption that the relationships
between     the swelling    characteristics of a test piece and the        swelling
characteristics of a tool in a given fluid depends on the relative geometry of the
tool, and are not dependent on the fluid. However, for a particular tool design,
the test can be repeated in a number of different fluids or the same fluid at
different activation temperatures. In each case, the test piece measurement data
and the tool measurement data are collected from tests carried out in the same
format (i.e. the same reference fluids and test temperatures).
If any variations in the swelling profile of test pieces in different fluids are
apparent, they can be recorded in the database, for example as separate time
series. When predicting the swelling characteristics in a particular wellbore fluid,
data from tests performed with an appropriate fluid (i.e. one with similar
composition) can be used. For example, a time-domain scaling multiplier may be
selected from a test performed using the closest match of fluid type recorded in
the database.
Variations in the swelling profile of test pieces in the same fluid at different
temperatures may also be apparent, particularly in the case of water-swelling
elastomers and "hybrid" elastomers which swell in aqueous and hydrocarbon
fluids. An increase in temperature may increase the maximum swell volume ratio
and may also increase the swell rate, reducing the contact time and/or pack-off
time. In such circumstances the method may include performing multiple swell
tests at different temperature conditions and deriving a relationship between the
swelling characteristics of a test piece and the swelling characteristics of a
swellable component which is temperature dependent. One simple method is to
calculate time-domain scaling multipliers in the manner described above for
multiple different temperature tests and to plot the results against temperature to

                                           37
derive a relationship between the temperature and the multiplier.       For given
wellbore conditions with a known temperature, an appropriate time scale
multiplier may be selected for predicting the performance of a swelling
component based on test-piece measurement data.
 In another simple example method, the maximum swelling volume may be
determined from multiple different temperature tests with the results plotted
against temperature to allow derivation of a relationship between the temperature
and the maximum swelling volume. This allows determination of swell volume
scaling multipliers, which may be applied to the swell volume data to normalise
the data for different temperature conditions. For given wellbore conditions with
a known temperature, the normalised or rescaled volume data can be used in
conjunction with the time-domain scaling multiplier in the manner described
above to predict the performance of a swelling component based on test-piece
measurement data.
The invention provides a method and apparatus for use in testing the swell
characteristics of swellable components used in downhole exploration or
production equipment, such as swellable packers. A method of measuring a test
piece using a testing apparatus with a fluid chamber and a transducer is
described. Measured data can be compared with data measured from a sample
section of a tool to determine a relationship between swell characteristics. The
determined relationships can then be used to calculate or predict swelling
characteristics of swellable components, for example particular packer designs,
in specific fluid samples.
Variations to the above-described embodiments of the invention are within the
scope of the invention, and the invention extends to combinations of features
other than those expressly claimed herein.
 In this specification, the terms "comprise", "comprises", "comprising" or similar
terms are intended to mean a non-exclusive inclusion, such that a system,
method or apparatus that comprises a list of elements does not include those
elements solely, but may well include other elements not listed.

                                           38
The reference to any prior art in this specification is not, and should not be taken
as, an acknowledgement or any form of suggestion that the prior art forms part of
the common general knowledge.

                                            39
Claims:
1.      A method of testing a swellable component for downhole hydrocarbon
        exploration or production equipment, the method comprising the steps of:
        -   Providing a test piece comprising a swellable material in a fluid
            chamber of a testing apparatus;
        -   Exposing the test piece to a triggering fluid;
        -   Measuring, using a transducer of the testing apparatus, a swell
            characteristic of the test piece to provide a test piece measurement
            data set; and
        -   Determining a relationship between the swell characteristic of the test
            piece and a swell characteristic of the swellable component.
2.      The method as claimed in claim 1 comprising the additional step of
        recording the measurement data set in a data storage device.
3.      The method as claimed in claim 1 or claim 2 wherein the measurement
        data set comprises a time series of a swell characteristic.
4.      The method as claimed in any preceding claim comprising generating a
        report of the swell characteristic.
5.      The method as claimed in any preceding claim comprising generating a
        display representative of the swell characteristic from the measurement
        data set and displaying to a user.
6.      The method as claimed in any preceding claim wherein the measurement
        data set comprises the measurement of a dimension of the test piece.
7.      The method as claimed in any preceding claim wherein the transducer is
        a non-contact transducer which tracks movement of a target coupled to
        the test piece.
8.      The method as claimed in claim 7 wherein the transducer is an eddy

                                      40
    current transducer.
9.  The method as claimed in any of claims 1 to 6 wherein the measurement
    data set comprises a pressure measurement.
10. The method as claimed in any preceding claim wherein the fluid is a
    sample of a fluid to which downhole equipment will be exposed in a
    wellbore operation.
11. The method as claimed in any preceding claim comprising exposing the
    test piece to a second fluid.
12. The method as claimed in any preceding claim comprising circulating fluid
    through the chamber.
13. The method as claimed in any preceding claim comprising changing the
    temperature of the chamber of the apparatus.
14. The method       as claimed    in claim 13 comprising    increasing the
    temperature of the test piece.
15. The method as claimed in any preceding claim comprising determining a
    relationship between a test piece swell characteristic and a swellable
    component swell characteristic.
16. The method as claimed in any preceding claim comprising calculating
    swelling data for a swellable component of hydrocarbon exploration or
    production equipment from the test piece measurement data, using a
    relationship between a test piece swell characteristic and a swellable
    component swell characteristic.
17. An apparatus for testing a swell characteristic of a material used in a
    swellable component of downhole hydrocarbon exploration or production
    equipment, the apparatus comprising: a fluid chamber configured to

                                      41
    receive a fluid and a test piece comprising a swellable material; and a
    transducer for measuring a swell characteristic of the test piece.
18. The apparatus as claimed in claim 17 comprising an output line for
    outputting measurement data from the transducer.
19. The apparatus as claimed in claim 17 or 18 wherein the transducer is
    operable to measure a dimension of the test piece.
20. The method as claimed in any of claims 17 to 19 wherein the transducer
    is a non-contact transducer which tracks movement of a target coupled to
    the test piece.
21. The apparatus as claimed in claim 20 wherein the target is configured to
    move in correspondence with an increase in volume of the swellable
    material of the test piece.
22. The apparatus as claimed in claim 20 or claim 21 wherein the transducer
    is an eddy current transducer and is disposed to measure an eddy current
    in the target.
23. The apparatus as claimed in any of claims 17 to 19 wherein the
    transducer is a contact transducer.
24. The apparatus as claimed in claim 23 wherein the transducer is
    configured to measure a pressure or force exerted by swelling of the test
    piece.
25. The apparatus as claimed in any of claims 17 to 24 comprising a
    mechanism for adjusting the position of the transducer.
26. The apparatus as claimed in any of claims 17 to 25 configured to
    measure a time series of the swell characteristic of the test piece.

                                         42
27. The apparatus as claimed in any of claims 17 to 26 further comprising a
    temperature control system.
28. The apparatus as claimed in claim 27 wherein the temperature control
    system comprises a heating element operable to heat fluid in the fluid
    chamber.
29. The apparatus as claimed in any of claims 17 to 28 configured for the
    circulation of fluid in the fluid chamber via an inlet and outlet of the fluid
    chamber.
30. The apparatus as claimed in any of claims 17 to 29 further comprising a
    data logging unit.
31. The apparatus as claimed in any of claims 17 to 30 further comprising a
    power supply unit.
32. The apparatus as claimed any of claims 17 to 31 comprising an interface
    for a portable computer.
33. A portable apparatus comprising the apparatus as claimed in any of
    claims 17 to 32.
34. A method of analysing data obtained from a test of a swellable
    component      of   downhole      hydrocarbon  exploration   or   production
    equipment, the method comprising the steps of:
    providing a first measurement data set comprising measurement data
    corresponding to a test piece swell characteristic;
    providing a second measurement data set comprising measurement data
    corresponding to a swellable component swell characteristic;
    comparing the first and second measurement data sets to determine a
    relationship between a test piece swell characteristic and a swellable
    component swell characteristic.

                                       43
35. The method as claimed in claim 34 wherein the first measurement data
    set comprises data corresponding to a dimension of the test piece.
36. The method as claimed in claim 35 wherein the first measurement data
    set comprises data corresponding to a thickness of the test piece.
37. The method as claimed in any of claims 34 to 36 wherein the second
    measurement data set comprises data corresponding to a dimension of
    the swellable component.
38. The method as claimed in claim 37 wherein the second measurement
    data set comprises data corresponding to an outer diameter of the
    swellable component.
39. The method as claimed in any of claims 34 to 38 wherein the second
    measurement data set comprises data measured from a swellable
    component sample.
40. The method as claimed in any of claims 34 to 39 wherein at least one of
    the    first and   second    measurement    data sets comprises       data
    corresponding to a pressure or force exerted by swelling of the test piece
    or swellable component respectively.
41. The method as claimed in any of claims 34 to 40 wherein the first
    measurement data set comprises a first time series.
42. The method as claimed in any of claims 34 to 41 wherein the second
    measurement data set comprises a second time series.
43. The method as claimed in claims 41 and 42 comprising comparing the
    first and second time series.
44. The method as claimed in claim 43 comprising deriving a time domain
    scaling multiplier for the time values of one of the first or second time

                                       44
    series.
45. The method as claimed in claim 44 comprising setting a value of a time
    domain scaling multiplier; and applying the time domain scaling multiplier
    to the time values of one of the first or second time series to generate a
    scaled time series.
46. The method as claimed in claim 45 further comprising optimising the time
    domain scaling multiplier to minimise a difference between the scaled
    time series and the other, unscaled time series.
47. The method as claimed in any of claims 34 to 46 comprising providing
    swellable component configuration data, and storing the swellable
    component configuration data in a database with the determined
    relationship.
48. The method as claimed in claim 47 wherein the swellable configuration
    data comprises at least one of: dimensions of the swellable component;
    shape of the swellable component; materials used in the swellable
    component; and construction techniques used to form the swellable
    component.
49. The method as claimed in claim 47 or claim 48 comprising deriving a ratio
    of a dimension of the swellable component to a dimension of the test
    piece from the swellable component configuration data.
50. The method as claimed in claim 49 comprising deriving a ratio of the
    thickness of a swellable component to the thickness of the swellable
    material in the test piece from the swellable component configuration
    data.
51. The method as claimed in any of claims 34 to 50 comprising the steps of:
    a. providing    an   additional   measurement       data   set   comprising
        measurement     data   corresponding     to  an   additional  swellable

                                        45
        component swell characteristic;
    b. comparing the first and         additional measurement data sets to
        determine an additional relationship between a test piece swell
        characteristic    and   the   additional   swellable  component   swell
        characteristic.
52. The method as claimed in claim 51 comprising repeating steps a. and b.
    for at least one further swellable component, and storing the plurality of
    determined relationships in a database with the swellable component
    configuration data.
53. The method as claimed in claim 52 comprising deriving a further
    relationship between the swellable component configuration data and the
    plurality of determined relationships.
54. The method as claimed in claim 53 when dependent on any of claims 44
    to 46 comprising deriving a further relationship between the ratio of the
    thickness of a swellable component to the thickness of the swellable
    material in the test piece, and the time domain scaling multiplier.
55. A method of calculating swelling data for a swellable component of
    downhole hydrocarbon exploration or production equipment, the method
    comprising the steps of:
    providing a test piece measurement data set, obtained by disposing a test
    piece comprising a swellable material in a fluid chamber of a testing
    apparatus, exposing the test piece to a fluid, and measuring a test piece
    swell characteristic;
    calculating swelling data for the swellable component from the test piece
    measurement data set, using a relationship between the test piece swell
    characteristic and a swell characteristic of the swellable component.
56. The method as claimed in claim 55 comprising obtaining the test piece
    measurement data set by performing a test on the test piece.

                                       46
57. The method as claimed in claim 56 comprising simulating a wellbore
    operation by altering one or more of the fluid composition, the fluid
    volume, the fluid temperature, or the test piece temperature during the
    test.
58. The method as claimed in any of claims 55 to 57 wherein the fluid is
    selected to correspond to a fluid to which the swellable component will be
    exposed during a downhole operation.
59. The method as claimed in any of claims 55 to 57 wherein the fluid is a
    sample of wellbore fluid to which the swellable component will be
    exposed during a wellbore operation.
60. The method as claimed in any of claims 55 to 59 wherein the swelling
    data comprises a time series of swelling characteristics of the swellable
    component.
61. The method as claimed in any of claims 55 to 60 further comprising
    assessing the suitability of the swellable component for a downhole
    operation based on the calculated swelling data.
62. The method as claimed in any of claims 55 to 61, comprising calculating
    swelling data for a plurality of different swellable components using
    relationships between a test piece swell characteristic and the respective
    swellable component characteristics.
63. The method as claimed in any of claims 55 to 62 wherein the swellable
    component is a part of a wellbore packer.
64. The method as claimed in claim 63 comprising calculating a time at which
    the packer will contact a borehole wall of known dimensions.
65. The method as claimed in claim 63 or claim 64 comprising calculating a
    time at which the packer will exert its maximum pressure against a

                                     47
    borehole wall.
66. The method as claimed in any of claims 63 to 65 comprising calculating a
    pressure differential rating for the packer in a borehole of known
    dimensions.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
