 1:
 \dar\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\DAR\16420666_l.docx-6 02 2018
                                                            ABSTRACT
                The invention relates to the synthesis of boronic ester and acid compounds. More
particularly, the invention provides improved synthetic processes for the large-scale
production of boronic ester and acid compounds, including the peptide boronic acid
proteasome inhibitor bortezomib.

 1:
 \dar\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\DAR\16420666_idocx-6 02 2018
                       SYNTHESIS OF BORONIC ESTER AND ACID COMPOUNDS
                               This application is a divisional of Australian Patent Application
No. <removed-apn>, the entire content of which is incorporated herein by reference.
                                                BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
Field of the Invention
[001]                          This invention relates to the synthesis of boronic ester and acid compounds.
More particularly, the invention relates to large-scale synthetic processes for the
preparation of boronic ester and acid compounds by Lewis acid promoted rearrangement
of boron "ate" complexes.
Background of the Invention
[002]                          Boronic acid and ester compounds display a variety of pharmaceutically
useful biological activities. Shenvi et al., U.S. Pat. No. 4,499,082 (1985), discloses that
peptide boronic acids are inhibitors of certain proteolytic enzymes. Kettner and Shenvi,
U.S. Pat. No. 5,187,157 (1993), U.S. Pat. No. 5,242,904 (1993), and U.S. Pat. No.
5,250,720 (1993), describe a class of peptide boronic acids that inhibit trypsin-like
proteases. Kleeman et al., U.S. Pat. No. 5,169,841 (1992), discloses N-terminally modified
peptide boronic acids that inhibit the action of renin. Kinder et al., U.S. Pat. No. 5,106,948
(1992), discloses that certain tripeptide boronic acid compounds inhibit the growth of
cancer cells.
[003]                          More recently, boronic acid and ester compounds have displayed particular
promise as inhibitors of the proteasome, a multicatalytic protease responsible for the
majority of intracellular protein turnover. Ciechanover, Cell, 79: 13-21 (1994), discloses
that the proteasome is the proteolytic component of the ubiquitin-proteasome pathway, in
which proteins are targeted for degradation by conjugation to multiple molecules of
ubiquitin. Ciechanover also discloses that the ubiquitin-proteasome pathway plays a key
role in a variety of important physiological processes.
                                                              -1-

WO 2005/097809                                                               PCTIUS2005/009774
  [004]           Adams et al., U.S. Patent No. 5,780,454 (1998), U.S. Patent No. 6,066,730 (2000),
  U.S. Patent No. 6,083,903 (2000), U.S. Patent No. 6,297,217 (2001), U.S. Patent No. 6,548,668,
  and U.S. Patent No. 6,617,317 (2003), hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety,
  describe peptide boronic ester and acid compounds useful as proteasome inhibitors. The
 references also describe the use of boronic ester and acid compounds to reduce the rate of
 muscle protein degradation, to reduce the activity of NF-KB in a cell, to reduce the rate of
 degradation of p53 protein in a cell, to inhibit cyclin degradation in a cell, to inhibit the
 growth of a cancer cell, to inhibit antigen presentation in a cell, to inhibit NF-YB dependent
 cell adhesion, and to inhibit HIV replication.
 [005]           Albanell and Adams, Drugs of the Future27: 1079-1092 (2002), discloses that
 one such peptide boronic acid proteasome inhibitor, bortezomib (N-2-pyrazinecarbonyl-L
 phenylalanine-L-leucineboronic acid), shows significant antitumor activity in human tumor
 xenograft models and is undergoing clinical evaluation. Richardson et al., New Engl. 1. Med.,
 348:2609 (2003), reports the results of a Phase 2 study of bortezomib, showing its
 effectiveness in treating relapsed and refractory multiple myeloma.
 [006]           Studies of boronic acid protease inhibitors have been greatly advanced by the
 development of chemistry for the preparation of functionalized boronic acid compounds,
 particularly alpha-halo- and alpha-aminoboronic acids. Matteson and Majumdar, J. Am.
 Chem. Soc., 102:7590 (1980), discloses a method for preparing alpha-chloroboronic esters by
homologation of boronic esters, and Matteson and Ray, J. Am. Chem. Soc., 102:7591 (1980),
reports that chiral control of the homologation reaction can be achieved by the use of
pinanediol boronic esters. The preparation of alpha-aminoboronic acid and ester
compounds from the corresponding alpha-chloroboronic esters has also been reported
 (Matteson et al., J. Am. Chem. Soc., 103:5241 (1981); Shenvi, U.S. Patent No. 4,537,773 (1985)).
 [007]          Matteson and Sadhu, U.S. Patent No. 4,525,309 (1985), describes an improved
procedure for the homologation of boronic esters by rearrangement of the intermediate
boron "ate" complex in the presence of a Lewis acid catalyst. The Lewis acid is reported to
promote the rearrangement reaction and to minimize epimerization at the alpha-carbon
atom. Rigorous exclusion of water and careful control of Lewis acid stoichiometry are
required for optimum results, however. These features render the reaction difficult to
perform successfully on a production scale, and limit the availability of pharmaceutically
important boronic ester and acid compounds, such as bortezornib. Thus, there remains a
need in the art for improved methods for the large-scale production of boronic ester and
acid compounds.
                                                -2-

WO 2005/097809                                                                PCTIUS2005/009774
                              DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
  [008]           The present invention provides improved synthetic processes for the large
  scale production of boronic ester and acid compounds. These processes offer increased yield
  and purity, increased throughput, and greater ease of handling as compared to prior art
  methods. Notably, the processes described herein are suitable for batch production on a
  large, multi-kilogram scale that is limited only by the size of the available manufacturing
  capabilities. The processes of the invention are particularly advantageous for the synthesis
  of chiral boronic ester and acid compounds, including alpha-aminoboronic ester and acid
  compounds. Regardless of scale, the desired products are produced with very high
  chemical and stereochemical purity.
  [0091           The patent and scientific literature referred to herein establishes knowledge
 that is available to those with skill in the art. Unless otherwise defined, all technical and
 scientific terms used herein have the same meaning as commonly understood by one of
 ordinary skill in the art to which this invention relates. Although methods and materials
 similar or equivalent to those described herein can be used in the practice or testing of the
 present invention, the preferred methods and materials are described herein. The issued
 patents, applications, and references that are cited herein are hereby incorporated by
 reference to the same extent as if each was specifically and individually indicated to be
 incorporated by reference. In the case of inconsistencies, the present disclosure, including
 definitions, will control. In addition, the materials, methods, and examples are illustrative
 only and are not intended to be limiting.
 [010]           The term "about' is used herein to mean approximately, in the region of,
 roughly, or around. When the term "about" is used in conjunction with a numerical range, it
 modifies that range by extending the boundaries above and below the numerical values set
 forth. In general, the term "about" is used herein to modify a numerical value above and
below the stated value by a variance of 10%.
 [011]           The term "comprises" is used herein to mean "includes, but is not limited to."
 [012]           The term "aliphatic", as used herein, means a straight-chain, branched or
cyclic Cl1 , hydrocarbon which is completely saturated or which contains one or more units
of unsaturation, but which is not aromatic. For example, suitable aliphatic groups include
substituted or unsubstituted linear, branched or cyclic alkyl, alkenyl, alkynyl groups and
hybrids thereof, such as (cylcoalkyl)alkyl, (cycloalkenyl)alkyl or (cycloalkyl)alkenyl. In
various embodiments, the aliphatic group has 1-12, 1-8, 1-6, or 1-4 carbons.
                                                  -3-

WO 2005/097809                                                               PCT/US2005/009774
  [013]           The terms "alkyl", "alkenyl", and "alkynyl", used alone or as part of a larger
  moiety, refer to a straight and branched chain aliphatic group having from 1 to 12 carbon
  atoms, which is optionally substituted with one, two or three substituents. For purposes of
  the present invention, the term alkyll" will be used when the carbon atom attaching the
  aliphatic group to the rest of the molecule is a saturated carbon atom. However, an alkyl
  group may include unsaturation at other carbon atoms. Thus, alkyl groups include, without
  limitation, methyl, ethyl, propyl, allyl, propargyl, butyl, pentyl, and hexyl.
  [0141           For purposes of the present invention, the term "alkenyl" will be used when
  the carbon atom attaching the aliphatic group to the rest of the molecule forms part of a
  carbon-carbon double bond. Alkenyl groups include, without limitation, vinyl, 1-propenyl,
  1-butenyl, 1-pentenyl, and 1-hexenyl. For purposes of the present invention, the term
  "alkynyl" will be used when the carbon atom attaching the aliphatic group to the rest of the
  molecule forms part of a carbon-carbon triple bond. Alkynyl groups include, without
  limitation, ethynyl, 1-propynyl, 1-butynyl, 1-pentynyl, and 1-hexynyl.
  [015]           The terms "cycloalkyl", "carbocycle", "carbocyclyl", "carbocyclo", or
  "carbocyclic", used alone or as part of a larger moiety, means a saturated
                                                                               or partially
 unsaturated cyclic aliphatic ring system having from 3 to about 14 members, wherein the
  aliphatic ring system is optionally substituted. Cycloalkyl groups include, without
 limitation, cyclopropyl, cyclobutyl, cyclopentyl, cyclopentenyl, cyclohexyl, cyclohexenyl,
 cycloheptyl, cycloheptenyl, cyclooctyl, cyclooctenyl, and cyclooctadienyl. In some
 embodiments, the cycloalkyl has 3-6 carbons. The terms "cycloalkyl", "carbocycle",
 "carbocyclyl", "carbocyclo", or "carbocyclic" also include aliphatic rings that are fused to one
 or more aromatic or nonaromatic rings, such as decahydronaphthyl or tetrahydronaphthyl,
 where the radical or point of attachment is on the aliphatic ring.
 [0161            The terms "haloalkyl", "haloalkenyl" and "haloalkoxy" refer to an alkyl,
 alkenyl or alkoxy group, as the case may be, substituted with one or more halogen atoms.
 As used herein, the term "halogen" or "halo" means F, C, Br, or I. Unless otherwise
 indicated, the terms "alkyl", "alkenyl", and "alkoxy" include haloalkyl, haloalkenyl and
 haloalkoxy groups, including, in particular, those with 1-5 fluorine atoms.
 [017]            The terms "aryl" and "ar-", used alone or as part of a larger moiety, e.g.,
 "aralkyl", "aralkoxy", or "aryloxyalkyl", refer to a C,, aromatic moiety comprising one to
 three aromatic rings, which are optionally substituted. Preferably, the aryl group is a C
 aryl group. Aryl groups include, without limitation, phenyl, naphthyl, and anthracenyl.
 The term "aryl", as used herein, also includes groups in which an aromatic ring is fused to
                                                 -4-

WO 2005/097809                                                                PCTIUS2005/009774
  one or more non-aromatic rings, such as indanyl, phenanthridinyl, or tetrahydronaphthyl,
  where the radical or point of attachment is on the aromatic ring. The term "aryl" may be
  used interchangeably with the term "aryl ring".
  [018]           An "aralkyl" or "arylalkyl" group comprises an aryl group covalently attached
  to an alkyl group, either of which independently is optionally substituted. Preferably, the
  aralkyl group is C,,, aryl(C1 ,)alkyl, including, without limitation, benzyl, phenethyl, and
  naphthylmethyl.
  [019]           The terms "heteroaryl" and "heteroar-", used alone or as part of a larger
  moiety, e.g., heteroaralkyl, or "heteroaralkoxy", refer to groups having 5 to 14 ring atoms,
  preferably 5, 6, 9, or 10 ring atoms; having 6,10, or 14  i electrons shared in a cyclic array;
  and having, in addition to carbon atoms, from one to four heteroatoms selected from the
  group consisting of N, O, and S. Heteroaryl groups include, without limitation, thienyl,
  furanyl, pyrrolyl, imidazolyl, pyrazolyl, triazolyl, tetrazolyl, oxazolyl, isoxazolyl,
  oxadiazolyl, thiazolyl, isothiazolyl, thiadiazolyl, pyridyl, pyridazinyl, pyrimidinyl,
 pyrazinyl, indolyl, isoindolyl, benzothienyl, benzofuranyl, dibenzofuranyl, indazolyl,
 benzimidazolyl, benzthiazolyl, purinyl, quinolyl, isoquinolyl, cinnolinyl, phthalazinyl,
 quinoxalinyl, naphthyridinyl, pteridinyl, carbazolyl, acridinyl, and phenazinyl. The terms
  "heteroaryl" and "heteroar-", as used herein, also include groups in which a heteroaromatic
 ring is fused to one or more nonaromatic rings, where the radical or point of attachment is
 on the heteroaromatic ring. Nonlimiting examples include tetrahydroquinolinyl,
 tetrahydroisoquinolinyl, and pyrido[3,4-dlpyrimidinyl. The term "heteroaryl" may be used
 interchangeably with the term "heteroaryl ring" or the term "heteroaromatic", any of which
 terms include rings that are optionally substituted. The term "heteroaralkyl" refers to an
 alkyl group substituted by a heteroaryl, wherein the alkyl and heteroaryl portions
 independently are optionally substituted.
 [020]            As used herein, the terms "heterocycle", "heterocyclyl", or "heterocyclic
 radical" refer to a stable 5- to 7-membered monocyclic or 7- to 10-membered bicyclic
 heterocyclic moiety that is either saturated or partially unsaturated, and having, in addition
 to carbon atoms, one or more, preferably one to four, heteroatoms selected from the group
 consisting of N, 0, and S, wherein the nitrogen and sulfur heteroatoms are optionally
 oxidized and the nitrogen atoms are optionally quaternized. The heterocyclic ring can be
 attached to its pendant group at any heteroatom or carbon atom that results in a stable
 structure, and any of the ring atoms can be optionally substituted. Examples of such
 saturated or partially unsaturated heterocyclic radicals include, without limitation,
                                                 -5-

WO 2005/097809                                                              PCTIUS2005/009774
  tetrahydrofuranyl, tetrahydrothienyl, pyrrolidinyl, pyrrolidonyl, piperidinyl, pyrrolinyl,
  tetrahydroquinolinyl, tetrahydroisoquinolinyl, decahydroquinolinyl, oxazolidinyl,
  piperazinyl, dioxanyl, dioxolanyl, diazepinyl, oxazepinyl, thiazepinyl, and morpholinyl.
  The terms "heterocycle", "heterocyclyl", and "heterocyclic radical", as used herein, also
  include groups in which a non-aromatic heteroatom-containing ring is fused to one or more
  aromatic or non-aromatic rings, such as indolinyl, chromanyl, phenanthridinyl, or
  tetrahydroquinolinyl, where the radical or point of attachment is on the non-aromatic
  heteroatom-containing ring. The term "heterocyclylalkyl" refers to an alkyl group
  substituted by a heterocyclyl, wherein the alkyl and heterocyclyl portions independently are
  optionally substituted.
  [021]           As used herein, the term "partially unsaturated" refers to a ring moiety that
  includes at least one double or triple bond between ring atoms. The term "partially
  unsaturated" is intended to encompass rings having one or multiple sites of unsaturation,
 but is not intended to include aryl or heteroaryl moieties, as herein defined.
  [022]          The term "substituted", as used herein, means that one or more hydrogen
 atoms of the designated moiety are replaced, provided that the substitution results in a
 stable or chemically feasible compound. A stable compound or chemically feasible
 compound is one in which the chemical structure is not substantially altered when kept at a
 temperature of 40 'C or less, in the absence of moisture or other chemically reactive
 conditions, for at least a week, or a compound which maintains its integrity long enough to
 be useful for the synthetic processes of the invention. The phrase "one or more substituents",
 as used herein, refers to a number of substituents that equals from one to the maximum
 number of substituents possible based on the number of available bonding sites, provided
 that the above conditions of stability and chemical feasibility are met.
 [023]           An aryl (including the aryl moiety in aralkyl, aralkoxy, aryloxyalkyl and the
 like) or heteroaryl (including the heteroaryl moiety in heteroaralkyl and heteroarylalkoxy
 and the like) group may contain one or more substituents. Examples of suitable substituents
 on the unsaturated carbon atom of an aryl or heteroaryl group include -halo, -NO2, -CN, -R*,
-OR*, -SR*, -N(R*)2 , -NR*C(O)R*, -NRC(O)N(R*) 2, -NR*CO2 R., -O-CO 2R*, -O-C(O)R*, -CO2R*,
-C(O)R*, -C(O)N(R) 2 , -OC(O)N(R*)2, -S(O)2 R*, -SO2 N(R*)2 , -S(O)R", and -NR*SO 2 N(R*)2 . Each
R* independently is selected from the group consisting of R*, -C(O)R*, -CO2R*, and -SO 2 R*,
or two R* on the same nitrogen atom, taken together with the nitrogen atom, form a 5-8
membered aromatic or non-aromatic ring having, in addition to the nitrogen, 0-2 ring
heteroatoms selected from N, 0, and S. Each R* independently is hydrogen or an optionally
                                                -6-

WO 2005/097809                                                               PCTIUS2005/009774
  substituted aliphatic, aryl, heteroaryl, or heterocyclyl group. Each R independently is an
  optionally substituted aliphatic or aryl group.
  [024]            An aliphatic group also may be substituted with one or more substituents.
 Examples of suitable substituents on the saturated carbon of an aliphatic group or of a non
  aromatic heterocyclic ring include, without limitation, those listed above for the unsaturated
 carbon of an aryl or heteroaryl group.
  [025]            The present inventors have discovered that the requirement for scrupulously
 dry equipment, solvents, and reagents that characterized previously described procedures
 for the Lewis acid promoted rearrangement of boron "ate" complexes can be obviated by use
 of an ether solvent that has low miscibility with water. Remarkably, use of such a solvent
 permits the reaction to be run on a multi-kilogram scale without deterioration in yield or
 purity. In essence, the scale of the reaction is limited only by the size of the available
 manufacturing capabilities.
 [026]            In one aspect, therefore, the invention provides a large-scale process for
 preparing a boronic ester compound of formula (1):
                                           R2
                                           R     B..OR
                                                 6                                           (
                                                   R
 wherein:
         R is an optionally substituted aliphatic, aromatic, or heteroaromatic group;
         R2 is hydrogen, a nucleofugic group, or an optionally substituted aliphatic, aromatic,
              or heteroaromatic group;
         R is a nucleofugic group or an optionally substituted aliphatic, aromatic, or
             heteroaromatic group; and
         each of R4 and R, independently, is an optionally substituted aliphatic, aromatic, or
             heteroaromatic group, or R4 and R, taken together with the intervening oxygen
             and boron atoms, form an optionally substituted 5- to 10-membered ring having
             0-2 additional ring heteroatoms selected from N, 0, or S.
 [027]            The process comprises the steps:
         (a) - - providing a boron "ate" complex of formula (Ii):
                                                 -7-

WO 2005/097809                                                             PCTIUS2005/009774
                                          RR    R1 O4
                                                OR5                                        (11)
 where
          Y is a nucleofugic group;
          M is a cation; and
          each of R1 to R is as defined above; and
          (b)     contacting the boron "ate" complex of formula (I1) with a Lewis acid under
 conditions that afford the boronic ester compound of formula (I), said contacting step being
 conducted in a reaction mixture comprising:
                  (i)     a coordinating ether solvent that has low miscibility with water; or
                  (ii)    an ether solvent that has low miscibility with water and a
 coordinating co-solvent.
 [028]            The previously reported processes for Lewis acid promoted rearrangement of
 boron "ate" complexes employ tetrahydrofuran, an ether solvent that is fully miscible with
 water. Failure to employ rigorously dried equipment, solvents, and reagents in these
 processes results in a dramatic reduction in the diastereomeric ratio. The hygroscopic Lewis
 acids, in particular, typically must be flame-dried immediately prior to use in the reaction.
 Although techniques for running moisture-sensitive reactions are familiar to those of skill in
 the art and are routinely practiced on a laboratory scale, such reactions are costly and
 difficult to scale up.
 [0291            Moreover, attempted scale-up of the prior art process frequently results in a
 further deterioration in diastereomeric ratio during workup and isolation of the product
 boronic ester compound. Matteson and Erdiik, Organonetallics,2:1083 (1983), reports that
 exposure of alpha-haloboronic ester products to free halide ion results in epimerization at
 the alpha-carbon center. Without wishing to be bound by theory, the present inventors
 believe that epimerization is particularly problematic during reaction work-up and/or
 subsequent steps. For example, epimerization is believed to occur during concentration of
 the reaction mixture to remove the tetrahydrofuran solvent and exchange it for a water
 immiscible solvent. Failure to completely remove the tetrahydrofuran also negatively
 impacts diastereomeric ratio during the subsequent aqueous washes. Exposure of the
                                                 -8-

WO 2005/097809                                                                PCT/US2005/009774
  product to halide ion during these steps is difficult to avoid, particularly when the reaction
  is performed on a large scale.
  [030]            The present inventors have discovered that the rearrangement of boron "ate"
  complexes is advantageously performed in an ether solvent that has low miscibility with
  water. Use of such solvents obviates the need for solvent exchange prior to the aqueous
  washes, and the organic-soluble product is effectively shielded from aqueous halide ion
  during the washes, even if performed on a large scale. Preferably, the solubility of water in
  the ether solvent is less than about 5% w/w, more preferably less than about 2% w/w. In
  various embodiments, ether solvent that has low miscibility with water constitutes at least
  about 70%, at least about 80%, at least about 85%, at least about 90%, or at least about 95%
  v/v of the reaction mixture.
  [031]           The ether solvent preferably is one that is suitable for routine use in large
  scale production. As used herein, the term "large-scale" refers to a reaction that utilizes at
 least about five moles of at least one starting material. Preferably, a large-scale process
 utilizes at least about 10, 20, 50, or 100 moles of at least one starting material.
  [0321           For purposes of the invention, the term "ether" refers to any of a class of
 chemical compounds characterized in having an oxygen atom attached to two carbon atoms
 . An "ether solvent" is an ether compound that exists in liquid form at the desired reaction
 temperature and is capable of dissolving the starting material(s) and/or product(s) of the
 reaction. Non-limiting examples of ether solvents suitable for use in the process of the
 invention include tert-butyl methyl ether, tert-butyl ethyl ether, tert-amyl methyl ether, and
 isopropyl ether.
 [033]            In one embodiment, the reaction mixture further comprises a coordinating co
 solvent. In another embodiment, the ether solvent that has low miscibility with water is
 sufficiently coordinating that a coordinating co-solvent is not necessary. For purposes of the
invention, the terms "coordinating co-solvent" and "coordinating solvent" refer to a solvent
that is capable of coordinating the Lewis acid and solvating the ionic components of the
reaction. Hindered ether solvents, such as tert-butyl methyl ether, are poorly coordinating
and preferably are used with a coordinating co-solvent. Nonlimiting examples of
coordinating co-solvents suitable for use in the practice of the invention include
tetrahydrofuran, dioxane, water, and mixtures thereof.
[034]   - -- -   In some embodiments, the-reaction mixture comprises at least about 5% or at
least about 10% v/v of a coordinating co-solvent. Preferably, the amount of a water-miscible
                                                 -9-

WO 2005/097809                                                                 PCT/US2005/009774
  coordinating co-solvent present in the reaction mixture is not so great as to interfere with
  phase separation during the reaction or workup. In various embodiments, the coordinating
  co-solvent constitutes no more than about 20%, about 15%, or about 10% v/v of the reaction
  mixture.
  [035]             As used herein, the term "nucleofugic" refers to any group that is capable of
  undergoing nucleophilic displacement under the rearrangement conditions of the present
  process. Such nucleofugic groups are known in the art. Preferably, the nucleofugic group is
  a halogen, more preferably chloro or bromo. In the course of the rearrangement reaction
  converting the boron "ate" complex of formula (II) into the boronic ester compound of
  formula (1), the nucleofugic group Y is released as Y-. By way of example, when Y is chloro,
  chloride ion is released in step (b).
  [036]             The variable 1W is any cationic counterion for the negatively charged
 tetravalent boron atom in the boron "ate" complex of formula (II). In some preferred
 embodiments, M'is selected from the group consisting of Li t , Na, and K'. One of skill in
 the art will recognize that the salt MY is formed as a byproduct in the rearrangement
 reaction of step (b).
 [037]              The variable R preferably is a group with good migratory aptitude. In some
 embodiments, R' is C, aliphatic, C, aryl, or (C,-,, aryl) (C, aliphatic), any of which groups is
 optionally substituted. In certain embodiments, R' is CI, aliphatic, particularly isobutyl.
 [038]              The variable R2 preferably is hydrogen, a nucleofugic group, or an optionally
 substituted C, aliphatic, C,      aryl, or (C,, aryl)(C., aliphatic) group. The variable R3
 preferably is a nucleofugic group or an optionally substituted Cl, aliphatic, C, aryl, or
 (C61 0 aryl) (C., aliphatic) group. One of skill in the art will recognize that functional
 substituents may be present on any of R, R2, or R, provided that the functional substituent
 does not interfere with the formation of the boron "ate" complex of formula (II).
 [039]             One embodiment of the invention relates to a process for preparing a boronic
 ester compound of formula (1), wherein R is a nucleofugic group. Such compounds are
useful as intermediates for the synthesis of alpha-substituted boronic ester and acid
compounds, including alpha-aminoboronic ester and acid compounds, as described below.
In certain preferred embodiments, R is a nucleofugic group and R2 is hydrogen.
 [0401             The variables R4 and R' can be the same or different. In some embodiments,
R* and R7 are directly linked, so that R' and R", taken together with the intervening oxygen
                                                   -10-

WO 2005/097809                                                               PCT/US2005/009774
  and boron atoms, form an optionally substituted 5- to 10-membered ring, which can have 0
  2 additional ring heteroatorns selected from N, 0, or S. In some embodiments, the ring is a
  5- or 6-membered ring, preferably a 5-membered ring.
  [041]           The present invention is particularly advantageous for the Lewis acid
 promoted rearrangement of boron "ate" complexes of formula (II), wherein R and R' are
  directly linked and together are a chiral moiety. One embodiment of the invention relates to
 the rearrangement of such chiral boron "ate" complexes to provide a boronic ester
 compound of formula (1) wherein the carbon atom bearing R', R2, and R is a chiral center.
 The rearrangement reaction preferably proceeds with a high degree of stereodirection by the
 R-R chiral moiety to provide the boronic ester compound of formula (I) having a
 diastereomeric ratio at the carbon atom bearing R', R2 , and R of at least about 96:4 relative to
 a chiral center in the R'-R chiral moiety. Preferably, the diastereomeric ratio is at least about
 97:3.
 [042]           The terms "stereoisomer", "enantiomer", "diastereomer", "epimer", and "chiral
 center", are used herein in accordance with the meaning each is given in ordinary usage by
 those of ordinary skill in the art. Thus, stereoisomers are compounds that have the same
 atomic connectivity, but differ in the spatial arrangement of the atoms. Enantiomers are
 stereoisomers that have a mirror image relationship, that is, the stereochemical configuration
 at all corresponding chiral centers is opposite. Diastereomers are stereoisomers having more
than one chiral center, which differ from one another in that the stereochemical
configuration of at least one, but not all, of the corresponding chiral centers is opposite.
Epimers are diastereomers that differ in stereochemical configuration at only one chiral
center.
[0431            As used herein, the term "diastereomeric ratio" refers to the ratio between
diastereomers which differ in the stereochemical configuration at one chiral center, relative
to a second chiral center in the same molecule. By way of example, a chemical structure
with two chiral centers provides four possible stereoisomers: R*R, R*S, S*R, and S*S,
wherein the asterisk denotes the corresponding chiral center in each stereoisomer. The
diastereomeric ratio for such a mixture of stereoisomers is the ratio of one diastereomer and
its enantiomer to the other diastereomer and its enantiomer = (R*R + S*S): (R*S + S*R).
[044]            One of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that additional stereoisomers
are possible when the molecule has more than two chiral centers.- For purposes of the
present invention, the term "diastereomeric ratio" has identical meaning in reference to
                                                -11-

WO 2005/097809                                                                  PCTIUS2005/009774
 compounds witn mtunpie cnirai centers as it does in reference to compounds having two
 chiral centers. Thus, the term "diastereomeric ratio" refers to the ratio of all compounds
 having R*R or S*S configuration at the specified chiral centers to all compounds having R*S
 or S*R configuration at the specified chiral centers. For convenience, this ratio is referred to
 herein as the diastereomeric ratio at the asterisked carbon, relative to the second specified
 chiral center.
 [045]             The diastereomeric ratio can be measured by any analytical method suitable
 for distinguishing between diastereomeric compounds having different relative
 stereochemical configurations at the specified chiral centers. Such methods include, without
 limitation, nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR), gas chromatography (GC), and high
 performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) methods.
 [0461            As discussed above, one embodiment of the invention is directed to processes
 that provide a boronic ester compound of formula (1) having a diastereomeric ratio at the
carbon atom bearing R', R2, and R of at least about 96:4 relative to a chiral center in the R-R 5
chiral moiety. One of skill in the art will recognize that the R-R- chiral moiety may itself
contain more than one chiral center. When RR' does have more than one chiral center, it
preferably has high diastereomeric purity, and the diastereomeric ratio at the carbon atom
bearing R', R2, and R can be measured relative to any one of the chiral centers in R-R.
[0471             In the processes of the invention, the R-R chiral moiety preferably has a high
level of enantiomeric purity. For purposes of the invention, the term "enantiomeric purity"
is used to mean "enantiomeric excess", which is the amount by which the major enantiomer
is in excess of the minor enantiomer, expressed as a percentage of the total. Preferably, the
R-R chiral moiety has an enantiomeric purity of at least about 98%, more preferably at least
about 99%, still more preferably at least about 99.5%, and most preferably at least about
99.9%.
[0481             When the R-R chiral moiety has very high enantiomeric purity, the
diastereomeric ratio at the carbon atom bearing R', R2 , R3 approximates the epimeric ratio at
that center, i.e., diastereomeric ratio = (R*R) : (S*R) or (R*S) : (S*S) = (R*) : (S*). As used
herein, the term "epimeric ratio" refers to the ratio of product having one absolute
stereochemical configuration at a given chiral center to product having the opposite absolute
stereochemical configuration at the corresponding chiral center. Preferably, the products
have identical stereochemical configuration at all-other corresponding chiral centers. In one
embodiment, therefore, the invention relates to the rearrangement of a chiral boron "ate"
                                                -12-

WO 2005/097809                                                               PCTIUS2005/009774
  complex of formula (II) to provide a boronic ester compound of formula (1) wherein the
  epimeric ratio at the carbon atom bearing R', R2, and R is at least about 96:4, more preferably
  at least about 97:3.
  1049]           Lewis acids suitable for use in the practice of the invention are those capable
  of complexing with the nucleofugic group to facilitate its displacement upon migration of R'.
 Preferably, the Lewis acid is additionally capable of coordinating with an oxygen atom
  attached to boron. Nonlimiting examples of suitable Lewis acids include zinc bromide, zinc
 chloride, ferric bromide, and ferric chloride. In certain preferred embodiments, the Lewis
 acid is zinc chloride.
  [0501           The contacting step preferably is performed at low temperature, but may be
 performed at ambient or elevated temperature. The selection of an appropriate reaction
 temperature will depend largely on the Lewis acid employed, as well as the migratory
 aptitude of the R' moiety. One skilled in the art will be able to select a suitable temperature
 in view of the reaction conditions being used.
 [051]           In some embodiments, the contacting step is performed at a reaction
 temperature of at least about -100 *C, -78 'C, or -60 'C. In some embodiments, the contacting
 step is performed at a reaction temperature that is no greater than about 80 C, 40 "C, or 30
 'C. Any range encompassing these high and low temperatures are included within the
 scope of the invention. Preferably, the contacting step is performed at a reaction
 temperature in the range of about -100 "C to about 80 'C, about -70 C to about 40 *C, about
 -60 C to about 30 *C, or about -50 'C to about 30 'C. In certain preferred embodiments, the
 contacting step is begun at low temperature, preferably in the range of about -70 *C to about
 -30 "C,and then the reaction mixture is allowed to warm, preferably to ambient temperature.
 [052]           Surprisingly, the process of the present invention requires no special
 precautions to avoid the presence of water during the rearrangement reaction itself. In some
 embodiments, moist Lewis acid is employed, with minimal deterioration in diastereomeric
 ratio. When used in reference to the Lewis acid, the term "moist" means that the water
 content of the Lewis acid is greater than about 100, 200,500, or 1,000 ppm. Remarkably, the
 Lewis acid even can be added to the reaction mixture in the form of an aqueous solution
 without deleterious impact on diastereomeric ratio.
 [053]           In some embodiments, therefore, the process of the invention comprises the
 steps:
          (a)    providing a solution comprising a boron "ate" complex of formula (11) and
                                                - 13-

WO 2005/097809                                                               PCTIUS2005/009774
                  (i)    a coordinating ether solvent that has low miscibility with water; or
                  (ii)   an ether solvent that has low miscibility with water and a
  coordinating co-solvent; and
         (b)      adding to the solution of step (a) a Lewis acid solution comprising water and
  a Lewis acid.
  [054]           In some other embodiments, the Lewis acid solution comprises
  tetrahydrofuran and a Lewis acid.
  [055]          Thus, unlike the prior art process, the process of the invention is readily
  amenable to large-scale production. In various embodiments, at least about 5, 10, 20, 50, 100,
 500, or 1000 moles of boron "ate" complex of formula (II) is contacted with a Lewis acid
 under conditions that afford the boronic ester compound of formula (I). The invention
 further provides a composition comprising a boronic ester compound of formula (1), as
 described herein, and an ether solvent that has low miscibility with water. The composition
 preferably comprises at least about 5, 10, 20, 50, 100, 500, or 1000 moles of the boronic ester
 compound of formula (1). In certain embodiments, R4 and R together are a chiral moiety,
 and the compound of formula (1)present in the composition has a diastereomeric ratio of at
 least about 96:4 at the carbon atom bearing RI, R2, and R3, relative to a chiral center in the
 R-R 5 chiral moiety.
 [056]           Workup of the reaction preferably comprises washing the reaction mixture
 with an aqueous solution and concentrating the washed reaction mixture by removal of
 solvents to afford a residue comprising the boronic ester compound of formula (1).
 Preferably, the residue comprises at least about 5, 10, 20, 50, 100, 500, or 1000 moles of the
boronic ester compound of formula (1). In those embodiments wherein R'-R is a chiral
 moiety, the boronic ester compound of formula (I) present in the residue preferably has a
 diastereomeric ratio of at least about 96:4 at the carbon atom bearing R', R2, and R, relative
to a chiral center in the R'-R' chiral moiety. More preferably, the diastereomeric ratio is at
least about 97:3.
 [057]           The boron "ate" complex of formula (II) can be prepared by any known
method, but preferably is prepared by reaction of a boronic ester of formula (II1):
                                                     4
                                           R 'OR
                                              OR5                                          (f)
with a reagent of formula (IV):
                                                -14-

WO 2005/097809                                                              PCTIUS2005/009774
                                             R2 R3
                                              y   -j M+                                    (IV)
                                                                                           (1
  wherein each of M', Y, and R to R are as defined above for the boron "ate" complex of
  formula (11). In some embodiments, the reaction is performed at a reaction temperature of at
  least about -100 'C, -78 'C, or -60 0C. In some embodiments, the reaction is performed at a
  reaction temperature no greater than about 0 *C, -20 "C, or -40 *C. Any range encompassing
  these high and low temperatures are included within the scope of the invention. The
  reaction preferably is performed at a reaction temperature in the range of about -100 "C to
  about 0 *C, about -78 C to about -20 *C, or about -60 *C to about -40 *C. In some
  embodiments, the boron "ate" complex of formula (II) is prepared in a solution comprising
  an ether solvent having low miscibility with water, and the reaction mixture is directly
  treated with a Lewis acid to effect rearrangement to the boron ester compound of formula
  (1).
  [0581          In some embodiments, the reagent of formula (IV) is formed in situ. Such
 embodiments include the steps:
          (i)    providing a solution comprising a boronic ester of formula (III), as defined
 above, and a compound of formula (V):
                                             R2     R3
                                                 <H
 wherein R2 and R are as defined above for the reagent of formula (IV); and
         (ii)    treating the solution with a strong, sterically hindered base to form the boron
 "ate" complex of formula (I1).
 [059]           In some embodiments, the sterically hindered base is an alkali metal
dialkylamide bases of formula M2N(R")2, where M2 is Li, Na, or K, and each R",
independently is a branched or cyclic C, aliphatic. In situ formation of the reagent of
formula (IV) is especially advantageous in those embodiments wherein Y is a nucleofugic
group, due to the instability of the reagent of formula (IV).
[060]            The boronic ester of formula (III) can be prepared by any known method, but
typically is prepared by esterification of the corresponding boronic acid compound, e.g., by
methods described in Brown et al.,Drganometallics,-2:1311-1316 (1983). Cyclic boronic esters
of formula (III) preferably are prepared by:
                                                - 15 -

WO 2005/097809                                                               PCTIUS2005/009774
         (a)     providing a solution comprising:
                 ()      a boronic acid compound of formula R1-B(OH),;
                 (ii)    a compound of formula HO-R-R-OH, wherein R and R, taken
         together, are an optionally substituted linking chain comprising 2-5 carbon atoms
         and 0-2 heteroatoms selected from the group consisting of 0, N, and S; and
                 (iii)   an organic solvent that forms an azeotrope with water; and
         (b)     heating the solution at reflux with azeotropic removal of water.
 [061]           As used in reference to R and R, the term "linking chain" refers to the
 shortest linear chain of atoms connecting the oxygen atoms to which R4 and R5 are attached.
 The linking chain optionally is substituted at any chain atom, and one or more chain atoms
 also may form part of a ring system that is spiro to, fused to, or bridging the linear linking
 chain. By way of example, but not limitation, in some embodiments, the compound of
 formula HO-R4 -R-OH is pinanediol, having the structure:
                                         HO~h
                                         HO   'K>
In such embodiments, the linking chain R-R' comprises two carbon atoms, which together
form one side of the bicyclo[3.1.1]heptane ring system, and one of which additionally is
substituted with a methyl group.
 [062]          In some embodiments, the compound of formula HO-R4-R-OH is a chiral
diol, preferably one having high diastereomeric and enantiomeric purity. One of skill in the
art will appreciate that in such embodiment, the compound of formula HO-R'-R-OH is
employed as a chiral auxiliary to direct the stereochen-ical configuration at the carbon
bearing R', R2, and R3 . Chiral diols useful as chiral auxiliaries in organic synthesis are well
known in the art. Nonliniting examples include 2,3-butanediol, preferably (2R,3R)-(-)-2,3
butanediol or (2S,3S)-(+)-2,3-butanediol; pinanediol, preferably (lR,2R,3R,5S)-(-)-pinanediol
or (1S,2S,3S,5R)-(+)-pinanediol; 1,2-cyclopentanediol, preferably (1S,2S)-(+)-trans-1,2
cyclopentanediol or (lR,2R)-(-)-trans-1,2-cyclopentanediol; 2,5-hexanediol, preferably
(2S,5S)-2,5-hexanediol or (2R,5R)-2,5-hexanediol; 1,2-dicyclohexyl-1,2-ethanediol, preferably
(1R,2R)-1,2-dicyclohexyl-1,2-ethanediol or (1S,2S)-1,2-dicyclohexyl-1,2-ethanediol;
hydrobenzoin, preferably (S,S)-(-)-hydrobenzoin or (R,R)-(+)-hydrobenzoin; 2,4-pentanediol,_
preferably (RR)-(-)-2,4-pentanediol or (S,S,)-(+)-2,4-pentanediol; erythronic y-lactone,
                                               -16-

WO 2005/097809                                                                 PCTIUS2005/009774
  preferably D-erythronic y-lactone. Carbohydrates, e.g. a 1,2,5,6-symmetrically protected
  mannitol, also may be used as chiral diols.
  [0631             Nonhimiting examples of organic solvents suitable for use in the esterification
  reaction include acetonitrile, toluene, hexane, heptane, and mixtures thereof. In some
  embodiments, the organic solvent is an ether solvent, preferably an ether solvent that has
  low miscibility with water. In certain preferred embodiments, the esterification reaction is
  performed in an ether solvent that has low miscibility with water, and the product solution
  comprising the boronic ester of formula (III)is used directly in the next step, without
  isolation of the boronic ester.
  [064]             As noted above, the process of the present invention for the first time permits
 workup of large-scale reactions without significant deterioration in diastereomeric ratio. In
  another aspect, therefore, the invention provides a composition comprising at least about 5,
  10, 20, 50, 100 , 500, or 1000 moles of a boronic ester compound of formula (1):
                                                   B.-OR 4
                                             R3 'B'
                                                   OR9
 wherein:
          R1 is an optionally substituted aliphatic, aromatic, or heteroaromatic group;
          R2 is hydrogen, a nucleofugic group, or an optionally substituted aliphatic, aromatic,
               or heteroaromatic group;
          R3 is a nucleofugic group or an optionally substituted aliphatic, aromatic, or
               heteroaromatic group; and
          R' and R5, taken together with the intervening oxygen and boron atoms, form an
               optionally substituted 5- to 10-membered chiral ring having 0-2 additional ring
               heteroatoms selected from N, 0, or S;
          wherein the carbon atom to which R', R2, and R are attached is a chiral center, having
               a diastereomeric ratio of at least about 96:4, preferably at least about 97:3, relative
               to a chiral center in the R4-R chiral moiety.
 [065]             Preferred values for R2 to R3 are as described above. Preferably, solvents
 constitute less than-about 30% w/w, 20% w/w, 10% w/w, or 5% w/wof the composition
 according to this aspect of the invention. In some embodiments, the boronic ester
                                                  - 17 -

WO 2005/097809                                                             PCTIUS2005/009774
  compound of formula (1)constitutes at least about 70% w/w, 80% w/w, 90% w/w, or 95%
  w/w of the composition.
  [066]            One embodiment relates to the composition described above, wherein at least
  one of the following features is present:
          (a)      R3 is chloro;
          (b)      the boronic ester compound (1) is
                     R        2                    2R1
                                zR3*'B,
                            W-JIB'O
                                          or
          (c)     R 2is hydrogen; and
          (d)  .R    is C- aliphatic.
 [067]            All of the boronic ester compound of formula (I) present in the composition
 may be produced in a single batch run. For purposes of the invention, the term "batch run"
refers to execution of a synthetic process, wherein each step of the process is performed only
 once. Preferably, the boronic ester compound of formula (1) present in the composition is
prepared in a single batch run of the process according to the first aspect of the invention.
One of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that preparation of a given quantity of
product by a single batch run of a large-scale process is more efficient and provides a more
homogeneous product than preparation of the same quantity of product by repeated
execution of a small-scale process.
[068]             The boronic ester compounds of formula (1) wherein R is a nucleofugic
group are useful as intermediates for the synthesis of alpha-aminoboronic ester compounds.
In another aspect, therefore, the invention provides a large-scale process for preparing an
alpha-aminoboronic ester, preferably by a process comprising the steps:
         (a)      providing a boron "ate" complex of formula (II):
                                                    4
                                                IOR
                                          whereOR5 M+
            iwhereo
        Y is a nucleofugic group;

WO 2005/097809                                                              PCT/US2005/009774
         Mf is a cation;
         R' is an optionally substituted aliphatic, aromatic, or heteroaromatic group;
         R' is hydrogen;
         R3 is a nucleofugic group; and
         each of R4 and R, independently, is an optionally substituted aliphatic, aromatic, or
             heteroaromatic group, or R and R", taken together with the intervening oxygen
             and boron atoms, form an optionally substituted 5- to 10-membered ring having
             0-2 additional ring heteroatoms selected from N, 0, or S;
         (b)      contacting the boron "ate" complex of formula (II) with a Lewis acid under
 conditions that afford the boronic ester compound of formula (I):
                                                  6R5
                                                  B'OR4
                                                  OR5                                      (1)
 where each of R' to R! is as defined above, said contacting step being conducted in a reaction
 mixture comprising:
                  (i)    a coordinating ether solvent that has low miscibility with water; or
                 (ii)    an ether solvent that has low miscibility with water and a
 coordinating co-solvent; and
        (c)      treating the boronic ester compound of formula (1) with a reagent of formula
M'-N(G)2, where M' is an alkali metal and each G individually or together is an amino group
protecting group to form a byproduct of formula M'-R and a compound of formula (VIII):
                                                R1
                                        (G) 2 N    B'OR4
                                                   OR-9
wherein each G and R' to R are as defined above; and
        (d)     removing tfie G groups to form a compound of formula (VII):
                                               Ri
                                         H2NA 'OR      4
                                                  OR5
or an acid addition salt thereof.
                                                - 19-

WO 2005/097809                                                              PCT/US2005/009774
  [069]            In some embodiments, in step (c), the boronic ester compound of formula (1)
 is treated with a reagent of formula M'-N(Si(R)3 ) 2 where M' is an alkali metal and each R4
 independently is selected from the group consisting of alkyl, aralkyl, and aryl, where the
 aryl or aryl portion of the aralkyl is optionally substituted.
 [070]             Reaction of the boronic ester compound of formula (1) with the reagent of
 formula M'-N(G)2 preferably is conducted at a reaction temperature in the range of about
 -100 *C to about 50 "C, preferably about -50 "C to about 25 'C, and more preferably about -30
 *C to about 0 "C. In some embodiments, R is halo, preferably chloro, and M' is Li. To
 facilitate isolation of the product of formula (VII), the reaction mixture preferably
 comprises an organic solvent in which the byproduct M -R has low solubility. Nonlimiting
 examples of suitable organic solvents include methylcyclohexane, cyclohexane, heptane,
 hexane, and toluene. In some embodiments, step (c) further comprises filtering the reaction
 mixture to remove M'-R and provide a filtrate comprising the compound of formula (VII).
 Preferably, the filtrate is used directly in step (d).
 [071]            In those embodiments wherein the reaction mixture comprises an organic
 solvent in which the byproduct M'-R has low solubility, the reaction mixture may
 additionally comprise a solvent in which the byproduct M-R has high solubility. In such
 cases, the solvent in which the byproduct M'-R 3 has high solubility preferably is removed
prior to filtration of the reaction mixture. By way of example, in some embodiments, a
reagent of formula M'-N(Si(R)) 2 is added to the reaction mixture as a solution comprising
tetrahydrofuran. In such embodiments, step (c) preferably further comprises removing the
tetrahydrofuran before filtering the reaction mixture.
[0721             Those of skill in the art are aware of various methods that can be used to
remove the protecting groups G in the compound of formula (VIII), including, e.g., aqueous
hydrolysis or treatment with acid. The product alpha-aminoboronic ester of formula (VII)
has low stability and preferably is immediately derivatized (Matteson et al., J. Am. Chem.
Soc., 103:5241 (1981)) or is isolated as an acid addition salt. In some embodiments, step (d)
comprises treating the compound of formula (VIII) with an acid and isolating the compound
of formula (Vii) as the acid addition salt. In certain preferred embodiments, the acid is
trifluoroacetic acid, and the compound of formula (VIi) is isolated as the trifluoroacetic acid
addition salt.
[073]             As-discussed above, the processes of the invention are particularlywell
suited for preparing alpha-aminoboronic ester compounds of formula (VIi), wherein the
                                                 -20-

WO 2005/097809                                                                   PCTIUS2005/009774
 alpha carbon is a chiral center. Thus, one embodiment of the invention relates to a large
 scale process for preparing an alpha-aminoboronic ester compound of formula (VITa) or
 (VI~b):
                          R1                                             R1
                         )% OR 4                                         -.    O 4
                    H2N      B                                      H2N     BOR
                             OR 5           (VIla)                          OR             (Vib)
 or an acid addition salt thereof, wherein:
          R1 is an optionally substituted aliphatic, aromatic, or heteroaromatic group; and
          R and R, taken together with the intervening oxygen and boron atoms, form an
              optionally substituted chiral cyclic boronic ester;
 said process comprising:
          (a)      providing a boron "ate" complex of formula (Ila)or (I1b):
                           1OR4                                             O]R4
                    Y     B- 5 M+ORM
                          OR5               (Ila)                        6      M+        (I1b)
where
         Y is a nucleofugic group;
         M* is a cation;
         R2 is hydrogen;
         R3 is a nucleofugic group; and
         R4 and R' are as defined above;
         (b)      contacting the boron "ate" complex of formula (IIa)or (Ib) with a Lewis acid
under conditions that afford a boronic ester compound of formula (Ia) or (Ib):
                    R2R1                                             RR
                                4                                  R    B'OR4
                   RA
                   R 3
                          B'BOR                                    R3"'O
                         OR5               (Ia)                         OR5              (1)
where each of R' to R! is as defined above, said contacting step being conducted in a reaction
mixture comprising:
                  (i)       a-coordinating ether solvent that has low miscibility with water; or
                                                   -21-

WO 2005/097809                                                                  PCTIUS2005/009774
                   (ii)      an ether solvent that has low miscibility with water and a
  coordinating co-solvent; and
          (c)      treating the boronic ester compound of formula (1a) or (Ib) with a reagent of
  formula M'-N(G)2, where M' is an alkali metal and G is an amino group protecting moiety, to
  form a compound of formula (VIIIa) or (VIIlb):
                           R1                                              RI
                          ,1     OR 4                                     li-     R
                   (G) 2N     B                                    (G) 2N       OR4
                              6R5          (VIIla)                            OR5        (V11lb)
 wherein each G and R' to R are as defined above; and
         (d)      removing the G groups to form a compound of formula (VIa) or (VI7b):
                        R1                                              R1
                   H2N      B,0R4                                  H2N      B'OR4
                           OR 5            (VIIa)                           OR5         (VIb)
 or an acid addition salt thereof.
 [074]            Preferred values for Y, M*, R' to R, and G are as described above. The
 compound of formula (VIla) or (VITIb) preferably has a diastereomeric ratio at the alpha
carbon of at least about 96:4, more preferably at least about 97:3, relative to a chiral center in
the R4-R chiral moiety.
[075]             The alpha-aminoboronic ester compounds of formula (VII) are useful
synthetic intermediates for the preparation of peptidyl boronic ester compounds. In some
embodiments, therefore, the process according to this aspect of the invention further
comprises coupling the compound of formula (Vii) with a compound of formula (IX):
                                                   R7
                                            Pl-NAf      x
                                                      H
                                                                                           (IX)
wherein:
        P' is an amino group blocking moiety;
        R is selected from the group consisting of hydrogen, C, 1 aliphatic, optionally
              substituted C-aryl, or C1 aliphatic-R'; and
                                                  -22-

WO 2005/097809                                                               PCTIUS2005/009774
          R8 is selected from the group consisting of alkoxy, alkylthio, optionally substituted
               aryl, heteroaryl, and heterocyclyl groups, and optionally protected amino,
              hydroxy, and guaridino groups; and
          X is OH or a leaving group;
  to form a compound of formula (X):
                                             R7    H      OR 4
                                       P'-N            f    OR5
                                                0       1
                                                      R                                     (G)
  wherein each of P1, R', R4, R5, and R' is as defined above.
  [0761            The leaving group X is any group capable of nucleophilic displacement by the
  alpha-amino group of the compound of formula (VII). In some embodiments, the moiety
  C(O)-X is an activated ester, such as an O-(N-hydroxysucccinimide) ester. In some
  embodiments, an activated ester is generated in situ by contacting a compound of formula
  (IX), wherein X is OH, with a peptide coupling reagent. Examples of suitable peptide
  coupling reagents include, without limitation, carbodiimide reagents, e.g.,
  dicyclohexylcarbodiimide (DCC) or 1-(3-dimethylaminopropyl)-3-ethylcarbodiimide (EDC);
 phosphonium reagents, e.g., benzotriazol-1-yloxytris(dimethylamino)phosphonium
 hexafluorophosphate (BOP reagent); and uronium reagents, e.g., O-(1H-benzotriazol-1-yl)
 N,N,N',N'-tetramethyluronium tetrafluoroborate (TBTU).
 [077]            Those of skill in the art also are aware of procedures that permit the direct
 coupling of silyl protected amines, without a prior deprotection step. In such procedures,
 the silyl groups are removed in situ under the coupling reaction conditions. In some
 embodiments of the present invention, therefore, a compound of formula (VIII) is contacted
 with a compound of formula (IX) under conditions that remove the (R4),Si groups in situ and
 form a compound of formula (X).
 [078]            For purposes of the invention, the term "amino-group blocking moiety" refers
 to any group used to derivatize an amino group, especially an N-terminal amino group of a
 peptide or amino acid. The term "amino-group blocking moiety" includes, but is not limited
 to, protecting groups that are commonly employed in organic synthesis, especially peptide
 synthesis. See, for example, Gross and Mienhoffer, eds., The Peptides, Vol. 3, Academic Press,
 New York, 1981, pp 3-8; Green and Wuts, Protective Groups in OrganicSynthesis, 3 edition,
John Wiley and Sons, Inc., New York, 1999. Unless otherwise specified, however, it is not
                                                  -23  -

WO 2005/097809                                                                PCTIUS2005/009774
   necessary for an amino-group blocking moiety to be readily cleavable. Amino-group
   blocking moieties include, e.g., alkyl, acyl, alkoxycarbonyl, aminocarbonyl, and sulfonyl
   moieties. In some embodiments, the amino-group blocking moiety is an acyl moiety derived
   from an amino acid or peptide, or a derivative or analog thereof.
   [0791           As used herein, the term "amino acid" includes both naturally occurring and
   unnatural amino acids. For purposes of the invention, a "derivative" of an amino acid or
  peptide is one in which a functional group, e.g., a hydroxy, amino, carboxy, or guanidino
  group at the N-terminus or on a side chain, is modified with a blocking group. As used
  herein, an "analog" of an amino acid or peptide is one which includes a modified backbone
  or side chain. The term "peptide analog" is intended to include peptides wherein one or
  more stereocenters are inverted and one or more peptide bonds are replaced with a peptide
  isostere.
  [080]           In some embodiments, P' is a cleavable protecting group. Examples of
  cleavable protecting groups include, without limitation, acyl protecting groups, e.g., formyl,
  acetyl (Ac), succinyl (Suc), or methoxysuccinyl (MeOSuc), and urethane protecting groups,
 e.g., tert-butoxycarbonyl (Boc), benzyloxycarbonyl (Cbz), or fluorenylmethoxycarbonyl
 (Fmoc).
 [0811            In some such embodiments, the process according to this aspect of the
 invention further comprises the steps:
           (f)    removing the protecting group P' to form a compound of formula (XI):
                                            R7   H      OR4
                                       H2N-      NY       OR5
                                               O R'
 or an acid addition salt thereof, wherein each of R2, R4, R', and R' is as defined above; and
          (g)    coupling the compound of formula (XI) with a reagent of formula P'-X,
               2
wherein P is any amino group blocking moiety, as described above, and X is a leaving
group, to form a compound of formula (XW):
                                            R7          OR 4
                                      P          NY       OR 5
                                               O Ri
                                                                                         (X)
wherein each of P2, R, R4, R' and R are as defined above: One-of skill-in the art will
recognize that in those embodiments wherein P2 is an acyl group, including, e.g., an acyl
                                                 - 24 -

WO 2005/097809                                                                PCTIUS2005/009774
   moiety derived from an amino acid or peptide, or an analog or derivative thereof, the
   leaving group X may be generated in situ, as discussed above for the compound of formula
   (IX).
   [082]           In each of the compounds (X) and (XII), the boronic acid moiety is protected
  as a boronic ester. If desired, the boronic acid moiety can be deprotected by any method
  known in the art. Preferably, the boronic acid moiety is deprotected by transesterification in
  a biphasic mixture. More preferably, the boronic acid deprotecting step comprises the steps:
          (i)     providing a biphasic mixture comprising the boronic ester compound of
  formula (X) or (XI), an organic boronic acid acceptor, a lower alkanol, a C, hydrocarbon
  solvent, and aqueous mineral acid;
          (ii)    stirring the biphasic mixture to afford the corresponding deprotected boronic
  acid compound of formula (Xa) or (XI):
                R7          OH                                 R7       OH
          Pl-N r              OH                         P2-N .yNy      BOH
               H 0       RI              (Xa)               H    0    R                  (XII);
         (iii)    separating the solvent layers; and
         (iv)     extracting the compound of formula (Xa), (XI), or a boronic acid anhydride
 thereof, into an organic solvent.
 [083]           The organic boronic acid acceptor in step (i)  preferably is an aliphatic, aryl, or
 ar(aliphatic)boronic acid. In some embodiments, the boronic acid acceptor is selected from
 the group consisting of phenylboronic acid, benzylboronic acid, butylboronic acid,
 pentylboronic acid, hexylboronic acid, and cyclohexylboronic acid. In certain embodiments,
 the boronic acid acceptor is isobutylboronic acid. In some embodiments, the boronic acid
 acceptor is selected so that the boronic ester compound of formula (III) is formed as a
byproduct of the deprotection reaction. The boronic ester compound of formula (III) can
then be used in another batch run of the process described above. In such embodiments, the
moiety RtR5 is effectively recycled, which may be particularly advantageous if R4-R is an
expensive chiral moiety.
[084]            To enhance the purity of the product, the aqueous layer containing the
compound of formula (Xa) or (XIII) preferably is washed to remove neutral organic
impurities prior to the extracting step (iv) In such embodiments, step (iii) preferably
comprises the steps:
                                               - 25 -

WO 2005/097809                                                               PCTIUS2005/009774
          (1)      separating the solvent layers;
          (2)      adjusting the aqueous layer to basic pH;
          (3)      washing the aqueous layer with an organic solvent; and
          (4)      adjusting the aqueous layer to a pH less than about 6.
 [0851             In some embodiments, the invention relates to an improved process for
 manufacturing the proteasome inhibitor bortezomib. Thus, in one embodiment, the
 invention provides a large-scale process for forming a compound of formula (XIV):
                                          O          H0 OH
                                                     H
                                   rNt               N BOH
                                             S(XIV)
 or a boronic acid anhydride thereof. The process comprises the steps:
         (a)      providing a boron "ate" complex of formula (XV):
                                         Y   _
                                           M+o--
wherein:
         R3 is a nucleofugic group;
         Y is a nucleofugic group; and
         M* is an alkali metal;
         (b)      contacting the boron "ate" complex of formula (XV) with a Lewis acid under
conditions that afford a boronic ester compound of formula (XVI):
                                                                                        (XV1)
said contacting step-being conducted in a reaction mixture comprising:
                  (i)     a coordinating ether solvent that has low miscibility with water; or
                                                -26-

WO 2005/097809                                                               PCTIUS2005/009774
                   (ii)    an ether solvent that has low miscibility with water and a
  coordinating co-solvent;
           (c)     treating the boronic ester compound of formula (XVl) with a reagent of
  formula M'-N(G)2, where M' is an alkali metal and each G individually or together is an
  amino group protecting group, to form a compound of formula (XVII):
                                       (G) 2N    B'
                                                                                       (XVII)
          (d)     removing the G groups to form a compound of formula (XVIII):
                                        H2N    B
                                                                                      (XVIII)
 or an acid addition salt thereof;
         (e)      coupling the compound of formula (XVIII) with a compound of formula
 (MX);
                                          P'-N      4
                                                   0
                                                                                       (MIX)
wherein:
        P' is a cleavable amino group protecting moiety; and
        X is OH or a leaving group;
to form a compound of formula (XX):
                                        _     H
                                      N       N
                                      H          :
wherein P' is as defined above;
                                                -27-

WO 2005/097809                                                             PCTIUS2005/009774
            (f)    removing the protecting group P' to form a compound of formula (XXI):
                                               H
                                                      1)
                                     H2N       N     B,
                                             0~%
                                                                                        (XX1)
  or an acid addition salt thereof;
           (g)     coupling the compound of formula (XXI) with a reagent of formula (XXII)
                                                       X
                                                    0                                  (=XI)
 wherein X is a OH or a leaving group, to form a compound of formula (XXIII):
                                        0          H     9
                                                         (                      (XXII) ; and
           (h)     deprotecting the boronic acid moiety to form the compound of formula (XIV)
 or a boronic acid anhydride thereof.
 [086]            In some embodiments, the process is characterized by at least one of the
following features (1)-(5).    In certain preferred embodiments, the process is characterized by
 all five features (1)-(5) below.
          (1)     In the boron "ate" complex of formula (XV), R3 and Y both are chloro.
          (2)     The coupling step (e) comprises the steps:
                  (i)      coupling the compound of formula (XVIII) with a compound of
          formula (XIX) wherein X is OH in the presence of 2-(1H-benzotriazol-1-yl)-1,1,3,3
          tetramethyluronium tetrafluoroborate (TBTU) and a tertiary amine in
          dichloromethane;
                  (ii)    performing a solvent-exchange to -replace dichloromethane with ethyl
          acetate; and
                                                 -28-

WO 2005/097809                                                              PCTIUS2005/009774
                   (iii)    performing an aqueous wash of the ethyl acetate solution.
         (3)       The protecting group removing step (f) comprises the steps:
                   (i)      treating the compound of formula (XX) with HCI in ethyl acetate;
                  (ii)      adding heptane to the reaction mixture; and
                  (iii)    isolating by crystallization the compound of formula (XXI) as its HCI
        addition salt.
        (4)       The coupling step (g) comprises the steps:
                  (i)      coupling the compound of formula (XXi) with 2 -pyrazinecarboxylic
        acid in the presence of TBTU and a tertiary amine in dichloromethane;
                 (ii)      performing a solvent exchange to replace dichloromethane with ethyl
       acetate; and
                 (iii)    performing an aqueous wash of the ethyl acetate solution.
       (5)      The boronic acid deprotecting step (h) comprises the steps:
                (i)       providing a biphasic mixture comprising the compound of formula
       (XXI1), an organic boronic acid acceptor, a lower alkanol, a C, hydrocarbon
                                                                                        solvent,
      and aqueous mineral acid;
                (ii)      stirring the biphasic mixture to afford the compound of formula
      (XIV);
               (iii)      separating the solvent layers; and
               (iv)      extracting the compound of formula (XIV), or a boronic acid
      anhydride thereof, into an organic solvent.
[087]          Preferably, step (h)(iii) comprises the steps:
               (1)       separating the solvent layers;
               (2)       adjusting the aqueous layer to basic p-I;
              (3)        washing the aqueous layer with an organic solvent; and
              (4)        adjusting the aqueous layer to a pH less than about 6;
                                                -29-

WO 2005/097809                                                            PCTIUS2005/009774
 [088]          In another embodiment, the invention relates to a large-scale process for
forming a compound of formula (XV)
                                        0              OH
                                           HOH
                                   N             0
                                                                                      (X
or a boronic acid anhydride thereof, comprising the steps:
        (aa)    coupling a compound of formula (XVIII):
                                     H2N     B
                                                                                   (XVII1)
or an acid addition salt thereof, with a compound of formula (XIX):
                                        PI-NH4e
                                            H    o                                   (XIX)
wherein:
       P' is a cleavable amino group protecting moiety; and
       X is OH or a leaving group;
to form a compound of formula (XX):
                                             H     0
                                  P" N       N     6 0
                                                   B,
                                     H    O
wherein P' is as defined above, said coupling step (aa) comprising the steps:
                (i)    coupling the compound of formula (XVIII) with a compound of
       formula (XIX) wherein X is OH in the presence of 2-(1H-benzotriazol-1-yl)-1,1,3,3
                                               - 30 -

WO 2005/097809                                                            PCTIUS2005/009774
         tetramethyluronium tetrafluoroborate (TBTU) and a tertiary amine in
         dichloromethane;
                 (ji)   performing a solvent exchange to replace dichloromethane with ethyl
        acetate; and
                 (iii)  performing an aqueous wash of the ethyl acetate solution;
        (bb)     removing the protecting group P' to form a compound of formula (XXI):
                                             H
                                                    ,
                                   H2N       N     B
                                                                                     (XX)
or an acid addition salt thereof, said protecting group removing step (bb) comprising the
steps:
                (i)     treating the compound of formula (XX) with HCl in ethyl acetate;
                (ii)    adding heptane to the reaction mixture; and
                (iii)   isolating by crystallization the compound of formula (XXI) as its HCI
        addition salt;
        (cc)    coupling the compound of formula (XXI) with a reagent of formula (XXI)
                                            N
                                               ~NX
                                                  0                                 (XXII)
wherein X is a OH or a leaving group, to form a compound of formula (XXIII):
                                                 H
                                                                                  (XXIf1),
said coupling step (cc) comprising the steps:
                (i)    coupling the compound of formula (XXI) with 2-pyrazinecarboxylic
       acid in the presence of TBTU and a tertiary amine in dichloromethane;
                                               - 31 -

WO 2005/097809                                                                 PCTIUS2005/009774
                   (ii)     performing a solvent exchange to replace dichloromethane with ethyl
         acetate; and
                   (iii)    performing an aqueous wash of the ethyl acetate solution; and
         (dd)     deprotecting the boronic acid moiety to form the compound of formula (XIV)
 or a boronic acid anhydride thereof, said deprotecting step (dd) comprising the steps:
                  (i)       providing a biphasic mixture comprising the compound of formula
         (XXi), an organic boronic acid acceptor, a lower alkanol, a C, hydrocarbon solvent,
         and aqueous mineral acid;
                  (ii)      stirring the biphasic mixture to afford the compound of formula
         (XIV);
                  (iii)     separating the solvent layers; and
                  (iv)      extracting the compound of formula (XW), or a boronic acid
         anhydride thereof, into an organic solvent.
 1089]            Preferably, step (dd)(iii) comprises the steps:
                  (1)       separating the solvent layers;
                  (2)       adjusting the aqueous layer to basic pH;
                  (3)       washing the aqueous layer with an organic solvent; and
                  (4)       adjusting the aqueous layer to a pH less than about 6;
[090]             The efficiency of the processes described above is further enhanced by
telescoping steps, for example, by carrying a reaction mixture or worked-up product
solution from one reaction directly into the following reaction, without isolation of the
intermediate product. For example, in some embodiments, step (e)(iii) or (aa)(iii) affords an
ethyl acetate solution comprising a compound of formula (XX), and the ethyl acetate
solution is directly subjected in step (f) or (bb) to conditions effective to remove the
protecting group P'. In some such embodiments, the protecting group P' is an acid-labile
protecting group, for example, tert-butoxycarbonyl (Boc), and the ethyl acetate solution from
step (e)(iii) or (aa)(iii) is treated with acid. In certain preferred embodiments, the ethyl
acetate solution from step (e)(iii) or (aa)(iii) is dried azeotropically and then treated with
gaseous HCL.
                                                   -32-

WO 2005/097809                                                               PCTIUS2005/009774
 [091]           When the deprotecting step (f) or (bb) is performed under anhydrous
conditions, as described above, the product of formula (XXI) can be isolated by
crystallization from the reaction mixture as its HCl addition salt. Crystallization of the
product salt is promoted by addition of a hydrocarbon solvent such as n-heptane. In some
embodiments, the reaction mixture is partially concentrated prior to addition of the
hydrocarbon solvent. The present inventors have discovered that crystallization of the
compound of formula (XXI) in this manner efficiently removes any tripeptide impurity that
may have formed during the coupling step (e) or (aa). Such impurities are difficult to
remove at later stages in the synthesis.
[092]            Further telescoping of the process is possible by carrying the product mixture
from the coupling step (g) or (cc) directly into the boronic acid moiety deprotecting step (h)
or (dd). Preferably, the organic solvent from the coupling reaction is first replaced with
ethyl acetate in order to facilitate aqueous washes. A second solvent exchange into a
hydrocarbon solvent then permits the product solution from step (g) or (cc) to be used
directly in the biphasic boronic acid deprotecting step (h) or (dd), without isolation of the
compound of formula (XXIII).
[093]            Alternatively, a more convergent approach may be adopted for the synthesis
of the compound of formula (XIV). Thus, in yet another embodiment, the invention
provides a large-scale process for forming a compound of formula (XIV)
                                         0          H   OH
                                           M        N  B'OH
                                                      S(XIV)
or a boronic acid anhydride thereof. The process comprises the steps:
        (a)      providing a boron "ate" complex of formula (XV):
                                        Y    O j&
                                          M+
                                                                                       (l
wherein:
        R3 is a nucleofugic group;
                                               -33-

 WO 2005/097809                                                               PCT/US2005/009774
          Y is a nucleofugic group; and
          M* is an alkali metal;
           (b)     contacting the boron "ate" complex of formula (XV) with a Lewis acid under
  conditions that afford a boronic ester compound of formula (XVI):
                                                 0
                                                            <                            (XVI)
 said contacting step being conducted in a reaction mixture comprising:
                   (i)    a coordinating ether solvent that has low miscibility with water; or
                   (ii)   an ether solvent that has low miscibility with water and a
 coordinating co-solvent;
          (c)     treating the boronic ester compound of formula (XVI) with a reagent of
              1
 formula M -N(Si(R)3) 2 , where M' is an alkali metal and each R' independently is selected
 from the group consisting of alkyl, aralkyl, and aryl, where the aryl or aryl portion of the
 aralkyl is optionally substituted, to form a compound of formula (XVII):
                                    ((R) 3Si) 2 N   B
                                                           RD<
                                                                                        (XVII)
         (d)      removing the (R'),Si groups to form a compound of formula (XVIII):
                                        H2N                                           (     )
                                                                                      (XVIII)
or an acid addition salt thereof;
         (e)     coupling the compound of formula (XVIII) with a compound of formula
(XIXa):
                                                  -34 -

WO 2005/097809                                                             PCTIUS2005/009774
                                             N         N
                                          N                                            (XIXa)
 wherein X is OH or a leaving group, to form a compound of formula (XXII):
                                        0          H
                                   N
                                                                                (XXIII) ; and
          (f)     deprotecting the boronic acid moiety to form the compound of formula (XIV)
 or a boronic acid anhydride thereof.
 [094]            Tn some embodiments, the process is characterized by at least one of the
following features (1)-(3).    In certain preferred embodiments, the process is characterized by
all three features (1)-(3) below.
         (1)     In the boron "ate" complex of formula (XV), R and Y both are chloro.
         (2)     The coupling step (e) comprises the steps:
                 (i)     coupling the compound of formula (XVIII) with a compound of
         formula (XIXa) wherein X is OH in the presence of 2-(1H-benzotriazol-1-yl)-1,1,3,3
         tetramethyluronium tetrafluoroborate (TBTU) and a tertiary amine in
         dichloromethane;
                 (ii)    performing a solvent exchange to replace dichloromethane with ethyl
        acetate; and
                (iii)    performing an aqueous wash of the ethyl acetate solution.
        (3)     The boronic acid deprotecting step (f) comprises the steps:
                (i)      providing a biphasic mixture comprising the compound of formula
        (XXIII), an organic boronic acid acceptor, a lower alkanol, a C, hydrocarbon solvent,
        and aqueous mineral acid;
                (ii)    stirring the biphasic mixture to afford the compound of formula
        (XIV);
                                                - 35 -

 WO 2005/097809                                                                   PCTIUS2005/009774
                (iii)   separating the solvent layers; and
                (iv)    extracting the compound of formula (XIV), or a boronic acid
        anhydride thereof, into an organic solvent.
[095]           Preferably, step (f')(iii) comprises the steps:
                (1)      separating the solvent layers;
                (2)      adjusting the aqueous layer to basic pH;
                (3)      washing the aqueous layer with an organic solvent; and
                 (4)     adjusting the aqueous layer to a pH less than about 6;
[0961            In step (h)(iv), (dd)(iv), or (f) (iv) of the processes described above, the
compound of formula (XIV), or a boronic acid anhydride thereof, preferably is extracted into
ethyl acetate and crystallized by addition of hexane or heptane. In some embodiments, the
process further comprises isolation of a boronic acid anhydride of the compound of formula
(XIV), preferably a trimeric boronic acid anhydride of formula (XXIV):
                                           O
                                                        O         3
                                                           Y                               (XXIV)
 [0971           The processes of the invention permit the large-scale manufacture of
 bortezomib of very high chemical and stereochemical purity. Prior art processes were
 limited in scale and afforded product of lower overall purity. In yet another aspect,
 therefore, the invention provides a composition comprising at least one kilogram of a
 compound of formula (XXIV):
                                            O           H    0
                                      N9      N         N B30
                                      N              -6
                                                    - 36 -

 WO 2005/097809                                                            PCT/US2005/009774
  The compound of formula (XXIV) preferably is prepared according to the process described
  above, and preferably constitutes at least 99% w/w of the composition according to this
  aspect of the invention.
                                            EXAMPLES
 Abbreviations
 BOC                             tert-butoxycarbonyl
 D.I.                            de-ionized
 DMF                             NN-dimethylformamide
 GC                              gas chromatography
 GC-MS                           gas chromatography-mass spectrometry
 h                               Hours
 HDPE                            high density polyethylene
 HPLC                            high performance liquid chromatography
 LDA                            lithium diisopropylamide
 LOD                            loss on drying
min                             Minutes
MTBE                            t-butyl methyl ether
RP-HPLC                         reverse phase high performance liquid chromatography
RPM                             revolutions per minute
TBTU                            O-benzotriazol-1-yl-N,N,N',N'-tetramethyluronium
                                tetrafluoroborate
THF                             tetrahydrofuran
Example 1:       (1R)-(S)-Pinanediol 1-ammonium trifluoroacetate-3-methylbutane-1
                boronate Manufacturing Process
(1S)-(S)-Pinanediol 1-chloro-3-methylbutane-1-boronate
1.      (S)-Pinanediol-2-methylpropane-1-boronate (12.0 kg, 50.8 moles) was charged to a
       reaction vessel maintained under a nitrogen atmosphere.
                                              -37-

 WO 2005/097809                                                            PCTIUS2005/009774
  2.    tert-Butyl methyl ether (53 kg) and dichloromethane (22.5 kg) were charged and the
        resultant mixture was cooled to -57 'C with stirring.
  3.    Diisopropylamine, (6.7 kg) was charged to another reaction vessel maintained under
        a nitrogen atmosphere.
  4.    tert-Butyl methyl ether (27 kg) was charged to the diisopropylamine and the
       resultant mixture was cooled to -10 'C with stirring.
 5.    n-Hexyllithium in hexane (33.2 weight% solution) (17.6 kg) was added to the
       diisopropylamine mixture over a period of 57 minutes, while the reaction
       temperature was maintained at -10 'C to -7 'C.
 6.    This mixture (LDA-mixture) was stirred for 33 minutes at -9    0
                                                                        C to -7 *C before it was
       used.
 7.    Zinc chloride, (12.1 kg) was charged to a third reaction vessel maintained under a
       nitrogen atmosphere.
 8.    tert-Butyl methyl ether (16 kg) was charged to the zinc chloride and the resultant
       mixture was warmed to 30 *C with stirring.
 9.    Tetrahydrofuran (53 kg) was added to the zinc chloride suspension over a period of
       18 minutes, while the reaction temperature was maintained at 35 'C to 40 'C.
10.   This mixture (ZnCl2-mixture) was stirred for 4 hours and 28 minutes at 38 "C to 39 0C
      until it was used.
11.   The LDA-mixture (from # 3 - 6) was added over a period of 60 minutes to the
      reaction vessel containing (S)-pinanediol-2-methylpropane-1-boronate, while the
      reaction temperature was maintained at -60 'C to -55 'C.
12.   A tert-butyl methyl ether rinse (10 kg) was used to complete the addition.
13.   The reaction mixture was stirred for an additional 20 minutes at -59 OC to -55 *C.
14.   The reaction mixture was warmed to -50 *C over a period of 11 minutes.
15.   The ZnCl,-mixture (from# 7 -10) was added over a period of 48 minutes to the
      reaction vessel containing (S)-pinanediol-2-methylpropane-1-boronate and the LDA
      mixture, while the reaction temperature was maintained at -50 'C to -45 'C.
16.   A tert-butyl methyl ether rinse (10 kg) was used to complete the addition.
                                            - 38--

WO 2005/097809                                                            PCTIUS2005/009774
17.     The reaction mixture was stirred for an additional 30 minutes at -45 'C to -40 "Cand
        then warmed to 10 'C over a period of 81 minutes.
18.     A 10% sulfuric acid solution (72 kg) was added over a period of 40 minutes to the
        reaction vessel, while the reaction temperature was maintained at 10 *C to 21 "C.
19.     The reaction mixture was stirred for 16 minutes at ambient temperature, before the
        aqueous phase was separated.
20.     The organic phase was washed successively with deionized (D.L) water (32 kg), and
        10% sodium chloride solution (26.7 kg), each wash involved vigorous stirring for 15
         Lo 17 minutes at ambient temperature.
21.     The reaction mixture was concentrated under reduced pressure (p.,= 81 mbar),
        maintaining an external (jacket/bath) temperature of 50 'C to 55 'C, providing a
        residue which was dissolved in methylcyclohexane (56 kg).
22.     The reaction mixture was refluxed (in a Dean-Stark type condenser for water
        separation) under reduced pressure (p,, = 67 mbar), maintaining an external
         (jacket/bath) temperature of 50 'C to 55 *C for 2 hours and 7 minutes, until no more
        water was separated.
23.     About 35 L of the solvents were distilled off under reduced pressure (p,,. = 81 mbar),
         maintaining an external (jacket/bath) temperature of 50 'C to 55 *C.
24.      The resultant dry methylcyclohexane mixture containing (1S)-(S)-pinanediol 1
         chloro-3-methylbutane-1-boronate was cooled to 14 *C.
 (1R)-(S)-Pinanediol 1-bis(trimethylsilyl)amino-3-methylbutane-1-boronate
 1.      Lithium bis(trimethylsilyl)amide in tetrahydrofuran (19.4 weight% solution), (41.8
         kg) was charged to a reaction vessel maintained under a nitrogen atmosphere and
         cooled to -19 "Cwith stirring.
 2.      The methylcyclohexane mixture containing (1S)-(S)-pinanediol 1-chloro-3
         methylbutane-1-boronate was added over a period of 55 minutes, while the reaction
         temperature was maintained at -19 *C to -13 *C.
 3.      A methylcyclohexane rinse (5 kg) was used to complete the addition.
 4.      The reaction mixture was stirred for an additional 65 minutes at -13 "C to -12 'C and
         then warmed to 25 "C over a period of 25 minutes.
                                               -39 -

WO 2005/097809                                                              PCTIUS2005/009774
 5.     A suspension of Celite (2.5 kg) in methylcyclohexane (22 kg) was added to the
        reaction mixture.
 6.     The reaction mixture was concentrated under reduced pressure (p.In =25 mbar),
        maintaining an external (jacket/bath) temperature of 45 IC to 50 'C, providing a
        residue which was dissolved in methylcyclohexane (36 kg).
 7.     A sample was then removed for in-process testing for tetrahydrofuran content by
        GC.
8.      The tetrahydrofuran assay was 0.58%.
9.      The solids were removed by filtration, the filtrate was filtered through a plug of
        Silica Gel (2.0 kg).
10.     Both filter units were washed with isopropyl ether (30 kg).
11.     The resultant methylcyclohexane/isopropyl ether mixture containing (1R)-(S)
        pinanediol l-bis(trimethylsilyl)amino-3-methylbutane-1-boronate was stored in a
        container at ambient temperature until it was used in the next step.
(lR)-(S)-Pinanediol 1-ammoniurn trifluoroacetate-3-methylbutane-1-boronate
1.      Trifluoroacetic acid, (12 kg) was charged to another reaction vessel maintained under
        a nitrogen atmosphere.
2.     Isopropyl ether (78 kg) was charged to the trifluoroacetic acid and the resultant
       mixture was cooled to -10 'C with stirring.
3.     The methylcyclohexane/isopropyl ether mixture containing (1R)-(S)-pinanediol 1
       bis(trimethylsilyl)amino-3-methylbutane-1-boronate was added over a period of 53
       minutes causing product precipitation, while the reaction temperature was
       maintained at -10 *C to -5 *C.
4.     An isopropyl ether rinse (5 kg) was used to complete the addition.
5.     The reaction mixture was stirred for an additional 8 hours and 20 minutes at -9 0C to
       -7 C.
6.     The solid was collected by filtration, washed with isopropyl ether (70 kg) in two
       portions, and dried under reduced pressure (pmin= 56 mbar) at 41 *C to 42 *C for 2
       hours and 15 minutes.
                                              -40 -

 WO 2005/097809                                                              PCTIUS2005/009774
  7.     The solid was stirred with D.I. water (60 kg) for 24 minutes at ambient temperature,
         before the D.I. water was removed by filtration.
  8.     The solid was washed with D.I. water (12 kg).
  9.     The solid was then dried under vacuum (pmin = 4 mbar) at 40 *C to 44 'C for 9 hours
         and 22 minutes, after that time the loss on drying was 0.51%, which meets the      1%
         requirement.
  10.    The intermediate, (1R)-(S)-pinanediol 1-ammonium trifluoroacetate-3-methylbutane
         1-boronate, crude, was then packaged into single polyethylene bags in
        polypropylene drums and labeled. The yield was 72%.
 Recrystallization of (1R)-(S)-pinanediol 1-amimonium trifluoroacetate-3-methylbutane-1
 boronate, crude
 1.     (1R)-(S)-Pinanediol 1-ammonium trifluoroacetate-3-methylbutane-1-boronate, crude,
        (13 kg) was charged to a reaction vessel maintained tinder a nitrogen atmosphere.
 2.     Trifluoroacetic acid (31 kg) was charged to the reaction vessel and the resultant
        mixture was cooled to 4 'C with stirring.
3.      Once all of the solid was dissolved leaving a slightly turbid mixture, isopropyl ether
        (29 kg) was added over a period of 57 minutes, while the reaction temperature was
        maintained at 2 'C to 3 'C.
4.      After complete addition the mixture was filtered through a filter into a receiving
        vessel maintained under a nitrogen atmosphere.
5.      Reactor and filter were rinsed with a mixture of trifluoroacetic acid (3.8 kg) and
       isopropyl ether (5 kg). The rinse was added to the filtrate.
6.     Isopropyl ether (126 kg) was added over a period of 15 minutes causing product
       precipitation, while the reaction temperature was maintained at 16 *C to 18 'C.
7.     The mixture was stirred at 16 *C to 18 *C for 15 min, then cooled to -5 'C over a
       period of 67 minutes, and stirred at -3 *C to -5 *C under a nitrogen atmosphere for 89
       minutes.
8.     The solid was then isolated by filtration, washed with isopropyl ether (48 kg) in two
       portions, and dried under vacuum (pin       = 2 mbar) at 34 "C to 40 'C for 2 hours and
       55 minutes after that time the loss on drying was 0.32%, which meets the       0.5%
       requirement.
                                             -41-

 WO 2005/097809                                                            PCTIUS2005/009774
9.     The product, (1R)-(S)-pinanediol l-ammonium trifluoroacetate-3-methylbutane-l
       boronate, was then packaged into double polyethylene bags in fiber drums and
       labeled. The yield was 86%.
Example 2:       N-(2-Pyrazinecarbonyl)-L-phenylalanine-L-eucine boronic anhydride
                 Manufacturing Process
(1S,2S,3R,5S)-Pinanediol N-BOC-L-phenylalanine-L-leucine boronate
1.     In a fume hood, a three-necked glass reaction flask equipped with a Claisen head
       temperature recorder and a mechanical stirrer was flushed with nitrogen.
2.      (1R)-(S)-Pinanediol 1-ammonium trifluoroacetate-3-methylbutane-1-boronate (2.0
        kg), was charged to the flask.
3.      BOC-L-phenylalanine (1.398 kg) was charged to the flask.
4.      2-(1H-Benzotriazol-1-yl)-1,1,3,3-tetramethyl uronium tetrafluoroborate, TBTU (1.864
        kg) was charged to the flask.
5.      Dichloromethane (15.8 L) was charged to the flask.
6.      The stirring motor was adjusted to provide stirring at 260 RPM.
7.      Using an ice/water cooling bath, the reaction mixture was cooled to 1.0 'C,
        maintaining a nitrogen atmosphere.
8.      NN-Diisopropylethylamine (2.778 L) was charged to a glass flask and transferred to
        the reaction mixture over a period of 117 minutes using a peristaltic pump
        maintaining a reaction temperature range of 0.7 'C -2.1 *C. The overall addition rate
        was 23.7 mL/min.
 9.     A dichloromethane (0.2 L) rinse of the flask into the reaction mixture was used to
        complete the addition.
 10.    The reaction mixture was stirred for an additional 35 minutes. The temperature at the
         start of the stir time was 1.8 *C, and 2.5 *C at the end.
 11.     A sample was then removed for in-process testing by reverse phase high
         performance liquid chromatography (RP-HPLC). The percent conversion was
         determined to be 99.3%.
 12.     The reaction mixture was transferred in approximately two equal halves to two
         rotary evaporator flasks. The reaction mixture was concentrated tinder reduced
                                                 - 42 -

 WO 2005/097809                                                            PCTIUS2005/009774
      pressure using a rotary evaporator, maintaining an external bath temperature of 29
      30 *C.
13.   Ethyl acetate (4.0 L) was divided into two approximately equal portions and charged
      to the two rotary evaporator flasks.
14.   The mixtures in each flask were again concentrated under reduced pressure using a
      rotary evaporator, maintaining an external bath temperature of 29-30 'C.
15.   The residues in each rotary evaporator flask were then transferred back to the
      reaction flask using ethyl acetate (13.34 L).
16.   In a glass flask equipped with a stirrer, a 1%aqueous phosphoric acid solution was
      prepared by mixing D.I. water (13.18 L) and phosphoric acid (0.160 kg).
17.   In a glass flask equipped with a stirrer, a 2% aqueous potassium carbonate solution
      (12.0 L) was prepared by mixing D.I. water (11.76 L) and potassium carbonate (0.24
      kg).
18.   In a glass flask equipped with a stirrer, a 10% aqueous sodium chloride solution
       (13.34 L) was prepared by mixing D.I. water (13.34 L) and sodium chloride (1.334 kg).
19.   D.I. water (13.34 L) was charged to the reaction flask containing the ethyl acetate
      solution and the mixture stirred at 380 RPM for 7 minutes. The layers were allowed
       to separate and the aqueous phase (bottom layer) was transferred under vacuum to a
       suitable flask and discarded.
20.    Again, D.L water (13.34 L) was charged to the reaction flask containing the ethyl
       acetate solution and the mixture stirred at 385 RPM for 7 minutes. The layers were
       allowed to separate and the aqueous phase (bottom layer) was transferred under
       vacuum to a suitable flask and discarded.
21.    The 1%phosphoric acid solution prepared in Step 16 was charged to the reaction
       flask containing the ethyl acetate solution and the mixture stirred at 365 RPM for 7
       minutes. The layers were allowed to separate and the acidic aqueous phase (bottom
       layer) was transferred to a suitable flask and discarded.
 22.   The 2% potassium carbonate solution prepared in Step 17 was charged to the
       reaction flask containing the ethyl acetate solution and the mixture stirred at 367
       RPM for 7 minutes. The layers were allowed to separate and the basic aqueous phase
        (bottom lafer)-was transferred to a suitable flask and discarded.
                                              -43 -

WO 2005/097809                                                             PCTIUS2005/009774
23.    The 10% sodium chloride solution prepared in Step 18 was charged to the reaction
       flask containing the ethyl acetate solution and the mixture stirred at 373 RPM for 6
       minutes. The layers were allowed to separate and the aqueous phase (bottom layer)
       was transferred to a suitable flask and discarded.
24.    The ethyl acetate solution was transferred to a rotary evaporator flask and
       concentrated under reduced pressure using a rotary evaporator, maintaining a bath
       temperature of 29-30 "C, to provide a residue.
25.    The residue was then redissolved in ethyl acetate (4.68 L).
26.    The solution was concentrated under vacuum using a rotary evaporator, maintaining
       a bath temperature of 29-30 OC, to provide a residue once more.
27.    Again, the residue was then redissolved in ethyl acetate (4.68 L) and two samples
       taken for determination of water content by Karl Fisher titration. The water content
       of two samples was determined as 0.216 %and 0.207 %.
28.    Using a further quantity of ethyl acetate (12.66 L), the mixture was transferred from
       the rotary evaporator flask to a dry reaction flask equipped with a temperature
       recorder, a mechanical stirrer, and a fritted gas dispersion tube, and purged with
       nitrogen.
(1S,2S,3R,5S)-PinanediolL-phenylalanine-L-leucine boronate, HCI salt
1.     The ethyl acetate solution containing (1S,2S,3R,5S)-pinanediol N-BOC-L
       phenylalanine-L-leucine boronate was cooled using an ice /water cooling bath to
       0.9 *C.
2.     Hydrogen chloride (1.115 kg) gas was bubbled into the reaction mixture over a
       period of 1.48 hours. The temperature at the start of the addition was -0.9 *C, and
       6.8 *C at the end.
3.     The reaction was then allowed to warm to 14.4 *C over 50 minutes, while
       maintaining a nitrogen atmosphere.
4.     A sample was removed for in-process testing by RP-HPLC. The percent conversion
       was 68.9 % (area %).
5.     The reaction was stirred for 35 minutes. The temperature at the start was 14 *C, and
       14.8 *C at the end.
                                             -44  -

WO 2005/097809                                                           PCTIUS2005/009774
6.    A sample was removed for in-process testing by RP-HPLC. The percent conversion
      was 94.7% (area%).
7.    The reaction was stirred for approximately a further 50 minutes, maintaining a
      temperature of 10 'C    5 'C.
8.    A sample was removed for in-process testing by RP-HPLC. The percent conversion
      was 97.3%.
9.    The reaction was stirred for approximately a further 50 minutes, maintaining a
      temperature of 10 'C 5 *C. The final temperature was 14.6 *C.
10.   A sample was removed for in-process testing by RP-HPLC. The total reaction time
      after addition of hydrogen chloride gas was four (4) hours.
11.   The percent conversion was 99%.
12.   A slurry was observed.
13.   n-Heptane (8.8 L) was charged to the reaction mixture.
14.   The slurry was stirred for 2 hours. The temperature at the start of the stir time was
      12.7 'C, and 15.3 *C at the end.
15.   The solid was isolated by filtration on a Buchner funnel lined with a polypropylene
      felt filter pad.
16.   The solid was washed with n-heptane (4.68 L).
17.   In a hood, the solid was transferred to three drying trays at not more than 1" deep
      and air-dried for 1 hour.
18.   The solid was then dried at <35 'C under a vacuum of 27" of Hg for 16 hours 28
      minutes in a vacuum oven equipped with a vacuum gauge and a temperature
      recorder.
19.   The solid was sampled from each drying tray to determine the % Loss on Drying.
      The LOD was determined to be 0 %, 0.02 %, and 0.02 %on the three samples taken.
20.   (1S,2S,3R,5S)-Pinanediol L-phenylalanine-L-leucine boronate, HCI salt was then
      packaged into double poly bags in fiber drums and labeled, and sampled.
21.   The isolated yield was 1.87 kg, 79.1%. The intermediate was stored at 2-8 'C until
      used in further manufacturing.
                                            -45 -

WO 2005/097809                                                              PCTIUS2005/009774
 (1S,2S,3R,5S)-Pinanediol N-(2-pyrazinecarbonyl)-L-phenylalanine-L-leucine boronate
 1.      In a fume hood a three-necked glass reaction flask equipped with a Claisen head,
         temperature recorder and a mechanical stirrer was flushed with nitrogen.
 2.      (1S,2S,3R,5S)-Pinanediol L-phenylalanine-L-leucine boronate, HC salt (1.85 kg) was
         charged to the flask.
 3.      2-Pyrazinecarboxylic acid (0.564 kg) was charged to the flask.
 4.      2-(H-Benzotriazol-1-yl)-1,1,3,3-tetramethy uronium tetrafluoroborate, TBTU (1.460
         kg) was charged to the flask.
5.      Dichloromethane (18.13 L) was charged to the flask.
6.      The stirring motor was adjusted to provide stirring at 272 RPM.
7.      Using a cooling bath, the reaction mixture was cooled to -1.2 *C.
8.      NN-Diisopropylethylamine (1.865 kg) was charged to a glass flask and transferred
        to the reaction over a period of 50 minutes using a peristaltic pump maintaining a
        reaction temperature range of -1.2 *C to 2.8 OC.
9.      A dichloromethane rinse (0.37 L) of the flask into the reaction mixture was used to
        complete the addition.
10.     The reaction mixture was allowed to warm and stirred for an additional 81 minutes.
11.     The temperature at the start of the stir time was 15 *C, and 24.9 'C at the end.
12.     A sample was then removed for in-process testing by RP-HPLC. The percent
        conversion was determined to be 99.9%.
13.     The reaction mixture was transferred in approximately two equal halves to two
        rotary evaporator flasks. The reaction mixture was concentrated under reduced
       pressure using two rotary evaporators, maintaining an external bath temperature of
       33-34 C.
14.    Ethyl acetate (12.95 L) was divided into two approximately equal portions and
       charged to the two rotary evaporator flasks.
15.    The mixtures in each flask were then concentrated under reduced pressure using a
       rotary evaporator, maintaining an external bath temperature of 33-34 0 C.
16.    The residues in each rotary evaporator flask were then transferred back to the
       reaction flask using ethyl acetate (12.95 L).
                                               -46-

 WO 2005/097809                                                           PCTIUS2005/009774
 17.    In a glass flask equipped with a stirrer, a 1% aqueous phosphoric acid solution (12.34
        L) was prepared by mixing D.I. water (12.19 L) and phosphoric acid (0.148 kg).
 18.   In a glass flask equipped with a stirrer, a 2% aqueous potassium carbonate solution
        (12.34 L) was prepared by mixing D.I. water (12.09 L) and potassium carbonate (0.247
       kg).
 19.   In a glass flask equipped with a stirrer, a 10% aqueous sodium chloride solution
       (12.34 L) was prepared by mixing D.I. water (12.34 L) and sodium chloride (1.234 kg).
 20.   D.I water (12.34 L) was charged to the reaction flask containing the ethyl acetate
       solution and the mixture stirred at 382 RPM for 7 minutes. The layers were allowed
       to separate and the aqueous phase (bottom layer) was transferred to a suitable flask
       and discarded.
 21.   Again, DI. water (12.34 L) was charged to the reaction flask containing the ethyl
       acetate solution and the mixture stirred at 398 RPM for 7 minutes. The layers were
       allowed to separate and the aqueous phase (bottom layer) was transferred to a
       suitable flask and discarded.
22.   The 1%phosphoric acid solution prepared in Step 17 was charged to the reaction
      flask containing the ethyl acetate solution and the mixture stirred at 364 RPM for 8
      minutes. The layers were allowed to separate and the acidic aqueous phase (bottom
      layer) was transferred to a suitable flask and discarded.
23.   The 2% potassium carbonate solution prepared in Step 18 was charged to the
      reaction flask containing the ethyl acetate solution and the mixture stirred at 367
      RPM for 8 minutes. The layers were allowed to separate and the basic aqueous phase
      (bottom layer) was transferred to a suitable flask and discarded.
24.   The 10% sodium chloride solution prepared in Step 19 was charged to the reaction
      flask containing the ethyl acetate solution and the mixture stirred at 374 RPM for 8
      minutes. The layers were allowed to separate and the aqueous phase (bottom layer)
      was transferred to a suitable flask and discarded.
25.   The ethyl acetate solution was transferred under vacuum in approximately two equal
      halves to two rotary evaporator flasks and concentrated under reduced pressure
      using a rotary evaporator, maintaining an external bath temperature of 34 0C.
26.   n-Heptane (14.8 L)-was divided into two approximately equal portions and charged
      to the two rotary evaporator flasks. The mixtures in each flask were then
                                             -47-

  WO 2005/097809                                                             PCTIUS2005/009774
         concentrated under reduced pressure using a rotary evaporator, maintaining an
         external bath temperature of 34 C.
 N-(2-Pyrazinecarbonyl)-L-phenylalanine-L-eucine boronic anhydride, crude
   .     In a glass flask equipped with a stirrer, a IN solution of hydrochloric acid (22.2 L)
         was prepared by mixing D.L water (20.36 L) and hydrochloric acid (1.84 kg).
 2.      In a glass flask equipped with a stirrer, a 2N sodium hydroxide solution (12.03 L)
        was prepared by mixing D.I. water (12.03 L) and sodium hydroxide (0.962 kg).
 3.      The residues containing (IS,2S,3R,5S)-pinanediol N-(2-pyrazinecarbonyl)-L
        phenylalanine-L-leucine boronate in each rotary evaporator flask were then
        transferred to a three-necked glass reaction flask equipped with a temperature
        recorder and a mechanical stirrer, using n-heptane (14.8 L) and methanol (14.8 L).
 4.     The stirring motor was adjusted to provide stirring at 284 RPM.
 5.     2-Methylpropaneboronic acid (0.672 kg) was charged to the flask.
6.      IN hydrochloric acid prepared in Step 1 (11.2 L) was charged to the flask.
7.      The stirring motor was adjusted to provide stirring at 326 RPM.
8.      The reaction mixture was stirred for 16.38 hours The start batch temperature was
        28.6 'C, and the end batch temperature was 21.6 OC.
9.      A sample was then removed for in-process testing by RP-H1PLC.
10.     The percent conversion was determined to be 100%.
11.     Stirring was stopped and the biphasic mixture allowed to separate.
12.    The n-heptane layer (upper layer) was transferred to a suitable flask and discarded.
13.    n-Heptane (5.37 L) was charged to the reaction flask and the mixture stirred at 381
       RPM for 6 minutes. The layers were allowed to separate and the n-heptane phase
       (upper layer) was transferred to a suitable flask and discarded.
14.    Again, n-heptane (5.37 L) was charged to the reaction flask and the mixture stirred at
       340 RPM for 6 minutes. The layers were allowed to separate and the n-heptane phase
       (upper layer) was transferred to a suitable flask and discarded.
15.    The aqueous methanol solution was transferred in approximately two equal halves
       to two rotary evaporator flasks and concentrated under reduced pressure using a
                                              - 48 -

WO 2005/097809                                                           PCTIUS2005/009774
      rotary evaporator, maintaining an external bath temperature of 33-34 *C. 15 L of
      methanol were collected.
16.   Dichloromethane (5.37 L) was used to transfer the residue from the rotary evaporator
      flasks back into the reaction flask.
17.   2N sodium hydroxide (11.2 L) prepared in Step 2 was charged to the flask.
18.   The dichloromethane layer (lower layer) was transferred to a suitable flask and
      discarded.
19.   Dichloromethane (5.37 L) was charged to the flask and the mixture stirred at 374
      RPM for 6 minutes. The phases were allowed to separate and the dichloromethane
      layer (lower layer) was transferred to a suitable flask and discarded.
20.   Again, dichloromethane, (5.37 L) was charged to the flask and the mixture stirred at
      368 RPM for 8 minutes. The phases were allowed to separate and the
      dichloromethane layer (lower layer) was transferred to a suitable flask and
      discarded.
21.   Dichlorornethane (5.37 L) was charged to the flask.
22.   1N hydrochloric acid (10.7 L) was charged to the flask with stirring. The pH of the
      aqueous phase was determined to be 6.
23.   Stirring was discontinued and the phases allowed to separate.
24.   The dichloromethane phase (lower layer) was transferred under vacuum to a glass
      receiving flask.
25.   Dichloromethane (5.37 L) was charged to the flask and the mixture stirred at 330
      RPM for 6 minutes. The phases were allowed to separate and the dichloromethane
      layer (lower layer) was transferred to the glass receiving flask.
26.   Again, dichloromethane, (5.37 L) was charged to the flask and the mixture stirred at
      335 RPM for 6 minutes. The phases were allowed to separate and the
      dichloromethane layer (lower layer) was transferred to the glass receiving flask.
27.   The dichloromethane extracts were combined and transferred in approximately two
      equal halves to two rotary evaporator flasks and concentrated under reduced
      pressure using a rotary evaporator, maintaining an external bath temperature of 33
      34-oC.
                                            -49 -

 WO 2005/097809                                                             PCTIUS2005/009774
   28.     Ethyl acetate (12.95 L) was divided into two approximately equal portions and
           charged to the two rotary evaporator flasks. The mixtures in each flask were then
           concentrated under reduced pressure using a rotary evaporator, maintaining an
           external bath temperature of 45-46 0C.
   29.     Again, ethyl acetate (12.95 L) was divided into two approximately equal portions and
           charged to the two rotary evaporator flasks. The mixtures in each flask were then
           concentrated under reduced pressure using a rotary evaporator, maintaining an
           external bath temperature of 45-46 0C, until approximately 10% of the original
           volume remained.
  30.     n-Heptane (10.2 L) was divided into two approximately equal portions and charged
          to the two rotary evaporator flasks, and the slurry stirred under a nitrogen
          atmosphere for 2.67 hours at 22-23 'C.
  31.     The solid was isolated by filtration on a Buchner funnel, lined with a polypropylene
          felt filter pad.
 32.      The solid was washed with n-heptane (2.96 L).
 33.     In a hood, the solid was transferred to four drying trays and air-dried for 1.25 hours.
 34.     The solid was then dried at 36 - 50 "C under a vacuum of 27" of Hg for 18 hours 27
         minutes in a vacuum oven equipped with a vacuum gauge and a temperature
         recorder.
 35.     The solid was sampled from each tray to determine the %Loss on Drying (LOD). The
         LOD was determined to be 0.38%, 0.62%, 0.71 %,and 0.63% on the four samples
        taken.
 36.    N-(2 -Pyrazinecarbonyl)-L-phenylalanine-L-leucine boronic anhydride, crude was
        packaged into two 5L, HDPE, tamper-proof wide-mouth bottles and labeled.
37.     The isolated yield was 1.314 kg, 83%.
Recrystallization of N-(2 -Pyrazinecarbonyl)-L-phenylalanine-L-leucine boronicanhydride,
crude
1.      In a hood a glass reaction flask equipped with a mechanical stirrer, a reflux
        condenser and a temperature recorder was flushed with nitrogen.
2.    - Ethyl acetate-(21 L) was charged to the flask
                                               - 50 -

WO 2005/097809                                                            PCT/US2005/009774
3.    The ethyl acetate was heated to 66.8 'C under a nitrogen atmosphere, using a hot
      water/steam bath.
4.    N-(2-Pyrazinecarbonyl)-L-phenylalanine-L-leucine boronic anhydride, crude (1.311
      kg) was slowly charged to the reaction flask. Charging occurred over a period of 3
      minutes.
5.    The mixture was stirred for 1 minute until all the solid had dissolved. The
      temperature of the solution was 64 *C.
6.    The heat source was removed and the mixture was slowly cooled to 60 *C using a
      cold bath.
7.    The hot ethyl acetate solution was transferred into a receiving flask via poly tubing
      and a polypropylene in-line filter capsule using a peristaltic punp.
8.    The mixture was allowed to cool to 27.2 'C, and allowed to stand under a nitrogen
      atmosphere without stirring, for 17.75 hours. The final temperature was recorded as
      20.5 "C.
9.    The mixture was cooled using an ice /water bath with stirring for 2.33 hours. The
      temperature at the start of the stir time was 3.8 *C, and -2.8 'C at the end.
10.   The solid was isolated by filtration on a Buchner funnel lined with a polypropylene
      felt filter pad. The filtrate was collected in a collection flask.
11.   The solid was washed with ethyl acetate (2.62 L), cooled to 4.7 *C.
12.   In a hood, the solid was transferred to two drying trays.
13.   The solid was then dried at 51-65 *C under a vacuum of 27" of Hg for 19 hours 10
      minutes in a vacuum oven equipped with a vacuum gauge and a temperature
      recorder.
14.   The solid was sampled to determine the % Loss on Drying (LOD). The LOD was
       determined to be 0.65 %and 0.62 % on the two samples taken.
15.   N-(2-Pyrazinecarbonyl)-L-phenylalanine-L-leucine boronic anhydride was packaged
       into four 1L, Type 3, Amber Wide-Mouth Bottles with Teflon-Lined Caps and
       labeled.
16.    The isolated yield was 1.132 kg, 86.3%.
17.   N-(2-Pyrazinecarbonyl)-L-phenylalanine-L-leucine boronic anhydride was stored at
      - 25 to -15 *C.
                                               -51-

WO 2005/097809                                                            PCTIUS2005/009774
Example 3:     N-(2-Pyrazinecarbonyl)-L-phenylalanine-L-leucine       boronic anhydride
                Convergent Synthesis
(1S,2S33R,5S)-Pinanediol N-(2-pyrazinecarbonyl)-L-phenylalanine-L-leucine boronate
[098]          A solution of (1R)-(S)-Pinanediol 1-ammonium trifluoroacetate-3
methylbutane-1-boronate (13.97 g) and N-hydroxysuccinimide (6.23 g) of in 66 mL of DMF
was cooled to -5 'C, followed by the addition of dicyclohexylcarbodiimide (10.83 g). The
resulting suspension was stirred for one hour at a temperature of -5 to 0 'C. To a solution of
N-(2-pyrazinecarbonyl)-L-phenylalanine (19.52 g; prepared by coupling the preformed
succinimide ester of pyrazinecarboxylic acid with L-phenylalanine in dioxane-water) in 62
mL of DMF was added N-methylmorpholine (5.7 mL) at a temperature of 0 'C, and the
resulting solution was added to the suspension. The suspension was adjusted to pH 7 by
the addition of another 5.7 mL of N-methylmorpholine and stirred overnight, raising the
temperature slowly to 21 *C. After filtration, the filtercake was washed twice with MTBE
and the combined filtrates were diluted with 950 mL of MTBE. The organic layer was
washed with 20% aqueous citric acid (3 x 150 mL), 20% aqueous NaHCO (3 x 150 mL), and
brine (2x). The organic layer was dried over Na2SO4, filtered, and concentrated, yielding 25.5
g (95.5 %)of the title compound as a foam. As indicated by tic this material contained some
minor impurities, including approximately 2% of cyclohexyl urea.
N-(2-Pyrazinecarbonyl)-L-phenylalanine-L-leucine boronic anhydride
[0991          A solution of (1S,2S,3R,5S)-Pinanediol N-(2-pyrazinecarbonyl)-L
phenylalanine-L-leucine boronate (25.2 g) in 207 mL of MeOH and 190 mL of hexane was
cooled to 15 'C, and 109.4 mL of 1N HC were added in portions, keeping the temperature
between 15 and 25 'C. 2-Methylpropaneboronic acid (8.67 g) was then added under
vigorous stirring, and the stirring of the biphasic mixture was continued over night. After
separation of the two phases, the lower layer was extracted once with 75 mL of hexane. The
lower layer was then concentrated in vacuo until it became cloudy, followed by the addition
of 109.4 mL of 2N NaOH and 100 mL of Et2O. The two phases were separated the lower
layer was extracted with Et 2O (4 x 100 mL each), and then brought to pH 6.0 by the addition
of 109 mL of 1N HCl. After extraction with 100 mL of ethyl acetate, the lower layer was
adjusted to pH 6.0 with IN HCl and extracted one more time with 75 mL of ethyl acetate.
The combined ethyl acetate layers were washed with semi-saturated brine (2 x 25 mL) and
brine (2 x 25 mL), dried over Na2SO4, filtered, and concentrated to afford 153 g (81.8 %) of
crude N-(2-Pyrazinecarbonyl)-L-phenylalanine-L-leucine boronic anhydride as a foam. The
                                               -52-

WO 2005/097809                                                           PCTIUS2005/009774
crude material was dissolved in 150 mL of ethyl acetate and concentrated in vacuo to a
suspension, followed by the addition of 150 mL of MTBE. The suspension was stored
between 2 and 8 'C over night, filtered, washed twice with MTBE, and dried under high
vacuum, yielding 10.69 g (57.2 %) of N-(2-pyrazinecarbonyl)-L-phenylalanine-L-leucine
boronic anhydride as a white solid.
Example 4:      Measurement of Diastereomeric Ratio of (1R)-(lS,2S,3R,5S)-Pinanediol-1
                ammoniumtrifluoroacetate-3-methylbutane-1-boronate
[01001          The diastereomeric purity of (1R)-(1S,25,3R,5S)-pinanediol-1
anmoniumtrifluoroacetate-3-methylbutane-1-boronate (compound 1) was determined by
non-chiral gas chromatography (GC).
Chemicals:                   Acetonitrile (p.a. Bruker or equivalent)
                             Tetradecane (internal standard) (Fluka puriss. or equivalent)
                             Trifluoroacetic anhydride (TFAA) (p.a. Merck or equivalent)
Instrument:                  Trace-GC 2000 system or equivalent
    Mobile phase:            H2
    Solvent A (with          Approximately 300 mg of tetradecane were weighed with an
    internalstandard)        accuracy of 0.1 mg into a 100-mL volumetric flask. 1.5 mL of
                             TFAA were added and the flask was brought to volume with
                             acetonitrile.
Sample Preparation:          About 150 mg of the sample were exactly weighed (within 0.1
                             mg) into a 10-mL volumetric flask. The flask was brought to
                             volume with Solvent A. The solution was stored for 15 minutes
                             before injection.
GC Parameters:
    Column:                  Rtx-200; 105m x 0.25 mm i.d. x 0.25 gm film
    Mobile phase:            H2
    Temp. program:           130 'C (0.5 mn); 0.5 *C/minto 200 *C (0 min); 30 *C/minto 300
                             "C (2 min)
    Flow:                    0.9 mL/min (const. flow)
    Injector temperature:    250 C
    Detector temperature:    250 0C (FID)
    Split:                   1: 50
    Injection volume:        1 tL
                                               -53-

WO 2005/097809                                                               PCT/US2005/009774
Substances
    Compound 1                 (1R)-(1,2S,3R,5S)-pinanediol-1-ammoniumtrifluoroacetate-3
                               methylbutane-1-boronate
                                                             B'O
                                                           NH2 F3C-COOH
    Compound 2                 (1S)-(1S,2S,3R,5S)-pinanediol--ammoniumtrifluoroacetate-3
                               methylbutane-1-boronate
                                                           NH 2 F3C-COOH
Stability of the solution
[01011           A stock solution of compound 1 was prepared by weighing 150.13 mg of
compound 1 into a 10-mL volumetric flask and bringing it to volume with Solvent A.
Stability of this solution was tested at ambient temperature over 48 hours. The stock
solution was filled in 6 separate GC vials. Injections onto the GC system were carried out
from these vials after 0, 12, 24, 48, and 72 hours (double injection out of each vial. The area%
of compound 1 and compound 2 were determined. No changes in area%were observed,
indicating that the solution is stable over 72 hours at ambient temperature.
Specificity
[0102]           Approximately 150 mg of a sample comprising compound I and compound 2
were dissolved in Solvent A and injected to the GC chromatographic system. The peak for
compound 1 was well separated from the peak for compound 2. Peak purity check by GC
MS showed no other components co-eluting with compound 1 or compound 2.
Limit of Detection
[0103]           The limit of detection (LOD) was defined to be that concentration where the
signal of compound 1 showed a signal to noise ratio of at least 3:1. A previous blank
measurement was carried out to show that no other peaks interfered. The signal to noise
ratio was calculated by the equation:
                                               -54-

WO 2005/097809                                                             PCT/US2005/009774
                                          SIN= H(signal)
                                                   H (baseline)
   S/N            = signal to noise ratio
   H(signal)      = height of signal for compound 1 [mm]
   H(baseline)    = height of signal baseline [mmn]
   [01041         A sample concentration of 0.05% of the standard test sample concentration
  was injected and showed a signal to noise ratio of 4.3. Therefore, the limit
                                                                               of detection is
  0.0075 mg/mL.
  Limit of Quantitation
  [0105]          The limit of quantitation (LOQ) was defined to be that concentration where
 the signal of compound 1 showed a signal to noise ratio of at least 10:1. Signal
                                                                                   to noise ratio
 was calculated as described above. A sample concentration of 0.1% of the
                                                                              standard sample
 concentration was injected and showed a signal to noise ratio of 10.1. Therefore,
                                                                                     the limit of
 quantitation is 0.015 mg/mL.
 Example 5:      Purity Assay for N-(2 -Pyrazinecarbonyl)-L-phenylalanine-L-leucine
                 boronic anhydride
 [01061          The purity of N-(2-pyrazinecarbonyl)-L-phenylalanine-L-leucine boronic
anhydride (compound 3) was assayed by reverse phase HPLC.
Reagents:                      Water, HPLC grade
                               Acetonifrile, HPLC grade
                               Formic acid, ACS grade,     98% pure
                               3% Hydrogen peroxide, ACS grade or equivalent
Instrument
     High performance         Autosampler capable of delivering 20-uL injections and
     liquid chromatograph     maintaining a temperature of 5 'C
                              Pump capable of gradient delivery at 1.0 mL/min
                              UV detector capable of monitoring effluent at 270 nm
     Column                   Symmetry C18 chromatographic column, 250 mm x 4.6 mm ID,
                              5-pm, Waters, cat# WAT054275.
                                               -55  -

WO 2005/097809                                                    PCTIUS2005/009774
Sample Preparation:  Approximately 50 mg of compound 3 were accurately weighed
                     into a 50-mL volumetric flask. Mobile Phase B (5 mL) was
                     added and the mixture was sonicated to dissolve compound 3
                     (approximately 30-60 seconds). The solution was allowed to
                     reach room temperature, diluted to volume with Mobile Phase
                     A, and mixed well. Each sample was prepared in duplicate and
                     was stable for 7 days when stored at 2-8 *C protected from light.
HPLC Parameters:
   Mobile phase A:   Acetonitrile/water/formic acid, 30:70:0.1 (v/v/v), degassed
   Mobile phase B:   Acetonitrile/water/formic acid, 80:20:0.1 (v/v/v), degassed
   Flow rate:        1.0 mL/min
   Detector:         UV at 270 nm
   Injection Volume: 20 gL
   Column Temp:      Ambient
   Sample Tray Temp: 5 OC
   GradientProgram:  Time            %A         %B
                         0            100         0
                        15            100         0
                       30                0      100
                       45                0      100
                       47             100         0
                       55             100         0
Substances
   Compound 3        N-(2-Pyrazinecarbonyl)-L-phenylalanine-L-leucine boronic
                     anhydride
                                              0O       H     0
                                                    HH3
                                                 N      N     B1
   Compound 4        N-(2-Pyrazinecarbonyl)-L-phenylalanine-D-leucine boronic
                     anhydride
                                              0
                                              5
                                                 ~H
                                                       H
                                                     "            3
                                             N H
                                      - 56 -

WO 2005/097809                                                            PCTIUS2005/009774
    Compound 5                 N-(2-Pyrazinecarbonyl)-L-phenylalanine-D-leucine boronic
                               anhydride
                                                      N
[0107]         The retention time of compound 3 was typically between 10 and 14 minutes
when using an HPLC system with a 1.3 minute dwell volume. Compounds 4 and 5 co
eluted at longer retention time, with a resolution of    2.0.
[0108]         The relative retention of compound 3 in a sample chromatogram to that in the
standard chromatogram was calculated according to the following equation:
                     tsam
               R
                      std
               Where:
                        R,       =     relative retention
                        t,       =     retention time of compound 3 peak in the sample
                                       chromatogram, minutes
                        tl       =     retention time of the drug substance peak in the
                                       closest preceding standard chromatogram, minutes
[0109]         Assay results were calculated for each sample according to the following
equation:
               %assay= Asam Wstdx P               1
                    %asy=-x               x             x<100
                            Asid    Wam     (100-M
                                                100
               Where:
                                       peak area response of compound 3 in the sample
                                       preparation
                        A, d           mean peak area response of compound 3 in the
                                       working standard preparation
                        W.       =     weight of the standard, mg
                        P        =     assigned purity of the standard (decimal format)
                         WY& =         weight of the sample, mg
                        M        =     moisture content of the sample, %
                                               - 57 -

WO 2005/097809                                                                 PCTIUS2005/009774
                           100       =       conversion to percent
  [01101         Relative retention and impurity levels in each sample were calculated
  according to the following equations:
                 Rr =
                       t3
                 Where:
                          R,        =       relative retention
                          t         =       retention time of the individual impurity
                          t,        =       retention time of the compound 3 peak
                        AixWstdxPxDFxRFix100
                               As,td,% XWsaw
                 Where:
                         I          =      individual impurity
                         A          =      peak area response of individual impurity in the
                                           sample preparation
                         A ,,,%            average peak area response of compound 3 in the 1%
                                           standard preparation
                         WA        =       weight of the standard, mg
                         W.m               weight of sample, mg
                         P         =       assigned purity of the standard (decimal format)
                         DF        =       dilution factor, 1/100
                         RF.       =       relative response factor of individual impurity
                         100               conversion to percentage factor
[0111]          When assayed by this method, N-(2-pyrazinecarbonyl)-L-phenylalanine-L
leucineboronic anhydride from Example 2 showed total impurities of less than 1%.
[0112]          While the foregoing invention has been described in some detail for purposes
of clarity and understanding, these particular embodiments are to be considered as
illustrative and not restrictive. It will be appreciated by one skilled in the art from a reading
of this disclosure that various changes in form and detail can be made without departing
from the true scope of the invention and appended claims.
                                                   -58-

 1:
  \dar\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\DAR\16420874_l.docx-6 02 2018
[01131                          Throughout this specification and the claims which follow, unless the context
requires otherwise, the word "comprise", and variations such as "comprises" and "comprising",
will be understood to imply the inclusion of a stated integer or step or group of integers or
steps but not the exclusion of any other integer or step or group of integers or steps.
 [0114]                         The reference in this specification to any prior publication (or information
derived from it), or to any matter which is known, is not, and should not be taken as an
acknowledgment or admission or any form of suggestion that that prior publication (or
information derived from it) or known matter forms part of the common general knowledge in
the field of endeavour to which this specification relates.
                                                             - 58A -

lI:\dar\lnterwoen\NRPortbl\DCC\DAR\16434007_ idocx-2/8/2018
THE CLAIMS DEFINING THE INVENTION ARE AS FOLLOWS:
                  1.            A large-scale process for preparing a boronic ester compound of formula (1):
                                                                    6OR
                                                                     B
                                                                      R~                                      (1
wherein:
          R 1 is an optionally substituted aliphatic, aromatic, or heteroaromatic group;
          R2     is hydrogen, a nucleofugic group, or an optionally substituted aliphatic, aromatic, or
                  heteroaromatic group;
          R3 is a nucleofugic group or an optionally substituted aliphatic, aromatic, or
                  heteroaromatic group; and
                             4             5
          each of R and R , independently, is an optionally substituted aliphatic, aromatic, or
                  heteroaromatic group, or R 4 and R , taken together with the intervening oxygen and
                  boron atoms, form an optionally substituted 5- to 10-membered ring having 0-2
                  additional ring heteroatoms selected from N, 0, or S;
said process comprising:
                                (a)           providing a boron "ate" complex of formula (II):
                                                              R  R1 OR4
where
          Y is a nucleofugic group;
          M+ is a cation; and
          each of RI to R5 is as defined above; and
                                (b)           contacting the boron "ate" complex of formula (II) with a Lewis acid
                  under conditions that afford the boronic ester compound of formula (I), said
                  contacting step being conducted in a reaction mixture comprising:
                                                                    - 59 -

I: \dar\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\DAR\16434007_idocx-2 8/2018
                                               (i)          a coordinating ether solvent that has low miscibility with water;
                                or
                                               (ii)         an ether solvent that has low miscibility with water and a
                                coordinating co-solvent.
                  2.            The process of claim 1, wherein the reaction mixture comprises a coordinating
co-solvent.
                  3.            The process of claim Error! Reference source not found., wherein the
coordinating co-solvent is selected from the group consisting of tetrahydrofuran, dioxane,
water, and mixtures thereof.
                  4.            The process of claim 3, wherein the coordinating co-solvent constitutes no
more than about 20% v/v of the reaction mixture.
                  5.            The process of claim 3, wherein the coordinating co-solvent constitutes no
more than about 15% v/v of the reaction mixture.
                  6.            The process of claim 1, wherein the solubility of water in the ether solvent that
has low miscibility with water is less than about 2% w/w.
                  7.            The process of claim 6, wherein the ether solvent that has low miscibility with
water is selected from the group consisting of tert-butyl methyl ether, tert-butyl ethyl ether,
tert-amyl methyl ether, isopropyl ether, and mixtures thereof.
                  8.            The process of claim 7, wherein the ether solvent that has low miscibility with
water constitutes at least about 70% v/v of the reaction mixture.
                  9.            The process of claim 1, wherein at least about 5 moles of the boron "ate"
complex of formula (II) are provided in step (a).
                  10.           The process of claim 1, wherein at least about 20 moles of the boron "ate"
complex of formula (II) are provided in step (a).
                                                                          - 60  -

I: \dar\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\DAR\16434007iLdocx-2 8/2018
                  11.           The process of claim 1, wherein at least about 50 moles of the boron "ate"
complex of formula (II) are provided in step (a).
                  12.           The process of claim 1, wherein at least about 100 moles of the boron "ate"
complex of formula (II) are provided in step (a).
                  13.           The process of claim 1, wherein the Lewis acid is selected from the group
consisting of zinc chloride, zinc bromide, ferric chloride, and ferric bromide.
                  14.           The process of claim 13, wherein the Lewis acid is moist.
                  15.           The process of claim 13, wherein in step (a) the boron "ate" complex of
formula (II) is provided in a solution comprising an ether solvent that has low miscibility
with water, and the contacting step (b) comprises the steps:
                                              (i)           providing a solution comprising a Lewis acid and
                                tetrahydrofuran; and
                                              (ii)          adding the Lewis acid solution to the solution of the boron
                                 "ate" complex of formula (II) from step (a).
                  16.           The process of claim 13, wherein in step (a) the boron "ate" complex of
formula (II) is provided in a solution comprising an ether solvent that has low miscibility
with water, and the contacting step (b) comprises the steps:
                                              (i)           providing a solution comprising a Lewis acid and water; and
                                              (ii)          adding the Lewis acid solution to the solution of the boron
                                 "ate" complex of formula (II) from step (a).
                  17.           The process of claim 1, wherein Y is a halogen.
                  18.           The process of claim 1, wherein Y is chloro.
                  19.           The process of claim 1, wherein R1 is C1 .8 aliphatic, C6.10 aryl, or (C6.10
aryl)(C1-6 aliphatic).
                                                                          - 61 -

I I:\dar\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\DAR\16434007_ idocx-2 8/2018
                   20.           The process of claim 1, wherein M+ is selected from the group consisting of
Li+, Na+, and K.
                   21.           The process of claim 1, wherein R4 and R , taken together with the intervening
oxygen and boron atoms, form an optionally substituted 5-membered ring.
                   22.           The process of claim 21, wherein R4 and R5 together are a chiral moiety.
                   23.           The process of claim 22, wherein the boron "ate" complex of formula (II) is:
                                  R2        R       0      3R2)~                       R2    R B' ,       L
                                      Y       -0                                         NY   -,
                                         M+                           or                    M+
                   24.           The process of claim 22, wherein step (b) provides the boronic ester
compound of formula (1) wherein the carbon atom bearing R , R2 , and R 3 is a chiral center
having a diastereomeric ratio of at least about 96:4 relative to a chiral center in the R4-R5
chiral moiety.
                   25.           The process of claim 22, wherein step (b) provides the boronic ester
compound of formula (1) wherein the carbon atom bearing R , R2 , and R 3 is a chiral center
having a diastereomeric ratio of at least about 97:3 relative to a chiral center in the R 4-R5
chiral moiety
                   26.           The process of claim 22, characterized by at least one of the following
features:
                                 (a)            the contacting step (b) is conducted in a reaction mixture comprising
                   tert-butyl methyl ether;
                                 (b)            the Lewis acid is zinc chloride;
                                 (c)            at least about 5 moles of the boronic ester of formula (II) are provided
                   in step (a);
                                                                       - 62 -

I I: \dar\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\DAR\16434007_l docx-28/2018
                                  (d)            the contacting step (b) is performed at a reaction temperature in the
                    range of about -60 'C to about -30 'C;
                                  (e)            the Lewis acid is moist;
                                  (f)            Y is chloro;
                                  (g)            R3 is chloro;
                                  (h)            R2 is hydrogen; and
                                  (i)            R is CI 4aliphatic.
                    27.           The process of claim 26, characterized by at least two of the features (a)-(h).
                    28.           The process of claim 26, characterized by at least three of the features (a)-(h).
                    29.           The process of claim 26, characterized by all eight of the features (a)-(h).
                    30.           The process of claim 24, further comprising:
                                  (c)            washing the reaction mixture with an aqueous solution; and
                                  (d)            concentrating the washed reaction mixture by removal of solvents to
                    afford a residue comprising the boronic ester compound of formula (1).
                    31.           The process of claim 26, wherein the residue comprises at least about five
moles of the boronic ester compound of formula (1).
                    32.           The process of claim 31, wherein the boronic ester compound of formula (1)
present in the residue has a diastereomeric ratio of at least about 96:4 at the carbon atom
bearing RI, R2, and R3, relative to a chiral center in the R4 -R5 chiral moiety.
                    33.           The process of claim 31, wherein the boronic ester compound of formula (1)
present in the residue has a diastereomeric ratio of at least about 97:3 at the carbon atom
bearing R1 , R2 , and R3, relative to a chiral center in the R4 -R5 chiral moiety.
                                                                        - 63 -

II \dar\lnterwoen\NRPortbl\DCC\DAR\16434007iLdocx-2 8/2018
                  34.           A composition comprising an ether solvent that has low miscibility with water
and at least about ten moles of a boronic ester compound of formula (1):
                                                           R2     BOR4
                                                                 6OR
                                                                  B
                                                                   R~                                  (1
wherein:
          R' is an optionally substituted aliphatic, aromatic, or heteroaromatic group;
          R 2 is hydrogen, a nucleofugic group, or an optionally substituted aliphatic, aromatic, or
                  heteroaromatic group;
          R3 is a nucleofugic group or an optionally substituted aliphatic, aromatic, or
                  heteroaromatic group; and
          each of R4 and R , independently, is an optionally substituted aliphatic or aromatic group,
                  or R4 and R , taken together with the intervening oxygen and boron atoms, form an
                  optionally substituted 5- to 10-membered ring having 0-2 additional ring heteroatoms
                  selected from N, 0, or S.
                  35.           A composition comprising an ether solvent that has low miscibility with water
and at least about ten moles of a boronic ester compound of formula (1):
                                                           R 2,RR
                                                               R6    5
                                                                  BOR4                                  1
wherein:
          R' is an optionally substituted aliphatic, aromatic, or heteroaromatic group;
          R 2 is hydrogen, a nucleofugic group, or an optionally substituted aliphatic, aromatic, or
                  heteroaromatic group;
          R3 is a nucleofugic group or an optionally substituted aliphatic, aromatic, or
                  heteroaromatic group; and
          each of R4 and R , independently, is an optionally substituted aliphatic or aromatic group,
                           4            5
                  or R and R , taken together with the intervening oxygen and boron atoms, form an
                                                                 - 64  -

I: \dar\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\DAR\16434007iLdocx-2 8/2018
                  optionally substituted 5- to 10-membered ring having 0-2 additional ring heteroatoms
                  selected from N, 0, or S;
          wherein the carbon atom to which R1 , R 2, and R3 are attached is a chiral center, having a
                  diastereomeric ratio of at least about 96:4, relative to a chiral center in the R 4 -R5
                  chiral moiety.
                  36.           A composition comprising an ether solvent that has low miscibility with water
and at least about ten moles of a boronic ester compound of formula (1):
                                                            R2 RBOR4
                                                            R3 )B    OR
                                                                  6 R(
wherein:
          R' is an optionally substituted aliphatic, aromatic, or heteroaromatic group;
          R 2 is hydrogen, a nucleofugic group, or an optionally substituted aliphatic, aromatic, or
                  heteroaromatic group;
          R3 is a nucleofugic group or an optionally substituted aliphatic, aromatic, or
                  heteroaromatic group; and
          each of R4 and R , independently, is an optionally substituted aliphatic or aromatic group,
                  or R4 and R , taken together with the intervening oxygen and boron atoms, form an
                  optionally substituted 5- to 10-membered ring having 0-2 additional ring heteroatoms
                  selected from N, 0, or S;
          wherein the carbon atom to which R1 , R 2, and R3 are attached is a chiral center, having an
                  epimeric ratio of at least about 96:4.
                  37.           The composition of any one of claims 34-36, wherein the solubility of water in
the ether solvent is less than about 2% w/w.
                  38.           The composition of any one of claims 34-36, wherein the ether solvent is
selected from the group consisting of tert-butyl methyl ether, tert-butyl ethyl ether, tert-amyl
methyl ether, isopropyl ether, and mixtures thereof.
                                                                  - 65 -

II \dar\lnterwoen\NRPortbl\DCC\DAR\16434007_i.docx-2 8/2018
                  39.           The composition of any one of claims 34-36, wherein R' is C1 .8 aliphatic, C6 .10
aryl, or (C6 _10 aryl)(C 1 .6 aliphatic).
                  40.           The composition of any one of claims 34-36, characterized by at least one of
the following features:
                                (a)           R 3 is chloro;
                                (b)           R2 is hydrogen; and
                                (c)           R' is C 1 .4 aliphatic
                  41.           The composition of any one of claims 34-36, wherein R4 and R , taken
together with the intervening oxygen and boron atoms, form an optionally substituted 5
membered ring.
                  42.           The composition of any one of claims 34-36, wherein the compound of
formula (1) is
                                                                           R1
                                      R1
                                 R2-''                                    R2-I'
                                                                or
                  43.           A composition comprising at least about ten moles of a boronic ester
compound of formula (1):
                                                                   R2 RBOR4
                                                                  R3 )B    OR
                                                                        OR5
wherein:
          R' is an optionally substituted aliphatic, aromatic, or heteroaromatic group;
          R 2 is hydrogen, a nucleofugic group, or an optionally substituted aliphatic, aromatic, or
                  heteroaromatic group;
          R3 is a nucleofugic group or an optionally substituted aliphatic, aromatic, or
                  heteroaromatic group; and
                                                                        - 66 -

I I \dar\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\DAR\16434007_ Idocx-2 8/2018
           R4 and R5 , taken together with the intervening oxygen and boron atoms, form an
                   optionally substituted 5- to 10-membered chiral ring having 0-2 additional ring
                   heteroatoms selected from N, 0, or S;
           wherein the carbon atom to which R1 , R2, and R3 are attached is a chiral center, having a
                   diastereomeric ratio of at least about 96:4, relative to a chiral center in the R 4 -R5
                   chiral moiety; and
wherein the boronic ester compound of formula (1) constitutes at least about 70% w/w of the
composition.
                   44.           The composition of claim 36 comprising at least about 20 moles of the boronic
ester compound of formula (I).
                   45.           The composition of claim 36, wherein the carbon atom to which R1 , R2, and
R3 are attached has a diastereomeric ratio of at least about 97:3, relative to a chiral center in
the R 4 -R5 chiral moiety.
                   46.           The composition of claim 36, wherein all of the boronic ester compound of
formula (1) present in the composition is produced in a single batch run.
                   47.           The composition of claim 36, wherein all of the boronic ester compound of
formula (1) present in the composition is produced in a single batch run of the process
according to claim 1.
                   48.           The composition of claim 36, wherein at least one of the following features is
present:
                                 (a)            R3 is chloro;
                                 (b)            the boronic ester compound of formula (1) is:
                                     RR1                               R2R1
                                  R3BO                                 R3B.4
                                                               or
                                 (c)            R2 is hydrogen; and
                                                                     - 67 -

I: \dar\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\DAR\16434007_l.docx-2 8/2018
                                (d)            R 1 is C 1 .4 aliphatic.
                  49.           A large-scale process for preparing a boronic ester compound of formula (1):
                                                                                     4
                                                                       R2-LB OR
                                                                              OR
                                                                              B
wherein:
          R 1 is an optionally substituted aliphatic, aromatic, or heteroaromatic group;
          R2     is hydrogen, a nucleofugic group, or an optionally substituted aliphatic, aromatic, or
                  heteroaromatic group;
          R3 is a nucleofugic group or an optionally substituted aliphatic, aromatic, or
                  heteroaromatic group; and
          each of R4 and R5 , independently, is an optionally substituted aliphatic, aromatic, or
                  heteroaromatic group, or R4 and R5 , taken together with the intervening oxygen and
                  boron atoms, form an optionally substituted 5- to 10-membered ring having 0-2
                  additional ring heteroatoms selected from N, 0, or S;
          said process comprising:
                                (a)            providing a solution comprising:
                                               (i)           a boronic ester of formula (III):
                                                                                 4
                                                                      R 1,B'OR
                                                                          OR5                                      (III)
          wherein R1 , R4, and R5 are as defined above; and
                                               (ii)          an ether solvent that has low miscibility with water;
                                (b)            treating the solution with a reagent of formula (IV):
                                                                           2R 3
                                                                        Rt
                                                                        Y     _M+
          to form a boron "ate" complex of formula (II):
                                                                             -  68 -

II:\dar\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\DAR\16434007_ Idocx-2 8/2018
                                                                     R " R14
                                                                      Y -P OR4                                          Ii
where
          Y is a nucleofugic group;
          Mm is a cation; and
          each of RI to R5 are as defined above; and
                                (c)            contacting the boron "ate" complex of formula (II)with a Lewis acid
                  under conditions that afford the boronic ester compound of formula (1), said
                  contacting step being conducted in a reaction mixture comprising:
                                               (i)           a coordinating ether solvent that has low miscibility with water;
                                or
                                               (ii)          an ether solvent that has low miscibility with water and a
                                coordinating co-solvent.
                  50.           A large-scale process for preparing a boronic ester compound of formula (1):
                                                                            B'OR 4
wherein:
          R1 is an optionally substituted aliphatic, aromatic, or heteroaromatic group;
          R2     is hydrogen, a nucleofugic group, or an optionally substituted aliphatic, aromatic, or
                  heteroaromatic group;
          R3 is a nucleofugic group or an optionally substituted aliphatic, aromatic, or
                  heteroaromatic group; and
          each of R4 and R5 , independently, is an optionally substituted aliphatic, aromatic, or
                  heteroaromatic group, or R4 and R5 , taken together with the intervening oxygen and
                  boron atoms, form an optionally substituted 5- to 10-membered ring having 0-2
                  additional ring heteroatoms selected from N, 0, or S;
                                                                           - 69  -

lI:\dar\lnterwoen\NRPortbl\DCC\DAR\16434007_i.docx-2 8/2018
          said process comprising:
                                (a)            providing a solution comprising:
                                               (i)          a boronic ester of formula (III):
                                                                     R& B'OR4
                                                                        OR5                                        (III)
          wherein R , R4 , and R5 are as defined above;
                                               (ii)         a compound of formula (V):
                                                                       R2     R3
                                                                         2    H
                                                                           Y()
          where Y is a nucleofugic group, and R2 and R3 are as defined above; and
                                               (iii)        a solvent comprising:
                                                            (aa)   a coordinating ether solvent that has low miscibility
                                               with water; or
                                                            (bb)   an ether solvent that has low miscibility with water and
                                               a coordinating co-solvent;
                                (b)            treating the solution of step (a) with a strong, sterically hindered base
                  to form a boron "ate" complex of formula (II):
                                                                    R2 R1OR4
where M+ is a cation derived from the base, and each of Y and RI to R are as defined above;
and
                                (c)            contacting the boron "ate" complex of formula (II) with a Lewis acid
                  in a solution comprising an ether solvent that has low miscibility with water to form
                  the boronic ester compound of formula (1).
                  51.           A large-scale process for preparing a boronic ester compound of formula (1):
                                                                           - 70  -

I: \dar\Interovn\NRPortbl\DCC\DAR\16434007_l.docx-2 8/2018
                                                                           B',~OR  4
                                                                    R3 ) BeO
                                                                           OR5
wherein:
          R' is an optionally substituted aliphatic, aromatic, or heteroaromatic group;
          R2 is hydrogen, a nucleofugic group, or an optionally substituted aliphatic, aromatic, or
                  heteroaromatic group;
          R3 is a nucleofugic group or an optionally substituted aliphatic, aromatic, or
                  heteroaromatic group; and
          R4 and R5 , taken together, form an optionally substituted linking chain comprising 2-5
                  carbon atoms and 0-2 heteroatoms selected from the group consisting of 0, N, and S;
          said process comprising:
                               (a)            providing a solution comprising:
                                              (i)          a boronic acid compound of formula (VI):
                                                                      R,1 B'OH
                                                                          OH                                       (VI)
          wherein R' is as defined above;
                                              (ii)         a compound of formula HO-R 4 -R5-OH, wherein R4 and R5 are
                               as defined above; and
                                              (iii)        an organic solvent that forms an azeotrope with water;
                               (b)            heating the solution of step (a) at reflux, with azeotropic removal of
                  water, to form a boronic ester of formula (III):
                                                                    R" B'OR4
                                                                       OR 5                                       (5
                                                                                                                  V)
          wherein R , R4 , and R5 are as defined above;
                               (c)            providing a solution comprising:
                                              (i)          the boronic ester of formula (III);
                                                                           - 71  -

I I:\dar\Interovn\NRPortbl\DCC\DAR\16434007_l docx-2 8/2018
                                              (ii)          a compound of formula (V):
                                                                       R2    R3
                                                                           "H
                                                                          Y                                          (V)
           wherein Y is a nucleofugic group, and R2 and R3 are as defined above; and
                                              (iii)         a solvent comprising:
                                                            (aa)   a coordinating ether solvent that has low miscibility
                                              with water; or
                                                            (bb)   an ether solvent that has low miscibility with water and
                                              a coordinating co-solvent;
                                (d)           treating the solution from step (c) with a strong, sterically hindered
                   base to form a boron "ate" complex of formula (II):
                                                                    R2 "R1     4
where M+ is a cation derived from the base, and each of Y and RI to R are as defined above;
and
                                (e)           contacting the boron "ate" complex of formula (II) with a Lewis acid
                   in a solution comprising an ether solvent that has low miscibility with water to form
                   the boronic ester compound of formula (1).
                   52.          The process of claim 50 or 51, wherein the sterically hindered base is an alkali
metal dialkylamide base of formula M2N(R )2, wherein M2 is selected from the group
consisting of Li, Na, and K, and each R4, independently, is a branched or cyclic C3 .6 aliphatic.
                   53.          The process of claim 51, wherein the organic solvent in step (a) is selected
from the group consisting of acetonitrile, toluene, hexane, heptane, and mixtures thereof.
                   54.          The process of claim 51, wherein the organic solvent in step (a) is an ether
solvent that has low miscibility with water.
                                                                          - 72  -

I I \dar\lnterwoen\NRPortbl\DCC\DAR\16434007_ idocx-2 8/2018
                   55.           The process of claim 54, wherein the solutions in steps (a) and (c) each
comprise the same ether solvent.
                   56.           The process of claim 55, wherein step (b) provides a product solution
comprising the boronic ester of formula (III), and the product solution from step (b) is used
in step (c) without isolation of the boronic ester of formula (III).
                   57.           A large-scale process for preparing an aminoboronic ester compound of
formula (VII):
                                                                   R1
                                                              H2N      BOR4
                                                                       OR5                              (57J)
or an acid addition salt thereof, wherein:
           R 1 is an optionally substituted aliphatic, aromatic, or heteroaromatic group; and
           each of R4 and R , independently, is an optionally substituted aliphatic, aromatic, or
                   heteroaromatic group, or R 4 and R , taken together with the intervening oxygen and
                   boron atoms, form an optionally substituted 5- to 10-membered ring having 0-2
                   additional ring heteroatoms selected from N, 0, or S;
said process comprising:
                                 (a)           providing a boron "ate" complex of formula (II):
                                                              R " R1      4
                                                                 Y B-PM+
                                                                     OR4                                   Ii
where
           Y is a nucleofugic group;
           M+ is a cation;
           R 2 is hydrogen;
           R3     is a nucleofugic group; and
           each of R 1 , R 4 , and R5 are as defined above;
                                                                     - 73  -

I I:\dar\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\DAR\16434007_ idocx-2 8/2018
                                 (b)            contacting the boron "ate" complex of formula (II) with a Lewis acid
                   under conditions that afford the boronic ester compound of formula (1):
                                                                              6R 5
where each of RI to R5 is as defined above, said contacting step being conducted in a reaction
mixture comprising:
                                                (i)           a coordinating ether solvent that has low miscibility with water;
                                 or
                                                (ii)          an ether solvent that has low miscibility with water and a
                                 coordinating co-solvent;
                                 (c)            treating the boronic ester compound of formula (1) with a reagent of
                   formula MI-N(Si(R6 )3 ) 2 , where M1 is an alkali metal and each R6 independently is
                   selected from the group consisting of alkyl, aralkyl, and aryl, where the aryl or aryl
                   portion of the aralkyl is optionally substituted, to form a byproduct of formula M1 -R3
                   and a compound of formula (VIII):
                                                                             R1
                                                                     (G) 2 N
                                                                            A B,OR    4
                                                                                 OR5                                  VIII)
wherein each G and RI to R are as defined above; and
                                 (d)            removing the G groups to form a compound of formula (VII):
                                                                             R1
                                                                       H2N      BOR4
                                                                                OR 5                                  (VII)
or an acid addition salt thereof.
                   58.           The process of claim 57, wherein the reaction mixture in step (c) comprises an
organic solvent in which the byproduct M1 -R3 has low solubility.
                   59.           The process of claim 58, wherein M1 is Li and R3 is Cl.
                                                                              - 74  -

I: \dar\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\DAR\16434007iLdocx-2 8/2018
                  60.           The process of claim 59, wherein the reaction mixture in step (c) comprises an
organic solvent selected from the group consisting of methylcyclohexane, cyclohexane,
heptane, hexane, toluene, and mixtures thereof.
                  61.           The process of claim 57, wherein the reaction in step (c) is conducted at a
reaction temperature in the range of about -100 'C to about 50 'C.
                  62.           The process of claim 61, wherein the reaction temperature is in the range of
about -50 'C to about 25 'C.
                  63.           The process of claim 61, wherein the reaction temperature is in the range of
about -30 'C to about 0 'C.
                  64.           The process of claim 57, wherein step (d) comprises treating the compound of
formula (VIII) with an acid and isolating the compound of formula (VII) as the acid addition
salt.
                  65.           The process of claim 64, wherein the acid is trifluoroacetic acid.
                  66.           The process of claim 57, wherein step (c) further comprises filtering the
reaction mixture to provide a filtrate comprising the compound of formula (VIII).
                  67.           The process of claim 66, wherein in step (c), the reagent of formula
M -N(Si(R 6)3 ) 2 is added to the reaction mixture as a solution comprising tetrahydrofuran, and
step (c) further comprises removing the tetrahydrofuran before filtering the reaction mixture.
                  68.           The process of claim 66, wherein the filtrate is used directly in step (d).
                  69.           The process of claim 57, further comprising the step:
                  (e)           coupling the compound of formula (VII) with a compound of formula (IX):
                                                                 R7
                                                            PI-         X
                                                                    0                                      (i7)
                                                                - 75  -

II \dar\lnterwoen\NRPortbl\DCC\DAR\16434007_i.docx-2 8/2018
wherein:
          P1 is an amino group blocking moiety;
          R7 is selected from the group consisting of hydrogen, CI1ioaliphatic, optionally substituted
                  C6-ioaryl, or Ci 6 aliphatic-R 8 ; and
          R8 is selected from the group consisting of alkoxy, alkylthio, optionally substituted aryl,
                  heteroaryl, and heterocyclyl groups, and optionally protected amino, hydroxy, and
                  guanidino groups; and
          X is OH or a leaving group;
to form a compound of formula (X):
                                                                 R      H    OR 4
                                                            Pl-N        N     B' OR5
                                                                     O    R1                           (X)
wherein each of P , R', R4 , R', and R7 is as defined above.
                  70.           The process of claim 69, wherein P1 is a cleavable protecting group.
                  71.           The process of claim 70, further comprising the steps:
                  (f)           cleaving the protecting group P1 to form a compound of formula (XI):
                                                                 RT7         OR 4
                                                            H2 NA-f             OR 5
                                                                             B'NY
                                                                     O    R1                          (XI)
or an acid addition salt thereof, wherein each of R , R4 , R , and R7 is as defined above;
                  (g)           coupling the compound of formula (XI) with a reagent of formula P2 -X,
wherein P2 is an amino group blocking moiety and X is a leaving group, to form a compound
of formula (XII):
                                                                        H    OR 4
                                                            P2-N        N'< BOR5
                                                                     0    R1                         (XII)
wherein each of P2 , R', R4 , R , and R7 are as defined above; and
                                                                       - 76 -

I: \dar\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\DAR\16434007_i.docx-2 8/2018
                  (h)           deprotecting the boronic acid moiety to form a compound of formula (XII):
                                                                   R      H     OH
                                                             P2-N         N       OH
                                                                      0     R1                            (XIII)
or a boronic acid anhydride thereof, wherein each of P , R , and R7 are as defined above.
                  72.           A large-scale process for preparing an aminoboronic ester compound of
formula (VIIa) or (VIIb):
                                          R1                                               R1
                                 H2 N           BOR4                                 H2 N     BOR4
                                                OR5             (VIIa)                        OR5        (VIIb)
or an acid addition salt thereof, wherein:
          R1 is an optionally substituted aliphatic, aromatic, or heteroaromatic group; and
                     4       5
          R4 and R , taken together with the intervening oxygen and boron atoms, form an
                  optionally substituted chiral cyclic boronic ester;
said process comprising:
                                (a)            providing a boron "ate" complex of formula (Ha) or (IIb):
                                    2R 3                                              2R 3
                                           I    OR 4                                 R         OR
                                 Y              ~       M+                                    -   M+
                                           OR5                  (HIa)                      OR5           (IIb)
where
          Y is a nucleofugic group;
          M+ is a cation;
          R 2 is hydrogen;
          R3 is a nucleofugic group; and
          R 4 and R5 are as defined above;
                                                                        -  77 -

I: \dar\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\DAR\16434007_i.docx-2 8/2018
                                (b)            contacting the boron "ate" complex of formula (IIa)or (IIb) with a
                  Lewis acid under conditions that afford a boronic ester compound of formula (Ia)or
                  (Ib):
                                     3     BOR4                                             R'BOR
                                           OR    5
                                                                    (Ia)                           OR5             (Ib)
where each of RI to R5 is as defined above, said contacting step being conducted in a reaction
mixture comprising:
                                               (i)           a coordinating ether solvent that has low miscibility with water;
                                or
                                               (ii)          an ether solvent that has low miscibility with water and a
                                coordinating co-solvent;
                                (c)            treating the boronic ester compound of formula (Ia) or (Ib) with a
                  reagent of formula MI-N(G) 2 , where M1 is an alkali metal and each G is an amino
                  group protecting moiety, to form a compound of formula (VIIIa) or (VIIIb):
                                             R1                                                     R1
                                 (G) 2N            B OR4                                    (G) 2N     BOR4
                                                  OR5               (VIIIa)                            OR5         (VIIIb)
wherein each G and R to R are as defined above; and
                                (d)            removing the G groups to form a compound of formula (VIIa) or
                  (VIIb):
                                          R1                                                      R1
                                 H2 N           BOR4                                        H2 N     BOR4
                                                     5
                                                OR                  (VIIa)                           OR            (VIIb)
or an acid addition salt thereof.
                  73.           A large-scale process for forming a compound of formula (XIV):
                                                                           - 78  -

I: \dar\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\DAR\16434007_l.docx-2/8 2018
                                                                  0         H  OH
                                                                            N  B' OH
                                                               N'    N
                                                                                                            (XIV)
or a boronic acid anhydride thereof, said process comprising:
                                (a)            providing a boron "ate" complex of formula (XV):
                                                               HR      C
                                                                       O
                                                                   M+
                                                                                                             (XV)
wherein:
          M+ is an alkali metal;
                                (b)            contacting the boron "ate" complex of formula (XV) with a Lewis acid
                  under conditions that afford a boronic ester compound of formula (XVI):
                                                                                                            (XVI)
said contacting step being conducted in a reaction mixture comprising an ether solvent that
has low miscibility with water;
                                (c)            treating the boronic ester compound of formula (XVI) with a reagent of
                  formula M1-N(G) 2 , where M1 is an alkali metal and each G individually or together is
                  an amino group protecting group, to form a compound of formula (XVII):
                                                             (G) 2 N   B
                                                                                                          (XVII)
                                (d)            removing the G groups to form a compound of formula (XVIII):
                                                                        - 79 -

I: \dar\Interovn\NRPortbl\DCC\DAR\16434007_l.docx-2 8/2018
                                                              H2 N    B
                                                                                               (XVIII)
or an acid addition salt thereof;
                  (e)          coupling the compound of formula (XVIII) with a compound of formula
(XIX);
                                                                 P1-N
                                                                          o                      (XIX)
wherein:
          P1 is a cleavable amino group protecting moiety; and
          X is OH or a leaving group;
to form a compound of formula (XX):
                                                                      H
                                                            PN        NyB,
                                                             H     O
                                                                                                  (XX)
wherein P1 is as defined above;
                  (f)          removing the protecting group P1 to form a compound of formula (XWI):
                                                                     H
                                                                              0
                                                           H2N       N
                                                                                                 (XX1I)
or an acid addition salt thereof;
                  (g)          coupling the compound of formula (XWI) with a reagent of formula (XXII)
                                                                        - 80 -

I: \dar\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\DAR\16434007_l.docx-2 8/2018
                                                                         N
                                                                               0                                  (xCII)
wherein X is a OH or a leaving group, to form a compound of formula (XYII):
                                                                              H    i
                                                                              N    B,
                                                             (N
                                                                  N
                                                                                                            (XXIII); and
                  (h)           deprotecting the boronic acid moiety to form the compound of formula (XIV)
or a boronic acid anhydride thereof.
                  74.           The process of claim 73, characterized by at least one of the following features
                                (1)            in the boron "ate" complex of formula (XV), R3 and Y both are chloro;
                                (2)            the coupling step (e) comprises the steps:
                                               (i)           coupling the compound of formula (XVIII) with a compound
                                of formula (XIX) wherein X is OH in the presence of 2-(1 H-benzotriazol- 1
                                yl)- 1, 1,3,3-tetramethyluronium tetrafluoroborate (TBTU) and a tertiary amine
                                in dichloromethane;
                                               (ii)          performing a solvent exchange to replace dichloromethane with
                                ethyl acetate; and
                                               (iii)         performing an aqueous wash of the ethyl acetate solution.
                                (3)            the protecting group removing step (f) comprises the steps:
                                               (i)           treating the compound of formula (XX) with HCl in ethyl
                                acetate;
                                               (ii)          adding heptane to the reaction mixture; and
                                               (iii)         isolating by crystallization the compound of formula (XXI) as
                                its HCl addition salt;
                                                                            - 81 -

I I:\dar\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\DAR\16434007_ idocx-2 8/2018
                                 (4)            the coupling step (g) comprises the steps:
                                                (i)           coupling the compound of formula (XX) with 2-pyrazine
                                 carboxylic acid in the presence of TBTU and a tertiary amine in
                                 dichloromethane;
                                                (ii)          performing a solvent exchange to replace dichloromethane with
                                 ethyl acetate; and
                                                (iii)         performing an aqueous wash of the ethyl acetate solution; and
                                 (5)            the boronic acid deprotecting step (h) comprises the steps:
                                                (i)           providing a biphasic mixture comprising the compound of
                                 formula (XXII), an organic boronic acid acceptor, a lower alkanol, a C5 -8
                                 hydrocarbon solvent, and aqueous mineral acid;
                                                (ii)          stirring the biphasic mixture to afford the compound of formula
                                 (XIV);
                                                (iii)         separating the solvent layers; and
                                                (iv)          extracting the compound of formula (XIV), or a boronic acid
                                 anhydride thereof, into an organic solvent.
                   75.           The process of claim 74, characterized by all five features (1)-(5).
                   76.           The process of claim 74, wherein step (h)(iii) comprises the steps:
                                                (1)           separating the solvent layers;
                                                (2)           adjusting the aqueous layer to basic pH;
                                                (3)           washing the aqueous layer with an organic solvent; and
                                                (4)           adjusting the aqueous layer to a pH less than about 8.
                   77.           The process of claim 76, wherein in step (h)(iii)(3), the aqueous layer is
washed with dichloromethane.
                                                                              - 82 -

I: \dar\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\DAR\16434007_i.docx-2 8/2018
                  78.           The process of claim 76, wherein in step (h)(iv), the compound of formula
(XIV), or a boronic acid anhydride thereof, is extracted into dichloromethane, the solvent is
exchanged to ethyl acetate, an the compound of formula (XIV), or a boronic acid anhydride
thereof, is crystallized by addition of hexane or heptane.
                  79.           The process of claim 78, wherein addition of hexane or heptane results in
crystallization of a cyclic trimeric boronic acid anhydride of formula (XXIV):
                                                                       OH        I
                                                                             NN  B_
                                                             N      N                3
                                                                N'H
                  80.           A large-scale process for forming a compound of formula (XIV):
                                                                  0           H  OH
                                                                     N        N  B OH
                                                                N
                                                                '
                                                                                                     (XIV)
or a boronic acid anhydride thereof, comprising the steps:
                  (aa)          coupling a compound of formula (XVIII):
                                                               H2 N    B
                                                                                                   (XVIII)
or an acid addition salt thereof, with a compound of formula (XIX):
                                                                  P1-N
                                                                           0                         (XIX)
                                                                         - 83  -

II \dar\lnterwoen\NRPortbl\DCC\DAR\16434007_i.docx-2 8/2018
wherein:
          P1 is a cleavable amino group protecting moiety; and
          X is OH or a leaving group;
to form a compound of formula (XX):
                                                                P1 '       I
                                                                     H      B
                                                             PN      N          0B
                                                              H          :
wherein P1 is as defined above, said coupling step (aa) comprising the steps:
                                (i)           coupling the compound of formula (XVIII) with a compound of
                  formula (XIX) wherein X is OH in the presence of 2-(1H-benzotriazol-1-yl)-1,1,3,3
                  tetramethyluronium tetrafluoroborate (TBTU) and a tertiary amine in
                  dichloromethane;
                                (ii)          performing a solvent exchange to replace dichloromethane with ethyl
                  acetate; and
                                (iii)         performing an aqueous wash of the ethyl acetate solution;
                  (bb)          removing the protecting group PI to form a compound of formula (XWI):
                                                                     H
                                                                               0
                                                            H2N      N
                                                                                 0 Y
                                                                                                          (XX1)
or an acid addition salt thereof, said protecting group removing step (bb) comprising the
steps:
                                (i)           treating the compound of formula (XX) with HCl in ethyl acetate;
                                (ii)          adding heptane to the reaction mixture; and
                                (iii)         isolating by crystallization the compound of formula (XX) as its HCl
                  addition salt;
                                                                       -   84 -

I I \dar\lnterwoen\NRPortbl\DCC\DAR\16434007_ idocx-2 8/2018
                   (cc)          coupling the compound of formula (XXI) with a reagent of formula (XXIJI)
                                                                         N
                                                                               0                            (XXII)
wherein X is a OH or a leaving group, to form a compound of formula (XXIII):
                                                                              H    i
                                                                              N    B,
                                                             CN
                                                                                                          (XXIII),
said coupling step (cc) comprising the steps:
                                 (i)           coupling the compound of formula (XXI) with 2-pyrazinecarboxylic
                   acid in the presence of TBTU and a tertiary amine in dichloromethane;
                                 (ii)          performing a solvent exchange to replace dichloromethane with ethyl
                   acetate; and
                                 (iii)         performing an aqueous wash of the ethyl acetate solution; and
                   (dd)          deprotecting the boronic acid moiety to form the compound of formula (XIV)
or a boronic acid anhydride thereof, said deprotecting step (dd) comprising the steps:
                                 (i)           providing a biphasic mixture comprising the compound of formula
                   (XVIII), an organic boronic acid acceptor, a lower alkanol, a C5 8 hydrocarbon
                   solvent, and aqueous mineral acid;
                                 (ii)          stirring the biphasic mixture to afford the compound of formula (XIV);
                                 (iii)         separating the solvent layers; and
                                 (iv)          extracting the compound of formula (XIV), or a boronic acid anhydride
                   thereof, into an organic solvent.
                   81.           The process of claim 80, wherein step (dd)(iii) comprises the steps:
                                               (1)           separating the solvent layers;
                                                                            - 85 -

I: \dar\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\DAR\16434007_l.docx-2 8/2018
                                               (2)           adjusting the aqueous layer to basic pH;
                                               (3)           washing the aqueous layer with an organic solvent; and
                                               (4)           adjusting the aqueous layer to a pH less than about 8.
                  82.           The process of claim 81, wherein in step (dd)(iv), the compound of formula
(XIV), or a boronic acid anhydride thereof, is extracted into dichloromethane, the solvent is
exchanged to ethyl acetate, an the compound of formula (XIV), or a boronic acid anhydride
thereof, is crystallized by addition of hexane or heptane.
                  83.           The process of claim 82, wherein addition of hexane or heptane results in
crystallization of a cyclic trimeric boronic acid anhydride of formula (XXIV):
                                                                     0          H
                                                                                       O
                                                                                       I ,     IV)
                                                                                NN B-
                                                                N 'N                :H     3
                                                                        H
                                                                                                                 (XXIV)
                  84.           A large-scale process for forming a compound of formula (XIV):
                                                                           0H          OH
                                                                    N   NJ       NNeB'O0H
                                                                                             )000,                  (XIV)
or a boronic acid anhydride thereof. The process comprises the steps:
                  (a)           providing a boron "ate" complex of formula (XV):
                                                                     HR    O
                                                                      M+
                                                                                                                     (XV)
wherein:
                                                                            - 86  -

I: \dar\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\DAR\16434007_i.docx-2 8/2018
          R3 is a nucleofugic group;
          Y is a nucleofugic group; and
          M+ is an alkali metal;
                  (b)           contacting the boron "ate" complex of formula (XV) with a Lewis acid under
conditions that afford a boronic ester compound of formula (XVI):
                                                                                                              (XVI)
said contacting step being conducted in a reaction mixture comprising:
                                (i)            a coordinating ether solvent that has low miscibility with water; or
                                (ii)           an ether solvent that has low miscibility with water and a coordinating
co-solvent;
                  (c)           treating the boronic ester compound of formula (XVI) with a reagent of
formula MI-N(Si(R6 )3 ) 2 , where M1 is an alkali metal and each R6 independently is selected
from the group consisting of alkyl, aralkyl, and aryl, where the aryl or aryl portion of the
aralkyl is optionally substituted, to form a compound of formula (XVII):
                                                             ((R6 )3S1) 2 N     B'
                                                                                                             (XVII)
                  (d)           removing the (R6 ) 3 Si groups to form a compound of formula (XVIII):
                                                                 H2 N       B'     "
                                                                                                            (XVIII)
or an acid addition salt thereof;
                                                                              - 87  -

II \dar\lnterwoen\NRPortbl\DCC\DAR\16434007_i.docx-2 8/2018
                  (e')          coupling the compound of formula (XVIII) with a compound of formula
(XIXa):
                                                                   0
                                                                N                                        (XIXa)
wherein X is OH or a leaving group, to form a compound of formula (XXIII):
                                                                  oH        i
                                                              N        N    B,
                                                            (N~
                                                                                                    (XXIII) ; and
                  (f)           deprotecting the boronic acid moiety to form the compound of formula (XIV)
or a boronic acid anhydride thereof.
                  85.           The process of claim 84, characterized by at least one of the following features
                  (1)           In the boron "ate" complex of formula (XV), R3 and Y both are chloro.
                  (2)           The coupling step (e') comprises the steps:
                                (i)           coupling the compound of formula (XVIII) with a compound of
                  formula (XIXa) wherein X is OH in the presence of 2-(1H-benzotriazol-1-yl)-1,1,3,3
                  tetramethyluronium tetrafluoroborate (TBTU) and a tertiary amine in
                  dichloromethane;
                                (ii)          performing a solvent exchange to replace dichloromethane with ethyl
                  acetate; and
                                (iii)         performing an aqueous wash of the ethyl acetate solution.
                  (3)           The boronic acid deprotecting step (f) comprises the steps:
                                                                     - 88 -

I I:\dar\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\DAR\16434007_l docx-2/8/2018
                                 (i)            providing a biphasic mixture comprising the compound of formula
                   (XXIII), an organic boronic acid acceptor, a lower alkanol, a C5 -8 hydrocarbon
                   solvent, and aqueous mineral acid;
                                 (ii)           stirring the biphasic mixture to afford the compound of formula (XIV);
                                 (iii)          separating the solvent layers; and
                                 (iv)           extracting the compound of formula (XIV), or a boronic acid anhydride
                   thereof, into an organic solvent.
                   86.           The process of claim 85, wherein step (f)(iii) comprises the steps:
                                                (1)           separating the solvent layers;
                                                (2)           adjusting the aqueous layer to basic pH;
                                                (3)           washing the aqueous layer with an organic solvent; and
                                                (4)           adjusting the aqueous layer to a pH less than about 8.
                   87.           The process of claim 86, wherein in step (f)(iii)(3), the aqueous layer is
washed with dichloromethane.
                   88.           The process of claim 86, wherein in step (f)(iv), the compound of formula
(XIV), or a boronic acid anhydride thereof, is extracted into dichloromethane, the solvent is
exchanged to ethyl acetate, an the compound of formula (XIV), or a boronic acid anhydride
thereof, is crystallized by addition of hexane or heptane.
                   89.           The process of claim 88, wherein addition of hexane or heptane results in
crystallization of a cyclic trimeric boronic acid anhydride of formula (XXIV):
                                                                      0950
                                                                             - 89 -

I: \dar\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\DAR\16434007_i.docx-2 8/2018
                  90.           A composition comprising at least one kilogram of a compound of formula
(XXIV):
                                                                       oH         I
                                                                            NN    Bs_
                                                             N      N
                                                                    H)O               - 3
wherein the compound of formula (XXIV) is prepared according to the process of claim 73 or
 80.
                  91.           A composition comprising at least one kilogram of a compound of formula
(XXIV):
                                                                    0|                 .
                                                                            H     I
                                                             N 'N           N     B
                                                                    H(                                                I3
wherein the compound of formula (XXIV) constitutes at least 99% w/w of the composition.
92.               A large-scale process for forming a compound of formula (XIV):
                                                                                I
                                                                  0          H    OH
                                                                             N    B'O0H
                                                               N'   N
                                                                                    )000,         (XIV)
or a boronic acid anhydride thereof, said process comprising:
                   (g)          coupling a compound of formula (Xi)                  or an acid addition salt thereof
                                                                        - 90  -

I: \dar\Interovn\NRPortbl\DCC\DAR\16434007_l.docx-2/8/2018
                                                                H
                                                           H2 N N    B,
                  with a reagent of formula (XXII)
                                                                 N
                                                                       0                          (MII)
wherein X is a OH or a leaving group, to form a compound of formula (XXIII):
                                                                      H9
                                                           NN         N    B
                                                                                             (XXJII) ; and
                  (h)           deprotecting the boronic acid moiety to form the compound of formula (XIV)
or a boronic acid anhydride thereof.
93.               The process of claim 92, characterized by at least one of the following features:
                  (1) the coupling step (g) comprises the steps:
                  (i)           coupling the compound of formula (XI)with 2-pyrazinecarboxylic acid in
the presence of TBTU and a tertiary amine in dichloromethane;
                  (ii)          performing a solvent exchange to replace dichloromethane with ethyl acetate;
and
                  (iii)         performing an aqueous wash of the ethyl acetate solution; and
                  (2)           the boronic acid deprotecting step (h) comprises the steps:
                  (i)           providing a biphasic mixture comprising the compound of formula (XIII), an
organic boronic acid acceptor, a lower alkanol, a C5 s hydrocarbon solvent, and aqueous
mineral acid;
                                                                   -  91 -

I: \dar\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\DAR\16434007_i.docx-2/8/2018
                  (ii)          stirring the biphasic mixture to afford the compound of formula (XIV);
                  (iii)         separating the solvent layers; and
                  (iv)          extracting the compound of formula (XIV), or a boronic acid anhydride
thereof, into an organic solvent.
94.               The process of claim 93, wherein step (h)(iii) comprises the steps:
                  (1)           separating the solvent layers;
                  (2)           adjusting the aqueous layer to basic pH;
                  (3)           washing the aqueous layer with an organic solvent; and
                  (4)           adjusting the aqueous layer to a pH less than about 8.
95.               The process of claim 94, wherein in step (h)(iii)(3), the aqueous layer is washed with
dichloromethane.
96.               The process of claim 93, wherein in step (h)(iv), the compound of formula (XIV), or a
boronic acid anhydride thereof, is extracted into dichloromethane, the solvent is exchanged to
ethyl acetate, an the compound of formula (XIV), or a boronic acid anhydride thereof, is
crystallized by addition of hexane or heptane.
97.               The process of claim 96, wherein addition of hexane or heptane results in
crystallization of a cyclic trimeric boronic acid anhydride of formula (XXIV):
                                                                o       H    oI
                                                                        NN   B
                                                             N    N             3
                                                               N'H         :
                                                                                                  (XXIV).
                                                                    - 92 -

