ABSTRACT
A standby power controller including a power sensor adapted to measure power drawn
through the standby power controller and to output the result of said measurement as power
sensor data; a processor that can determine from the power sensor data that devices connected
to the standby power controller are in a low power standby power state; a user presence and
involvement sensor adapted to provide data to a processor adapted to determine that a
television connected to the standby power controller is in an active standby mode; a switch
adapted to operate to remove power from said television when said active standby or low
power standby state is determined; and a communication module adapted to communicate the
power sensor data to an external communications unit for transmission to an external
monitoring agent

                                                   1
             Standby Power Controller Communications Apparatus and Method
Technical Field
This invention relates to a standby power controller having a data communication capability.
Background of the Invention
The following references to and descriptions of prior proposals or products are not intended to
be and are not to be construed as statements or admissions of common general knowledge in
the art. In particular, the following prior art discussion does not relate to what is commonly or
well known by the person skilled in the art, but may assist in the understanding of the
inventive step of the present invention, of which the identification of pertinent prior proposals
is but one part.
There is currently world-wide concern about the level of use of electrical energy for both
domestic and commercial uses. In part this concern is based on the greenhouse gas production
associated with the generation of electrical energy, and the contribution of that greenhouse
gas to anthropogenic global warming. There is also a concern for the capital cost involved in
building the electricity generating plants and electricity distribution networks required to
generate and distribute an increasing amount of electricity.
A significant contributor to the energy use of households are so-called "plug loads". These are
the devices which are powered by plugging on to a general power outlet (GPO) which may
also be called a wall socket. These plug loads include audio visual equipment including
multiple devices such as televisions, television decoders, television recorders and sound
equipment now found in virtually all homes. Plug loads also include semi-fixed small
appliances and lamps. Plug loads are typically not moved around within a house. Their usage
is often highly discretionary, and highly dependent upon individual households lifestyle
choices.
Efforts have been made to reduce or control the use of energy by television receivers and
associated audio visual equipment, in particular with the use of standby power controllers, and
these have met with considerable success. Attempts have been made to add improved
functionality to the basic standby power controller to improve power saving and also to
enhance user experience. User experience is important. One of the greatest barriers to power

                                                2
saving by standby power controllers is user uptake and continued use. Features which address
these problems often require user interaction or more sophisticated controls.
Installation of energy saving devices which control plug loads such as standby power
controllers and automated and semi-automated plug connected power switches has often been
incentivised by energy utilities or government agencies. These bodies seek assurances that the
anticipated energy savings from such installations are actually achieved and are achieved on
an ongoing basis.
Information concerning the usage patterns and energy usage of plug loads is difficult to
obtain, but has become very important to energy supply and distribution utilities, as well as to
householders.
Information regarding plug loads and household loads in general, may be found by
disaggregation of energy data from a household, that is, analysing the total energy usage of a
household to determine usage by each or particular appliances. However, the number of
appliances with overlapping usage in a household makes this challenging.
Disclosure of the Invention
Accordingly, the invention may be said to lie in a standby power controller including a power
sensor adapted to measure power drawn through the standby power controller and to output
the result as power sensor data. There is a processor adapted to determine from power sensor
output that devices connected to the standby power controller are in a low power standby
power state. A user presence and involvement sensor provides data to a processor which
determines if a television connected to the standby power controller is in an active standby
mode, or a low power standby mode. There is a switch which operates to remove power from
the television when an active standby or low power standby state is determined; and a
communication module adapted to communicate the power sensor data to an external
communications unit for transmission to an external monitoring agent.
In preference, the user presence and involvement sensor detects use of a remote control which
controls audio visual equipment which is powered through the standby power controller.
In preference, the user presence and involvement sensor is an infra-red detector for detecting
use of an infra-red remote control device or a radio frequency radiation detector for detecting
use of a radio frequency remote control device.
In a further embodiment, the user presence and involvement sensor is a motion sensor.

                                                 3
In an embodiment, the user presence and involvement sensor includes both a motion sensor
and a remote control use sensor.
In preference, the standby power controller further includes a wireless transceiver for
communication with a Smartmeter.
In preference, the communications module is a wi-fi communications transceiver adapted to
communicate with a household wi-fi router.
In preference, the communications module is a low power cellular telephony communications
transceiver.
In preference, the external monitoring agent being located remotely from premises in which
the power controller is installed
In a further form, the invention may be said to lie in an energy usage monitoring system
including a standby power controller, further including a power measurement device adapted
to output overall usage data being a measure of overall power drawn by at least a part of a
household or premises where the standby power controller is installed, and to communicate
said overall power usage data to the external monitoring agent.
In preference, the power measurement device is a meter which measures power use by the
household to facilitate charging for energy use supplied by a utility.
In preference, the power measurement device is a meter which is independent of any meter
which measures power use by the household to facilitate charging for energy supplied by a
utility.
In preference, the invention further includes a processor for processing the power sensor data
with the overall usage data to disaggregate the power use of at least one appliance whose
power use is included in the overall usage data but not in the power sensor data.
In a further aspect, the invention provides a method for disaggregation of energy use by a
household including supplying a standby power controller, receiving data from a power
measurement device adapted output overall usage data being a measure of overall power
drawn by a household where the standby power controller is installed, receiving power sensor
data describing the energy use of at least one first appliance powered through the standby
power controller, processing the power sensor data with the overall usage data to disaggregate
the power use of at least one second appliance whose power use is included in the overall
usage data but not in the power sensor data.

                                                   4
In preference, the at least one second appliance is not provided with power through the
standby power controller.
In a further aspect this invention provides a standby power controller including a power
sensor adapted to sense power drawn by one or more appliances plug connected to the
standby power controller,
further including a presence sensor which detects the presence of a user in the vicinity of the
standby power controller,
the standby power controller adapted to withdraw power from one or more of the one or more
appliances when no user presence is detected,
further including a communications unit adapted to communicate the sensed power data to an
external entity.
In preference, the presence sensor is a remote control usage detector which determines that no
user is present when no remote control usage is detected for a period.
In preference, the remote control usage detector detects infra-red radiation.
In preference, the remote control detector detects radio frequency radiation.
In preference the remote control detector detects RF4CE transmissions for a remote control
unit associated with one appliance connected to the standby power controller.
Brief Description of the Drawings
The invention will now be described with reference to certain non-limiting embodiments in
connection with the accompanying drawings in which:
Figure 1 is a representation of a standby power controller incorporating the invention.
Figure 2 is a physical block diagram of the operation of a standby power controller
incorporating the invention.
Figure 3 is functional block diagram of an embodiment of the invention.
Detailed description of the drawings
Referring first to Figure 1, it is to be understood that this is a general representation of an
installation including a standby power controller (SPC) including the invention and is
illustrative only. It is not intended to limit the number or configuration of continually powered

                                                 5
or switched or monitored main outlets, or of communication interfaces or other functional
modules.
Figure 1 shows a representation of an SPC including an embodiment of the current invention.
An SPC is a device which controls the flow of electrical power to one or more connected
appliances such that when one or more, or a particular one, of the connected appliances is in a
"standby" state where it is not being used, the electrical power supply to one, all or selected
ones of the connected appliances is interrupted.
The SPC 100 receives electrical power from a General Purpose Outlet 103, via power cord
102.
The SPC includes Monitored and Controlled Outlets 104,105,106, 107. The SPC also includes
Uncontrolled Outlets 108, 109. In general, any number of Monitored and Controlled outlets
and Uncontrolled Outlets may be provided. In an embodiment, the Uncontrolled outlet may be
absent.
Monitored and Controlled Outlet 104 supplies electrical power to a television 110. Further
Monitored and Controlled Outlets 105, 106 may provide electrical power to other audio-visual
equipment, for example a DVD player 111 and audio equipment 112. In an embodiment
having only one Monitored and Controlled outlet, multiple devices may be powered from the
one outlet using a powerstrip. In any embodiment, multiple devices may be powered from one
Monitored and Controlled outlet using a powerstrip.
The SPC includes a Sensing and Communications Unit 113. In a preferred embodiment, this
unit is in data communication with the body of the SPC via cable 124, which may also
provide power to the Sensing and Communications Unit 113. The Sensing and
Communications Unit 113 also includes a remote communication means, in the illustrated
embodiment a wi-fi transceiver 123. The cable 124 may be a fixed connection or may be plug
connected at one or both ends. In a further embodiment, the Sensing and Communications
Unit may be integrated with the SPC body. In further embodiments, the remote
communication means may be provided by any convenient wireless protocol, including
without limitation, Bluetooth, zigbee and RF4CE.
Modem television sets and other audio visual equipment, when turned "off" by the remote
control, enter a "low power standby" state, in which energy is still consumed, although at a
significantly lower level that when the device is fully "on". When the television is in this
standby state it is not in use, and the power supply to it may be cut to save energy.

                                                   6
It is also the case that television sets may be left on for extended periods when no user is
viewing the screen. This may happen, without limitation, when a user falls asleep in front of
the television, or when a user, particularly a child or a teenager, simply leaves the vicinity of
the television without turning the television off, or when a user, still present, ceases to be
interested in the television, but does not switch it "off'. This state may be termed "active
standby". In this state the television is not in use, and the power supply to it may be cut to
save energy.
The SPC may detect that the television has entered either an active standby state or a low
power standby state by any convenient means or combination of means.
In order to save energy the SPC operates to remove the power supply from Monitored and
Controlled outlet 104 and hence from the attached television, whenever the television is
detected to be in a standby state.
The SPC includes a power sensor adapted to sense the power drawn through a Monitored and
Controlled outlet. The power sensor detects characteristics of the power flow through the
outlet. When the characteristic is such as to indicate that the television is in a standby mode
the power to the Monitored and Controlled outlet 104, and hence to the attached television or
monitor is interrupted.
The SPC may include any number of Monitored and Controlled outlets, which may be
monitored and controlled individually or together. The power sensor may monitor the power
drawn through all Monitored and Controlled Outlets in aggregate, or may each Monitored and
Controlled Outlet individually. Multiple power sensors may be provided.
The SPC may include means to detect that a user is interacting with the audio visual
equipment and/or the television. The sensing and communications unit 113 includes an infra
red sensor 114. This sensor 114 receives IR signals from a remote control associated with the
television or other connected AV equipment.
It is likely that a user, when actively watching television, will periodically use the remote
control to change channels, adjust volume, mute commercials, etc. Thus a remote control
signal receiver, such as IR sensor 114 can be used as a user presence and involvement sensor.
If no remote control activity is detected by the IR sensor 114 for a period of time, the
assumption may be made that the television is not in use, either because no user is present, or
because any person present is not interested in using the television. When this is determined,
the television is determined to be in active standby and the power supply to the Monitored and

                                                  7
Controlled outlet 104, and hence to the television, is interrupted. This may be achieved by
using a countdown timer which starts from a specific initial value equal to a particular time
period, say one hour, and having this countdown time continuously decrement. Each detected
use of the remote control will reset the countdown timer to the initial value. When the
countdown time reaches zero, there has been no remote control activity for the time period,
and the television is assumed to not be in active use and the electricity supply to the
Monitored and Controlled outlet 104, and hence to the television, is interrupted.
It may be sufficient to determine that a user is present in the vicinity of the television in order
to decide that the television should not be turned off. Any suitable sensor may be used for
determining that a user is present and thus that power to the television should not be
interrupted. These include, without limitation, passive IR sensors, ultrasonic sensors, cameras,
any other passive or active motion sensors, and sound detectors.
Whatever means is used to determine that the television is on, but not in use, it is unlikely to
be completely free of false positives, that is, determining that the television is in active
standby and not in use when the television is in fact in use. If the television is turned off when
a user is still watching a program, the user will be irritated. Repeated occurrences are likely to
lead to the power control function of the SPC being bypassed, preventing power savings.
There may also be provided a warning LED. When the SPC determines that the television is
in active standby, the warning LED will flash to alert any user to the imminent shutdown of
the power to the television. In the case where there is a false positive, that is, there is a user
watching the television, the user may react to observing the flashing of the warning LED by
pressing a key on the remote control. The IR signal from the remote control is detected by the
IR sensor 114, and the countdown timer is reset, preventing the power to the television being
interrupted.
Other methods for warning of imminent shutdown of power to the television may be used. An
audible warning tone may sound.
The SPC may include software allowing control of the warning mechanism. The brightness of
the LED may be variable. It may be possible to set times when the warning should take
certain forms. For example, an audible warning may be used at certain times of the day, whilst
the LED is used at other times. At still further times, no warning at all may be given.
Uncontrolled power outlets 108, 109 are optionally provided to allow for power to be supplied
to devices which should not have the power supply cut when the television is not in use. This

                                                  8
outlet supplies power at all times when the SPC is plugged in. Any number of uncontrolled
outlets may be provided.
Devices other than a television may be connected along with a television to the Monitored and
Controlled outlets. In this case, the total load of all devices may be monitored for the
characteristics indicating that all devices so connected are in a standby or unused state. This
means that only when all devices powered through monitored outlet are determined to be in
an unused state will the power be withdrawn.
A third type of power outlet (not shown) may be provided. This non-monitored, controlled
outlet is not monitored by the power sensor, so the power drawn by any load connected to the
outlet does not contribute to the determination that the monitored load is in a standby or
unused state. This outlet is controlled. When power is interrupted to the monitored, controlled
outlets 108,109, power is also interrupted to this outlet.
There is provided wi-fi transceiver 123 which provides data link 125 to an External
Communications Unit 126. The External Communication Unit illustrated is a broadband
router. In other embodiments, without limitation, this functionality may be provided by a
Mobile Data Network, such as a 3G or 4G network, or a utility provided mesh network. In
further embodiments, the data link may be provided by any suitable wireless protocol,
including, without limitation, Bluetooth, ZigBee and Z wave protocols.
The power sensor senses power consumption through all or each Monitored and Controlled
Outlet, and outputs this as power sensor data. In a preferred embodiment, the sensed power is
true RMS power. The data output is used by the SPC to determine when the television has
entered a low power standby state. The power sensor data may also be stored as a data file in
memory provided in the SPC. The time at which the power consumption sensed by the power
sensor occurs is added to this data.
The power sensor data shows the power used by some or all of the appliances powered
through the SPC, and the time at which this power use is taking place.
The power sensor data is transmitted by wi-fi link 125 and the broadband router 126 to a
monitoring entity such as an electricity supply utility having an interest in the data. The power
sensor data may be directly transmitted as the information is sensed by the power sensor, or
the power sensor data may be transmitted from the memory of the SPC, or both.
The power usage data may be used by the utility to determine energy use and time of energy
use for appliances in a particular household or premises. The utility may use the power sensor

                                                 9
data to provide information to the household as to ways in which energy can be saved, or
ways in which energy costs can be reduced. Where the energy tariff paid by a household
varies with time, the energy utility may provide advice that changing the time of use of an
appliance would reduce energy costs.
The power sensor data from a household may be combined with power sensor data from other
households.
The power sensor data allows the utility to study energy use of appliances. Such power sensor
data from many households helps the utility to predict future demand. The power sensor data
may also be used to predict the outcome of moves to reduce power consumption or to
encourage householders to move power consumption times in order to smooth peaks in
demand. Demand shifting may be encouraged by offering direct demand response programs,
where a household is offered an incentive to reduce energy use at a specific time.
The power sensor data may also be used to monitor the impact of demand response, or other
demand reduction or demand shifting strategies.
Referring now to Figure2, there is shown a block diagram representation of an SPC
incorporating the invention.
There is an SPC base 201 which supplies power to a television 200 and optionally other audio
visual equipment.
There is provided a Sensor Unit 213, which houses sensors and a CPU 214 which provides all
the calculation and analytical functionality of the SPC.
The Sensor unit includes plug connector 211. The SPC base includes plug connector 210. In
the illustrated embodiment, these connectors are USB connectors. The SPC base unit and the
Sensor Unit are connected by a USB link between these connectors. Any plug connected
wired communications protocol may be used. An advantage of a wired connection is that
power can be supplied from the SPC base to the Sensor Unit over such a connection. In this
case the sensor unit does not need battery or other independent power supply. In a further
embodiment, the Sensor Unit may have an independent power supply, and the data connection
may be provided by a wireless protocol.
The SPC base 201 includes a connection to external electricity supply 216. Electricity is
supplied directly to always on electricity outlet 202. Electricity is provided via relay 205 to
switched and monitored outlet 203. The power drawn through switched and monitored outlet

                                                  10
203 is monitored by power sensor 204. Electricity is provided to television 200 by switched
and monitored outlet 203.
Communications Interface 215 provides data communication with CPU 214 located in the
Sensor Unit.
The Sensor Unit 213 includes an external communications device, being Data
Communications Module 208. This provides data communication for CPU 214 to an External
Communications Unit 220. The External Communication Unit illustrated is a broadband
router. In other embodiments, without limitation, this functionality may be provided by a
Mobile Data Network, such as a 3G or 4G network, or a utility provided mesh network.
The Sensor Unit 213 includes one or more user presence and involvement sensors. The Sensor
Unit 213 includes Remote Control Sensor 209. The Remote Control Sensor senses activity of
any appliance remote control unit. In the illustrated embodiment, this is an infra-red (IR)
detector, which is able to detect usage of IR based remote controls. In other embodiments the
Remote Control Sensor may be a detector for any remote control technology including
without limitation RF4CE communications as used to control many cable television units.
In use, the IR Sensor provides data to the CPU concerning use of an IR remote control to
control the television. The power sensor provides data about the power state of the television
to the CPU. As described in the description of Figure 1, the CPU uses this data to determine
when the television has entered a low power standby mode, or is in Active Standby, that is, on
but not being actively watched by a user. In either case, the CPU controls relay 205 to remove
the electricity supply from the television, saving energy.
When the IR Sensor detects IR indicating that the television is to be turned on, CPU controls
the relay to return electricity supply to the television.
Any number, including zero, always on outlets 202 may be provided. One or more switched
and monitored outlets 203 may be provided.
The Data Communications Module allows all data collected by the CPU to be communicated
to an external monitoring party via the External Communications Unit 220. The operation of
the SPC including calculations of energy saved may be communicated to the monitoring
party.

                                                 11
There is also provided a device for monitoring the overall electricity use of the household, or
a part of the household which includes the SPC installation. In the illustrated embodiment this
is the Smartmeter 230.
In other embodiments, the monitoring of overall electricity use may be undertaken by devices
which have a purely measuring and communication function, independent of the metering of
the electricity supply by a utility. Such devices include, without limitation, current clamp
meters which use sensors which encircle the household electricity supply conductors, and
DIN rail meters.
The Smartmeter 230 is in data communication with the external monitoring party. The
external monitoring party may be any entity having an interest in the energy use of the
household and/or appliances within the household. Without limitation, this may be an energy
supply utility, a demand aggregator, an entity offering energy optimisation services or an
energy distribution utility.
The monitoring entity may wish to engage in disaggregation of the energy usage of the
household. In this case, the monitoring entity receives the data indicating the total energy
usage of household or part of the household. This aggregate usage data shows the energy
usage of all of the electrical devices using energy in the household at a given time. The
monitor wishes to separate out the energy usage which may be attributed to each individual
appliance. This allows the energy usage of the household to be analysed and suggestions
made to reduce total or peak energy usage. For example, if it could be determined that a pool
pump and an air conditioner were routinely being run together, but that the air conditioner
was not run at night it would be possible to recommend that the pool pump usage be moved to
the night time in order to reduce the peak usage. When enacted over a large number of
households, such changes will allow an energy utility to reduce the peak energy which it must
supply, even when the total amount of energy supplied is not varied.
Such disaggregation is difficult to achieve when a number of appliances are being used at the
same time. Disaggregation relies on identifying the characteristic signature of a particular type
of appliance. The greater the number of appliances contributing to the data, and uncertainty
about when a particular appliance starts and stops greatly complicate the disaggregation
process.
The Smartmeter communicates overall electrical usage data to the monitoring entity. The
standby power controller communicates the electrical energy usage of the particular appliance

                                                  12
or appliances connected to the standby power controller to the monitoring entity. These two
sets of data can be matched in time. The data describing the energy usage of the appliance(s)
connected to the standby power controller can then be subtracted from the overall electrical
usage data, leaving the residual electrical usage data. This residual electrical usage data
includes components form all appliances in use at the time of collection, except those
powered through the standby power controller. Thus a reduced number of appliances
contribute to the residual electrical usage data. Disaggregation is applied to the residual
electrical usage data. The reduced number of contributions allows simpler disaggregation.
In a further embodiment, the Smartmeter is in data communication with the SPC. The
Smartmeter communicates the overall electrical usage data to the SPC, which then
communicates this overall electrical usage data to the monitoring entity. The Smartmeter may
or may not also have a direct data link to the monitoring entity. In a preferred embodiment,
the data link from the Smartmeter to the SPC is a ZigBee protocol link.
A block diagram of the functions of the SPC is shown in Figure 3. In use the SPC operates to
provide power to a television. A CPU 300 is provided which executes commands to provide
the analytical functionality of the SPC.
There is a power sensor 301 which monitors the power drawn by the television. The power
sensor may monitor the current drawn through the SPC by the television, or both current and
voltage may be monitored. Phase angle may also be monitored. Total RMS power may be
monitored. The output of the power sensor is provided to the CPU 300.
The monitored power draw is used by the CPU to determine the power state of the television.
In an embodiment, a significant drop in the magnitude of the power draw is used to determine
that a low power standby mode has been entered. Low power standby is the mode typically
entered by a television when switched "off' by remote control. Most functions of the
television are halted, but at least sufficient functionality remains to allow the television to be
turned "on" by a remote control. Threshold values of power consumption may be used to
determine the power state of the television, with any value below a threshold being
determined to indicate that the television is in a low power standby power state. Other
characteristics of the power use may be used to determine that the television is not in use.
This may be the presence, absence or a defined pattern of small fluctuations of the power
draw.

                                                13
The CPU controls one or more relays 302. When a determination is made that the television is
in a standby state, the CPU controls the relay 302 in order to withdraw power from the
television and, optionally, associated equipment.
There is provided a Remote Control Use sensor 303. In a preferred embodiment this is an
infra-red (IR) sensor which detects use of infra-red remote control devices.
The CPU receives data from the IR Sensor indicating use of any IR remote control.
The CPU determines when no IR activity has been detected for a predetermined period. When
this occurs, the CPU flashes the warning LED or provides another warning that the television
is about to be shut down. If no IR activity is detected in response to the warning, the power to
the television is interrupted.
While power to the television is interrupted, the IR sensor sensor continues to monitor IR
activity, and send the results to the CPU. When the CPU determines that IR activity has been
detected, the relay 302 is operated and thus power is restored to the television.
In a preferred embodiment, when the power to the television is in the interrupted state, the
SPC will return power to the television when any IR activity is detected. In an alternative
embodiment, the SPC may require that the received IR signal is identified as an "ON"
command for the television before returning power to the television. This reduces "false
positives" where the SPC reacts to an IR source which is other than the user attempting to turn
the television on.
The CPU may be programmed to keep track of the power consumption of the monitored load,
both when the load is using full power and when it is in a low power standby state.
Information concerning the number of times the power to the load is interrupted may be
recorded. Whether the power was interrupted because the television was in a low power
standby mode, or because the television was determined to not be in use may also be
recorded. This data may be used to calculate or estimate the energy savings achieved by the
SPC.
The SPC includes a Communication Module 304. In a preferred embodiment, this is a Wi-Fi
communication module. In other embodiments, without limitation, Bluetooth or any wireless
communications protocol may be used. The communication module 304 is in data
communication with an External Communications Unit 305.

                                               14
The External Communications Module 305 allows all data collected by the CPU to be
communicated to an external monitoring party via the External Communications Unit 305.
The operation of the SPC including calculations of energy saved may be communicated to the
monitoring party.
The total power drawn through the SPC may also be transmitted to the monitoring party.
There is also provided a device for monitoring the overall electricity use of the household, or
a part of the household which includes the SPC installation. In the illustrated embodiment this
is the Smartmeter 310.
The Smartmeter 310 is in data communication with the external monitoring party via wireless
communications link 311. In a preferred embodiment this is a ZigBee mesh network link. In
other embodiment, without limitation, this may be a mobile data link or a wi-fi link. A wired
communications link, including via power line communication may be provided.
In an embodiment, the Smartmeter 310 is in data communication with the Communications
Module 304. This data communication may use any suitable wireless protocol, which may be
the same protocol used between the Communications Module 304, and the External
Communications Unit 305, or a different protocol may be used.
The external monitoring party may be any entity having an interest in the energy use of the
household and/or appliances within the household. Without limitation, this may be an energy
supply utility, a demand aggregator, an entity offering energy optimisation services or an
energy distribution utility.
The monitoring party performs data disaggregation to identify individual appliance use within
the household. The data from the SPC is processed with the Smartmeter data to facilitate this
disaggregation.
In an embodiment, the SPC communicates the energy savings calculated or estimated to
monitoring party. In an embodiment, the SPC communicates the raw data from the power
sensor and the IR sensor, along with the timing of the relay control activity, to the monitoring
party via the External Communications Unit.
A major cause of failure by SPCs to save power is de-installation when a user finds the action
of the SPC intrusive or annoying and simply removes the SPC, preventing any energy saving.
False detection of Active Standby and subsequent cutting of power to the television while it is
in use is a major cause of this failure.

                                                15
The SPC may also report to the monitoring entity, the frequency of use of the IR remote
control. The monitoring entity may also collect information on how often and at what times
the user uses the remote control to prevent the SPC removing power from the television after
a warning has been given. These are occasions when the SPC has determined incorrectly that
the television is in Active Standby when a user is still actively watching the television. This
information may be used to determine a more accurate pattern which indicates that the
television is in fact in Active Standby, allowing less occasions where the SPC attempts to or
does cut power to a television in active use. Improvements in the determination of Active
Standby reduce de-installation.
Where reference has been made to infra-red remote controls and corresponding infra-red
sensors, it will be understood that any form of remote control and corresponding sensors,
including, without limitation, radio frequency remote controls, may be employed.
Where reference has been made to wi-fi as the communication mode between the SPC and
monitoring party, any suitable wired or wireless communications means or protocol may be
used.
Although the invention has been herein shown and described in what is conceived to be the
most practical and preferred embodiments, it is recognised that departures can be made within
the scope of the invention, which is not to be limited to the details described herein but is to
be accorded the full scope of the disclosure so as to embrace any and all equivalent devices
and apparatus.

                                                16
CLAIMS
What is claimed is:
1. A standby power controller including a power sensor adapted to measure power drawn
   through the standby power controller and to output the result of said measurement as
   power sensor data;
   a processor adapted to determine from said power sensor data that devices connected to
   the standby power controller are in a low power standby power state;
   a user presence and involvement sensor adapted to provide data to a processor adapted to
   determine that a television connected to the standby power controller is in an active
   standby mode;
   a switch adapted to operate to remove power from said television when said active
   standby or low power standby state is determined; and
   a communication module adapted to communicate the power sensor data to an external
   monitoring agent, the external monitoring agent being located remotely from premises in
   which the power controller is installed, wherein the standby power controller only
   communicates power sensor data to the remotely located external monitoring agent.
2. The standby power controller of claim 1 wherein the external monitoring agent is adapted
   to combine the power sensor data with premises energy consumption data describing the
   energy consumption of the premises in which the standby power controller is installed in
   order to determine the power usage of at least one appliance, said premises energy
   consumption data being provided by a meter installed in the premises, said appliance not
   being connected to the standby power controller.
3. The standby power controller of claim 1 or claim 2 wherein the user presence and
   involvement sensor detects use of a remote control which controls the television or which
   controls audio visual equipment associated with the television.
4. The standby power controller of claim 3 wherein the user presence and involvement
   sensor is an infra-red detector for detecting use of an infra-red remote control device.
5. The standby power controller of claim 3 wherein the user presence and involvement
   sensor is a radio frequency radiation detector for detecting use of a radio frequency remote
   control device.

                                                17
6. The standby power controller of claim 1 or claim 2 wherein the user presence and
    involvement sensor is a motion sensor.
7. The standby power controller of claim 1 or claim 2 wherein the user presence and
    involvement sensor includes a motion sensor and a remote control use sensor.
8.  The standby power controller of claim 1 further including a wireless transceiver for
    communication with an electricity meter which measures power use by the premises for
    the purpose of charging for energy supplied by a utility.
9. The standby power controller of claim 1 wherein the communications module is a wi-fi
    communications transceiver adapted to communicate with a household wi-fi router.
10. The standby power controller of claim 1 wherein the communications module is a low
    power cellular telephony communications transceiver.
11. An energy usage monitoring system including the standby power controller of claim 1,
    further including a power measurement device adapted to measure overall power usage
    data being a measure of overall power drawn by at least a part of a premises where the
    standby power controller is installed, and to communicate said overall power usage data to
    the external monitoring agent, the external monitoring agent processing the power sensor
    data with the overall power usage data to determine the power use of at least one
    appliance whose power use is included in the overall usage data but said power use does
    not contribute to the power sensor data.
12. The energy usage monitoring system of claim 11 wherein the power measurement device
    is a meter which measures power use by the premises for the purpose of charging for
    energy supplied by a utility.
13. The energy usage monitoring system of claim 11 wherein the power measurement device
    is a meter which is independent of any meter which measures power use by the premises
    for charging for energy supplied by a utility.
14. A method for disaggregation of components of energy use by a premises including
    supplying the standby power controller of claim 1, receiving data from a power
    measurement device adapted to output overall usage data being a measure of overall
    power drawn by a premises where the standby power controller is installed, receiving
    power sensor data describing the energy use of at least one first appliance powered
    through the standby power controller, processing the power sensor data with the overall

                                           18
usage data to determine the power use of at least one second appliance whose power use is
included in the overall usage data, where the at least one second appliance is not provided
with power through the standby power controller.

                                                                  <removed-apn>     <removed-date>
                                                                             113               114
                                 110
                                                           112
                                                                             123
              Television                                                124
                                              AV Equipment
    103
                             105                            108     109                         125
                                                                                  125
102
          104                        107   106
                                                                100                   External
                                                                                   Communications
                   DVD Player                                            126            Unit
      111
                                         Figure 1

                                                      <removed-apn>              <removed-date>
                            201
                                                  230          220            External
                                                                           Communications
         202                                    Smartmeter                      Unit
                        216
                                  215                    213
       203
                                                                 209
                                 Comms                         Remote Control
Television          Relay
                                Interface                           Sensor
                                          210
                                                                                          214
  200               205
                                                                    CPU
             Power                           211         Data Communications Module
             Sensor
     204                                                        208
                                Figure 2

                                                                <removed-apn>        <removed-date>
                           303
                                                       300
 Remote Control Sensor
     (IR Sensor)
                                                                                 302
                          301
                                                   CPU                       Relay
    Power Sensor
                      304                                              310            311
Communications Module
        (Wi-fi)                                 305
                                                                     Smartmeter
                               External Communications
                                         Unit
                                                       Figure 3

