                                                        ABSTRACT
            Biocompatible implants comprising a cyclic lipid therapeutic agent are made
using a low temperature melt extrusion process. The implants are suitable for
intraocular use to treat an ocular condition.
 H:\tzm\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\TZM\5383220_1.DOC - 8/8/13

   WO 2008/079674                                                      PCT/US2007/087139
      PROCESSES FOR MAKING CYCLIC LIPID IMPLANTS FOR INTRAOCULAR
                                              USE
 5
                                        Cross-Reference
              This application claims the benefit of U.S. Application serial no.
10  11/612,928, filed December 19, 2006, which is hereby incorporated by reference
    in its entirety.
                                         BACKGROUND
        The present invention relates to processes for making an intraocular implant
    and the implants thereby made. In particular, the present invention relates to low
15  temperature processes for making implants suitable for intraocular use.
         It is known to make drug delivery systems suitable for intraocular use
    ("implants"). An implant can comprise one or more therapeutic agents as well as
    one or more biodegradable or non-biodegradable carriers (such as a polymeric
20  or non-polymeric carrier). Typically, the carrier comprises the bulk (i.e. more
    than 50%) of the implant by weight and can function to hold (the carrier function)
    and then release the therapeutic agent in vivo, for example as a biodegradable
    or bioerodible carrier is degraded in situ at or in proximity to the ocular tissue
    target site. Biocompatible implants for placement in the eye have been
25  disclosed in a number of patents, such as U.S. patents 4,521,210; 4,853,224;
    4,997,652; 5,164,188; 5,443,505; 5,501,856; 5,766,242; 5,824,072; 5,869,079;
    6,074,661; 6,331,313; 6,369,116; and 6,699,493.
         Implants suitable for intraocular use have been made by various methods
30  including compression, solvent evaporation and extrusion methods. An
    extrusion method for making an intraocular implant can be carried out by first
    mixing a therapeutic agent with a polymer or polymers. Typically, solid forms
    (i.e. powders) of the therapeutic agent and the polymers are mixed together to

   WO 2008/079674                                                   PCT/US2007/087139
    achieve a homogenous mixture of the powders. As noted, the polymer can
    function as a carrier for the therapeutic agent. Thus, if a biodegradable polymer
    is used the therapeutic agent can diffuse out of the polymer upon intraocular
    insertion or implantation of the implant, as the polymer degrades. Although the
 5  therapeutic agent-polymer mixture can be compressed to form a tablet, an
    extruded implant can exhibit a more desirable release profile for the therapeutic
    agent. Hence, an implant with superior characteristics can be made by heating
    the therapeutic agent-polymer mixture to the temperature at which the polymer
    melts, followed by extrusion of an implant with desired dimensions. Melting the
10  polymer helps ensure an even distribution of the active agent within the
    polymeric matrix and upon cooling provides a solid form implant. It is known to
    make extruded implants for intraocular use in which the therapeutic agent
    polymer mixture is heated to about 90*C to about
     1150C prior to being extruded. See eg published U.S. patent application number
15  20050 048099.
        Unfortunately heating the therapeutic agent-polymer mixture to a temperature
    at which the polymer melts can have undesirable or destabilization effects. For
    example, heating the polymer to its melt temperature can result in the formation
20  of degradation products and/or aggregates of either or both the therapeutic
    agent and the polymer. This can result in the materials potentially toxic or
     immunogenic to sensitive ocular tissues and/or can interfere with obtaining a
     desired release profile of the therapeutic agent from the extruded implant.
    Additionally, heating the therapeutic agent to the melt temperature of the
25   polymeric carrier (so as to provide a homogenous dispersion of the therapeutic
     agent in the polymeric matrix) can reduce the potency of a heat sensitive
     therapeutic agent, thereby reducing the therapeutic efficacy of the resulting
     implant.
30      Another problem with existing implants can arise from the presence of
     polymorphs of the therapeutic agent. A polymorph is a substance which has a
     chemical composition identical to that of another substance but which exists in a
                                             -- 2--

   WO 2008/079674                                                     PCT/US2007/087139
    different crystal structure (eg diamond and graphite). Different polymorphs of a
    substance can have different stabilities, solubilities and, for a therapeutic agent,
    different potencies or therapeutic efficacies. With known implants, a crystalline
    therapeutic agent is typically melted along with its polymeric matrix and may
 5  recrystallize upon formation of the solid implant. Alternately, the crystalline
    therapeutic agent can be mixed with the polymer without melting the therapeutic
    agent. In either case, the therapeutic agent is present in the final implant as
    crystals (i.e. as particles) of the therapeutic agent dispersed throughout the
    polymeric matrix. Hence, with either known method for making an implant the
io  therapeutic agent is present in polymorphic forms, each of which therapeutic
    agent polymorph can have a different therapeutic efficacy.
         Hypotensive therapeutic agents are useful in the treatment of a number of
    various ocular hypertensive conditions, such as post-surgical and post-laser
15  trabeculectomy ocular hypertensive episodes, glaucoma, and as presurgical
    adjuncts. Glaucoma is a disease of the eye characterized by increased
     intraocular pressure. On the basis of its etiology, glaucoma has been classified
    as primary or secondary. For example, primary glaucoma in adults (congenital
    glaucoma) may be either open-angle or acute or chronic angle-closure.
20   Secondary glaucoma results from pre-existing ocular diseases such as uveitis,
     intraocular tumor or an enlarged cataract.
         The increased intraocular pressure characteristic of glaucoma can be due to
    the obstruction of aqueous humor outflow. In chronic open-angle glaucoma, the
25   anterior chamber and its anatomic structures appear normal, but drainage of the
     aqueous humor is impeded. In acute or chronic angle-closure glaucoma, the
    anterior chamber is shallow, the filtration angle is narrowed, and the iris may
    obstruct the trabecular meshwork at the entrance of the canal of Schlemm.
     Dilation of the pupil may push the root of the iris forward against the angle, and
30  may produce pupillary block and thus precipitate an acute attack. Eyes with
     narrow anterior chamber angles are predisposed to acute angle-closure
    glaucoma attacks of various degrees of severity.
                                              -- 3--

   WO 2008/079674                                                       PCT/US2007/087139
         Secondary glaucoma is caused by any interference with the flow of aqueous
    humor from the posterior chamber into the anterior chamber and subsequently,
    into the canal of Schlemm. Inflammatory disease of the anterior segment may
 5  prevent aqueous escape by causing complete posterior synechia in iris bombe
    and may plug the drainage channel with exudates. Other common causes are
    intraocular tumors, enlarged cataracts, central retinal vein occlusion, trauma to
    the eye, operative procedures and intraocular hemorrhage.
10       Considering all types together, glaucoma occurs in about 2% of all persons
    over the age of 40 and may be asymptotic for years before progressing to rapid
    loss of vision. In cases where surgery is not indicated, topical beta
    adrenoreceptor antagonists have traditionally been the drugs of choice for
    treating glaucoma.
15
         Some prostaglandins are utility as ocular hypotensive agents, including
     PGF 2a, PGF 1 a, PGE 2, and certain lipid-soluble esters, such as C1 to C5 alkyl
     esters, e.g. 1-isopropyl ester, of such compounds. Unfortunately, ocular surface
     (conjunctival) hyperemia and foreign-body sensation have been consistently
20   associated with topical ocular use of prostaglandins as anti-hypertensive agent
     (i.e. to treat glaucoma), including P~GF 2a and its prodrugs, e.g. its 1-isopropyl
     ester. The PGF 2a derivative latanoprost is sold under the trademark Xalatan@
     for treating ocular hypertension and glaucoma. Topical use of latanoprost can
     have the undesirable side effect of turning the iris of a user brown.
25
          In Laedwif M.S. et al., PROSTAGLANDINS LEUKOT. ESSENT. FATTY Aclos 72:251
     6 (April 2005), it was disclosed that infusion of with a cyclic lipid (prostaglandin
     El) in patients with age-related macular degeneration (ARMD) resulted in an
     improvement in visual acuity.
30
          Bimatoprost is an analog (that is a structural derivative) of a naturally
     occurring prostamide. The formula for bimatoprost (C25 H37NO4 ) is ((Z)-7
                                              -- 4.-

   WO 2008/079674                                                   PCT/US2007/087139
    [1R,2R,3R,5§S)-3,5-Dihydoxy-2-[1E,3)-3-hydroxy-5-phenyl-1
    pentenyl]cyclopentyl]-5-N-ethylheptenamide. Its' molecular weight is 415.58.
    Bimatoprost is a heat sensitive molecule, meaning that it can degrade if heated
    to a temperature greater than about 65* C. In a low pH environment bimatoprost
 5  can degrade at a lower temperature and at a faster rate. Bimatoprost has
    several polymorphic crystal structures. Not all the polymorphs of bimatoprost
    have the same level of biological activity. Bimatoprost is slightly soluble in water
    (by definition 3 mg of a water soluble substance can be dissolved in one mL of
    water at 25*C).
10
        Bimatoprost can be used to reduce intraocular pressure. See eg Cantor, L.,
    Bimatoprost: a member of a new class of agents, the prostamides for glaucoma
    management, Exp Opin Invest Drugs (2001); 10(4): 721-731, and; Woodward D.,
    et al., The Pharmacology of Bimatoprost (LumiganTm), Surv Ophthalmol 2001
is  May; 45 (Suppl 4): S337-S345. An ophthalmic solution of 0.03% bimatoprost is
    sold by Allergan (Irvine, California) under the trademark Lumigan*. Lumigan is
    an effective treatment for ocular hypotension and glaucoma and is administered
    topically to the effected eye topically once a day. Each mL of Lumigan* contains
    0.3 mg of bimatoprost as the active agent, 0.05 mg of benzalkonium chloride
20  (BAK) as a preservative, and sodium chloride, sodium phosphate, dibasic; citric
    acid; and purified water as inactive agents.
        It is known to make bimatoprost containing implants for intraocular use. See
    eg U.S. patents applications serial numbers 10/837,260 and 11/368,845.
25
        Polymer Solubility Parameters
        A solubility parameter for a substance is a numerical value which indicates
    the relative solvency behavior of that substance. The solubility parameter is
    derived from the cohesive energy density of the substance, which in turn is
30  derived from the heat of vaporization. The heat of vaporization of a substance is
    the energy required to vaporize (render into a gas) the substance. From the
                                             -- 5-

   WO 2008/079674                                                     PCT/US2007/087139
    heat of vaporization (in calories per cubic centimeter of a liquid substance), one
    can derive the cohesive energy density (c):
                                    H-RT
                                   &=                    ()
    where: c = cohesive energy density; AHv = heat of vaporization; R= a gas
 5  constant; T = Temperature, and Vm = molar volume. The cohesive energy
    density (c) of a liquid is a numerical value that indicates the energy of
    vaporization in calories per cubic centimeter, and is a direct reflection of the
    degree of van der Waals forces holding the molecules of the liquid together.
    Since the solubility of two materials is only possible when their intermolecular
10  attractive forces are similar, materials with similar cohesive energy density
    values are miscible in each other.
        The square root of the cohesive energy density (c) provides a solubility
    parameter for a substance:
15
                            S=         AH   7
                                           RTU   2
                                                          (2)
        This solubility parameter can be represented as delta (6). 6can be expressed
    in calories/cc (the standard or older parameter) or in standard international units
20  (SI units). The SI unit is in pascals. Thus, one MPa is one milliPascal. SI
    parameters are about twice the value of the standard solubility parameter units:
    W/ca1 12 cm-3/ 2 = 0.48888 x W/MPa   2           (3)
    &/MPa112 = 2.0455 x Slcal" 2cm- 31 2             (4)
        The newer SI units for the solubility parameter of a substance are usually
    designated as 8/MPa     1 2 (sometimes shown in a shorthand version as just MPa1 2)
25  ora(SI).
        Since a polymer will typically decompose before its heat of vaporization could
     be measured, swelling behavior is one of the ways that a solubility parameter
     can be determined for a polymer. The term cohesion parameter can be used to
                                              -- 6--

   WO 2008/079674                                                           PCT/US2007/087139
    mean the solubility parameter of a non-liquid material. The solubility parameters
    for biodegradable polymers can be determined. See e.g. Siemann U.,
    Densitometric determination of the solubility parameters of biodegradable
    polyesters, Proceed Intern Symp Control Rel Bioact Mater 12 (1985):53-54. As
 5  noted above, MPa'12 is a standard unit for solubility parameter. The solubility
    parameter 8 is equal to c 1/2, where c = (AENm)1"2. In short two materials will mix
    if their AG <0, and AG = AH-T AS (this is the formula for Gibbs Free Energy [AG]
    which defines the free energy of a reaction, where AH is the change in enthalpy
    in a constant pressure process and AS is the change in entropy). AS is always
io  positive for mixing, but AH depends roughly on AH - Vm9p1            2 (r1-6 2)/ 2 where
    "1"and"2" are the two components. The closer the 8's are to each other, the
    closer AH is to zero and the more energetically favorable the combination.
         A solid solution is a solid state solution of one or more solutes in a solvent. A
15   solute initially in a crystalline form which enters into solid solution is no longer in
     a crystalline form, as is it in a solution, albeit in this case in a solid state solution.
     Some mixtures will readily form solid solutions over a range of concentrations,
    while other mixtures will not form solid solutions at all. The propensity for any
     two substances to form a solid solution is a complicated matter involving the
20   chemical, crystallographic, and quantum properties of the substances in
     question. For example, solid solutions can form if the solute and solvent have
     similar atomic radii (15% or less difference), same crystal structure, similar
     electronegativities and/or similar valance. It is known to compare the solubility
     parameters of a water soluble drug and a single polymeric excipient to determine
25   if they are miscible in each other so that a glass solution will be formed upon
     melt extrusion. Forster, A., et al., Selection of excipients for melt extrusion with
     two poorly water-soluble drugs by solubility parameter calculation and thermal
     analysis, Int J Pharmaceutics 226 (2001) 147-161. The ability of one solid to
     function as a cosolvent (i.e. to solubilize) of another solid (i.e. a polymer) upon
30   formation of a solid solution of the two solids can depend upon the ability of the
     cosolvent to function as a plasticizer of the polymer and/or due to the relative
     similarities of their solubility parameters.
                                                -- 7-

    WO 2008/079674                                                    PCT/US2007/087139
         Polyethylene glycol
         Polyethylene glycol ("PEG") has the general formula C2nH4n,2 O+ 1,which can
     be represented as:
      HO,4<%OOH
  5
         Being a polymer, a polyethylene glycol has a glass transition temperature (Tg)
     (which can be the same as or different from the softening point or the melt
     temperature of the polymer), as opposed to a true melting point. Within in a
     certain range the glass transition temperature of a polyethylene glycol increases
io   as its molecular weight increases. For example PEG 400 has a T. of 4-8* C,
     PEG 600 has a Tg of 20-25* C, PEG 1500 has a Tg of 44-480 C, PEG 4000 has a
     Tg of 54-58* C, and PEG 6000 has a Tg of 56-630 C. Poly(ethylene glycol) is
     non-toxic, water soluble polymer used in a variety of products. For example it is
     used in laxatives, skin creams and toothpastes.
15
         PEG-3350 [HO(C 2H40)n] is a synthetic polyglycol having an average
     molecular weight of 3350.
         What is needed therefore is a process for making an intraocular implant from
20   a therapeutic agent and a polymer which does not result in or which reduces the
     occurrence of undesirable therapeutic agent and/or polymer end products or
     crystalline forms of the therapeutic agent in the implant.
                                          SUMMARY
25       The present invention meets this need and provides a process for making an
     intraocular implant comprising a therapeutic agent and a polymer which process
     does not result in or which reduces the occurrence of undesirable therapeutic
     agent and/or polymer end products in the implant. Additionally, the therapeutic
     agent is not present in the implant in a crystalline form, so no polymorphs of the
30   therapeutic agent are present in the implant. The present invention can meet
     this need by providing a low temperature melt extrusion method for making an
                                             -- 8--

     WO 2008/079674                                                       PCT/US2007/087139
     implant suitable for intraocular use, the implant comprising a therapeutic agent
    and a suitable polymer.
        The present processes provide extended and sustained release implants
  5 comprising one or more ophthalmically active cyclic lipid therapeutic agents.
    Thus, the patient in whose eye the implant have been placed receives a
    therapeutic amount of a cyclic lipid therapeutic agent for a relatively long or
    extended time period without requiring additional administrations of the agent or
    agents. The patient thereby has a therapeutically active agent available for
10  treatment of the eye over a relatively long period of time, for example, on the
    order of at least about one week, such as between about two and about six
    months after administering the implant. Such extended release times facilitate
    obtaining successful treatment of ocular conditions. In addition, administering
    such implants preferably subconjunctivally can reduce the occurrence and/or
is  severity of at least one side effect, for example, hyperemia, relative to
    administering an identical amount of the cyclic lipid therapeutic agent to the eye
    in the form of a topical composition. Further, subconjunctival administration of
    an implant comprising a cyclic lipid therapeutic agent can be effective to provide
    a cyclic lipid therapeutic agent to the retina to treat a retinal disease or condition.
20  As the subconjunctival administration of an implant containing a cyclic lipid
    therapeutic agent results in particularly effective delivery of such agents to the
    retina, the present invention provides a particularly advantageous method of
    delivering a cyclic lipid therapeutic agent to ocular tissues without the side
    effects which can result from systemic administration.
25
        Implants in accordance with our invention comprise a cyclic lipid therapeutic
    agent and a drug release sustaining component (such as a suitable polymer)
    associated with the cyclic lipid therapeutic agent. In accordance with the present
    invention, the cyclic lipid therapeutic agent can comprise, consists essentially of,
30  or consists of a prostaglandin, prostaglandin analog, prostaglandin derivative,
    prostamide, prostamide analog, and a prostamide derivative that is effective in
    treating an ocular condition, such as for example reducing or maintaining a
                                              -- 9--

   WO 2008/079674                                                      PCTIUS2007/087139
    reduced intraocular pressure in a hypertensive eye, or providing to the retina of
    an eye an effective amount of a cyclic lipid therapeutic agent having
    neuroprotective activities. The polymer is associated with the cyclic lipid
    therapeutic agent to sustain release of an amount of the cyclic lipid therapeutic
 5  agent into an eye in which the implant is placed. The cyclic lipid therapeutic
    agent is released into the eye for an extended period of time after the implant is
    are administered, for example, subconjunctivally and is effective in treating or
    reducing at least one symptom of an ocular condition. The present implants can
    relieve ocular hypertension by reducing the intraocular pressure of the eye or
io  maintaining the intraocular pressure at a reduced level without substantial
    amounts of ocular hyperemia. Alternatively, the present implants can relieve
    disorders of the posterior segment of the eye, particularly, a retinal condition
    such as exudative or non-exudative age-related macular degeneration, by
    delivering a cyclic lipid therapeutic agent via the sclera to the tissues of the
is  posterior segment, in particular, the retina.
        In one embodiment the implants comprise a cyclic lipid therapeutic agent and
    a biodegradable polymer matrix. The cyclic lipid therapeutic agent is associated
    with a biodegradable polymer matrix that releases drug at a rate effective to
20  sustain release of an amount of the cyclic lipid therapeutic agent from the
    implant effective to treat an ocular condition. The implants can be biodegradable
    or bioerodible and provide a sustained release of the cyclic lipid therapeutic
    agent to either or both the anterior and posterior segments of the eye for
    extended periods of time, such as for more than one week, for example for about
25  three months or more and up to about six months or more.
        The biodegradable polymer component of the implants can be a mixture of
    biodegradable polymers having a molecular weight between about 1000
    kiloDaltons (kD) and about 10 kD. For example, the biodegradable polymer can
30  comprise a polylactic acid polymer having a molecular weight between about
    500 kD and about 50 kD, and preferably less than about 64 kiloDaltons.
    Additionally or alternatively, the implants can comprise a first biodegradable
                                            -- 10-

   WO 2008/079674                                                      PCT/US2007/087139
    polymer of a polylactic acid, and a different second biodegradable polymer of a
    polylactic acid. Furthermore, the implants can comprise a mixture of different
    biodegradable polymers, each biodegradable polymer having an inherent
    viscosity in a range of about 0.2 deciliters/gram (dUg) to about 1.0 dUg.
 5
        The cyclic lipid therapeutic agent of the implants disclosed herein can include
    a prostaglandin, prostaglandin analog, prostaglandin derivative, prostamide,
    prostamide analog, or a prostamide derivative, that is effective in treating ocular
    conditions. One example of a suitable prostamide derivative is bimatoprost. An
10  embodiment of our invention is a sustained release bimatoprost implant,
    preferably implanted in the subconjuntiva of the eye, to thereby remove the need
    for daily administration of the bimatoprost. The sustained release implant can
    provide a controlled release of this hypotensive agent over an extended period of
    time,
15
        Other examples of cyclic lipid therapeutic agent within the scope of our
    invention include, without limitation, latanoprost, travoprost and unoprostone and
    salts derivatives, and analogs of these. In addition, the implant can be
    formulated with cyclic lipid therapeutic as well as one or more additional and
20  different therapeutic agents that can be effective to treat an ocular condition.
        A process for making the present implants involves combining or mixing the
    cyclic lipid therapeutic agent with a biodegradable polymer or polymers. The
    mixture can then be extruded, compressed or solvent cast to form a single
25  composition. The single composition can then be processed to form an implant
    suitable for placement at an ocular location, such as for example at a
    subconjunctival, sub tenon, intravitreal or intrascleral location.
        The implant can be placed in an ocular region such as, without limitation,
30  subconjunctivally, to treat a variety of ocular conditions of the anterior or
    posterior segment. For example, the implant can deliver a cyclic lipid therapeutic
    agent to tissues of the anterior segment, thereby reducing ocular hypertension,
                                             -- 11--

   WO 2008/079674                                                       PCT/US2007/087139
    and thus may be effective in reducing at least one symptom of an ocular
    condition associated with an increased intraocular pressure. Alternatively,
    subconjunctival administration of the implant of the present invention can be
    effective to deliver the cyclic lipid therapeutic agent to the retina and other
 5  tissues of the posterior segment for the treatment of neurodegenerative
    conditions such as age related macular degeneration (ARMD), such as "wet" or
    "dry" ARMD.
        Our invention also encompasses the use of a cyclic lipid therapeutic agent
10  and a polymeric component, as described herein, in the manufacture of a
    medicament for treating a patient.
        Low Temperature Extrusion Processes
        Our invention encompasses a low temperature process for making an
15  intraocular implant. The process is carried out by combining a cyclic lipid
    therapeutic agent and a polymer to form a mixture. The mixture is then heated
    to a temperature between about 500C and about 800C, followed by extruding the
    heated mixture to thereby make an implant suitable for intraocular use. By "low
    temperature" process is it meant a process which is carried out at a temperature
20  between about 50*C and about 800C. The implant made by this process is an
    intraocular implant, meaning that the implant is structured and configured so as
    to be suitable for insertion or implantation within an ocular tissue or within an
    ocular space or virtual ocular space. Thus, an implant made by our process is
    suitable for insertion or implantation into, for example, the anterior chamber, the
25  posterior chamber, the vitreous cavity, the choroid, the suprachoroidal space, the
    subretinal space, the conjunctiva, the subconjunctival space, the episcleral
    space, the intracorneal space, the epicorneal space, the sclera, the pars plana,
    surgically-induced avascular regions, the macula, the retina and sub-tenon
    locations. Preferably, when the implant contains an antihypertensive therapeutic
3o  agent (such as a prostaglandin analog, an alpha adrenergic receptor agonist or a
    beta blocker) the implant is implanted or inserted subconjunctivally so as to be
                                              -12--

    WO 2008/079674                                                     PCT/US2007/087139
     placed at a location proximate to the cilliary body, a target tissue for an
     antihypertensive therapeutic agent.
         Because our low temperature process results in an implant suitable or
  5  intraocular use, therefore topical (i.e. as eye drops) and systemic route of
     administrations are outside the scope of our invention. Additionally, the implants
     made by a process within the scope of our invention are not microparticles or
     microspheres (a microparticle or microsphere has a diameter of from about 0.1 p
     to about 5 microns) in diameter but are instead discrete solid body implants
1o   (from about 0.1 mm up to about 10 mm in diameter) intended for intraocular
     administration as single, or as a small number (i.e. five or less) implants, as
     opposed to administration of a population of hundreds or thousands of
     microparticles or microspheres.
is       In a low temperature process for making an intraocular implant with the scope
     of our invention the cyclic lipid therapeutic agent can be a prostaglandin, a
     prostaglandin analog, or and mixture thereof. For example, the cyclic lipid
     therapeutic agent can be bimatoprost, a bimatoprost analog, latanoprost, a
     latanoprost analog, travoprost, a travoprost analog, unoprostone, a unoprostone
20   analog, prostaglandin El, a prostaglandin El analog, prostaglandin E2, a
     prostaglandin E2 analog, and mixtures thereof. A preferred cyclic lipid
     therapeutic agent within the scope of our invention is bimatoprost, a bimatoprost
     analog, and mixtures thereof.
25       The polymer matrix can be a biodegradable or a non-biodegradable polymer.
     The biodegradable polymer can be for example a polylactic acid, polyglycolic
     acid, polylactide-co-glycolide, a poly(polylactide-co-glycolide) [PLGA] copolymer
     and copolymers thereof, as well as derivatives of these polymers. Other suitable
     polymers to use can include poly caprolactones, and PLGA -PEG or PLA-PEG
30   diblock or triblock polymers.
                                              -- 13-

   WO 2008/079674                                                     PCT/US2007/087139
         In our low temperature process for making an intraocular implant, the polymer
    can comprise from about 30% to about 95% by weight of the implant and the
    cyclic lipid therapeutic agent can comprise from about 5%to about 70% by
    weight of the implant. Notably, the potency of the cyclic lipid therapeutic agent
 s  released from the implant can be at least about 50% of its maximum potency.
         A detailed embodiment of our low temperature process for making an
    intraocular implant can have the steps of: (a) combining a prostaglandin analog
    and a biodegradable polymer to form a mixture; (b) heating the mixture to a
1o  temperature between about 50"C and about 800 C, and; (c) extruding the heated
    mixture, thereby making an implant suitable for intraocular use.
         An alternate embodiment of our invention is a process for making an
    intraocular implant by firstly combining a cyclic lipid therapeutic agent, a first
15  biodegradable polymer, and a second biodegradable polymer to form a mixture.
     Preferably, the first biodegradable polymer and the second biodegradable
    polymer are different polymers, the solubilities of the cyclic lipid therapeutic
    agent, the first biodegradable polymer, and the second biodegradable polymer
    are substantially similar, and, the melting point of the second biodegradable
20  polymer is lower than the melt temperature of the first biodegradable polymer.
    The next step in this process is to heat the mixture made combining the cyclic
     lipid therapeutic agent, the first biodegradable polymer, and a second
    biodegradable polymer. The mixture is heated to the temperature which is lower
    than the melt temperature of the second biodegradable polymer.
25  Advantageously, the temperature to which the mixture is heated is also lower
    than the temperature at which the cyclic lipid therapeutic agent exhibits
    substantial degradation. The third step in this process is to extrude the heated
    mixture to thereby making an implant suitable for intraocular use.
30       In this alternate embodiment of our invention the first biodegradable polymer
    can be for example a polylactic acid, polyglycolic acid, polylactide-co-glycolide, a
    poly(polylactide-co-glycolide) copolymer, and copolymers thereof. Additionally,
                                              -- 14--

    WO 2008/079674                                                        PCT/US2007/087139
     the second biodegradable polymer can be any substituted poly lactide, poly
     glycolide, or poly (lactide-co-glycolide), any poly(caprolactone) or substituted
     derivative or any of the above, as well as any of the above polymers where a low
     molecular weight polyether is incorporated as a block with the polymer.
  5
        Significantly, the second biodegradable polymer functions as a cosolvent for
     the first biodegradable polymer and for the cyclic lipid therapeutic agent. This
     permits a solid solution of these three components to be formed when the
     mixture is heated to the melt temperature of the second biodegradable polymer.
10   The second biodegradable polymer has a low melt temperature (i.e. between
     about 50*C about 80*C) and importantly has a solubility parameter which is
     similar to the solubility parameters of both the cyclic lipid therapeutic agent and
     the first biodegradable polymer. Inparticular, suitable second biodegradable
     polymers can include:
15   Polymer                            Solubility Parameter (6)
     decafluorobutane                         10.6
     Poly(isobutylene)                         16.2
     Poly(hexemethylene Adipamide)             13.6
20   Poly Propylene                            18.0
     Poly Ethylene                             18.1
     Poly Vinyl Chloride                        21.4,
     as well as other low molecular weight polymers, waxes, and long chain
25   hydrocarbons that have softening points below about 80C and solubility
     parameters from about 12 to about 28 (MPa)' 2.
        Preferably, the solubilities of the cyclic lipid therapeutic agent, the first
     biodegradable polymer, and the second biodegradable polymer are all within
30   about 10 Mpa' t 2 of each other. Additionally, the solubility parameters
     (solubilities) of the cyclic lipid therapeutic agent, the first biodegradable polymer,
     and the second biodegradable polymer are also preferably all within about 15 to
     30 Mpa112 .
                                                 -- 15-

   WO 2008/079674                                                     PCT/US2007/087139
       The first biodegradable polymer can comprises from about 30% to about 90%
    by weight of the implant, the second biodegradable polymer can comprises from
    about 50% to about 30% by weight of the implant, and the cyclic lipid therapeutic
    agent can comprise from about 5%to about 30% by weight of the implant.
 5
        A detailed embodiment of this alternate embodiment of our invention is a
    process for making an intraocular implant, the process comprising the steps of:
    (a) combining:
       (i) a prostaglandin analog, wherein the prostaglandin analog comprises from
1o  about 5%to about 30% (and up to as much as 70%) by weight of the implant;
       (ii) a poly(lactide-co-glycolide) copolymer, wherein the poiy(lactide-co
    glycolide) comprises from about 30% to about 90% by weight of the implant.
    and;
       (ii) a second biodegradable polymer to form a mixture, wherein the second
is  biodegradable polymer comprises from about 5% to about 40% by weight of the
    implant, and wherein;
            (a) the a poly(lactide-co-glycolide) copolymer and the second
    biodegradable polymer are different polymers;
            (P) the solubilities of the prostaglandin analog, the poly(lactide-co
20  glycolide) copolymer, and the second biodegradable polymer are all within about
    10 Mpa 12 of each other, and;
            (y) the melt temperature of the second biodegradable polymer is lower
    than the melt temperature of the a poly(lactide-co-glycolide) copolymer, and is as
    well lower than the temperature at which the prostaglandin analog exhibits
25  substantial degradation, or exhibits a potency less than about 50% of it's label
    strength;
    (b) heating the mixture to the lower melt temperature of the second
    biodegradable polymer, so that the second biodegradable polymer can function
    as a solvent for the prostaglandin analog and for the a poly(lactide-co-glycolide)
30  copolymer, and;
    (c) extruding the heated mixture, thereby making an implant suitable for
    intraocular use.
                                              --16-

   WO 2008/079674                                                    PCT/US2007/087139
        Our invention also encompasses a method for treating an ocular condition
    using an implant made as set forth herein. The implant can release (such as
    release a therapeutically effective amount of) the cyclic lipid therapeutic agent for
 5  at least about one week after its insertion or implantation into an intraocular
    location. The cyclic lipid therapeutic agent can be a non-acid cyclic lipid
    therapeutic agent.
         Importantly, the implant can have an average greatest dimension in a range
1o  of from about 0.4 mm to about 12 mm.
        The cyclic lipid therapeutic agent can have the following formula (1)
     R2           A-B()
15
    wherein the dashed bonds represent a single or double bonds which can be in
    the cis or trans configuration, A is an alkyene or alkenylene radical having from
    two to six carbon atoms, which radical may be interrupted by one or more oxide
    radicals and substituted with one or more hydroxy, oxo, alkoxy or alkycarboxyl
20  groups wherein said alkyl radical comprises from one to six carbon atoms; B is a
    cycloalkyl radical having from three to seven carbon atoms, or an aryl radical,
    selected from the group consisting of hydrocarbyl aryl and heteroaryl radicals
    having from four to ten carbon atoms wherein the heteroatom is selected from
    the group consisting of nitrogen, oxygen and sulfur atoms; X is a radical selected
25  from the group consisting of hydrogen, a lower alkyl radical having from one to
    six carbon atoms, R5-C(=O)- or R5-O-C(=O)-wherein R5 is a lower alkyl radical
    having from one to six carbon atoms; Z is =0 or represents 2 hydrogen radicals;
    one of R, and R2 is =0, -OH or a -O-C(=O)-R 6 group, and the other one is -OH
                                            -- 17--

    WO 2008/079674                                                     PCT/US2007/087139
     or -O-C(=O)-R 6, or R1 is =0 and R2 is H, wherein R6 is a saturated or
      unsaturated acyclic hydrocarbon group having from 1 to about 20 carbon atoms,
     or -(CH 2)mR7 wherein m is 0-10, and R7 is cycloalkyl radical, having from three
     to seven carbon atoms, or a hydrocarbyl aryl or heteroaryl radical, as defined
  5  above, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, provided however that
     when B is not substituted with a pendant heteroatom-containing radical and Z is
     =0, then X is not -OR 4.
          Alternately, the cyclic lipid therapeutic agent can have the following formula
10   (1I)
                                                            x
                io       (II)
      R 2-
                            R          (CH2)y(O)x--(~
     wherein y is 0 or 1, x is 0 or 1 and x + y re not both 1, Y is a radical selected
     from the group consisting of alkyl, halo, nitro, amino, thiol, hydroxy, alkyloxy,
is   alkylcarboxy and halo substituted alkyl, wherein said alkyl radical comprises from
     one to six carbon atoms, n is 0 or an integer of from 1 to 3 and R3 is =0, -OH or
     -O-C(=O)R6.
          Alternately, the cyclic lipid therapeutic agent can comprise a compound
20   having the following formula (111)
                                                    -- 18 -

   WO 2008/079674                                                   PCT/US2007/087139
                                                  z
                                  -                     x
    R2,--'                   -                         -  (Y)n
                          R(
                                       H)   ox
    wherein hatched lines indicate the a configuration and solid triangles indicate the
    p configuration.
 5      Alternately, the cyclic lipid therapeutic agent can comprises a compound
    having the following formula (IV)
                                                    z
    R2              "(CH                2)Y(O)X
                                    R,                         (IV)
    wherein Y1 is Cl or trifluoromethyl.
10
        Alternately, the cyclic lipid therapeutic agent can comprise a compound
    having the following formula (V)
             OH
                                                     z
                                                             1
                                                            Y
    HO                                (CH2)Y(O)x
                          HO                                   (V)
is  and the 9- and/or 11- and/or 15- esters, thereof. Z can be 0 and X can be
    selected from the group consisting of NH2 or OCH 3. Alternately, Y can be 0, Z
                                                 -- 19--

   WO 2008/079674                                                    PCT/US2007/087139
    can be 0 and X can be selected from the group consisting of alkoxy and amido
    radicals.
        Alternately, the cyclic lipid therapeutic agent comprises a compound selected
 s  from the group consisting of:
            a)      cyclopentane heptenol-5-cis-2-(3a-hydroxy-5-phenyl-1 -trans
    pentenyl)-3, 5-dihydroxy, [1a, 2p, 3a, 5a];
            b)      cyclopentane heptenamide-5-cis-2-(3a-hydroxy-5-phenyl-1 -trans
    pentenyl)-3, 5-dihydroxy, [1a, 2P, 3a, Sa];
io          c)      cyclopentane N,N-dimethylheptenamide-5-cis-2-(3a-hydroxy-5
    phenyl-1-trans-penten- yl)-3, 5-dihydroxy, [1a, 2P, 3a, 5a];
            d)      cyclopentane heptenyl methoxide-5-cis-2-(3a-hydroxy-5-phenyl-1
    trans-pentenyl)-3- , 5-dihydroxy, [1a, 2p, 3a, 5a];
            e)      cyclopentane heptenyl ethoxide-5-cis-2-(3a-hydroxy-4-meta-chloro
15  phenoxy-1-trans- -butenyl)-3, 5-dihydroxy, [1a, 2P, 3a, 5a];
            f) cyclopentane heptenylamide-5-cis-2-(3a-hydroxy-4-meta-chloro
    phenox- y-1-trans-butenyl)-3, 5-dihydroxy, [1a, 2P, 3a, 5];
            g)      cyclopentane heptenylamide-5-cis-2-(3a-hydroxy-4-meta-tr
    ifluoromethyl-phenoxy-l-trans-butenyl)-3, 5-dihydroxy, [1a, 2P, 3a, 5a];
20          h)      cyclopentane N-isopropyl hepteneamide-5-cis-2-(3a-hydroxy-5
    phenyl-1-trans-pentenyl)-3, 5-dihydroxy, [1a, 2P, 3a, Sa];
            i)      cyclopentane N-ethyl heptenamide-5-cis-2-(3a-hydroxy-5-phenyl-1
    trans-pentenyl)-3, 5-dihydroxy, [la, 2P, 3a, 5a];
            j)      cyclopentane N-methyl heptenamide-5-cis-2-(3a-hydroxy-5-phenyl
25  1-trans-pentenyl)-3, 5-dihydroxy, [la, 2P, 3a, Sa];
            k)      cyclopentane heptenol-5-cis-2-(3a-hydroxy-4-meta
    chlorophenoxy-l-trans-butenyl)-3, 5-dihydroxy, [1a, 2p, 3a, 5o];
            I)      cyclopentane heptenamide-5-cis-2-(3a-hydroxy-4-m
    chlorophenoxy-l-trans-butenyl)-3, 5-dihydroxy, [1a, 2P, 3a, 5a], and
30          m)      cyclopentane heptenol-5-cis-2-(3a-hydroxy-5-phenylpentyl)3, 5
    dihydroxy, [1a, 2P, 3a, 5a].
                                             -- 20--

   WO 2008/079674                                                      PCT/US2007/087139
        Alternately, the cyclic lipid therapeutic agent can comprise a compound
    having the following formula (VI)
             R1
     R2            A-D                                  (\/O
 5  wherein the dashed bonds represent a single or double bonds which can be in
    the cis or trans configuration, A is an alkyene or alkenylene radical having from
    two to six carbon atoms, which radical may be interrupted by one or more oxide
    radicals and substituted with one or more hydroxy, oxo, alkoxy or alkycarboxyl
    groups wherein said alkyl radical comprises from one to six carbon atoms; D is
1o  a branched or unbranched alkyl or heteroalkyl radical of from two to 10 carbon
    atoms, a cycloalkyl radical having from three to seven carbon atoms, or an aryl
    radical, selected from the group consisting of hydrocarbyl aryl and heteroaryl
    radicals having from four to ten carbon atoms wherein the heteroatom is
    selected from the group consisting of nitrogen, oxygen and sulfur atoms; X is a
is  radical selected from the group consisting of hydrogen, a lower alkyl radical
    having from one to six carbon atoms, R5-C(=0)- or R5-0-C(=O)-wherein R5 is a
    lower alkyl radical having from one to six carbon atoms; Z is =0 or represents 2
    hydrogen radicals; one of R1 and R2 is =0, -OH or a -O-C(=O)-R 6 group, and the
    other one is -OH or -O-C(=O)-R 6 , or R' is =0 and R2 is H, wherein R6 is a
20  saturated or unsaturated acyclic hydrocarbon group having from 1 to about 20
    carbon atoms, or -(CH2)mR       7 wherein m is 0-10, and R7 is cycloalkyl radical,
    having from three to seven carbon atoms, or a hydrocarbyl aryl or heteroaryl
    radical, as defined above, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.
25      Alternately, the cyclic lipid therapeutic agent can comprise a compound
    having the following formula (VII)
                                              -- 21 -

   WO 2008/079674                                                  PCT/US2007/087139
                                                     x
    R2              .--   'D
                             R3                         (Vj|)
       Alternately, the cyclic lipid therapeutic agent can comprise a compound
    having the following formula (Vill)
               ,
                                                 z
            R1                                   Z
    R2  1         - -
 5                           R,                          (VI1l)
    wherein hatched lines indicate the a configuration and the solid triangles
    comprise the p configuration.
10     Alternately, the cyclic lipid therapeutic agent can comprise a compound
    having the following formula (IX)
                        CZ
                        0                          z
                                    -                  x
    HO
                            HO                            (IX)
                                            -- 22  -

    WO 2008/079674                                                   PCT/US2007/087139
         Alternately, the cyclic lipid therapeutic agent can comprise a compound
      having the following formula (X)
              0
                                                    0
                                                       x
      HO
                           HO                            (X)
  5      Alternately, the cyclic lipid therapeutic agent can comprise a compound
     having the following formula (XI).
              0
                                                        H
                                                       OH
      HO
                           HO                              (XI)
1o      Additional aspects and advantages of the present invention are set forth in
     the following description and claims, particularly when considered in conjunction
     with the accompanying drawings.
15                                          DRAWINGS
        The following drawings illustrate features and aspects of our invention.
         Figure 1 is a bar graph which shows the effect of decreasing temperature (the
     x axis) on the potency (the y axis) of the bimatoprost released from extruded
20   implants made at different temperatures.
                                              -- 23 --

   WO 2008/079674                                                      PCT/US2007/087139
        Figure 2 is a graph which shows the total amount of bimatoprost released
    (the y-axis) over a period of fifty days (the x axis) from the Figure 1 extruded
    implant made at 570 C.
 5
        Figure 3 is a graph which shows the daily amount of bimatoprost released
    (the y axis) from the Figure 2 implant over a period of 50 days (the x axis).
                                         DESCRIPTION
10      Our invention is based on the discovery of a new process for making
    sustained release intraocular implants. Implants made by our new process can
    comprise a therapeutic agent and a polymer. The polymer functions as a carrier
    from which the therapeutic agent is released in vivo. The therapeutic agent and
    the polymer are heated and extruded to form an implant suitable for intraocular
15  use. Preferably, the polymer has a T, which is below the temperature at which
    the therapeutic agent loses a substantial amount (i.e. 50% or more) of its
    potency. If the polymer (the first polymer) has a T. which is above the
    temperature at which the therapeutic agent loses a substantial amount of its
    potency, the implant can be made by a process which entails adding a cosolvent
20  to an unheated mixture of the therapeutic agent and the first polymer. The
    cosolvent can also be a polymer (the second polymer).
       The cosolvent must have two important properties. First the cosolvent must
    have a solubility (i.e. a solubility parameter) which is similar to the solubilities (i.e.
25  the solubility parameters) of both the therapeutic agent and the first polymer.
    Clearly, this requires that the solubility of the therapeutic agent be similar to the
    solubility of the first polymer. Upon selection of therapeutic agent, first polymer
    and cosolvent with similar solubilities, heating these three implant constituents
    so as to melt the cosolvent will result in solubilization of the therapeutic agent
30  and the first polymer in the cosolvent.
                                              -24-

   WO 2008/079674                                                   PCT/US2007/087139
        The second important property of the co-solvent is that the co-solvent has a
    softening point which is below the temperature at which the therapeutic agent
    loses a substantial amount of its potency. Thus, when according to our process
    the therapeutic agent, the first polymer and the co-solvent are mixed and then
 5  heated to the melt temperature of the cosolvent, the cosolvent solubilizes the
    therapeutic agent and the first polymer and does so without undue loss of
    potency of the therapeutic agent. Where the cosolvent is itself a polymer (the
    second polymer), the cosolvent solubilizes the therapeutic agent and the first
    polymer in the form of a solid solution.
10
         A sustained release implant (implanted for example in the subconjuntiva of
    the eye) can remove the need for daily administration of an anti-hypertensive
    active agent by providing a controlled release of the hypotensive agent over an
    extended period of time. The antihypertensive agent can be a prostaglandin
is  analog, such as a bimatoprost. A bimatoprost containing polymeric implant can
    be an effective method of delivering a controlled dose of bimatoprost to the eye
    over an extended time. As described herein, controlled and sustained
    administration of a therapeutic agent through the subconjunctival administration
    of one or more implants can be used to treat ocular conditions of the anterior
20  and/or posterior segment of the eye. The implants comprise a pharmaceutically
    acceptable polymeric composition and are formulated to release one or more
     pharmaceutically active agents, such as a cyclic lipid, or other intraocular
     pressure lowering or neuroprotective agent, over an extended period of time.
    The implants are effective to provide a therapeutically effective dosage of the
25  agent or agents to a region of the eye to treat or prevent one or more
     undesirable ocular conditions. Thus with a single implant administration cyclic
     lipid therapeutic agents can be made available at the site where they are needed
    and will be maintained for an extended period of time, rather than subjecting the
     patient to repeated injections or repeated administration of topical drops.
30
         The implants of the present invention comprise a therapeutic component and
    a drug release-sustaining component associated with the therapeutic
                                            - 25 -

    WO 2008/079674                                                    PCT/US2007/087139
     component. In accordance with the present invention, the therapeutic
     component comprises, consists essentially of, or consists of, a cyclic lipid
     therapeutic agent. The drug release sustaining component is associated with
     the therapeutic component to sustain release of an effective amount of the cyclic
  5  lipid therapeutic agent into an eye in which the implant is placed. The amount of
     the cyclic lipid therapeutic agent is released into the eye for a period of time
     greater than about one week after the implant is implanted or inserted in the eye
     of a patient, and is effective in treating or reducing a symptom of an ocular
     condition, such as ocular hypertension or a retinal degeneration.
10
          Definitions
          "About" means that the number, range, value or parameter so qualified
     encompasses ten percent more and ten percent less of the number, range, value
is   or parameter.
         "Therapeutic component" means that portion of an implant other than the
     polymer matrix comprising one or more therapeutic agents or substances used
     to treat an ocular condition. The therapeutic component can be a discrete region
20   of an implant, or it may be homogenously distributed throughout the implant.
     The therapeutic agents of the therapeutic component comprise at least one
     cyclic lipid and are typically ophthalmically acceptable, and are provided in a
     form that does not cause significant adverse reactions when the implant is
     placed in an eye.
25
          "Cyclic lipid therapeutic agent" means that portion of an intraocular implant
     which comprises one or more cyclic lipids having ocular therapeutic activity,
     including, without limitation, a prostaglandin, prostaglandin analog, prostaglandin
     derivative, prostamide, prostamide analog, and a prostamide derivative that is
30   effective in providing an ophthalmic therapeutic effect, such as, without limitation,
     reducing or maintaining a reduced intraocular pressure in a hypertensive eye, or
     providing to the retina of an eye an effective amount of a cyclic lipid therapeutic
                                               -- 26 --

   WO 2008/079674                                                       PCT/US2007/087139
    agent having neuroprotective activities. Cyclic lipids having anti-glaucoma
    activity can be identified by applying the cyclic lipid to an eye with increased
    intraocular pressure, and evaluating whether the intraocular pressure decreases
    after the application. Cyclic lipids having neuroprotective activity may be
 5  identified by, for example, intravitreal administration of the cyclic lipid to an eye
    having a neurodegenerative disorder such as ARMD, and evaluating whether the
    neurodegeneration is slowed or halted, or whether visual acuity has increased.
        "Drug release sustaining component" means that portion of an implant that is
10  effective to provide a sustained release of the therapeutic agents from the
    implant. A drug release sustaining component can be a biodegradable polymer
    matrix, or it can be a coating covering a core region of the implant that comprises
    a therapeutic component.
15      "Associated with" means mixed with, dispersed within, coupled to, covering,
    or surrounding.
        "Ocular region" or "ocular site" means any area of the eyeball, including the
    anterior and posterior segment of the eye, and which generally includes, but is
20  not limited to, any functional (e.g., for vision) or structural tissues found in the
    eyeball, or tissues or cellular layers that partly or completely line the interior or
    exterior of the eyeball. Specific examples of areas of the eyeball in an ocular
    region include the anterior chamber, the posterior chamber, the vitreous cavity,
    the choroid, the suprachoroidal space, the conjunctiva, the subconjunctival
25  space, the episcleral space, the intracorneal space, the epicorneal space, the
    sclera, the pars plana, surgically-induced avascular regions, the macula, and the
    retina.
        "Ocular condition" means a disease, ailment or condition which affects or
30  involves the eye or one of the parts or regions of the eye. Broadly speaking the
    eye includes the eyeball and the tissues and fluids which constitute the eyeball,
    the periocular muscles (such as the oblique and rectus muscles) and the portion
                                              - 27 --

    WO 2008/079674                                                     PCT/US2007/087139
     of the optic nerve which is within or adjacent to the eyeball. An anterior ocular
     condition is a disease, ailment or condition which affects or which involves an
     anterior (i.e. front of the eye) ocular region or site, such as a periocular muscle,
     an eye lid or an eye ball tissue or fluid which is located anterior to the posterior
  s  wall of the lens capsule or ciliary muscles. Thus, an anterior ocular condition
     primarily affects or involves the conjunctiva, the cornea, the anterior chamber,
     the iris, the posterior chamber (behind the retina but in front of the posterior wall
     of the lens capsule), the lens or the lens capsule and blood vessels and nerve
     which vascularize or innervate an anterior ocular region or site.
10
         Thus, an anterior ocular condition can include a disease, ailment or condition,
     such as for example, aphakia; pseudophakia; astigmatism; blepharospasm;
     cataract; conjunctival diseases; conjunctivitis; corneal diseases; corneal ulcer;
     dry eye syndromes; eyelid diseases; lacrimal apparatus diseases; lacrimal duct
is   obstruction; myopia; presbyopia; pupil disorders; refractive disorders and
     strabismus. Glaucoma can also be considered to be an anterior ocular condition
     because a clinical goal of glaucoma treatment can be to reduce a hypertension
     of aqueous fluid in the anterior chamber of the eye (i.e. reduce intraocular
     pressure).
20
         A posterior ocular condition is a disease, ailment or condition which primarily
     affects or involves a posterior ocular region or site such as choroid or sclera (in a
     position posterior to a plane through the posterior wall of the lens capsule),
     vitreous, vitreous chamber, retina, optic nerve (i.e. the optic disc), and blood
25   vessels and nerves which vascularize or innervate a posterior ocular region or
     site. Thus, a posterior ocular condition can include a disease, ailment or
     condition, such as for example, acute macular neuroretinopathy; Behcet's
     disease; choroidal neovascularization; diabetic uveitis; histoplasmosis;
     infections, such as fungal or viral-caused infections; macular degeneration, such
30   as acute macular degeneration, non-exudative age related macular degeneration
     and exudative age related macular degeneration; edema, such as macular
     edema, cystoid macular edema and diabetic macular edema; multifocal
                                               - 28 --

   WO 2008/079674                                                      PCT/US2007/087139
    choroiditis; ocular trauma which affects a posterior ocular site or location; ocular
    tumors; retinal disorders, such as central retinal vein occlusion, diabetic
    retinopathy (including proliferative diabetic retinopathy), proliferative
    vitreoretinopathy (PVR), retinal arterial occlusive disease, retinal detachment,
 5  uveitic retinal disease; sympathetic opthalmia; Vogt Koyanagi-Harada (VKH)
    syndrome; uveal diffusion; a posterior ocular condition caused by or influenced
    by an ocular laser treatment; posterior ocular conditions caused by or influenced
    by a photodynamic therapy, photocoagulation, radiation retinopathy, epiretinal
    membrane disorders, branch retinal vein occlusion, anterior ischemic optic
10  neuropathy, non-retinopathy diabetic retinal dysfunction, retinitis pigmentosa,
    and glaucoma. Glaucoma can be considered a posterior ocular condition
    because the therapeutic goal is to prevent the loss of or reduce the occurrence
    of loss of vision due to damage to or loss of retinal cells or optic nerve cells (i.e.
    neuroprotection).
15
        "Biodegradable polymer" means a polymer or polymers which degrade in
    vivo, and wherein erosion of the polymer or polymers occurs concurrent with or
    subsequent to release of the therapeutic agent. Specifically, hydrogels such as
    methylcellulose which act to release drug through polymer swelling are
20  specifically excluded from the term "biodegradable polymer". The terms
    "biodegradable" and "bioerodible" are equivalent and are used interchangeably
    herein. A biodegradable polymer may be a homopolymer, a copolymer, or a
    polymer comprising more than two different polymeric units.
25      "Treat", "treating", or "treatment" means a reduction or resolution or
    prevention of an ocular condition, ocular injury or damage, or to promote healing
    of injured or damaged ocular tissue. A treatment is usually effective to reduce at
    least one symptom of an ocular condition, ocular injury or damage.
30      "Therapeutically effective amount" means the level or amount of agent
    needed to treat an ocular condition, or reduce or prevent ocular injury or damage
    without causing significant negative or adverse side effects to the eye or a region
                                             - 29 --

   WO 2008/079674                                                     PCT/US2007/087139
    of the eye. In view of the above, a therapeutically effective amount of a
    therapeutic agent, such as a cyclic lipid, is an amount that is effective in reducing
    at least one symptom of an ocular condition.
 5      Implants have been developed which can release drug loads over various
    time periods. These implants when inserted into the subconjunctival space of an
    eye provide therapeutic levels of a cyclic lipid for extended periods of time (e.g.,
    for about 1 week or more). The disclosed implants are effective in treating
    ocular conditions, such as ocular conditions associated with elevated intraocular
10  pressure, and more specifically in reducing at least one symptom of glaucoma.
        Processes for making implants have also been developed. For example, the
    present invention encompasses therapeutic polymeric implants and processes
    for making and using such implants. In one embodiment of the present invention,
is  an implant comprises a biodegradable polymer matrix. The biodegradable
    polymer matrix is one type of a drug release sustaining component. The
    biodegradable polymer matrix is effective in forming a biodegradable implant.
    The biodegradable implant comprises a cyclic lipid therapeutic agent associated
    with the biodegradable polymer matrix. The matrix degrades at a rate effective
20  to sustain release of an amount of the cyclic lipid therapeutic agent for a time
    greater than about one week from the time in which the implant is placed in
    ocular region or ocular site, such as the subconjunctival space of an eye.
        The prostamide having a name cyclopentane N-ethyl heptenamide-5-cis2-cis
25  2-(3c-hydroxy-5-phenyl-1-trans-pentenyl)-3,5-dihydroxy, [1a,2p,3a,5a], and
    derivatives, analods, and/or esters thereof, is particularly preferred in this aspect
    of the invention, This compound is also known as bimatoprost and is available in
    a topical ophthalmic solution under the tradename, Lumigan@ (Allergan, Inc.,
    CA).
30
        The Implant can comprise a therapeutic component which comprises,
    consists essentially of, or consists of bimatoprost, a salt thereof, or mixtures
                                            - 30 --

   WO 2008/079674                                                    PCT/US2007/087139
    thereof. The cyclic lipid therapeutic agent can be in a liquid, derivatized,
    particulate, or powder form and it may be entrapped by the biodegradable
    polymer matrix. Usually, cyclic lipid particles will have an effective average size
    less than about 3000 nanometers. In certain implants, the particles may have an
 5  effective average particle size about an order of magnitude smaller than 3000
    nanometers. For example, the particles may have an effective average particle
    size of less than about 500 nanometers. In additional implants, the particles may
    have an effective average particle size of less than about 400 nanometers, and
    in still further embodiments, a size less than about 200 nanometers.
10
        The cyclic lipid therapeutic agent of the implant is preferably from about 10%
    to 90% by weight of the implant. More preferably, the cyclic lipid therapeutic
    agent is from about 20% to about 80% by weight of the implant. In a preferred
    embodiment, the cyclic lipid therapeutic agent comprises about 20% by weight of
15  the implant (e.g., 15%-25%). In another embodiment, the cyclic lipid therapeutic
    agent comprises about 50% by weight of the implant.
        Suitable polymeric materials or compositions for use in the implant include
    those materials that are biocompatible with the eye so as to cause no substantial
20  interference with the functioning or physiology of the eye. Such materials
    preferably are at least partially and more preferably substantially completely
    biodegradable or bioerodible.
        Examples of useful polymeric materials include, without limitation, such
25  materials derived from and/or including organic esters and organic ethers, which
    when degraded result in physiologically acceptable degradation products,
    including the monomers. Also, polymeric materials derived from and/or
    including, anhydrides, amides, orthoesters and the like, by themselves or in
    combination with other monomers, may also find use. The polymeric materials
30  may be addition or condensation polymers, advantageously condensation
    polymers. The polymeric materials may be cross-linked or noncross-linked, for
    example not more than lightly cross-linked, such as less than about 5%, or less
                                            -- 31 --

   WO 2008/079674                                                     PCT/US2007/087139
    than about 1% of the polymeric material being cross-linked. For the most part,
    besides carbon and hydrogen, the polymers will include at least one of oxygen
    and nitrogen, advantageously oxygen. The oxygen may be present as oxy, e.g.
    hydroxy or ether, carbonyl, e.g. nonoxo-carbonyl, such as carboxylic acid ester,
 5  and the like. The nitrogen may be present as amide, cyano and amino. The
    polymers set forth in Heller, Biodegradable Polymers in Controlled Drug
    Delivery, In: CRC Critical Reviews in Therapeutic Drug Carrier Systems, Vol. 1,
    CRC Press, Boca Raton, FL 1987, pp 39-90, which describes encapsulation for
    controlled drug delivery, may find use in the present implant.
10
        Of additional interest are polymers of hydroxyaliphatic carboxylic acids, either
    homopolymers or copolymers, and polysaccharides. Polyesters of interest
    include polymers of D-lactic acid, L-lactic acid, racemic lactic acid, glycolic acid,
    polycaprolactone, and combinations thereof. Generally, by employing the L
15  lactate or D-lactate, a slowly eroding polymer or polymeric material is achieved,
    while erosion is substantially enhanced with the lactate racemate.
        Among the useful polysaccharides are, without limitation, calcium alginate,
    and functionalized celluloses, particularly carboxymethylcellulose esters
20  characterized by being water insoluble, a molecular weight of about 5 kD to 500
    kD, for example.
    Other polymers of interest include, without limitation, polyvinyl alcohol,
    polyesters, polyethers and combinations thereof which are biocompatible and
    may be biodegradable and/or bioerodible.
25
        Some preferred characteristics of the polymers or polymeric materials for use
    in the present invention may include biocompatibility, compatibility with the
    therapeutic component, ease of use of the polymer in making the drug delivery
    systems of the present invention, a half-life in the physiological environment of at
30  least about 6 hours, preferably greater than about one day, and water
    insolubility.
                                            -- 32 --

    WO 2008/079674                                                     PCT/US2007/087139
          The biodegradable polymeric materials which are included to form the matrix
     are desirably subject to enzymatic or hydrolytic instability. Water soluble
     polymers may be cross-linked with hydrolytic or biodegradable unstable cross
     links to provide useful water insoluble polymers. The degree of stability can be
  5  varied widely, depending upon the choice of monomer, whether a homopolymer
     or copolymer is employed, employing mixtures of polymers, and whether the
     polymer includes terminal acid groups.
          Equally important to controlling the biodegradation of the polymer and hence
1o   the extended release profile of the implant is the relative average molecular
     weight of the polymeric composition employed in the implant. Different
     molecular weights of the same or different polymeric compositions may be
     included in the implant to modulate the release profile. Incertain implants, the
     relative average molecular weight of the polymer will range from about 9 to about
is   500 kD, usually from about 10 to about 300 kD, and more usually from about 12
     to about 1OOkD.
          Insome implants copolymers of glycolic acid and lactic acid are used, where
     the rate of biodegradation is controlled by the ratio of glycolic acid to lactic acid.
20   The most rapidly degraded copolymer has roughly equal amounts of glycolic
     acid and lactic acid. Homopolymers, or copolymers having ratios other than
     equal, are more resistant to degradation. The ratio of glycolic acid to lactic acid
     will also affect the brittleness of the implant. The percentage of polylactic acid in
     the polylactic acid polyglycolic acid (PLGA) copolymer can be 0-100%,
25   preferably about 15-85%, more preferably about 35-65%. In some implants a
     50/50 PLGA copolymer is used.
         The biodegradable polymer matrix of the subconjunctival implant can
     comprise a mixture of two or more biodegradable polymers. For example, the
30   implant can comprise a mixture of a first biodegradable polymer and a different
     second biodegradable polymer. One or more of the biodegradable polymers can
     have terminal acid groups.
                                               -- 33 --

   WO 2008/079674                                                    PCT/US2007/087139
        Release of a drug from an erodible polymer is the consequence of several
    mechanisms or combinations of mechanisms. Some of these mechanisms
    include desorption from the implant's surface, dissolution, diffusion through
 s  porous channels of the hydrated polymer and erosion. Erosion can be bulk or
    surface or a combination of both. As discussed herein, the matrix of the implant
    can release drug at a rate effective to sustain release of an amount of the
    prostamide component for more than one week after implantation into an eye. In
    certain implants therapeutic amounts of the cyclic lipid therapeutic agent are
10  released for no more than about 30-35 days after administration to the
    subconjunctival space. For example, an implant may comprise bimatoprost, and
    the matrix of the implant degrades at a rate effective to sustain release of a
    therapeutically effective amount of bimatoprost for about one month after being
    placed under the conjunctiva. As another example, the implant may comprise
15  bimatoprost, and the matrix releases drug at a rate effective to sustain release of
    a therapeutically effective amount of bimatoprost for more than forty days, such
    as for about six months.
        One example of the biodegradable implant comprises a cyclic lipid
20  therapeutic agent associated with a biodegradable polymer matrix, which
    comprises a mixture of different biodegradable polymers. At least one of the
    biodegradable polymers is a polylactide having a molecular weight of about 63.3
    kD. A second biodegradable polymer is a polylactide having a molecular weight
    of about 14 kD. Such a mixture is effective in sustaining release of a
25  therapeutically effective amount of the cyclic lipid therapeutic agent for a time
    period greater than about one month from the time the implant are placed
    administered under the conjuctiva.
       Another example of a biodegradable implant comprises a cyclic lipid
30  therapeutic agent associated with a biodegradable polymer matrix, which
    comprises a mixture of different biodegradable polymers, each biodegradable
    polymer having an inherent viscosity from about 0.16 dUg to about 1.0 dL/g. For
                                            - 34 --

   WO 2008/079674                                                      PCT/US2007/087139
    example, one of the biodegradable polymers may have an inherent viscosity of
    about 0.3 dl/g. A second biodegradable polymer may have an inherent viscosity
    of about 1.0 dl/g. Additional implant may comprise biodegradable polymers that
     have an inherent viscosity between about 0.2 dl/g and 0.5 dl/g. The inherent
 5  viscosities identified above may be determined in chloroform, 0.1% at 25*C.
         One particular implant formulation comprises bimatoprost associated with a
    combination of two different polylactide polymers. The bimatoprost is present in
    about 20% by weight of the implant. One polylactide polymer has a molecular
1o  weight of about 14 kD and an inherent viscosity of about 0.3 dl/g, and the other
    polylactide polymer has a molecular weight of about 63.3 kD and an inherent
    viscosity of about 1.0 dl/g. The two polylactide polymers are present in the
    implant in a 1:1 ratio. Such an implant may be effective in releasing the
    bimatoprost for more than two months.
15
        The release of the cyclic lipid therapeutic agent from the implant into the
    subconjuctiva can include an initial burst of release followed by a gradual
    increase in the amount of the cyclic lipid therapeutic agent released, or the
    release can include an initial delay in release of the prostamide component
20  followed by an increase in release. When the implant is substantially completely
    degraded, the percent of the cyclic lipid therapeutic agent that has been released
    is about one hundred. The implant disclosed herein do not completely release,
    or release about 100% of the cyclic lipid therapeutic agent, until after about one
    week of being placed in an eye.
25
         It can be desirable to provide a relatively constant rate of release of the cyclic
    lipid therapeutic agent from the implant over the life of the implant. For example,
    it may be desirable for the cyclic lipid therapeutic agent to be released in
    amounts from about 0.01 pg to about 2 pg per day for the life of the implant.
30  However, the release rate can change to either increase or decrease depending
    on the formulation of the biodegradable polymer matrix. In addition, the release
    profile of the prostamide component may include one or more linear portions
                                             -- 35 --

   WO 2008/079674                                                    PCT/US2007/087139
    and/or one or more non-linear portions. Preferably, the release rate is greater
    than zero once the implant has begun to degrade or erode.
        The implant can be monolithic, i.e. having the active agent or agents
 5  homogenously distributed through the polymeric matrix, or encapsulated, where
    a reservoir of active agent is encapsulated by the polymeric matrix. Due to ease
    of manufacture, monolithic implants are usually preferred over encapsulated
    forms. However, the greater control afforded by the encapsulated implant may
    be of benefit in some circumstances, where the therapeutic level of the drug falls
io  within a narrow window. In addition, the therapeutic component, including the
    cyclic lipid therapeutic agent, can be distributed in a non-homogenous pattern in
    the matrix. For example, the implant may include a portion that has a greater
    concentration of the cyclic lipid therapeutic agent relative to a second portion of
    the implant.
15
        The implants disclosed herein can have a size of between about 0.1 mm and
    about 12 mm. For needle (syringe)-injected implant, the implant can have any
    appropriate dimensions so long as the longest dimension of the implant permits
    the implant to move through a canula of the needle. This is generally not a
20  problem in the administration of implant. The subconjunctival space in humans
    is able to accommodate relatively large volumes of implant.
         The total weight of an implant is from about 0.1 mg to about 5 mg. For
    example, a single subconjunctival implant (human patient) can weigh between
25  0.1 to 2 mg, including the incorporated therapeutic component. The dosage of
    the therapeutic component in the implant is generally in the range of from about
    55% to about 95% by weight of the implant weight. Thus, implant can be
    prepared where the center may be of one material and the surface may have
    one or more layers of the same or a different composition, where the layers may
30  be cross-linked, or of a different molecular weight, different density or porosity, or
    the like. For example, where it is desirable to quickly release an initial bolus of
    drug, the center of the implant may be a polylactate coated with a polylactate
                                             -- 36--

   WO 2008/079674                                                      PCT/US2007/087139
    polyglycolate copolymer, so as to enhance the rate of initial degradation.
    Alternatively, the center may be polyvinyl alcohol coated with polylactate, so that
    upon degradation of the polylactate exterior the center would dissolve and be
    rapidly washed out of the eye.
 5
        The implant can be of any geometry (excluding microspheres and
    microparticles). The upper limit for the implant size will be determined by factors
    such as toleration for the implant, size limitations on insertion, desired rate of
    release, ease of handling, etc. The size and form of the implant can also be
10  used to control the rate of release, period of treatment, and drug concentration at
    the site of implantation. Larger implants will deliver a proportionately larger
    dose, but depending on the surface to mass ratio, may have a slower release
    rate, The particular size and geometry of the implant are chosen to suit the
    activity of the active agent and the location of its target tissue.
15
        The proportions of the cyclic lipid therapeutic agent, polymer, and any other
    modifiers can be empirically determined by formulating several implants with
    varying average proportions. A USP approved method for dissolution or release
    test can be used to measure the rate of release. For example, using an infinite
20  sink method, a weighed sample of the implant is added to a measured volume of
    a solution containing 0.01M phosphate buffered saline (PBS) pH 7.4 at 37*C,
    where the solution volume will be such that the drug concentration is after
    release is less than 5% of saturation. The mixture is maintained at 370C and
    stirred slowly to maintain the implant in suspension. The appearance of the
25  dissolved drug as a function of time may be followed by various methods known
    in the art, such as spectrophotometrically, HPLC, mass spectroscopy, etc. until
    the absorbance becomes constant or until greater than 90% of the drug has
    been released.
30      In addition to the cyclic lipid therapeutic agent included in the implant
    disclosed herein, the implant can also include one or more additional
    ophthalmically acceptable therapeutic agents. For example, the implant can
                                              - 37 --

    WO 2008/079674                                                          PCT/US2007/087139
     include one or more antihistamines, one or more antibiotics, one or more beta
     blockers, one or more steroids, one or more antineoplastic agents, one or more
     immunosuppressive agents, one or more antiviral agents, one or more
     antioxidant agents, and mixtures thereof. Additional pharmacologic or
  5  therapeutic agents which may find use in the present systems, include, without
     limitation, those disclosed in U.S. Pat. Nos. 4,474,451, columns 4-6 and
     4,327,725, columns 7-8.
         Examples of antihistamines include, and are not limited to, loradatine,
10   hydroxyzine, diphenhydramine, chiorpheniramine, brompheniramine,
     cyproheptadine, terfenadine, clemastine, triprolidine, carbinoxamine,
     diphenylpyraline, phenindamine, azatadine, tripelennamine,
     dexchlorpheniramine, dexbrompheniramine, methdilazine, and trimprazine
     doxylamine, pheniramine, pyrilamine, chiorcyclizine, thonzylamine, and
15   derivatives thereof.
         Examples of antibiotics include without limitation, cefazolin, cephradine,
     cefaclor, cephapirin, ceftizoxime, cefoperazone, cefotetan, cefutoxime,
     cefotaxime, cefadroxil, ceftazidime, cephalexin, cephalothin, cefamandole,
20   cefoxitin, cefonicid, ceforanide, ceftriaxone, cefadroxil, cephradine, cefuroxime,
     ampicillin, amoxicillin, cyclacillin, ampicillin, penicillin G, penicillin V potassium,
     piperacillin, oxacillin, bacampicillin, cloxacillin, ticarcillin, azlocillin, carbenicillin,
     methicillin, nafcillin, erythromycin, tetracycline, doxycycline, minocycline,
     aztreonam, chloramphenicol, ciprofloxacin hydrochloride, clindamycin,
25   metronidazole, gentamicin, lincomycin, tobramycin, vancomycin, polymyxin B
     sulfate, colistimethate, colistin, azithromycin, augmentin, sulfamethoxazole,
     trimethoprim, and derivatives thereof.
         Examples of beta blockers include acebutool, atenolol, labetalol, metoprolol,
30   propranolol, timolol, and derivatives thereof. Examples of steroids include
     corticosteroids, such as cortisone, prednisolone, flurometholone,
     dexamethasone, medrysone, loteprednol, fluazacort, hydrocortisone,
                                                -- 38 --

   WO 2008/079674                                                      PCT/US2007/087139
    prednisone, betamethasone, prednisone, methylprednisolone, riamcinolone
    hexacatonide, paramethasone acetate, diflorasone, fluocinonide, fluocinolone,
    triamcinolone, derivatives thereof, and mixtures thereof.
 5      Examples of antineoplastic agents include adriamycin, cyclophosphamide,
    actinomycin, bleomycin, duanorubicin, doxorubicin, epirubicin, mitomycin,
    methotrexate, fluorouracil, carboplatin, carmustine (BCNU), methyl-CCNU,
    cisplatin, etoposide, interferons, camptothecin and derivatives thereof,
    phenesterine, taxol and derivatives thereof, taxotere and derivatives thereof,
1o  vinblastine, vincristine, tamoxifen, etoposide, piposulfan, cyclophosphamide, and
    flutamide, and derivatives thereof.
        Examples of immunosuppressive agents include cyclosporine, azathioprine,
    tacrolimus, and derivatives thereof. Examples of antiviral agents include
15  interferon gamma, zidovudine, amantadine hydrochloride, ribavirin, acyclovir,
    valciclovir, dideoxycytidine, phosphonoformic acid, ganciclovir, and derivatives
    thereof.
        Examples of antioxidant agents include ascorbate, alpha-tocopherol,
20  mannitol, reduced glutathione, various carotenoids, cysteine, uric acid, taurine,
    tyrosine, superoxide dismutase, lutein, zeaxanthin, cryotpxanthin, astazanthin,
    lycopene, N-acetyl-cysteine, carnosine, gamma-glutamylcysteine, quercitin,
    lactoferrin, dihydrolipoic acid, citrate, Ginkgo Biloba extract, tea catechins,
    bilberry extract, vitamins E or esters of vitamin E, retinyl palmitate, and
25  derivatives thereof.
        Other therapeutic agents include squalamine, carbonic anhydrase inhibitors,
    alpha-2 adrenergic receptor agonists, antiparasitics, antifungals, and derivatives
    thereof. The amount of active agent or agents employed in the implant,
30  individually or in combination, will vary widely depending on the effective dosage
    required and the desired rate of release from the implant. Usually the agent will
    be at least about 1, more usually at least about 10 weight percent of the implant,
                                              -- 39 --

    WO 2008/079674                                                    PCT/US20071087139
     and usually not more than about 80, more usually not more than about 40 weight
     percent of the implant.
        Some of the present implants may comprise a cyclic lipid therapeutic agent
  5  that comprises a combination of two or more different cyclic lipid derivatives.
     One implant or dosage of implant may comprise a combination of bimatoprost
     and latanoprost. Another implant or dosage of implant may comprise a
     combination of bimatoprost and travoprost.
10      As discussed herein, the present implant can comprise additional therapeutic
     agents. For example, one implant or dosage of implant may comprise a
     combination of bimatoprost and a beta-adrenergic receptor antagonist. More
     specifically, the implant or dosage of implant may comprise a combination of
     bimatoprost and Timolol@. Or, an implant or dosage of implant may comprise a
is   combination of bimatoprost and a carbonic anyhdrase inhibitor. For example,
     the implant or dosage of implant may comprise a combination of bimatoprost and
     dorzolamide (Trusopt@).
         In addition to the therapeutic component, the implant disclosed herein can
20   include or may be provided in compositions that include effective amounts of
     buffering agents, preservatives and the like. Suitable water soluble buffering
     agents include, without limitation, alkali and alkaline earth carbonates,
     phosphates, bicarbonates, citrates, borates, acetates, succinates and the like,
     such as sodium phosphate, citrate, borate, acetate, bicarbonate, carbonate and
25   the like. These agents advantageously present in amounts sufficient to maintain
     a pH of the system of between about 2 to about 9 and more preferably about 4 to
     about 8. As such the buffering agent may be as much as about 5% by weight of
     the total implant. Suitable water soluble preservatives include sodium bisulfite,
     sodium bisulfate, sodium thiosulfate, ascorbate, benzalkonium chloride,
30   chlorobutanol, thimerosal, phenylmercuric acetate, phenylmercuric borate,
     phenylmercuric nitrate, parabens, methylparaben, polyvinyl alcohol, benzyl
     alcohol, phenylethanol and the like and mixtures thereof. These agents may be
                                             -  40 -

   WO 2008/079674                                                     PCT/US2007/087139
    present in amounts of from about 0.001% to about 5%by weight and preferably
    about 0.01% to about 2% by weight. In at least one of the present implant, a
    benzylalkonium chloride preservative is provided in the implant, such as when
    the cyclic lipid therapeutic agent consists essentially of bimatoprost.
 5
        In some situations several implants can be implanted or inserted, each
    employing the same or different pharmacological agents. Inthis way, a cocktail
    of release profiles, giving a biphasic or triphasic release with a single
    administration is achieved, where the pattern of release may be greatly varied.
10
        Additionally, release modulators such as those described in U. S. Patent No.
    5,869,079 may be included in the implant. The amount of release modulator
    employed will be dependent on the desired release profile, the activity of the
    modulator, and on the release profile of the cyclic lipid therapeutic agent in the
is  absence of modulator. Electrolytes such as sodium chloride and potassium
    chloride may also be included in the implant. Where the buffering agent or
    enhancer is hydrophilic, it may also act as a release accelerator. Hydrophilic
    additives act to increase the release rates through faster dissolution of the
    material surrounding the drug in the implant, which increases the surface area of
20  the drug exposed, thereby increasing the rate of drug bioerosion. Similarly, a
    hydrophobic buffering agent or enhancer dissolves more slowly, slowing the
    exposure of drug, and thereby slowing the rate of drug bioerosion.
        In certain implants the combination of bimatoprost and a biodegradable
25  polymer matrix is released or delivered an amount of bimatoprost between about
    0.1 mg to about 0.5 mg for about 3-6 months after implantation into the eye.
    Various techniques can be employed to produce the implants described herein.
    Useful techniques include, but are not necessarily limited to, grinding methods,
    compression methods, extrusion methods, interfacial methods, molding
30  methods, injection molding methods, combinations thereof and the like.
                                            -- 41 --

   WO 2008/079674                                                       PCT/US2007/087139
         Compression methods can be used to make the implants, and typically yield
    implants with faster release rates than extrusion methods. Compression
    methods may use pressures of about 50-150 psi, more preferably about 70-80
    psi, even more preferably about 76 psi, and use temperatures of about 0
 S  degrees C to about 115 degrees C, more preferably about 25 degrees C.
         In one embodiment, a method for producing therapeutic polymeric implant
    comprises encapsulating a cyclic lipid therapeutic agent with a polymeric
    component to form a cyclic lipid-encapsulated implant. Such implant are
io  effective in treating one or more ocular conditions, as described herein, and are
    suitable for administration to a patient into the subconjunctival space. The
    therapeutic activity of the cyclic lipid therapeutic agent remains stable during
    storage of the implant which may be attributed to the particular encapsulated
    form of the implant.
15
         As discussed herein, the cyclic lipid therapeutic agent can comprises a single
    type of cyclic lipid derivative or derivatives. In certain embodiments, the cyclic
    lipid therapeutic agent comprises at least one prostamide derivative selected
    from the group consisting of bimatoprost, esters thereof, and mixtures thereof.
20  In a further embodiment, the cyclic lipid therapeutic agent consists essentially of
    bimatoprost.
         In additional embodiments, the cyclic lipid therapeutic agent can comprise
    combinations of two or more different cyclic lipid derivatives, such as a
25  combination of bimatoprost and latanoprost, bimatoprost and travoprost, and the
    like.
         The present methods are effective in producing encapsulated cyclic lipid
    therapeutic agent implant that maintain or preserve a substantial portion, if not
30  all, of the therapeutic activity after a terminal sterilization procedure. It can be
    understood, that the present methods may also comprise a step of terminally
    sterilizing the implant. The implant can be sterilized before packaging or in their
                                               - 42 --

   WO 2008/079674                                                    PCT/US2007/087139
    packaging. Sterilization of packages containing the present implant or implants
    is often preferred. The method may comprise exposing the present implant or
    implants to sterilizing amounts of gamma radiation, e-beam radiation, and other
    terminal sterilization products. In one embodiment, a method may comprise a
 5  step of exposing the present implant to gamma radiation at a dose of about 25
    kGy.
        As discussed herein, the polymeric component used in the present method
    can comprise a biodegradable polymer or biodegradable copolymer. In at least
1o  one embodiment, the polymeric component comprises a poly (lactide-co
    glycolide) PLGA copolymer. In a further embodiment, the PLGA copolymer has
    a lactide/glycolide ratio of 75/25. In a still further embodiment, the PLGA
    copolymer has at least one of a molecular weight of about 63 kilodaltons and an
    inherent viscosity of about 0.6 dL/g.
15  The present methods may also comprise a step of forming a first composition
    which comprises a cyclic lipid therapeutic agent, a polymeric component, and an
    organic solvent, and a step of forming a second oil-containing composition, and
    mixing the first composition and the second oil-containing composition.
20      The rate at which an implant degrades can vary, as discussed herein, and
    therefore, the present implant can release the cyclic lipid therapeutic agent for
    different periods of time depending on the particular configuration and materials
    of the implant. In at least one embodiment, an implant can release about 1% of
    the cyclic lipid therapeutic agent in the implant per day. In a further embodiment,
25  the implant may have a release rate of about 0.7% per day when measured in
    vitro. Thus, over a period of about 40 days, about 30% of the cyclic lipid
    therapeutic agent may have been released.
        As discussed herein, the amount of the cyclic lipid therapeutic agent present
30  in the implant can vary. In certain embodiments, about 50% wt/wt of the implant
    is the cyclic lipid therapeutic agent. In further embodiments, the cyclic lipid
    therapeutic agent constitutes about 40% wt/wt of the implant.
                                             - 43 --

   WO 2008/079674                                                      PCT/US2007/087139
        The implant of the present invention can be inserted into the subconjunctival
    space of an eye by a variety of methods. The method of placement can
    influence the therapeutic component or drug-release kinetics. A preferred
 5  means of administration of the implant of the present invention is by
    subconjunctival injection. The location of the site of injection of the implant may
    influence the concentration gradients of therapeutic component or drug
    surrounding the element, and thus influence the delivery rate to a given tissue of
    the eye. For example, an injection into the conjunctiva toward the posterior of
1o  the eye will direct drug more efficiently to the tissues of the posterior segment,
    while a site of injection closer to the anterior of the eye (but avoiding the cornea)
    may direct drug more efficiently to the anterior segment.
        The Implant can be administered to patients by administering an
15  ophthalmically acceptable composition which comprises the implant to the
    patient. For example, implant may be provided in a liquid composition, a
    suspension, an emulsion, and the like, and administered by injection or
    implantation into the subconjunctival space of the eye.
20      The present implants or implant are configured to release an amount of cyclic
    lipid therapeutic agent effective to treat an ocular condition, such as by reducing
    at least one symptom of the ocular condition. More specifically, the implant may
    be used in a method to treat glaucoma, such as open angle glaucoma, ocular
    hypertension, chronic angle-closure glaucoma, with patent iridotomy,
25  psuedoexfoliative glaucoma, and pigmentary glaucoma. By injecting the cyclic
    lipid therapeutic agent-containing implant into the subconjunctival space of an
    eye, it is believed that the cyclic lipid therapeutic agent is effective to enhance
    aqueous humor flow thereby reducing intraocular pressure. Additionally,
    subconjunctival delivery of implant containing a cyclic lipid therapeutic agent can
30  to provide a therapeutic concentrations of the therapeutic agent to the retina of
    the eye.
                                               -- 44 -

   WO 2008/079674                                                     PCT/US2007/087139
        The implants disclosed herein can be used to prevent or to treat various
    ocular diseases or conditions, including the following: maculopathies/retinal
    degeneration: macular degeneration, including age related macular degeneration
    armed) , such as non-exudative age related macular degeneration and
 5  exudative age related macular degeneration, choroidal neovascularization,
    retinopathy, including diabetic retinopathy, acute and chronic macular
    neuroretinopathy, central serous chorioretinopathy, and macular edema,
    including cystoid macular edema, and diabetic macular edema.
    Uveitis/retinitis/choroiditis: acute multifocal placoid pigment epitheliopathy,
10  Behcet's disease, birdshot retinochoroidopathy, infectious (syphilis, lyme,
    tuberculosis, toxoplasmosis), uveitis, including intermediate uveitis (pars planitis)
    and anterior uveitis, multifocal choroiditis, multiple evanescent white dot
    syndrome (MEWDS), ocular sarcoidosis, posterior scleritis, serpignous
    choroiditis, subretinal fibrosis, uveitis syndrome, and Vogt-Koyanagi-Harada
is  syndrome. Vascular diseases/exudative diseases: retinal arterial occlusive
    disease, central retinal vein occlusion, disseminated intravascular coagulopathy,
    branch retinal vein occlusion, hypertensive fundus changes, ocular ischemic
    syndrome, retinal arterial microaneurysms, Coat's disease, parafoveal
    telangiectasis, hemi-retinal vein occlusion, papillophlebitis, central retinal artery
20  occlusion, branch retinal artery occlusion, carotid artery disease (CAD), frosted
    branch angitis, sickle cell retinopathy and other hemoglobinopathies, angioid
    streaks, familial exudative vitreoretinopathy, Eales disease. Traumatic/surgical:
    sympathetic ophthalmia, uveitic retinal disease, retinal detachment, trauma,
    laser, PDT, photocoagulation, hypoperfusion during surgery, radiation
25  retinopathy, bone marrow transplant retinopathy. Proliferative disorders:
    proliferative vitreal retinopathy and epiretinal membranes, proliferative diabetic
    retinopathy. Infectious disorders: ocular histoplasmosis, ocular toxocariasis,
    presumed ocular histoplasmosis syndrome (POHS), endophthalmitis,
    toxoplasmosis, retinal diseases associated with HIV infection, choroidal disease
3o  associated with HIV infection, uveitic disease associated with HIV Infection, viral
    retinitis, acute retinal necrosis, progressive outer retinal necrosis, fungal retinal
    diseases, ocular syphilis, ocular tuberculosis, diffuse unilateral subacute
                                              -- 45 --

   WO 2008/079674                                                   PCT/US2007/087139
    neuroretinitis, and myiasis. Genetic disorders: retinitis pigmentosa, systemic
    disorders with associated retinal dystrophies, congenital stationary night
    blindness, cone dystrophies, Stargardt's disease and fundus flavimaculatus,
    Best's disease, pattern dystrophy of the retinal pigmented epithelium, X-linked
 5  retinoschisis, Sorsby's fundus dystrophy, benign concentric maculopathy, Bietti's
    crystalline dystrophy, pseudoxanthoma elasticum. Retinal tears/holes: retinal
    detachment, macular hole, giant retinal tear. Tumors: retinal disease associated
    with tumors, congenital hypertrophy of the RPE, posterior uveal melanoma,
    choroidal hemangioma, choroidal osteoma, choroidal metastasis, combined
10  hamartoma of the retina and retinal pigmented epithelium, retinoblastoma,
    vasoproliferative tumors of the ocular fundus, retinal astrocytoma, intraocular
    lymphoid tumors. Miscellaneous: punctate inner choroidopathy, acute posterior
    multifocal placoid pigment epitheliopathy, myopic retinal degeneration, acute
    retinal pigment epithelitis and the like.
15
        In at least one embodiment, a method of reducing intraocular pressure in an
    eye of a patient comprises administering an implant containing a cyclic lipid
    therapeutic agent, as disclosed herein, to a patient by subconjuctival injection. A
    syringe apparatus including an appropriately sized needle, for example, a 22
20  gauge needle, a 27 gauge needle or a 30 gauge needle, can be effectively used
    to inject the composition with into the subconjunctival space of an eye of a
    human or animal. Frequent repeat injections are often not necessary due to the
    extended release of the cyclic lipid therapeutic agent from the implant.
25      In certain implants, the implant preparation comprises a therapeutic
    component which consists essentially of bimatoprost, salts thereof, and mixtures
    thereof, and a biodegradable polymer matrix. The biodegradable polymer matrix
    can consist essentially of PLA, PLGA, or a combination thereof. When placed in
    the eye, the preparation releases about 40% to about 60% of the bimatoprost to
30  provide a loading dose of the bimatoprost within about one day after
    subconjunctival administration. Subsequently, the implant release about 1% to
    about 2% of the bimatoprost per day to provide a sustained therapeutic effect.
                                             - 46 --

    WO 2008/079674                                                     PCT/US2007/087139
     Such implant preparations may be effective in reducing and maintaining a
     reduced intraocular pressure, such as below about 15 mm Hg for several
     months, and potentially for one or two years.
  5      Other implants disclosed herein can be configured such that the amount of
     the cyclic lipid therapeutic agent that is released from the implant within two days
     of subconjunctival injection is less than about 40% of the total amount of the
     cyclic lipid therapeutic agent in the implant. In certain formulations, 40% of the
     cyclic lipid therapeutic agent is not released until after about one week of
ic   injection. In certain implant formulations, less than about 30% of the cyclic lipid
     therapeutic agent is released within about one day of placement in the eye, and
     about 2% of the remainder is released for about 1 month after being placed in
     the eye. In another implant, less than about 20% of the cyclic lipid therapeutic
     agent is released within about one day of subconjunctival administration, and
is   about 1%is released for about 2 months after such administration.
                                          EXAMPLES
         The following illustrative examples and are not intended to limit the scope of
     our invention.
20
                                           Example 1
                         Method for Making Bimatoprost Microparticles
         Biodegradable microparticles (microspheres) suitable for intraocular use were
     made by combining bimatoprost with a biodegradable polymer. Thus 800 mg of
25   polylactic acid (PLA) was combined with 200 mg of bimatoprost. The
     combination was dissolved in 25 milliliters of dichloromethane. The mixture was
     then placed in a vacuum at 450C overnight to evaporate the dichloromethane.
     The resulting mixture was in the form of a cast sheet. The cast sheet was cut
     and ground in a high shear grinder with dry ice until the particles could pass
30   through a sieve having a pore size of about 125 pm. The percent of bimatoprost
     present in the microparticles was analyzed using high pressure liquid
     chromatography (HPLC). The percent release of bimatoprost from the
                                              -- 47 --

   WO 2008/079674                                                   PCT/US2007/087139
    microparticles was profiled using dialysis. The percent of bimatoprost remaining
    in the recovered particles was analyzed by HPLC.
        The release profile obtained is as shown in Table 1.
 5
        Table 1
        Time Point     Elapsed Time (Days)     Percent Released  Percent Per Day
        Start          0
        1              1.03                   47.51              47.51
        2              2.03                   47.92              0.41
        3              3.03                   49.99              2.07
        4              4.03                    50.09             0.10
        5              7.04                    50.90             0.82
        The percent loading of bimatoprost was 14.93%. The percent of bimatoprost
    remaining in the recovered release particles was 4.94%.
10
                                           Example 2
          Extrusion and Compression Processes for Making Bimatoprost Implants
        Bimatoprost is combined with a biodegradable polymer composition in a
    mortar. The combination is mixed with a shaker set at about 96 RPM for about
15  15 minutes. The powder blend is scraped off the wall of the mortar and is then
    remixed for an additional 15 minutes. The mixed powder blend is heated to a
    semi-molten state at specified temperature for a total of 30 minutes, forming a
    polymer/drug melt.
20      Rods are manufactured by pelletizing the polymer/drug melt using a 9 gauge
    polytetrafluoroethylene (PTFE) tubing, loading the pellet into the barrel and
    extruding the material at the specified core extrusion temperature into filaments.
    The filaments are then cut into about 1 mg size implants or drug delivery
    systems. The rods may have dimensions of about 2 mm long x 0.72 mm
25  diameter. The rod implants weigh between about 900 pg and 1100 pg.
                                             -- 48 --

   WO 2008/079674                                                    PCT/US2007/087139
         Wafers are formed by flattening the polymer melt with a Carver press at a
     specified temperature and cutting the flattened material into wafers, each
    weighing about 1 mg. The wafers have a diameter of about 2.5 mm and a
    thickness of about 0.13 mm. The wafer implants weigh between about 900 pg
 5   and 1100 pg.
         In-vitro release testing is performed by placing each implant into a 24-mL
     screw cap vial with 10 mL of Phosphate Buffered Saline solution at 37*C. 1 mL
    aliquots are removed and are replaced with equal volume of fresh medium on
io  day 1, 4, 7, 14, 28, and every two weeks thereafter.
         Drug assays are performed by HPLC, which consists of a Waters 2690
     Separation Module (or 2695), and a Waters 996 Photodiode Array Detector. An
     Ultrasphere, C-18 (2), 5 pm; 4.6 x 150 mm column at 30 * C is used for
15  separation and the detector is set at about 264 nm. The mobile phase is (10:90)
     MeOH - buffered mobile phase with a flow rate of 1 mL/min and a total run time
    of 12 min per sample. The buffered mobile phase may comprise
     (68:0.75:0.25:31) 13 mM 1-Heptane Sulfonic Acid, sodium salt - glacial acetic
     acid - triethylamine - Methanol. The release rates are determined by calculating
20  the amount of drug being released in a given volume of medium over time in
     pg/day.
         Polymers which may be used in the implants can be obtained from
     Boehringer Ingelheim. Examples of polymer include: RG502, RG502H, RG752,
25   R202H, R203 and R206, and Purac PDLG (50/50). RG502 and RG502H are
    (50:50) poly(D,L-lactide-co-glycolide) with RG502 having an ester end group and
    RG502H having an acid end group, RG752 is (75:25) poly(D,L-lactide-co
    glycolide), R202H is 100% poly(D, L-lactide) with acid end group or terminal acid
    groups, R203 and R206 are both 100% poly(D, L-lactide). Purac PDLG (50/50)
30  is (50:50) poly(D,L-lactide-co-glycolide). The inherent viscosity of RG502,
    RG502H, RG752, R202H, R203, R206, and Purac PDLG are 0.2, 0.2, 0.2, 0.2,
    0.3, 1.0, and 0.2 dL/g, respectively. The average molecular weight of RG502,
                                              - 49 --

    WO 2008/079674                                                     PCT/US2007/087139
      RG502H, RG752, R202H, R203, R206, and Purac PDLG are, 11700, 11200,
      11200, 6500, 14000, 63300, and 9700 daltons, respectively. The implants made
     can be suitable for intraocular use to treat an ocular condition.
  5                                         Example 3
              Bimatoprost/PLA/PLGA Intraocular Implants for Treating Glaucoma
          A 72 year old female suffering from glaucoma in both eyes receives an
     intraocular implant containing bimatoprost and a combination of a PLA and
      PLGA in each eye. The implants weigh about 1 mg, and contain about 500 mg
io   of bimatoprost. One implant is placed in the vitreous of each eye using a
     syringe. In about two days, the patient reports a substantial relief in ocular
     comfort. Examination reveals that the intraocular pressure has decreased: the
     average intraocular pressure measured at 8:00 AM has decreased from 28 mm
     Hg to 14.3 mm Hg. The patient is monitored monthly for about 6 months.
15    Intraocular pressure levels remain below 15 mm Hg for six months, and the
     patient reports reduced ocular discomfort.
                                            Example 4
            Bimatoprost/PLA Intraocular Implants for Treating Ocular Hypertension
20        A 62 year old male presents with an intraocular pressure in his left eye of 33
     mm Hg. An implant containing 400 mg of bimatoprost and 600 mg of PLA is
     inserted into the vitreous of the left eye using a trocar. The patient's intraocular
     pressure is monitored daily for one week, and then monthly thereafter. One day
     after implantation, the intraocular pressure is reduced to 18 mm Hg. By day 7
25   after implantation, the intraocular pressure is relatively stable at 14 mm Hg. The
     patient does not experience any further signs of elevated intraocular pressure for
     2 years.
                                            Example 5
30        Low Temperature Melt Extrusion Process for Making Bimatoprost Implants
          The prostamide analog bimatoprost ((Z)-7-[1 R,2R,3R,5S)-3,5-Dihydoxy-2
     [1 E,3S)-3-hyd roxy-5-phenyl-1-pentenyl]cyclopentyl]-5-N-ethylheptenamide) was
     incorporated into sustained release polymeric implants made by a low
                                              - 50 -

   WO 2008/079674                                                   PCT/US2007/087139
    temperature (650 to 71"C) melt extrusion process. The implants made
    comprised from 30 wt % to 50 wt % bimatoprost and from 50 wt % to 70 wt %
    poly (DL,- lactide-co-glycolide) polymer (a PLGA).
 5      The implants were made at a temperature high enough to melt the
    bimatoprost and soften the polymer, yet low enough to avoid loss of substantial
    bimatoprost potency. The solubility parameters of the bimatoprost and the
    PLGA polymer used were similar so that the bimatoprost was soluble in the
    polymer thereby resulting in a solid solution at the temperature used. An
10  extruded implant made from a solid solution of a therapeutic agent and a
    polymeric carrier can provide a more uniform and reproducible release profile of
    the therapeutic agent, as compared to an extruded implant where the
     bimatoprost is present as a solid dispersion in the polymeric carrier.
15       The polymer implants were made by melt extrusion in a piston driven extruder
     or Daca extruder/microcompounder. The implants are rod-shaped, but can be
     made in any geometric shape simply by changing the extrusion die.
         The polymers were used as received from Boehringer Ingelheim and the
20   bimatoprost was used as received from Torcan Chemical (Aurora, Ontario,
     Canada). To make an implant the polymer and bimatoprost were combined (see
    Table 2) in a Retsch ball-mill capsule with a %"stainless steel ball, and then the
     capsule was placed in the Retsch mill (Type MM200) for 5 min at 20-cycles/min.
    The capsule was then removed from the mill and the powder blend was stirred
25  with a spatula. The capsule with the powder blend was mixed for 5 minutes on a
    Turbula mixer. The powder blend was inspected for homogeneity and the mixing
     procedure is repeated if necessary.
         A steel powder funnel and a spatula were used to transfer the powder blend
30   to an extruder barrel mounted in a pneumatic compaction press. A small amount
     of powder blend was added to the extruder barrel and the powder was
     compacted with the press set at 50 psi.
                                           -- 51 --

    WO 2008/079674                                                   PCT/US2007/087139
        The powder-blend loaded barrel was placed in the extruder and allowed to
     equilibrate to a temperature of 65-71 0C. The filaments were extruded at
     0.0025"/sec through a 720-micron circular die to form the rod-shaped implant.
  5  The extruded filaments were smooth and had a consistent diameter. The
     Implant formulations made are shown in Table 2.
        The filaments were cut into one-milligram rods (approximately 2 mm long)
     and their drug release over time monitored in phosphate buffered saline pH 7.4.
10
        Table 2. Bimatoprost Melt Extrusion Implant Formulations
                        Implant Formulations
          Bimatoprost wt%       Polymer 1    Polymer 1 wt%
                30                  RG502        70
                50                  RG502        50
                30                  RG752        30
                50                  RG752        50
                30                  RG504        30
                50                  RG504        50
                30                  RG755        30
                50                  RG755        50
        A bimatoprost containing polymer implant can be used to deliver a controlled
     dose of bimatoprost to an ocular region to treat an ocular condition over an
15   extended period of time.
        A bimatoprost implant can also be made using a low-melting polymer such as
     a polycaprolactone. Additionally, instead of an extrusion method, direct
     compression of the polymer(s) with bimatoprost can be use to make a tablet
20   implant suitable for intraocular use.
                                           Example 6
            Ultra Low Temperature Processes for Making Bimatoprost Implants
        In this experiment we made additional bimatoprost containing polymeric
25   sustained release implants suitable for intraocular administration. The implants
     were made by a melt extrusion process we developed for conduct at
                                             - 52 --

   WO 2008/079674                                                   PCT/US2007/087139
    temperatures as low as about 57*C. Exemplary implants made contained 15%
    bimatoprost (the therapeutic agent), 10% polyethylene glycol (PEG 3350) (the
    co-solvent or second polymer), and 75% poly (D,L,-lactide-co-glycolide) polymer
    (Resomer@ RG752S, a PLGA) (the polymeric carrier or first polymer).
 5
        Typical extrusion temperatures for a PLGA implant are from about 850C to
    about 110C. We determined that at an extrusion temperature of about 80 0C or
    higher, 50% or less of the bimatoprost is therapeutically inactive (loss of
    potency). See Figure 1. As shown by Figure 1, five different formulation
10  bimatoprost containing sustained release implants or drug delivery systems
    ("DDS") were made. Proceeding from left to right to left along the x axis of
    Figure 1 these five formulations were:
        Table 3 Bimatoprost DDS (Implant) Formulations shown in Figure 1
          Formulation name   8092-096G  8092-102G    8092-097G    8092-103G    8092-10BG
          Bimatoprost wt %   15         15           15           15            15
          Polymer type       RG504      RG504        RG504        RG752S        RG752S
          wt %               75         70           65           70            75
          PEG 3350 wt %      10         15           20           15            10
15
        RG504 is a poly(D,L-lactide-co-glycolide (i.e. a PLGA) polymer resomer
    which is a 48:52 to 52:48 molar ratio (i.e. about 50:50) of D,L-lactide : glycolide.
    RG504 has an inherent viscosity of 0.45 to 0.60 dl/g in 0.1% chloroform at 25*C
    (i.e. an average molecular weight of about 60,000) and is available from
20  Boerhinger Ingelheim (Ridgefield, Connecticut).
        RG752S is also a poly(D,L-lactide-co-glycolide (i.e. a PLGA) polymer
    resomer, but comprises a 73:27 to 77:23 molar ratio (i.e. about 75:25) of DL
     lactide : glycolide. RG752S has an inherent viscosity of 0.16 to 0.24 dl/g, at a
25  0.1 wt % concentration in chloroform at 250C and is also available from
     Boerhinger Ingelheim (Ridgefield, Connecticut).
                                           -- 53 -

    WO 2008/079674                                                   PCT/US2007/087139
          The theoretical maximum potency of bimatoprost is by definition equal to the
     label strength ("LS") of the bimatoprost. For example, the label strength of a one
     milligram implant which comprises 150 ug of bimatoprost is 150 gg. Thus, if that
     implant is assayed and determined to release all 150 pg of the bimatoprost it
  s  contains over a certain time period, it can be said that the implant had a100%
     potency. We determined the potency of the bimatoprost released from the
     implants made as a percent of their label strength using HPLC (high pressure
     liquid chromatography). Thus, the bimatoprost implants (each weighing about 1
     mg) made were dissolved in 0.5 mL acetonitrile in a 10 mL volumetric flask and
1o   sonicated for 5min. The flask was then filled to volume with diluent (72:18:10
     water:acetonitrile:methanol); mixed well, and transferred to a HPLC vial for
     analysis.
          The HPLC analysis was performed using a Waters Alliance 2695 HPLC
is   system, Waters Symmetry@C18 reverse-phase column 4.6mmX75mm, and a
     Waters 2487 UV detector. The conditions for analysis were flow rate of
     1.5mL/minute, UV wavelength of 21 Onm, column temperature of 300C and
     mobile phase of 72:18:10 (water:acetonitrile:methanol, v/v/v) with 0.03% (w/v)
     trifluoroacetic acid. The injection volume of samples and standards assayed
20   was 75uL with a cycle time of 45min.
          As shown by Figure 1, the potency of the bimatoprost released from the DDS
     made increased from about 40% when the DDS was made by a melt extrusion
     process carried out at 85*C, to more than about 90% potency when the DDS
25   was made by a melt extrusion process carried out at 57*C. Thus, the potency of
     the bimatoprost was inversely proportional to the temperature at which the melt
     extrusion process used to make the DDS was carried out. The use of different
     resomers and presence of PEG 3350 in the DDS formulations has no relevance
     to this finding of higher temperature being correlated to lower bimatoprost
30   potency. In other words, the use of a different resomer, the use of a different
     resomer in a different amount and the inclusion of a PEG 3350 in the DDS
     formulation did not affect the temperature to which the bimatoprost was exposed.
                                             - 54 -

    WO 2008/079674                                                     PCT/US2007/087139
         Thus, knowing that bimatoprost is a heat sensitive therapeutic agent we
      developed a very low temperature melt extrusion process for making bimatoprost
      containing implants. To make a DDS by a melt extrusion process wherein at
  5   least about 50% of the bimatoprost is biologically active (i.e. has a potency at
      least 50% of the LS) requires reducing the extrusion temperature to less than
     about 800C. Since the melting point of most resomers, including PLGAs, used to
      make a DDS exceeds about 800C it is not sufficient merely to lower the extrusion
     temperature, as to do so would merely provide a partially or poorly melted
io   polymer in which the active agent is far from homogenously distributed. A non
     homogenous distribution of the active agent in the polymer of the DDS can result
     in a burst release effect followed thereafter by wide oscillations in the amount
     and rate of release of the active agent from the polymer. Such a deficient DDS
     would have no therapeutic utility.
15
         The goal therefore was to make an extruded PLGA-bimatoprost implant by a
     process that reduces the extrusion temperature and yet maintains a
     homogenous mixture of (preferably non-crystalline) bimatoprost within the
     polymeric matrix of the DDS (implant).
20
         We determined based on an analysis of solubility parameters, that
     bimatoprost is soluble in the PLGA polymers (the polymer carriers or first
     polymers) used. Hence a solid solution of the bimatoprost and the polymers
     used can be formed as the polymers are heated. Forming a solid solution of a
25   bimatoprost and a PLGA at a low temperature can avoid the occurrence of
     substantial loss of bimatoprost potency. Additionally, forming a solid solution of
     the bimatoprost and a similar solubility parameter PLGA (through use of a
     suitable co-solvent) has the additional advantage that the bimatoprost is
     prevented from re-crystallizing in the final extruded implant, since the implant is a
30   solid solution of the bimatoprost and the PLGA in the co-solvent. Hence, no
     bimatoprost polymorphs are present in the implant. Finally, the bimatoprost is
     homogenously distributed throughout the polymer, as compared to the
                                             - 55 --

    WO 2008/079674                                                    PCT/US2007/087139
     distribution of the bimatoprost in the solid dispersion that is made when the
     bimatoprost and a PLGA are mixed together, the polymer melted and the melted
     mixture extruded to make a DDS. Ina solid dispersion implant the bimatoprost
     is present in the form of crystals or particles of the bimatoprost.
  5
         As noted, the PLGA polymers are not sufficiently molten at the lower
     extrusion temperatures needed to retain the potency of bimatoprost above about
     50% of LS. We discovered that by addition of a low-melting polymeric cosolvent
     (such as a PEG) with the same (or substantially the same) solubility parameter
io   as the bimatoprost and the polymer used permitted the extrusion temperature to
     be lowered to as low as 57*C. The potency of the bimatoprost was thereby
     preserved. Additionally, we found that the PEG containing DDS formulations we
     developed has a reduced "burst" release normally associated with drugs as
     water soluble as bimatoprost. Figures 2 and 3 show respectively the total
15   percent bimatoprost release and the daily microgram of bimatoprost released
     from an exemplary DDS formulation we made: in both Figures 2 and 3 the
     formulation observed was the Table 3 8092-108G formulation.
         Figure 2 shows the total amount of bimatoprost released from the 8092-108G
20   DDS over a fifty day period. From about day 8 to about day 40 (a 32 day period)
     the release rate was linear. Figure 3 shows the daily amount of bimatoprost
     released from the 8092-108G DDS over a fifty day period. From about day 13 to
     about day 42 (a 29 day period) the daily release rate was between about 3.3 pg
     of bimatoprost per day and 2.5 pg of bimatoprost per day, meaning that during
25   that 29 period the daily rate of release did not vary by more than about 32%.
     From about day 13 to about day 38 (a 25 day period) the daily release rate was
     between about 3.3 pg of bimatoprost per day and 3.0 pg of bimatoprost per day,
     meaning that during that 25 day period the daily rate of release did not vary by
     more than about 10%.
30
        Our selection of a PEG as a cosolvent for the bimatoprost and the PLGA was
     based upon our analysis and comparison the solubility parameters of the three
                                             - 56 --

   WO 2008/079674                                                  PCT/US2007/087139
    components (PEG, bimatoprost and PLGAS) of the DDS. Thus the solubility
    parameters set forth in Table 4 show that bimatoprost can be predicted to be
    soluble in both PLGA polymer and in PEG 3350. Furthermore, comparison the
    respective solubility parameters shows that the PEG 3350 can be predicted to be
 5  soluble in the PLGA. Hence it can be predicted that upon melting the PEG 3350
    at it's low melt temperature, the PEG 3350 can effectively plasticizing the PLGA
    and allow it to be extruded at the lower PEG 3350 melt temperature. This same
    principle can be applied generally to other low-melting polymers such as
    polycaprolactones as long as their solubility parameter does not differ from the
io  drug and PLGA by more than 10 (MPa) 2. Other polymers can be used to
    provide different blending and release characteristics. Our preferred formulation
    method is melt extrusion, but a suitable implant can also be made by direct
    compression or solvent casting of the polymer(s) with bimatoprost. The implants
    we made in this experiment were cylindrically shaped but suitable implant can
is  also be made with other cross-sectional shapes by changing the extrusion die.
        The polymer implants we made in this experiment were made by melt
    extrusion at temperatures as low as 570C using a Daca
    extruder/microcompounder (Daca Instruments, Inc., Goleta, CA). The PLGA
20  resomers (polymers) were used as received from Boehringer Ingelheim. PEG
    3350 and the bimatoprost were used as received from Sigma Aldrich, and
    Torcan Chemical, respectively. The polymers (PLGA and PEG 3350) and
    bimatoprost were combined in a stainless steel container with two 1/4" stainless
    steel balls and mixed on a Turbula mixer for 15 minutes. The container was
25  removed and the content is stirred with a spatula, It was then returned to
    Turbula mixer for an additional 15 minutes, after which the powder blend was
    inspected for homogeneity and the mixing procedure repeated if necessary.
        The powder-blend was fed into the extruder at a controlled rate. The filament
30  DDS was extruded through a 720 micron diameter circular die forming
    cylindrically-shaped implant. The extruded filaments had a smooth surface with
    a consistent diameter. The filaments are cut into one-milligram rods
                                           - 57 --

   WO 2008/079674                                                      PCT/US2007/087139
    (approximately 2 mm long) and then placed into phosphate buffered saline pH
    7.4 (0.01M) where their drug release in monitored in vivo over time by HPLC.
       Table 4 Solubility Parameters for DDS Components
                      Component                      I     Solubility Parameter, MPa
                  Bimatorost (192024                                   17-19
                   ResomerO RG752s                                      21
                Poly thylene GIycol 3350                                20
       In Table 4 MPa is an abbreviation for milli-Pascals.
       All references, articles, publications and patents and patent applications cited
    herein are incorporated by reference in their entireties. While this invention has
lo  been described with respect to various specific examples and embodiments, our
    invention is not limited thereto and that it can be variously practiced within the
    scope of the following claims.
                                             -- 58 ~-

    WO 2008/079674                                                     PCT/US2007/087139
          We claim:
      1. A low temperature process for making an intraocular implant, the process
     comprising the steps of:
  5   (a) combining a cyclic lipid therapeutic agent and a polymer to form a mixture;
      (b) heating the mixture to a temperature between about 500C and about 800 C,
     and;
      (c) extruding the heated mixture, thereby making an implant suitable for
      intraocular use.
10
     2. The process of claim 1, wherein the cyclic lipid therapeutic agent is selected
     from the group consisting of prostaglandins, prostaglandin analogs, and mixtures
     thereof.
is   3. The process of claim 1 wherein the cyclic lipid therapeutic agent is selected
     from the group consisting of bimatoprost, bimatoprost analogs, latanoprost,
     latanoprost analogs, travoprost, travoprost analogs, unoprostone, unoprostone
     analogs, prostaglandin El and prostaglandin El analogs, prostaglandin E2 and
     prostaglandin E2 analogs, and mixtures thereof.
20
     4. The process of claim 3 wherein the cyclic lipid therapeutic agent is selected
     from the group consisting of bimatoprost, bimatoprost analogs, and mixtures
     thereof.
25   5. The process of claim 1 wherein the polymer is a biodegradable polymer.
     6. The process of claim 5 wherein the biodegradable polymer is selected from
     the group consisting of polylactic acid, polyglycolic acid, polylactide-co-glycolide,
     and copolymers thereof.
30
     7. The process of claim 1 wherein the polymer comprises from about 30% to
     about 95% by weight of the implant.
                                             - 59 --

    WO 2008/079674                                                        PCT/US2007/087139
     8. The process of claim 1 wherein the cyclic lipid therapeutic agent comprises
     from about 5% to about 70% by weight of the implant.
  5  9. The process of claim 1, wherein a potency of the cyclic lipid therapeutic agent
     released from the implant is at least about 50% of its maximum potency.
     10. A low temperature process for making an intraocular implant, the process
     comprising the steps of:
io   (a) combining a prostaglandin analog and a biodegradable polymer to form a
     mixture;
     (b) heating the mixture to a temperature between about 500C and about 800 C,
     and;
     (c) extruding the heated mixture, thereby making an implant suitable for
is   intraocular use.
     11. The implant made by the process of claim 1.
     12. A process for making an intraocular implant, the process comprising the
20   steps of:
     (a) combining:
        (i) a cyclic lipid therapeutic agent;
        (ii) a first biodegradable polymer, and;
        (ii) a second biodegradable polymer to form a mixture, wherein;
25           (a) the first biodegradable polymer and the second biodegradable
     polymer are different polymers;
             (P) the solubilities of the cyclic lipid therapeutic agent, the first
     biodegradable polymer, and the second biodegradable polymer are substantially
     similar, and;
30           (y) the melt temperature of the second biodegradable polymer is lower
     than the melt transition temperature of the first biodegradable polymer,
                                                - 60 --

   WO 2008/079674                                                      PCT/US2007/087139
    (b) heating the mixture to the lower melt temperature of the second
    biodegradable polymer, so that the second biodegradable polymer can function
    as a solvent for the cyclic lipid therapeutic agent and for the first biodegradable
    polymer, wherein the melt temperature of the second biodegradable polymer is
 5  lower than the temperature at which the cyclic lipid therapeutic agent exhibits a
    substantial loss of potency, and;
    (c) extruding the heated mixture, thereby making an implant suitable for
    intraocular use.
10   13. The process of claim 12, wherein the cyclic lipid therapeutic agent
    component is selected from the group consisting of prostaglandins,
    prostaglandin analogs, and mixtures thereof.
     14. The process of claim 12 wherein the cyclic lipid therapeutic agent is selected
is  from the group consisting of bimatoprost, bimatoprost analogs, and mixtures
    thereof.
     15. The process of claim 12 wherein the first biodegradable polymer is selected
    from the group consisting of polylactic acid, polyglycolic acid, polylactide-co
20  glycolide, and copolymers thereof.
    16. The process of claim 12 wherein the second biodegradable polymer is
    selected from the group consisting of decafluorobutane, poly(isobutylene),
    poly(hexemethylene adipamide), poly propylene, poly ethylene and polyethylne
25  glycol.
    17. The process of claim 12 wherein the solubilities of the cyclic lipid therapeutic
    agent, the first biodegradable polymer, and the second biodegradable polymer
    are all within about 10 Mpa    2 of each other.
30
                                            -- 61-

    WO 2008/079674                                                      PCT/US2007/087139
       18. The process of claim 12 wherein the solubilities of the cyclic lipid therapeutic
      agent, the first biodegradable polymer, and the second biodegradable polymer
      are all within about 15 to 30 Mpao 2
  5    19. The process of claim 12 wherein the first polymer comprises from about
      30% to about 90% by weight of the implant.
      20. The process of claim 12 wherein the second polymer comprises from about
      50% to about 30% by weight of the implant.
10
      21. The process of claim 12 wherein the cyclic lipid therapeutic agent comprises
      from about 5% to about 30% by weight of the implant.
      22. A process for making an intraocular implant, the process comprising the
is    steps of:
      (a) combining:
         (i) a prostaglandin analog, wherein the prostaglandin analog comprises from
      about 5% to about 30% by weight of the implant;
         (ii) a poly(lactide-co-glycolide) copolymer, wherein the poly(lactide-co
20   glycolide) comprises from about 30% to about 90% by weight of the implant.
     and;
         (ii) a second biodegradable polymer to form a mixture, wherein the second
     biodegradable polymer comprises from about 5% to about 40% by weight of the
     implant, and wherein;
25            (a) the a poly(lactide-co-glycolide) copolymer and the second
     biodegradable polymer are different polymers;
              (P) the solubilities of the prostaglandin analog, the poly(lactide-co
     glycolide) copolymer, and the second biodegradable polymer are all within about
     10 Mpa112 of each other, and;
30            (y) the melt temperature of the second biodegradable polymer is lower
     than the melting point of the a poly(lactide-co-glycolide) copolymer,
                                                - 62 --

    WO 2008/079674                                                  PCT/US2007/087139
     (b) heating the mixture to the lower melt temperature of the second
     biodegradable polymer, so that the second biodegradable polymer can function
     as a solvent for the prostaglandin analog and for the a poly(lactide-co-glycolide)
     copolymer, and; (c) extruding the heated mixture, thereby making an implant
  5  suitable for intraocular use, wherein the prostaglandin analog released from the
     implant has a potency of at least about 50%.
     23. A method for treating an ocular condition, the method comprising the step of
     intraocular administration of the implant made by the process of claim 1.
10
     24. The method of claim 23, wherein the intraocular administration is selected
     from a location selected from the group consisting of the anterior chamber, the
     posterior chamber, the vitreous cavity, the choroid, the suprachoroidal space, the
     subretinal space, the conjunctiva, the subconjunctival space, the episcleral
is   space, the intracorneal space, the epicorneal space, the sclera, the pars plana,
     surgically-induced avascular regions, the macula, the retina and sub-tenon
     locations.
                                            -- 63 --

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
