1002051409
                                                ABSTRACT
               A portable electronic device displays icons (e.g., graphical objects) in one or more
       regions of a user interface of a touch-sensitive display, and detects user input specifying an
       exchange of positions of icons in the user interface. In some aspects, the respective positions
       of two icons in a user interface can be selected to exchange positions in the one or more
       regions of the user interface, and one or both icons can change their visual appearance to
       indicate their selection status.

1002051409
                                      EDITING INTERFACE
                                          RELATED APPLICATION
       [001]           Incorporated herein by reference, in its entirety, is PCT/US2008/074625
       (published as WO 2009/032750), filed on 28 August 2008.
                                              TECHNICAL FIELD
       [001A]          The disclosed embodiments relate to graphical user interfaces.
                                                BACKGROUND
       [002]           As portable devices become more compact, and the amount of information to
       be processed and stored increases, it has become a significant challenge to design a user
       interface that allows users to easily interact with the device. This is unfortunate since the
       user interface is the gateway through which users receive not only content but also responses
       to user actions or behaviors, including user attempts to access a device's features or tools.
       Some portable electronic devices (e.g., mobile phones) have resorted to adding more
       pushbuttons, overloading the functions of pushbuttons, or using complex menu systems to
       allow a user to access, store and manipulate functions or data. These conventional user
       interfaces often result in complicated key sequences and menu hierarchies that must be
       memorized by the user.
       [003]           Many conventional user interfaces, such as those that include physical
       pushbuttons, are also inflexible. This is unfortunate because the inflexibility may prevent a
       user interface from being configured and/or adapted by either an application running on the
       portable device or by users.        When coupled with the time consuming requirement to
       memorize multiple key sequences and/or menu hierarchies, such inflexibility is frustrating to
       many users.
       [004]            Some conventional user interfaces can be configured by users, thereby
       allowing at least partial customization.       Unfortunately, the process of modifying such
       conventional user interfaces is often as cumbersome and complicated as the use of the
       conventional user interface itself. In particular, the required behaviors during configuration
       of such conventional user interfaces are often counter intuitive and the corresponding
                                                       -1I-

1002051409
       indicators guiding user actions are often difficult to understand. These challenges are often a
       source of additional frustration for users.
       [004A]          Reference to any prior art in the specification is not an acknowledgment or
       suggestion that this prior art forms part of the common general knowledge in any jurisdiction
       or that this prior art could reasonably be expected to be understood, regarded as relevant,
       and/or combined with other pieces of prior art by a skilled person in the art.
                                                    SUMMARY
       [004B]          In one aspect, the present invention provides a portable electronic device
       comprising: a touch-sensitive display; one or more processors; memory; and one or more
       programs, wherein the one or more programs are stored in the memory and configured to be
       executed by the one or more processors, the one or more programs including instructions for:
       detecting a first user input for initiating an interface reconfiguration mode; in response to
       detecting the first user input, entering the interface reconfiguration mode for a plurality of
       icons; while in the interface reconfiguration mode, detecting a second user input, wherein the
       second user input includes a dragging touch input by a finger contact without breaking
       contact with the touch sensitive display, and the dragging touch input starting at a first
       location and removing an icon from the first location and moving the icon to within
       proximity of an edge of the user interface; and in response to detecting the second user input,
       replacing the first page of icons with the second page of icons.
       [004C]          In a second aspect, the present invention provides a non-transitory computer
       readable storage medium storing one or more programs configured to be executed by one or
       more processors of an electronic device with a touch-sensitive display, the one or more
       programs including instructions for: detecting a first user input for initiating an interface
       reconfiguration mode; in response to detecting the first user input, entering the interface
       reconfiguration mode for a plurality of icons; while in the interface reconfiguration mode,
       detecting a second user input, wherein the second user input includes a dragging touch input
       by a finger contact without breaking contact with the touch sensitive display, and the
       dragging touch input starting at a first location and removing an icon from the first location
       and moving the icon to within proximity of an edge of the user interface; and in response to
       detecting the second user input, replacing the first page of icons with the second page of
       icons.
       [004D]          In a third aspect, the present invention provides method comprising: at a
       portable electronic device with a touch-sensitive display: detecting a first user input for
                                                        -2-

1002051409
       initiating an interface reconfiguration mode; in response to detecting the first user input,
       entering the interface reconfiguration mode for a plurality of icons; while in the interface
       reconfiguration mode, detecting a second user input, wherein the second user input includes a
       dragging touch input by a finger contact without breaking contact with the touch sensitive
       display, and the dragging touch input starting at a first location and removing an icon from
       the first location and moving the icon to within proximity of an edge of the user interface;
       and in response to detecting the second user input, replacing the first page of icons with the
       second page of icons.
       [005]            Also disclosed herein is a portable electronic device that displays icons (e.g.,
       graphical objects) in one or more regions of a user interface of a touch-sensitive display, and
       detects user input specifying an exchange of positions of icons in the user interface. In some
       aspects, the respective positions of two icons in a user interface can be selected to exchange
       positions in the one or more regions of the user interface, and one or both icons can change
       their visual appearance to indicate their selection status.
       [006]            In some implementations, a method includes: displaying a first icon in a first
       position in a touch-sensitive display; displaying a second icon in a second position of the
       touch-sensitive display; receiving first touch input specifying selection of the first icon;
       responsive to the first touch input, modifying the visual appearance of the first icon; receiving
       second touch input indicating movement of the first icon to within proximity of the second
       icon; and responsive to the second touch input, modifying the visual appearance of the
       second icon.
       [0071            In some implementations, a method includes: displaying an icon in a first
       position of a touch-sensitive display; receiving first touch input specifying selection of the
       icon; responsive to the first touch input, modifying the visual appearance of the icon;
       receiving second touch input indicating movement of the icon to within proximity of a second
       position in the user interface; and responsive to the second touch input, modifying the visual
       appearance of the second position.
       [008]            In some implementations, a method includes: displaying a first icon in a first
       page of a touch-sensitive display; receiving first touch input specifying selection of the first
       icon; responsive to the first touch input, modifying the visual appearance of the first icon;
       receiving second touch input indicating movement of the first icon to within proximity of an
       edge of the touch sensitive display; responsive to the second touch input, displaying a second
       page of the touch-sensitive display, the second page including a second icon; receiving third
                                                      --

1002051409
       touch input indicating movement of the first icon to within proximity of the second icon; and
       responsive to the third touch input, modifying the visual appearance of the second icon.
       [008A]           As used herein, except where the context requires otherwise the term
       "comprise" and variations of the term, such as "comprising", "comprises" and "comprised",
       are not intended to exclude other features, components, integers or steps.
                                 BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
       [009]            Figure 1 is a flow diagram of one embodiment of a position adjustment
       process for a portable electronic device.
       [010]            Figure 2A is an illustration of one embodiment of a portable electronic device
       responsive to touch input for adjustment of the position of one or more icons.
       [011]            Figure 2B is an illustration of one embodiment of a portable electronic device
       responsive to touch input for adjustment of the position of one or more icons.
       [012]            Figure 2C is an illustration of one embodiment of a portable electronic device
       responsive to touch input for adjustment of the position of one or more icons.
       [013]            Figure 2D is an illustration of one embodiment of a portable electronic device
       responsive to touch input for adjustment of the position of one or more icons.
       [014]            Figure 2E is an illustration of one embodiment of a portable electronic device
       responsive to touch input for adjustment of the position of one or more icons.
       [015]            Figure 3A is an illustration of one embodiment of a portable electronic device
       responsive to touch input for adjustment of the position of one or more icons.
       [016]            Figure 3B is an illustration of one embodiment of a portable electronic device
       responsive to touch input for adjustment of the position of one or more icons.
       [0171            Figure 4 is a block diagram of one embodiment of a portable electronic device.
       [018]            Figure 5 is a block diagram of one embodiment of a portable electronic device
       illustrating repositioning of icons in one or more regions of a user interface.
       [019]            Figure 6 is a flow diagram of one embodiment of a process for exchanging
       icons of a user interface.
                                     DESCRIPTION OF EMBODIMENTS
       [020]            Reference will now be made in detail to embodiments, examples of which are
       illustrated in the accompanying drawings. In the following detailed description, numerous
       specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the present
       invention. However, it will be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art that the present
                                                        -4-

1002051409
       invention may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances, well-known
       methods, procedures, components, and circuits have not been described in detail so as not to
       unnecessarily obscure aspects of the embodiments.
                               Overview of the Interface Reconfiguration Mode
       [021]           Attention is directed towards embodiments of portable electronic devices,
       including portable communications devices, that have graphical user interfaces (GUIs). The
       portable devices include an interface reconfiguration mode. In response to a user initiating
       the interface reconfiguration mode, positions of one or more icons displayed on the portable
       device may be varied about respective average positions. The varying of the positions of the
       one or more icons may include animating the one or more icons to simulate floating of the
       one or more icons on a surface corresponding to a surface of a display in the portable device.
       The display may be a touch-sensitive display, which responds to physical contact by a stylus
       or one or more fingers at one or more contact points. While the following embodiments may
       be equally applied to other types of displays, a touch-sensitive display is used as an
       illustrative example.
       [022]           The varying of the positions of the one or more icons may intuitively indicate
       to the user that the positions of the one or more icons may be reconfigured by the user. The
       user may modify, adapt and/or reconfigure the positions of the one or more icons.           In
       embodiments where the portable device includes a touch-sensitive display, the user may
       make contact with the touch-sensitive display proximate to a respective icon at a first
       position.   Upon making contact with the touch-sensitive display, the respective icon may
       cease varying its position. The user may drag the respective icon to a second position. Upon
       breaking contact with the touch-sensitive display, the respective icon may resume varying its
       position. In some embodiments, the display may include two regions. During the interface
       reconfiguration mode, positions of one or more icons displayed in the first region may be
       varied while positions of one or more icons displayed in the second region may be stationary.
       [023]           The user may similarly modify, adapt and/or reconfigure the positions of
       additional icons during the interface reconfiguration mode. When the user has completed
       these changes (at least for the time being), he or she may terminate the interface
       reconfiguration mode. In response to this user action, the portable device may return to a
       normal mode of operation and the varying of the displayed positions of the one or more icons
       will cease.

1002051409
       [0241           The user may initiate or terminate the interface reconfiguration process by
       selecting one or more appropriate physical buttons on the portable device, by a gesture (such
       as making contact and swiping one or more fingers across the touch-sensitive display) and/or
       making contact and holding for more than a predefined time period and/or by selecting one or
       more soft buttons (such as one or more icons that are displayed on the touch-sensitive
       display). As used herein, a gesture is a motion of the object/appendage making contact with
       the touch screen display surface. In some embodiments, the interface reconfiguration process
       terminates a pre-defined time after the interface reconfiguration process is initiated, i.e., there
       is a time out.
       [025]           The one or more icons displayed on the portable device may be graphical
       objects.    In some embodiments, the one or more icons may be widgets, which are
       combinations of states and procedures that constitute on-screen representations of controls
       that may be manipulated by the user, such as bars, buttons and text boxes. In an exemplary
       embodiment, the one or more icons correspond to application programs (email, browser,
       address book, etc.) that may be selected by the user by contacting the touch-sensitive display
       proximate to an icon of interest.
       [026]           Figure 1 is a flow diagram of one embodiment of a position adjustment
       process 100 for a portable electronic device.      While the position adjustment process 100
       described below includes a number of operations that appear to occur in a specific order, it
       should be apparent that the process 100 can include more or fewer operations, which can be
       executed serially or in parallel (e.g., using parallel processors or a multi-threading
       environment), an order of two or more operations may be changed and/or two or more
       operations may be combined into a single operation.
       [0271           In the position adjustment process 100, a plurality of icons are displayed in a
       GUI in a touch-sensitive display (110).       A first predefined user action that initiates an
       interface reconfiguration process is detected (112).       Exemplary predefined user actions
       include selecting a physical button on the portable device, making a predefined gesture on the
       touch screen display surface, or selecting a soft button. Position(s) of one or more of the
       plurality of displayed icons are varied (114).     A point of contact with the touch-sensitive
       display at a first position of a respective icon is detected (116).   Movement of the point of
       contact to a second position is detected (118). Movement of the respective icon to the second
       position is displayed and the respective icon is displayed at the second position (120).
       [028]           If a second predefined user action that terminates the interface reconfiguration
       process is detected (122-yes), the position(s) of the one or more icons is fixed (124).
                                                      -6-

1002051409
       Exemplary predefined user actions include selecting or deselecting a physical button on the
       portable device, making another predefined gesture on the touch screen display surface, or
       selecting or deselecting a soft button. The fixed position(s) may correspond to a respective
       average position(s) for the one or more icons.        If a second pre-defined user action that
       terminates the interface reconfiguration process is not detected (122-no), the process may
       continue when a point of contact proximate to the same or another icon is detected (116).
       [029]           Figure 2A is an illustration of one embodiment of a portable electronic device
       200 responsive to touch input for adjustment of the position of one or more icons.            The
       portable electronic device 200 includes a touch-sensitive display with a GUI 210.             The
       display surface is transparent to allow various graphical objects to be displayed to the user
       (e.g., widgets).   In some embodiments, the GUI 210 is divided into multiple sections or
       windows. For example, a region 212 of GUI 210 may include a tray 216 for holding icons or
       graphical objects 222 representing functions that are frequently used by the user (e.g., video,
       weather, schedule, game, music, etc.) and a tray 214 for holding icons or graphical objects
       220 representing functions that are used less frequently by the user (e.g., mail, address book,
       browser, etc.). The GUI 210 may also include graphical objects corresponding to high-level
       functions of the portable electronic device 200. For example, various objects and/or images
       may be presented and changed in GUI 210 by pressing a menu button 240. In embodiments
       that include a mobile phone, dedicated graphical objects can be presented in GUI 210
       representing traditional voice and data service operations (e.g., hold, clear, etc.).
       [030]           The user may interact with the portable communications device 200 by
       making contact with the display surface with GUI 210 using a stylus, a finger 218 (not drawn
       to scale in Figure 2) or more than one finger. For example, the user may make contact with
       the display surface at a position of one of the icons 222 (direct contact), thereby activating the
       function or application program corresponding to that icon. In some embodiments, the icon
       222 is activated when the user makes contact at the position of the icon and then breaks
       contact (for example, a tapping gesture). In some embodiments, the contact with the display
       surface used to activate the icon may not be at the position of the icon 222. Instead, contact
       may be proximate to the icon 222 (indirect contact). The latter technique is similar to "hot
       spots" used with Web pages and other computer user interfaces.
       [031]           Figures 2B-D show the portable electronic device 200 during the interface
       reconfiguration mode. After the interface reconfiguration mode is initiated, the display of
       one or more of the icons 222 in the tray 216 is modified from the previous stationary
       positions to time-varying positions. As noted previously, the display may include animating
                                                      -7-

1002051409
       one or more of the icons 222 to simulate floating of one or more of the icons 222 on a surface
       corresponding to the display surface. For example, the animated varying of the positions of
       one or more of the icons 222 during the interface reconfiguration mode may resemble that of
       a hockey puck in an air hockey game. The displayed position(s) of a respective icon in the
       icons 222 may be varied in a region 224 centered on the average position of the respective
       icon.
       [032]           While Figure 2B-2D illustrates movement of one or more of the icons 222 in
       the tray 216, in other embodiments positions of one or more of the icons 220 in another
       region of GUI 210, such as tray 214, may be varied separately or in addition to those of one
       or more of the icons 222 in tray 216.
       [033]           The time-varying position(s) of one or more of the icons 222 intuitively
       indicate to the user that the positions of one or more of the icons 222 may be modified. This
       is illustrated in Figures 2C-D, which show the portable electronic device 200 during the
       interface reconfiguration mode. The user makes contact, either direct or indirect, with one of
       the icons that is moving at a position 226 and moves the point of contact across the display
       surface with GUI 210. The contact and the motion are detected by the portable electronic
       device 200. As a consequence, the displayed icon, in this example corresponding to a game,
       is moved accordingly.
       [034]           As shown in Figure 2D, the user moves the game icon to position 228 and
       breaks contact with the display surface. The game icon is now displayed at the position 228.
       While the displayed position of the game icon is shown as stationary in Figure 2D, in some
       embodiments the position of the game icon may be varied once the user breaks contact with
       the display surface. In some embodiments, only icons displayed in one or more subsections
       of the GUI 210 are displayed with a varying position during the interface reconfiguration
       mode. Thus, if the game icon had been dragged to another position in the tray 222, it may be
       displayed with a varying position after the user breaks contact with the display.
       [035]           Figure 2D also illustrates the optional displacement of the browser icon to
       position 230. The browser icon was displaced from its initial position 228 to its new position
       230 due to at least partial overlap with the game icon, i.e., when the portable electronic
       device 200 determined that the user positioned the game icon over the browser icon, the
       displayed position of the browser icon was changed.
       [036]           In other embodiments, an icon may be evicted or removed from the tray 214
       when an additional icon, such as the browser icon, is added to the tray 214. For example, the
       tray 214 may be configured to accommodate a finite number of icons, such as 4 icons. If an
                                                      -9-

1002051409
       additional icon is added to the tray 214, a nearest icon to the additional icon or an icon that at
       least partially overlaps the additional icon may be evicted or removed from the tray 214.
       [0371            Figure 2E illustrates the portable electronic device 200 after the interface
       reconfiguration mode has been terminated or has terminated (due to a time out). The icons in
       GUI 210 have stationary positions. The game icon and the browser icon are displayed in
       their new positions in the tray 214.
       [038]            The animated effects during the interface reconfiguration mode, such as the
       varying position(s) of one or more of the icons 222, may be in accordance with corresponding
       equations of motion for one or more of the icons in a plane substantially coincident with the
       display surface with GUI 210. The equations of motion may have a coefficient of friction
       less than a threshold allowing the simulation and/or animation of floating or sliding of one or
       more of the icons. The equation of motion for the respective icon may have a non-zero initial
       velocity, a non-zero angular velocity, and/or a restoring force about the respective average
       position of the respective icon such that the position of the respective icon oscillates in the
       region 224 (Figure 2D) substantially centered on the respective average position of the
       respective icon.
       [039]            In some embodiments, the position of the respective icon may be varied
       during the interface reconfiguration mode in such a way that the respective icon rotates about
       the respective average position of the respective icon while maintaining a fixed orientation
       with respect to the GUI 210 and the portable electronic device 200. This is illustrated in
       Figures 3A and 3B, which show the portable electronic device 200 during the interface
       reconfiguration mode. In this example, the position of the video icon 222 in tray 216 is
       varied in such a way that it maintains a fixed orientation in region 224. This may make it
       easier for the user to determine the function of the respective icon during the interface
       reconfiguration mode.
                                    PortableElectronic Device Architecture
       [040]            Attention is now directed towards embodiments of the portable electronic
       device architecture. Figure 4 is a block diagram of one embodiment of portable electronic
       device. A portable electronic device 400 generally includes one or more computer-readable
       mediums 402, a processing system 404, an Input/Output (I/O) subsystem 406, radio
       frequency (RF) circuitry 408 and audio circuitry 410. These components may be coupled by
       one or more communication buses or signal lines 403. The device 400 can be any portable
       electronic device, including but not limited to a handheld computer, a tablet computer, a
                                                      -9-

1002051409
       mobile phone, a media player, personal digital assistant (PDA) and the like, including a
       combination of two or more of these items.
       [041]            It should be apparent that the architecture shown in Figure 4 is only one
       example of an architecture for the portable electronic device 400, and that the device 400
       could have more or fewer components than shown, or a different configuration of
       components. The various components shown in Figure 4 can be implemented in hardware,
       software, or a combination of both hardware and software, including one or more signal
       processing and/or application specific integrated circuits. The RF circuitry 408 is used to
       send and receive information over a wireless link or network to one or more other devices
       and includes well-known circuitry for performing this function, including but not limited to
       an antenna system, an RF transceiver, one or more amplifiers, a tuner, one or more
       oscillators, a digital signal processor, a CODEC chipset, memory, etc. In some embodiments,
       the RF circuitry 408 is capable of establishing and maintaining communications with other
       devices using one or more communications protocols, including but not limited to time
       division multiple access (TDMA), code division multiple access (CDMA), global system for
       mobile communications (GSM), Enhanced Data GSM Environment (EDGE), wideband code
       division multiple access (W-CDMA), Wi-Fi (such as IEEE 802.11a, IEEE 802.11b, IEEE
       802.11 g and/or IEEE 802.1 In), Bluetooth, Wi-MAX, voice over Internet Protocol (VoIP), a
       protocol for email, instant messaging, and/or a short message service (SMS), or any other
       suitable communication protocol, including communication protocols not yet developed as of
       the filing date of this document.
       [042]            The RF circuitry 408 and the audio circuitry 410 are coupled to the processing
       system 404 via the peripherals interface 416.      The interface 416 includes various known
       components for establishing and maintaining communication between peripherals and the
       processing system 404. The audio circuitry 410 is coupled to an audio speaker 450 and a
       microphone 452 and includes known circuitry for processing voice signals received from
       interface 416 to enable a user to communicate in real-time with other users.           In some
       embodiments, the audio circuitry 410 includes a headphone jack (not shown). Voice and data
       information received by the RF circuitry 408 and the audio circuitry 410 (e.g., in speech
       recognition or voice command applications) is sent to one or more processors 418 via the
       peripherals interface 416.      The one or more processors 418 are configurable to process
       various data formats for one or more applications programs 430 stored on the medium 402.
       [043]            Note that the term "data" includes but is not limited to text, graphics, Web
       pages, JAVA applets, widgets, emails, instant messages, voice, digital images or video,
                                                     -10-

1002051409
       widgets, MP3s, etc., which can be used by one or more applications programs 430 stored on
       the medium 402 (e.g., Web browser, email, etc.). In some embodiments, the device 400 is
       capable of uploading and downloading various data from the Internet over a wireless network
       or an external port 436, such as files, songs, digital images, videos, emails, widgets, instant
       messages and the like.
       [044]            The peripherals interface 416 couples the input and output peripherals of the
       device to the processor 418 and the computer-readable medium 402.              The one or more
       processors 418 communicate with the one or more computer-readable mediums 402 via a
       controller 420. The computer-readable medium 402 can be any device or medium that can
       store code and/or data for use by the one or more processors 418.          The medium 402 can
       include a memory hierarchy, including but not limited to cache, main memory and secondary
       memory. The memory hierarchy can be implemented using any combination of RAM (e.g.,
       SRAM, DRAM, DDRAM), ROM, FLASH, magnetic and/or optical storage devices, such as
       disk drives, magnetic tape, CDs (compact disks) and DVDs (digital video discs).              The
       medium 402 may also include a transmission medium for carrying information-bearing
       signals indicative of computer instructions or data (with or without a carrier wave upon which
       the signals are modulated).        For example, the transmission medium may include a
       communications network, including but not limited to the Internet (also referred to as the
       World Wide Web), intranet(s), Local Area Networks (LANs), Wide Local Area Networks
       (WLANs), Storage Area Networks (SANs), Metropolitan Area Networks (MAN) and the
       like.
       [045]            The one or more processors 418 run various software components stored in the
       medium 402 to perform various functions for the device 400. In some embodiments, the
       software components include an operating system 422, a communication module (or set of
       instructions) 424, a contact/motion module (or set of instructions) 426, a graphics module (or
       set of instructions) 428, one or more applications (or set of instructions) 430, a timer module
       (or set of instructions) 438 and a reconfiguration module (or set of instructions) 440.
       [046]            The operating system 422 (e.g., Darwin, RTXC, LINUX, UNIX, OS X,
       WINDOWS, or an embedded operating system such as VxWorks) includes various
       procedures, sets of instructions, software components and/or drivers for controlling and
       managing general system tasks (e.g., memory management, storage device control, power
       management, etc.) and facilitates communication between various hardware and software
       components.
                                                     - 11 -

1002051409
       [0471           The communication module 424 facilitates communication with other devices
       over one or more external ports 436 or via RF circuitry 408 and includes various software
       components for handling data received from the RF circuitry 408 and/or the external port
       436. The external port 436 (e.g., USB, FireWire TM, etc.) is adapted for coupling directly to
       other devices or indirectly over a network (e.g., the Internet, wireless LAN, etc.).
       [048]           The graphics module 428 includes various known software components for
       rendering, animating and displaying graphical objects on a display surface of a touch
       sensitive display system 412. Note that the term "graphical object" includes any object that
       can be displayed to a user, including without limitation text, web pages, icons, digital images,
       animations and the like.
       [049]           The one or more applications 430 can include any applications installed on the
       device 400, including without limitation, a browser, address book, contact list, email, instant
       messaging, word processing, keyboard emulation, widgets, JAVA-enabled applications,
       encryption, digital rights management, voice recognition, voice replication, location
       determination capability (such as that provided by the global positioning system (GPS)), a
       music player (which plays back recorded music stored in one or more files, such as MP3 or
       AAC files), etc.
       [050]           In some embodiments, the device 400 may include the functionality of an
       MP3 player, such as an iPod (trademark of Apple Computer, Inc.). The device 400 may,
       therefore, include a 36-pin connector that is compatible with the iPod. In some embodiments,
       the device 400 may include one or more optional optical sensors (not shown), such as CMOS
       or CCD image sensors, for use in imaging applications.
       [051]           The contact/motion module 426 includes various software components for
       performing various tasks associated with the touch-sensitive            display system 412, as
       previously described with respect to the embodiments in Figures 1-3.
       [052]           The timer module      438 is a software timer used with the interface
       reconfiguration process 100 (Figure 1).    The timer module 438 can also be implemented in
       hardware.
       [053]           The reconfiguration module 440 may include an icon effects module (or a set
       of instructions) 442. The icon effects module 442 may include animation for the icons during
       the interface reconfiguration mode. In some embodiments, the icon effects module 442 may
       be included in the graphics module 428.
       [054]           The I/O subsystem 406 is coupled to the touch-sensitive display system 412
       and one or more other physical control devices 414 (e.g., pushbuttons, switches, dials, LEDs,
                                                     -12-

1002051409
       etc.) for controlling or performing various functions, such as power control, speaker volume
       control, ring tone loudness, keyboard input, scrolling, hold, menu, screen lock, clearing and
       ending communications and the like. The touch-sensitive display 412 communicates with the
       processing system 404 via the touch sensitive screen controller 432, which includes various
       components for processing user input (e.g., scanning hardware). The one or more other input
       controllers 434 receives/sends electrical signals from/to the other input or control devices
       414. The other input/control devices 414 may include physical buttons (e.g., push buttons,
       rocker buttons, etc.), dials, slider switches, sticks, and so forth.
       [055]            The touch-sensitive display 412 displays visual output to the user in a GUI.
       The visual output may include text, graphics, video, and any combination thereof. Some or
       all of the visual output may correspond to user-interface objects. The touch-sensitive display
       412 may also accept input from the user based on haptic and/or tactile contact. The touch
       sensitive display 412 forms a touch-sensitive surface that accepts user input. The touch
       sensitive display 412 and the touch screen controller 432 (along with any associated modules
       and/or sets of instructions in the medium 402) detects contact (and any movement or release
       of the contact) on the touch-sensitive display 412 and converts the detected contact into
       interaction with user-interface objects, such as one or more soft keys, that are displayed on
       the touch screen when the contact occurs. In an exemplary embodiment, a point of contact
       between the touch-sensitive display 412 and the user corresponds to one or more digits of the
       user. The touch-sensitive display 412 may use LCD (liquid crystal display) technology, or
       LPD (light emitting polymer display) technology, although other display technologies may be
       used in other embodiments. The touch-sensitive display 412 and touch screen controller 432
       may detect contact and any movement or release thereof using any of a plurality of touch
       sensitivity technologies, including but not limited to capacitive, resistive, infrared, and
       surface acoustic wave technologies, as well as other proximity sensor arrays or other
       elements for determining one or more points of contact with the touch-sensitive display 412.
       [056]            The touch-sensitive display may be analogous to the multi-touch sensitive
       tablets described in the following U.S. Patents: 6,323,846 (Westerman et al.), 6,570,557
       (Westerman et al.), and/or 6,677,932 (Westerman), and/or U.S. Patent Publication
       2002/0015024A1, each of which is hereby incorporated by reference. However, the touch
       screen 126 displays visual output from the portable device, whereas touch sensitive tablets do
       not provide visual output. The touch-sensitive display 412 may have a resolution in excess of
       100 dpi. In an exemplary embodiment, the touch-sensitive display 412 may have a resolution
                                                       - 13 -

1002051409
       of approximately 168 dpi. The user may make contact with the touch-sensitive display 412
       using any suitable object or appendage, such as a stylus, pen, finger, and so forth.
       [0571           In some embodiments, in addition to the touch screen, the device 400 may
       include a touchpad (not shown) for activating or deactivating particular functions. In some
       embodiments, the touchpad is a touch-sensitive area of the device that, unlike the touch
       screen, does not display visual output. The touchpad may be a touch-sensitive surface that is
       separate from the touch-sensitive display 412 or an extension of the touch-sensitive surface
       formed by the touch-sensitive display 412.
       [0581           The device 400 also includes a power system 444 for powering the various
       hardware components. The power system 444 can include a power management system, one
       or more power sources (e.g., battery, alternating current (AC)), a recharging system, a power
       failure detection circuit, a power converter or inverter, a power status indicator (e.g., a light
       emitting diode (LED)) and any other components typically associated with the generation,
       management and distribution of power in portable devices.
       [059]           In some embodiments, the peripherals interface 416, the one or more
       processors 418, and the memory controller 420 may be implemented on a single chip, such as
       the processing system 404.      In some other embodiments, they may be implemented on
       separate chips.
                                             RepositioningIcons
       [060]           Figure 5 is a block diagram of one example of a portable electronic device
       illustrating the repositioning of user interface elements (hereinafter referred to generally as
       "icons") in one or more regions of a user interface. In some implementations, one or more
       icons 502 can be repositioned by a user in a user interface 501 of a device (e.g., portable
       electronic device 500).       In some implementations, a user can initiate an interface
       reconfiguration mode on the device 500. While in the interface reconfiguration mode, one or
       more of the icons 502 can be repositioned in the user interface 501 by the user. While in the
       interface reconfiguration mode, the user can touch one of the icons 502 and drag it to a
       desired new position on the user interface 501. For example, the user can drag an icon 508
       selected from the icons 502 to an empty or occupied position in a tray 504, in which case an
       occupying icon 512 will be replaced by the icon 508.
       [061]           In some implementations,        when the    device 500     enters   an interface
       reconfiguration mode, the icons 502 that are movable are displayed at a scaled size (e.g.,
       scaled up by 150%). When the device 500 exits the interface reconfiguration mode, the icons
       502 are displayed at their original size.    Alternatively, an icon that the user touches and
                                                     - 14-

1002051409
       moves while the device 500 is in the interface reconfiguration mode (as opposed to all of the
       movable icons 502) is displayed at a scaled size to indicate its selection status to the user.
       When the touching ceases the icon can be displayed at its original size again.           In other
       implementations, the selected icon can change color, animate, flash, change shape, display
       text or otherwise modify its visual appearance. In addition to changing its visual appearance,
       the device 500 can emit an audible sound (e.g., tone, succession of tones) to indicate its
       selection status. In some implementations, the repositioning of icons can be enabled without
       entering a reconfiguration mode on the device 500.
       [062]           In some implementations, icons can be displayed in multiple "pages" and the
       user can navigate between the pages, an example of which is described in U.S. Patent
       Application No. 11/850,005, titled "Application Menu User Interface," filed September 4,
       2007, which patent application is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety. In such
       implementations, the user can drag an icon from a first page of icons to a second page of
       icons. For example, a user can touch and drag an icon in the first page and drag the icon
       toward the edge of the user interface 501. When the icon is dragged to within a
       predetermined distance from the edge of the user interface 501 (e.g., 5 pixels), the first page
       of icons displayed on the user interface 501 can be replaced with a second page of icons. The
       user can then position the dragged icon within the second page, which is now displayed on
       the user interface 501.
       [063]           In some implementations, a user can drag a first icon toward a second icon in
       the user interface 501 to exchange the positions of the two icons in the user interface 501. In
       this case, the second icon can be displayed with additional graphical effects to indicate its
       selection status for exchange with, or replacement by, the first icon. For example, the second
       icon can be displayed with an oscillating visual intensity, from a high intensity (e.g., bright)
       to a low intensity (e.g., dim) and back to high intensity. As another example, the second icon
       can be displayed with a "glow" effect. In some implementations, the additional graphical
       effects applied to the second icon can be triggered when the first icon is moved to within a
       predetermined distance of the second icon.
       [064]           Figure 5 illustrates an example mobile device 500 with a first icon 508 moved
       into proximity of a second icon 512 located in tray 504. The proximity can be x pixels (e.g.,
       1 pixel) from the periphery of the icon 512 as indicated by a boundary 510. When the first
       icon 508 is moved such that any part of the first icon 508 is within the region enclosed by the
       boundary 510, the second icon 512 can be displayed with additional graphical effects, such as
                                                     - 15 -

1002051409
       a glow effect or an oscillating intensity, for example.         In some implementations, the
       additional graphical effects are not displayed when the user releases the touch on the first
       icon 508 over the second icon 512, and thus having them exchange positions, or when the
       user moves the first icon 508 outside of the region enclosed by the boundary 510. In some
       implementations, the first icon 508 can be repositioned into an empty position in the tray 504.
       In such implementations, the outline 510 can be displayed to indicate the empty position
       within the tray 504 where the first icon 508 will be positioned when the user releases the
       touch. Other visual feedback can be provided to indicate an empty or available position in
       the tray 504, such as changing the color or opacity of the position in the tray 504 or applying
       a graphic, pattern overlay or animated object at the position in the tray 504.
                                     Processfor ExchangingIcon Positions
       [065]            Figure 6 is a flow diagram of an example process 600 for exchanging icons of
       a user interface. In some implementations, the process 600 includes displaying a first icon in
       a first position of a touch-sensitive display (602). The touch-sensitive display can be a multi
       touch sensitive display which is responsive to finger gestures as well as touch. A second icon
       is displayed in, or associated with, a second position of the touch-sensitive display (604). In
       some implementations, the first and second icon positions can be in different regions of a user
       interface. For example, the first region can be used to display a first set of icons and the
       second region can be a tray, dock, menu bar, a second page or any other user interface
       element capable of displaying a second set of icons in a manner that visually distinguishes or
       otherwise prominently displays the second set of icons from the first set of icons. The second
       set of icons can include icons that are frequently used icons or icons that have a common
       property or attribute (e.g.. application icons).
       [066]            The process 600 receives a first touch input specifying selection of the first
       icon (606). The touch can be with a finger or styles. Responsive to the first touch input, the
       visual appearance of the first icon is modified (608). Some examples of modifying the visual
       appearance of the first icon include but are not limited to: scaling, changing color, vibrating,
       bouncing, displaying text, animating, etc.
       [0671            The process 600 receives a second touch input indicating movement of the
       first icon to within proximity of the second icon (610). The movement can be the dragging of
       the first icon across the display.     In some implementations, proximity to the second icon
       occurs when a (transparent or non-transparent) boundary line at least partially surrounding
       the second icon is touched or crossed by the first icon as a result of, or in response to, the
       movement.
                                                      -16-

1002051409
       [0681           Responsive to the second touch input, the visual appearance of the second icon
       can be modified (612).      Some examples of modifying the second icon include but are not
       limited to: scaling, applying a glowing effect, changing color, vibrating, bouncing, animating,
       etc.
       [069]           The foregoing descriptions of specific embodiments of the present invention
       are presented for purposes of illustration and description.      They are not intended to be
       exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise forms disclosed.       Rather, it should be
       appreciated that many modifications and variations are possible in view of the above
       teachings.    The embodiments were chosen and described in order to best explain the
       principles of the invention and its practical applications, to thereby enable others skilled in
       the art to best utilize the invention and various embodiments with various modifications as
       are suited to the particular use contemplated.
                                                     - 17 -

1002051409
       What is claimed is:
       1.       A portable electronic device comprising:
                a touch-sensitive display;
                one or more processors;
                memory; and
                one or more programs, wherein the one or more programs are stored in the memory
       and configured to be executed by the one or more processors, the one or more programs
       including instructions for:
                        detecting a first user input for initiating an interface reconfiguration mode;
                        in response to detecting the first user input, entering the interface
       reconfiguration mode for a plurality of icons;
                        while in the interface reconfiguration mode, detecting a second user input,
       wherein the second user input includes a dragging touch input by a finger contact without
       breaking contact with the touch sensitive display, and the dragging touch input starting at a
       first location and removing an icon from the first location and moving the icon to within
       proximity of an edge of the user interface; and
                        in response to detecting the second user input, replacing the first page of icons
       with the second page of icons.
       2.       The electronic device of claim 1, wherein detecting the second user input comprises
       detecting that the icon has been moved to a position within a predetermined distance of an
       edge of the user interface.
       3.       The electronic device of claim 1, the one or more programs further including
       instructions for:
                changing an appearance of icons that are moveable on entering the interface
       reconfiguration mode.
       4.       The electronic device of claim 1, the one or more programs further including
       instructions for:
                detecting a user input for moving a first icon into proximity of a second icon of the
       user interface and, in response to detecting said user input, exchanging the positions of the
       first icon and the second icon in the user interface.
                                                          - 18 -

1002051409
       5.      The electronic device of claim 4, wherein detecting said user input comprises
       detecting movement of the first icon that causes part of the first icon to touch or cross a
       boundary associated with the second icon.
       6.      The electronic device of claim 5, the one or more programs further including
       instructions for:
               modifying an appearance of the second icon in response to detecting said user input
       for moving the first icon into proximity of the second icon.
       7.      The electronic device of claim 5, wherein the second icon is positioned in a dock, tray
       or menu bar of the user interface.
       8.      The electronic device of claim 1, the one or more programs further including
       instructions for:
               detecting a third user input for moving the icon within the second page; and
               in response to detecting the third user input, positioning the icon on the second page at
       a second location.
       9.      A non-transitory computer-readable storage medium storing one or more programs
       configured to be executed by one or more processors of an electronic device with a touch
       sensitive display, the one or more programs including instructions for:
               detecting a first user input for initiating an interface reconfiguration mode;
               in response to detecting the first user input, entering the interface reconfiguration
       mode for a plurality of icons;
               while in the interface reconfiguration mode, detecting a second user input, wherein
       the second user input includes a dragging touch input by a finger contact without breaking
       contact with the touch sensitive display, and the dragging touch input starting at a first
       location and removing an icon from the first location and moving the icon to within
       proximity of an edge of the user interface; and
               in response to detecting the second user input, replacing the first page of icons with
       the second page of icons.
                                                          - 19 -

1002051409
       10.      The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 9, wherein detecting
       the second user input comprises detecting that the icon has been moved to a position within a
       predetermined distance of an edge of the user interface.
       11.      The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 9, the one or more
       programs further including instructions for:
                changing an appearance of icons that are moveable on entering the interface
       reconfiguration mode.
       12.      The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 9, the one or more
       programs further including instructions for:
                detecting a user input for moving a first icon into proximity of a second icon of the
       user interface and, in response to detecting said user input, exchanging the positions of the
       first icon and the second icon in the user interface.
       13.      The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 12, wherein detecting
       said user input comprises detecting movement of the first icon that causes part of the first
       icon to touch or cross a boundary associated with the second icon.
       14.      The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 13, the one or more
       programs further including instructions for:
                modifying an appearance of the second icon in response to detecting said user input
       for moving the first icon into proximity of the second icon.
       15.      The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 13, wherein the
       second icon is positioned in a dock, tray or menu bar of the user interface.
       16.      The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 9, the one or more
       programs further including instructions for:
                detecting a third user input for moving the icon within the second page; and
                in response to detecting the third user input, positioning the icon on the second page at
       a second location.
                                                         - 20 -

1002051409
       17.      A method comprising:
                at a portable electronic device with a touch-sensitive display:
                        detecting a first user input for initiating an interface reconfiguration mode;
                        in response to detecting the first user input, entering the interface
       reconfiguration mode for a plurality of icons;
                        while in the interface reconfiguration mode, detecting a second user input,
       wherein the second user input includes a dragging touch input by a finger contact without
       breaking contact with the touch sensitive display, and the dragging touch input starting at a
       first location and removing an icon from the first location and moving the icon to within
       proximity of an edge of the user interface; and
                        in response to detecting the second user input, replacing the first page of icons
       with the second page of icons.
       18.      The method of claim 17, wherein detecting the second user input comprises detecting
       that the icon has been moved to a position within a predetermined distance of an edge of the
       user interface.
       19.      The method of claim 17, further comprising:
                changing an appearance of icons that are moveable on entering the interface
       reconfiguration mode.
       20.      The method of claim 17, further comprising:
                detecting a user input for moving a first icon into proximity of a second icon of the
       user interface and, in response to detecting said user input, exchanging the positions of the
       first icon and the second icon in the user interface.
       21.      The method of claim 20, wherein detecting said user input comprises detecting
       movement of the first icon that causes part of the first icon to touch or cross a boundary
       associated with the second icon.
       22.      The method of claim 21, further comprising:
                modifying an appearance of the second icon in response to detecting said user input
       for moving the first icon into proximity of the second icon.
                                                          - 21 -

1002051409
       23.    The method of claim 21, wherein the second icon is positioned in a dock, tray or
       menu bar of the user interface.
       24.    The method of claim 17, further comprising:
              detecting a third user input for moving the icon within the second page; and
              in response to detecting the third user input, positioning the icon on the second page at
       a second location.
                                                       - 22 -

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
