Abstract
The present invention relates to a method of preparing a CMP-rich whey fraction
suitable for stabilizing a gluten network in a food product, the method comprising the
steps of providing a milk product comprising micellar casein, subjecting the milk
product of step to microfiltration, yielding a micellar casein isolate, optionally adding
cream, vegetable oil and/or protein to the micellar casein isolate, using the micellar
casein isolate in a cheesemaking method, wherein the micellar casein is cleaved by
rennet and a curd is allowed to form, draining and recovering the whey from the curd
formed in the cheesemaking process, which is a CMP-rich whey fraction.

   Dough and bread improver
   Technical field of the invention
   The present invention relates to a method of improving a gluten network in a
   food product, for example a dough, bread or pasta. The present invention
 5 further relates to a compositions comprising the dough improver, uses of such
   compositions, and food products comprising the dough improver.
   Background of the invention
   Many food products rely on the formation of a gluten network to in order to
   achieve the desired texture of the food product. For example, the formation of
10 gluten network in wheat bread yields a product with a springy texture.
   The springy texture, or the resilience, of the food product is influenced by the
   gluten network. Furthermore, the strength of the gluten network is related to
   many qualities, including dough performance, mixing tolerance of the dough,
   volume of the product, crumb structure of the product, sliceablity, and shelf
15 life.
   Food products in which the gluten network is not formed or where only a weak
   gluten network is formed may have less resilience and poor performance in
   the mentioned qualities. For example they may crumble easily, feel stiff
   and/or dry, and have low volume.
20 Consequently, compositions which provide an improved resilience in food
   products, for example by improving gluten networks in food products, such as
   by stabilizing gluten networks, are sought after.
   Furthermore, large quantities of bread are discarded daily because, even
   though it is nutritionally sound, the bread is not as soft as freshly baked bread
25 ("staling") and the consumer rejects it on this ground. Ways of extending
   freshness of bread and prolonging the shelf-life in respect to softness are
   sought after, as this would improve the situation for retailers and consumers,
   as well as lead to reduced waste.

   Furthermore, it is even more desirable that such compositions be "clean
   label", that is to say to avoid E-numbers which are considered by consumers
   to not be healthy.
   Throughout the specification, unless the context requires otherwise, the word
 5 "comprise" or variations such as "comprises" or "comprising", will be
   understood to imply the inclusion of a stated integer or group of integers but
   not the exclusion of any other integer or group of integers.
   Each document, reference, patent application or patent cited in this text is
   expressly incorporated herein in their entirely by reference, which means that
10 it should be read and considered by the reader as part of this text. That the
   document, reference, patent application, or patent cited in this text is not
   repeated in this text is merely for reasons of conciseness.
   Reference to cited material or information contained in the text should not be
   understood as a concession that the material or information was part of the
15 common general knowledge or was known in Australia or any other country.
   Summary of the invention
   The inventors have surprisingly shown that inclusion of the peptide casein
   glycomacropeptide (CMP) in food products comprising a gluten network yields
   food products with increased softness, increased volume and finer crumb
20 structure.
   Without wishing to be bound by theory, it is believed that this effect is
   achieved by CMP strengthening the gluten network of the food product.
   One object of the present invention therefore relates to providing a dough
   improver, and the invention is therefore useful at least for this object. In
25 particular, it is an object of the present invention to provide a dough improver
   that solves the above mentioned problems of the prior art with regards to
   increasing dough performance, mixing tolerance of the dough; volume, crumb
   structure, sliceablity, and shelf-life of a food product.Thus, the invention

   relates in one aspect to a method of stabilizing a gluten network in a food
   product comprising:
        i) providing one or more ingredients to be used in the manufacture of said
            food product, wherein at least one ingredient comprises gluten;
 5      ii) adding casein glycomacropeptide (CMP) to said one or more
            ingredients,
            wherein at least one of the ingredients is an aqueous ingredient and/or
            CMP is provided as an aqueous ingredient,
            and mixing,
10          thereby forming a food product comprising a stabilized gluten network.
   In another aspect, the invention relates to a food product comprising a
   stabilised gluten network and CMP, said food product being obtained when
   performing the method according to the invention.
   In a further aspect, the invention relates to compositions for use in the
15 method according to the invention, said compositions comprising
   i) at least one ingredient comprising gluten and
   ii) at least one ingredient comprising CMP, wherein said composition
   comprises CMP in an amount of from 0.01 to 0.5 g CMP/g gluten.
   In yet a further aspect, the invention relates to the use of casein
20 glycomacropeptide (CMP) to stabilize a gluten network in a food product.
   In an even further aspect, the invention relates to a method of preparing a
   CMP-rich whey fraction suitable for use in method according to the invention,
   the method comprising the steps of
   i) providing a milk product comprising micellar casein,
25 ii) subjecting the milk product of step i) to microfiltration, yielding a micellar
   casein isolate,
   iii) Optionally adding cream, vegetable oil and/or protein to the micellar casein
   isolate,
   iv) using the micellar casein isolate in cheesemaking, wherein the micellar
30 casein is cleaved by rennet and a curd is allowed to form,

                                          -r
   v) draining and recovering the whey from the curd formed in the
   cheesemaking process, which is a CMP-rich whey fraction.
   The invention is exemplified herein mainly in relation to breads, however, the
   invention is not so limited; it will become clear that any food relying on the
 5 strength of the gluten network in order to achieve the desired texture for food
   products will benefit from the inclusion of CMP and its stabilizing effect on the
   gluten network
   Brief description of the figures
   Figure 1 shows a description of the basic method of baking bread. See
10 Example 1.
   Figure 2 shows the effect of inclusion of CMP on the volume of the bread. See
   also Example 1. Units=millilitres.
   Figure 3 shows the effect of different dough improvers and CMP on weak
   flours. See also Example 2. 3A Cassionat=Caseinate; units=millilitres. 3B,
15 arbitrary units.
   Figure 4 shows the effect of combination of CMP and DATEM of a whole grain
   wheat bread. Units=millilitres. See also Example 3.4A Volume 4B Peak force
   and 4C shows resilience.
   Figure 5 shows the results of sample breads with and without CMP. A. Volume
20 measurements (ml), B. TPA Analyses after 2 days (Peak force, gram); C
   Resilience (arbitrary units). See Example 4.
   Figure 6 shows the results of inclusion of CMP in a brioche recipe. 6A Volume
   (ml); 6B TPA (Peak force) over time (force (gram)). See also Example 5.
   Figure 7 Farinographs showing the performance of flour during mixing. 7A:
25 Without CMP; 7B: With inclusion of CMP. X-axis: minutes; Y-axis, Brabender
   Units. See Example 6.

   Figure 8 shows extensographs A Flour + 2% salt; B Flour + 2% salt + 2%
   CMP, (y axis Brabender Units, x axis cm). See Example 7.
   Figure 9 shows an example of one chromatograph. See also Example 8.
   Absorbance units.
 5 Figure 10 shows TPA (Peak force) over time with and without CMP (Force
   (gram)). See also Example 13.
   Figure 11 shows the effects of increasing amounts of CMP. Figure 11 A shows
   the effects of increased amounts of CMP on softness of breads baked with
   increased amounts of CMP. Figure 11 B shows the increased volume of breads
10 baked using increasing amounts of CMP. See Example 10.
   Figure 12 shows the influence of alpha lactalbumin/beta lactoglobulin content
   on the CMP effect in bread. 12A shows Peak force (g), indicating reduced
   softness with increasing amounts of alpha lactalbumin/beta lactoglobulin. Fig
   12B shows decreasing volume of breads with increasing amounts of alpha
15 lactalbum/beta lactoglobulin. See Example 11.
   Figure 13 shows an example of Results from Texture Profile Analysis, and
   indicates the Peak Force, as well as the area under the curve used to calculate
   resilience (Area 3 and Area 4).
20 Detailed description of the invention
   Definitions
   Prior to discussing the present invention in further details, the following terms
   and conventions will first be defined:
   In the context of the present invention, mentioned percentages are
25 weight/weight percentages unless otherwise stated.
   The term "and/or" used in the context of the "X and/or Y" should be
   interpreted as "X", or "Y", or "X and Y".

                                         U
   Numerical ranges as used herein are intended to include every number and
   subset of numbers contained within that range, whether specifically disclosed
   or not. Further, these numerical ranges should be construed as providing
   support for a claim directed to any number or subset of numbers in that
 5 range. For example, a disclosure of from 1 to 10 should be construed as
   supporting a range of from 1 to 8, from 3 to 7, from 4 to 9, from 3.6 to 4.6,
   from 3.5 to 9.9, and so forth.
   All references to singular characteristics or limitations of the present invention
   shall include the corresponding plural characteristic or limitation, and vice
10 versa, unless otherwise specified or clearly implied to the contrary by the
   context in which the reference is made.
   Unless defined otherwise, all technical and scientific terms used herein have
   the same meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art.
   The term "sweet whey" as used herein refers to the liquid remaining after milk
15 has been curdled and strained, during the making of rennet types of cheeses.
   The term "bakery food products" as used herein refers to food products
   typically produced by bakeries, including breads (further defined below),
   pastries, and the like.
   The term "bread" as used herein refers to a food product mainly comprising
20 flour. Typically breads are leavened, typically with yeast, but a bread may be
   leavened with any leavening agent, or may be unleavened. The term bread as
   used herein encompasses both savoury bread, and sweet types of bread which
   may comprise sweetener, greater amounts of oil and/or butter, and/or eggs as
   compared to unsweetened bread. Examples of types of savoury breads
25 include, wheat bread, burger buns, hotdog buns, toast bread, sliced bread,
   whole wheat bread, rye bread, etc. Examples of sweetened breads include
   buns, brioche, babka, challah, Cozonac, Pandoro, Panettone, Paska, Vienna
   loaves and other Viennoiseries such as croissants, pain au chocolat, pain au
   lait, pain aux raisins, chouquettes and Danish pastries; as well as puff pastry.

   Furthermore, where bread is referred to herein, also the dough for said bread
   is included in the reference unless explicitly stated otherwise.
   The term breads includes breads regardless of the manner in which they are
   finally cooked; typically breads are baked, but e.g. bagels are boiled prior to
 5 baking, and others are boiled in oil (e.g. doughnuts and Berliner).
   The term "dough improver" as used herein refers to a compound or mixture of
   compounds (composition) that when included in a food product, will improve
   the dough and/or the texture of the food product made from the dough, for
   example a bakery food product or pasta.
10 The term "flour" as used herein refers to a foodstuff which is a free-flowing
   powder, typically obtained by milling. Flour is most often used in bakery food
   products, such as breads, cakes, pastries etc., but also in other food products
   such as pasta, noodles, breakfast cereals and the like.
   Typically flour is made from wheat, but flour may be made from many
15 different grains, nuts or seeds. Examples of flours include wheat, triticale, rye,
   barley, oat, buckwheat, spelt, millet, quinoa, soya, corn, rice, potato, almond,
   hazelnut and coconut flour. The gluten content of different flours varies.
   The terms "dough improver", "dough conditioner", "bread improver", "bread
   protein improver" are used interchangeably and refer to the same concept.
20 The term "gluten network" is used interchangeably with "visco-elastic
   network" and "gluten visco-elastic network"; and refers to the same concept.
   The term "shelf-life" as used herein refers to the softness of the food product/
   bakery food product/ bread, unless specifically stated otherwise. Bread is
   regarded as stale by the consumer, when the softness is decreased. Hence,
25 consumer acceptable softness is important.
   The term "microns" refers to micrometers.

                                        U
   CMP's gluten network stabilizing effect
   Without wishing to be bound by theory, it is believed that CMP will stabilize a
   gluten network formed in a dough, giving beneficial effects on both the dough
   and the final food product which may be for example a bread or a pasta.
 5 By adding CMP to a recipe for a bread for example, an increased softness and
   shelf-life (consumer-acceptable softness) is obtained.
   Before the invention is further discussed, a brief background on CMP and
   gluten networks is given.
   CMP Protein
10 CMP is also known as glycomacropeptide (GMP), casein glycomacropeptide
   (cGMP), caseinoglycomacropeptide, (cGMP), casein-derived peptide (CDP), or
   casein glycopeptide (CGP).
   Bovine CMP is 64 kDa hydrophilic peptide which is formed during cheese
   making. Chymosin specifically cleaves K-casein between the 105 to 106 amino
15 acid residues, and the resulting para-K-casein (residues 1 to 105) becomes
   part of the cheese curd, while CMP (residues 106 to 169) remains in the whey.
   Two variants of bovine CMP exist: Variants A and B. The amino acid sequence
   of each variant is set forth below.
   CMP variant A: (SEQ ID NO:1)
20 Met Ala Ile Pro Pro Lys Lys Asn Gln Asp Lys Thr Glu Ile Pro Thr
   Ile Asn Thr Ile Ala Ser Gly Glu Pro Thr Ser Thr Pro Thr Thr Glu
   Ala Val Glu Ser Thr Val Ala Thr Leu Glu Asp Ser Pro Glu Val Ile
   Glu Ser Pro Pro Glu Ile Asn Thr Val Gln Val Thr Ser Thr Ala Val
   CMP variant B:(SEQ ID NO. 2)
25 Met Ala Ile Pro Pro Lys Lys Asn Gln Asp Lys Thr Glu Ile Pro Thr
   Ile Asn Thr Ile Ala Ser Gly Glu Pro Thr Ser Thr Pro Ile Thr Glu

   Ala Val Glu Ser Thr Val Ala Thr Leu Glu Ala Ser Pro Glu Val               Ile
   Glu Ser Pro Pro      Glu Ile Asn Thr Val Gln Val Thr Ser Thr Ala Val
   For the purpose of the present invention, reference to "CMP" includes bovine
   CMP of either variant A or variant B or a mixture of the two variants, as well
 5 as CMP from any other suitable source such as buffalo, horse, goat, sheep.
   It has been surprisingly shown by the inventors that inclusion of CMP in a
   dough will lead to stabilization of the gluten network formed in the dough, and
   in synergy with the gluten lead to a dramatic increase of the elastic modulus
   of said dough (see Fig. 8). The increased elastic modulus results in an
10 increased volume of the dough and/or food product, and an increased softness
   of said product.
   The foaming effect of CMP in aqueous systems is documented in the prior art.
   However, such foams are well-known to be highly instable, and they collapse
   as soon as whipping is stopped. Further, the foam produced by CMP will not
15 form in the presence of even a minor amount of fat. Bread dough does contain
   fat, and therefore no CMP foam is believed to form in the context of a bread
   dough.
   It is surprising that CMP should work as a gluten network stabilizer, at least
   because CMP cannot itself gel under conditions typically present in preparation
20 of a dough (e.g. about pH 6- 7 ), and usually inhibits gelation of whey
   proteins.
   Gluten network
   Gluten network is made up of two proteins, glutenin and gliadin. When mixed
   with water and agitated, glutenin and gliadin come together to form a
25 glutennetwork. The gluten network, is both plastic (i.e. able to change shape)
   and elastic (i.e. able to spring back into place).
   Thus, in the context of this application, a gluten network is defined as a three
   dimensional protein network made up of glutenin and gliadin which is formed
   when they are hydrated and agitated. The agitation is typically done by

   mixing. Gluten networks are typically formed when gluten-containing flour,
   e.g. wheat flour, is mixed with water. The mixing leads to a breaking and re
   forming of bonds between the gluten and gliadin molecules. This results in a
   dough, which is essentially a gluten network with embedded air (or gas) and
 5 starch granules.
   The gluten network contributes to the texture of the dough and the final food
   product, for example in breads and/or pasta. A strong gluten network is
   required in food products where a more chewy or springy texture is desired,
   such as for example breads, pasta.
10 In order to get a strong gluten network, flours with high gluten levels are used
   to bake breads. For example, bread flour may be used. For pasta, flour made
   from durum wheat is used.
   In other foods, the formation of a gluten network is not desired because the
   chewy texture is not desirable. For example in cakes such as a pound cake,
15 the desired texture is light. In such food products, flours with lower gluten
   content is used, such as cake flours or pastry flours.
   Stabilizing the gluten network
   The present invention is based on the observation that CMP stabilises gluten
   networks. The term "stabilise gluten network" in the context of this invention
20 means rendering the gluten network less susceptible to degradation.
   Mixing of gluten proteins (e.g. present in a wheat flour) with water leads to
   formation of a gluten network. In the process of mixing, bonds are formed and
   broken. Initially, the mixing leads to formation of a gluten network.
   However prolonged mixing will lead to the degradation of the network, which
25 is a mechanical degradation, and collapse of the dough, leading to reduced
   volume and tougher texture. Without wishing to be bound by theory, it is
   believed that inclusion of CMP protects the bonds formed, making them and
   the gluten network less susceptible to such degradation.

   Using different systems, the inventors have quantified the stabilizing effect
   that CMP has on the gluten network.
   In farinographs (see Example 6, and Figure 7) it is seen that inclusion of CMP
   leads to an increase in difference between Arrival Time and Departure Time
 5 (see Example 6 for further definitions), which reflects a stabilisation of the
   gluten network.
   In extensographs (see Example 7 and Figure 8), the inclusion of CMP leads to
   an increase in the force required to rupture the dough, which reflects a
   strengthening of the gluten network.
10 Furthermore, the strengthened gluten network leads to increased volume of
   breads which include CMP (see for e.g. Example 1. and Figures 2 and 3).
   Thus, in the context of this application, the stabilization of gluten network and
   the strengthening of the gluten network refer to the same concept and the
   terms strengthen and stabilize are used interchangeably.
15 The gluten network stabilizing effect of CMP takes place in the formation of the
   dough, and may be noted in the final product.
   In certain embodiments of the methods of stabilising gluten network according
   to the invention, the gluten network may be considered stabilized when the
   farinograph for the dough comprising CMP according to the invention displays
20 an increase in stability (as defined by reference to a farinogram, being the
   difference between Arrival time and Departure time; see also definitions in
   Example 6), of at least 25 % as compared to the stability for a corresponding
   dough not comprising CMP, such as for example an increase of at least 50%,
   at least 75%, at least 100%, at least 150%, at least 200%, at least 250%, at
25 least 3 0 0 %; or for example an increase in the range from 25% to 500%, such
   as from 25% to 400%, 25% to 300%, 25% to 250%, 25% to 200%, 25% to
   150%, or 25% to 100%; or for example from 50% to 500%, 75% to 500%,
   100% to 500%, 150% to 500%, 200% to 500%, 250% to 500%, 300% to
   500% or 400% to 500%.Farinographs are well known in the field.

   In yet further embodiments of the methods of stabilising gluten network
   according to the invention, the gluten network may be considered stabilized
   when the mixing tolerance index of the dough (as defined by reference to a
   farinogram, see definitions in Example 6) comprising CMP according to the
 5 invention is decreased at least 5%, as compared to a corresponding dough not
   comprising CMP; such as for example a decrease of at least of at least 10%,
   at least 20%, at least 30% at least 40%, at least 50%, at least 60%, at least
   70%, at least  8 0%; or for example from 5 to 90%, such as 10 to 90%, 15 to
   90%, 20 to 90%, 30 to 90%, 40 to 90% 50% to 80%, 50 to 70%/: or for
10 example 10 to 80%, 10 to 70%, 10 to 60%, 10 to 50%, 10 to 30%, 10 to
   20%.
   In other embodiments of the methods of stabilising gluten network according
   to the invention, the gluten network may be considered stabilized when the
   force required to rupture the dough comprising CMP according to the invention
15 is increased, for example at least 5% increase in force required as measured
   by extensograph, as compared to a corresponding dough not comprising CMP;
   such as an increase of at least 10%, at least 15%, at least 20%, at least 250/0,
   at least 30% at least 40% at least 50%, at least 75%, at least 100%; or for
   example an increase in the range from 5% to 200%, such as from 5% to
20 175%, 5% to 150%, 5% to 100%, 5% to 80%, 5% to 75%, 5% to 500/; or
   for example from 10% to 200%, such as 15% to 200%, 20% to 200%, 20%
   to 150%, 20% to 120%, 30% to 120%, 40% to 120%, 50% to 120%.
   Extensographs are well-known in the field.
   In yet further embodiments of the methods of stabilising gluten network
25 according to the invention, the gluten network may be considered stabilised
   when the volume of a food product comprising CMP according to the invention,
   such as a bakery food product, such as a bread, or a dough, is increased, for
   example at least 5% as compared to a corresponding food product not
   comprising CMP; such as for example an increase of at least 10%, at least
30 15%, at least 20%, at least 25%, at least 30% at least 40% at least 500/0, at
   least 75%, at least 100%; or for example an increase in the range from 5% to
   200%, such as from 5% to 175%, 5% to 150%, 5% to 100%, 5% to 80%,

   5% to 75%, 5% to 50%; or for example from 10% to 200%, such as 15% to
   200%, 20% to 200%, 20% to 150%, 20% to 120%, 30% to 120%, 40% to
   120%, 50% to 120%.
   Volume may be determined by standard methods, see for example Example 1.
 5 In still further embodiments of the methods of stabilising gluten network
   according to the invention, the gluten network may be considered stabilised
   when the peak force (the peak force being determined by Texture Profile
   Analysis, see discussion in Example 3) for a food product comprising CMP
   according to the invention, such as a bakery food product, such as a bread, or
10 a dough, is decreased, for example at least 5% as compared to a
   corresponding food product not comprising CMP; such as for example an
   decrease of at least 10%, at least 15%, at least 20%, at least 25%, at least
   30% at least 40% at least 50%, at least 75%, at least 100%; or for example
   an decrease in the range from 5% to 200%, such as from 5% to 175%, 5% to
15 150%, 5% to 100%, 5% to 80%, 5% to 75%, 5% to 50%; or for example
   from 10% to 200%, such as 15% to 200%, 20% to 200%, 20% to 150%,
   20% to 120%, 30% to 120%, 40% to 120%, 50% to 120%.
   The determination of peak force may be done as described in Example 3,
   using the settings described in Table 3A, Settings for Texture Profile Analysis.
20 The inclusion of CMP may also promote formation of gluten networks. As can
   be see in in Example 6, Table 11, inclusion of CMP leads to the shortening of
   arrrival time. Thus, in even further embodiments, the gluten network may be
   considered stabilised when the dough comprising CMP according to the
   invention displays a decrease in arrival time (as defined by reference to a
25 farinogram; see also definitions in Example 6), of at least 25 % as compared
   to the arrival time for a corresponding dough not comprising CMP, such as for
   exampleat least 50%, at least 75%, at least 100%, at least 150%, at least
   200%, at least 250%, at least    3 0 0 %; or for example an decrease in the range
   from 25% to 500%, such as from 25% to 400%, 25% to 300%, 25% to
30 250%, 25% to 200%, 25% to 150%, or 25% to 100%; or for example from

   50% to 500%, 75% to 500%, 100% to 500%, 150% to 500%, 200% to
   500%, 250% to 500%, 300% to 500% or 400% to 500%.
   Method of stabilizing a gluten network
   Manufacture of dry product
 5 Accordingly, the invention in one aspect relates to a method of stabilizing a
   gluten network in a food product comprising:
      i) providing one or more ingredients to be used in the manufacture of said
          food product, wherein at least one ingredient comprises gluten;
      ii) adding casein glycomacropeptide (CMP) to said one or more ingredients,
10        wherein at least one of the ingredients is an aqueous ingredient and/or
          CMP is provided as an aqueous ingredient, and mixing, thereby forming a
          food product comprising a stabilized gluten network.
   Some embodiments of the method according to the invention relates to the
   method wherein the ingredients in step i) and the CMP in step ii) comprise dry
15 ingredients, for example powders. According to the present invention a dry
   ingredient typically comprises less than 25% (w/w) water, e.g. less than 20%
   (w/w), less than 19% (w/w), less than 18% (w/w), less than 17% (w/w), less
   than 16% (w/w) or less than 15% (w/w) water. According to some
   embodiments a dry ingredient which may be in the form of a powder, may
20 also comprise a certain amounts of non-aqueous liquid, such as oil. For
   example, inclusion of up to 15% (w/w) liquid oil in a flour may still yield a dry
   product or powder.
   According to the method, one or more of the ingredients in step i) and/or the
   CMP in step ii) are wet ingredients. According to the present invention, wet
25 ingredients comprises water in an amount which is sufficient to generate a wet
   or hydrated product or composition when mixed with a dry ingredient or
   product as defined above. A wet ingredient is the same as an aqueous
   ingredient, and the terms are used interchangeably. A wet ingredient typically
   comprises at least 30% (w/w) water, such as at least 35%(w/w) water, such

   as at least 40% (w/w) water or such as at least 45% (w/w) water. Typical wet
   ingredients used according to the present invention are water, milk, whole
   egg, egg yolk, egg white, a milk-derived liquid such as whey, vegetable- or
   plant-derived juices, beer, wine and/or combinations thereof.
 5 This method of stabilizing a gluten network has the effect of increasing shelf
   life (reducing staling) of a dough and/or bread as well as increasing the
   strength of a dough, increasing the volume of a dough and/or bread,
   increasing softness of a dough and/or bread.
   Food products
10 The food products may be any food product where a stronger gluten network
   would give a desired texture. See further discussion regarding compositions of
   the invention.
   Amounts of CMP
   In any of the embodiments of the invention, the method of stabilizing a gluten
15 network according to the invention may be characterized by that said CMP is
   added in an amount of from at least 0.01 g CMP/g gluten.
   In some embodiments the CMP is added in an amount of from 0.01 to 0.8 g
   CMP/ g gluten; such as for example from 0.03 to 0.8, such as 0.05 to 0.8,
   0.08 to 0.8, 0.1 to 0.8 g CMP/g gluten.
20 In some embodiments, said CMP is added in an amount of from 0.01 to 0.5 g
   CMP/g gluten, for example from 0.03 to 0.5, such as 0.05 to 0.5, 0.08 to 0.5,
   0.1 to 0.5; or for example 0.01 to 0.4 g CMP/g gluten, such as 0.01 to 0.3 g,
   0.01 to 0.2, 0.01 to 0.1 g CMP/g gluten.
   Below about 0.01 g CMP/g gluten, the effect of CMP becomes so small as to be
25 negligible. Adding an amount of CMP beyond 0.5 g/g gluten, on the other
   hand, does not appear to increase the stabilisation of the gluten network
   further; the cost of adding increasing amounts of CMP makes embodiments
   with higher amounts of CMP less attractive for economical reasons beyond this

   point. Therefore, the feasible limits of the invention may be set to 0.01 to 0.5
   g CMP/g gluten.
   Addition of CMP beyond 0.5 g CMP/g gluten does not appear to have
   detrimental effects, but as mentioned, the positive effects level off beyond this
 5 level.Some embodiments relate to the method according to the invention,
   wherein said CMP is added in an amount of from 0.2 to 10 % (w/w) of dry
   ingredients.
   The amount of CMP may also be expressed as a percentage of the dry weight
   of an embodiment of the invention.
10 In embodiments where the food product according to the invention is a
   product mix (such as for example a flour mix or bread mix), CMP may be
   added to a final concentration of about 0.05 - 2% per weight of the food
   product, such as for example 0.06 to 1.5 %, 0.08 to 1%, 0.1 to 1 %. 0.15 to
   1%, 0.2 to 1%, 0.3 to 1%, 0.5 to 1%; or for example from 0.05 to 0.9%,
15 0.05 to 0.8%, 0.05 to 0.7%, 0.05 to 0.5%.
   In other embodiments where the food product according to the invention is a
   dough, CMP may be added to a final amount of for example about 0.05 - 5%
   per weight of the food product, such as for example 0.1 to 4%, 0.1 to 3.5%,
   0.1 to 3%. 0.51% to 2.5%, 0.1 to 2%, 0.1 to 1.5%, 0.1 to 1.3%, 0.1 to
20 1.2%, 0.1 to 1%, 0.1 to 0.8%. 0.1 to 0.7%, 0.1 to 0.5%; or for example from
   0.1 to 3%, 0.1 to 2.5%, 0.5% to 2%.
   In other embodiments where the food product according to the invention is a
   bread or a pasta, CMP may be added to a final amount of for example about
   0.05 - 5% per weight of the food product, such as for example 0.1 to 4%, 0.1
25 to 3.5%, 0.1 to 3%. 0.1 to 2.5%, 0.1 to 2%, 0.1 to 1.5%, 0.1 to 1.3%, 0.1 to
   1.2%, 0.1 to 1%, 0.1 to 0.8%. 0.1 to 0.7%, 0.1 to 0.5%; or for example from
   0.1 to 3%, 0.1 to 2.5%, 0.5% to 2%.

                                         .LI/
   Form of CMP
   The CMP which is added may be in any form which is suitable for a food
   product.
   For example, the CMP which is added may be produced as described in
 5 W09929183.
   In other examples, the CMP which is added may be a CMP-containing product
   from Arla, such as LacProdan @ CGMP 20 and/or LacProdan @ CGMP 10.
   These products are commercially available from Arla Foods Ingredients Group
   P/S; Sonderhoj 10 - 12; 8260 Viby J, Denmark.
10 Alpha-lactalbumin and beta-lactoglobulin when present in certain amounts
   may inhibit the gluten network stabilizing effect of CMP. Therefore, particular
   embodiments relates to methods of the invention wherein the combined
   amount (weight) of alpha lactalbumin and beta lactoglobulin present in the
   one or more ingredients provided in step i) combined with the CMP provided in
15 step ii), corresponds to less than 50% of the amount (weight) of the total
   amount of CMP added in step ii).
   In order to reduce the amount of alpha-lactalbumin and/or beta lactoglobulin
   present in the food product, the CMP which is added may be provided in the
   form of a purified or semi-purified fraction of whey, whey protein isolate (WPI)
20 or whey protein concentrate (WPC), for example a whey fraction where CMP
   makes up at least 50% of the total protein content by weight of said fraction.
   For example, the whey fraction may comprise an amount of CMP which is 55
   to 98% of the total protein content by weight, or for example 50 to 95%, 50
   to 90%, 50 to 85%, 50 to 80%, 50 to 75%, 50 to 70%; or for example 55 to
25 95%, 60 to 95%, 65 to 95%, 70 to 95%, or for example 80 to 98% of the
   total protein content by weight.
   In particular embodiments of the invention, the whey fraction, WPI or WPC is
   derived from sweet whey. In further particular embodiments, the whey
   fraction is a CMP-rich whey fraction, for example a CMP-rich whey fraction

                                         I U
   obtained or obtainable by the method described herein for making a CMP-rich
   whey fraction.
   The CMP may alternatively be provided as a fraction of whey, WPI or WPC
   which comprises reduced amounts of alpha lactalbumin and beta lactoglobulin
 5 as compared to whey fraction, WPI and/or WPC; for example the combined
   amount of alpha lactalbumin and beta lactoglobulin make up less than 50% of
   the total protein content of said fraction.
   In further embodiments, the combined amount of alpha lactalbumin and beta
   lactoglobulin in the whey fraction, WPI or WPC make up at most 50% of the
10 total protein content of the WPI or WPC, such as 0 to 50%, 0 to 45%, 0 to
   40%, 2 to 40%, 5 to 35%, 5 to 30% or for example from 10 to 35% of the
   total protein content of said fraction.
   Ingredients
   In the method of the invention at least one of the ingredients to be used in the
15 manufacture of said food product comprises gluten.
   Gluten content in flour
   Depending on what they are made from, flours may contain gluten and they
   are often characterized by their gluten content, as this is a major factor in
   determining the suitability of the flour for a particular application.
20 High gluten content flours are typically wheat flours, while low gluten content
   flours may be made from wheat with low gluten content, from other grains
   with naturally low gluten content, or may be a mixture of flours with high
   gluten content with flours with low to no gluten content.
   The following table gives an overview of protein content in different flours.
                                             Protein (Total        Approximate gluten
                                             Kjeldahl nitrogen)    content (percent
                                                                   by dry weight)

   Strong flours         Bread flour         13- 16%*            10 - 13%
   (high gluten
                         All-purpose flour   10-12%              8  - 9%
   content)
   Soft flours           Pastry flour        ~9%                  ~7%
   (low gluten
                         Cake flour          ~7-8%               5- 6 %
   content)
           *Protein content in percent by dry weight, measured by Total Kjeldahl
           nitrogen; about 80% of the protein is made up of gluten proteins gliadin
           and glutenin.
   For the purposes of this application low gluten content is defined as a gluten
 5 content of from 0% to about 7% gluten (corresponds to protein content of
   from 0% to about 9%) by weight, while a high gluten content is defined as a
   gluten content of over    8%  (corresponds to protein content of over 9%) by
   weight.
   Flours with low gluten content are suitable for baking cakes, such as cookies,
10 angel cake, sponge cake, etc. These cakes do not rely on gluten network to
   achieve the desired texture. Indeed, strong gluten networks are typically not
   desired in these food products, because they would impart a tough and chewy
   texture instead of the desired lighter and flakier texture. Therefore,
   sometimes low gluten content flours are referred to as "cake flours".
15 Cake flours are fine-textured flours, typically made from wheat flour, but may
   also contain other flours from other sources, such as wheat, triticale, rye,
   barley, oat, buckwheat, spelt, millet, quinoa, soya, corn, rice, potato, almond,
   hazelnut and coconut. Cake flours typically have high starch and low gluten
   content.
20 Flours with no gluten (for example, those made from items which naturally do
   not contain gluten such as coconut flour, almond flour) will not form gluten
   networks.

                                          ., U
   It may be noted that not only the gluten content, but also the quality of the
   gluten can influence the gluten network forming capability. The quality of the
   gluten is related to the ratio of gliadin and glutenin proteins in gluten, and
   their quality.
 5 Millers and bakers routinely test the quality of gluten in a flour in order to
   determine the suitability of the flour for particular applications. Melynk et al ( J
   of Cereal Science 56 (2013) 561- 567) describes a method whereby the
   quality of gluten can be tested.
   Flours
10 One embodiment relates to a method according to the invention wherein said
   one or more ingredients comprises one or more flours.
   For example, the one or more flours may be selected from the group
   consisting of wheat, triticale, rye, barley, oat, buckwheat, spelt, millet, quinoa,
   soya, corn, rice, potato, almond, hazelnut, coconut, Graham's flour and
15 combinations thereof.
   In one specific embodiment, the one or more flour is wheat flour.
   Flours which comprise gluten are examples of an ingredient which may be
   provided as an at least one ingredient comprising gluten according to step i) of
   the method.
20 Thus, the at least one ingredient comprising gluten may be selected from
   flours of grains which contain gluten, such as one or more of flours of wheat,
   triticale, barley, oat, buckwheat, spelt, Graham's flour.
   The grains wheat and triticale each typically contains enough gluten to yield a
   flour which is considered bread-baking quality. The flours with highest gluten
25 content are wheat flours and triticale flours, where wheat flour has highest
   gluten content. These flours may therefore be present as the sole source of
   gluten for example in a bread.

   Accordingly, one embodiment of the method relates to a method wherein said
   at least one ingredient comprising gluten consists of flour made from wheat
   and/or triticale.
   One specific embodiment relates to a method of the invention wherein the at
 5 least one ingredient comprising gluten is wheat flour.
   In further embodiments, the wheat flour may be selected from the group
   consisting of Type 550, Danish wheat bread flour, Reform flour, Manitoba and
   combinations thereof.
   In some embodiments, the invention relates to a method of the invention
10 wherein the flour has a protein content which is in the range of from 5 to
   18%, such as for example, from 6 to 12%, from 6 to 10%, from 6 to 9%,
   from 7 to 9%; or for example from 10 to 12%, from 11 to 12%; or such as in
   the range of 5% to 9%, for example 7% to 9% or 8 to 9%; or for example in
   the range from 10% to 18%, such as 10% to 16%.
15 In other embodiments, the invention relates to a method of the invention
   wherein the flour, or the provided ingredients as a total, have a gluten content
   which is in the range from 5% to 13%, such as for example from 5 to 9%, 5
   to 7%, 5 to 6 %; or for example from 8 to 13%,9 to 13%, such as from 10 to
   13%.
20 Other gluten flours
   Alternatively, said at least one ingredient comprising gluten may be a mixture
   of wheat and/or triticale, and one or more of flours selected from the group
   consisting of barley, oat, buckwheat, spelt, millet.
   Further examples of an ingredient which comprises gluten is malted wheat
25 flour.
   Flours with lower gluten content than wheat or triticale; or low gluten quality,
   are often supplemented with wheat and/or triticale in order to provide enough
   gluten to achieve the desired texture. Thus, at least one ingredient comprising
   gluten may be for example one or more flours which contain gluten but which

   are not wheat or triticale, for example one or more flours selected from the
   group consisting of barley, oat, buckwheat, spelt.
   Gluten-free flours
   Examples of an ingredient to be used in the manufacture of a food product
 5 may be one or more flours, which do not contain gluten (gluten-free flour).
   Accordingly, one embodiment relates to a method of the invention wherein the
   flour may be one or more flours selected from millet, quinoa, soya, corn, rice,
   potato, almond, hazelnut, coconut, and combinations thereof.
   Gluten
10 In order to create stronger gluten networks, bread flours are sometimes
   supplemented by addition of extraneous gluten, i.e. a preparation of wheat
   gluten protein is added to a flour, in order to boost or promote the formation
   of gluten networks, and/or to stabilize the gluten network
   Therefore, the at least one ingredient comprising gluten according to step i) of
15 the invention, may be a preparation of wheat gluten protein. Said preparation
   may comprise at least 50% wheat gluten protein, for example at least 60%, at
   least 70%, at least 80%, at least 90%, or may essentially consist of wheat
   gluten protein.
   One particular embodiment relates to a method according to the invention,
20 wherein the ingredients comprise a flour with a protein content within the
   range of 7 to 16% (for example from 7-12%, 7-9%, or 7-8% protein
   content); a preparation of wheat gluten protein; and CMP.
   A further particular embodiment relates to a method according to the
   invention, wherein the ingredients comprise a flour with a gluten content
25 within the range of 5 to 13%, a preparation of wheat gluten protein and CMP.

   At least one ingredient comprising gluten
   Thus, it may be seen that the at least one ingredient comprising gluten may
   be selected from the group consisting of a flour which contains gluten, one or
   more flours with high gluten content, such as wheat flour and/or triticale flour;
 5 one or more flour with low gluten content, such as one or more flours selected
   from millet, quinoa, soya, corn, rice, potato, almond, hazelnut, coconut, and
   combinations thereof; and/or a preparation of gluten protein, such as wheat
   gluten protein.
   As the skilled person will understand, it may be desirable to add extraneous
10 gluten, e.g. a preparation of wheat gluten protein, when the flour used in the
   manufacture of said food product is mainly or entirely selected from flour with
   low gluten content and/or flour without gluten.
   Further dry ingredients
   According to the method of the invention, one or more ingredients to be used
15 in the manufacture of a food product are provided.
   Said one or more ingredients may comprise any ingredients suitable for a food
   product and may for example be one or more ingredients selected from the
   group consisting of gluten-free flours, dough improvers, emulsifiers, flavouring
   agents, colouring agents and leavening agents.
20 Dough improvers
   The formation and/or stabilisation of the gluten network may be supported
   also by other ingredients. In prior art it is known that addition of certain
   factors will improve dough and the structure of the final food products, e.g.
   breads.
25 Accordingly, one embodiment relates to a method according to the invention,
   wherein CMP is used in conjunction with at least one previously known dough
   improvers, e.g. one or more of known dough improvers selected from
   ascorbic acid, bromate, sodium caseinate, calcium caseinate, sodium stearoyl
   lactylate (SSL), calcium stearoyl lactylate (CSL), ethoxylated mono- and

   diglycerides (EMG), polysorbates (PS), succinylated monoglycerides (SMG)
   and DATEM and enzymes such as one or more of amylase, glucose oxidase,
   lipase, lipoxygenase, hexose oxidase and xylanase.
   The other dough dough improvers may work in the different ways as the CMP,
 5 and influence other parameters.
   Thus, CMP may be added "on top" of a conventional recipe, for example in
   conjunction with previously known dough improverswith only minimal
   adjustments to the recipe. The ease of implementing CMP in a conventional
   recipe, and in an already present and functioning production line, gives
10 economical advantages.
   Alternatively, CMP may be used instead of previously known dough improvers.
   Thus, the method relates in one embodiment to a method wherein no dough
   improvers, other than CMP, is provided.
   Manufacture of wet compositions/dough
15 In order to form a gluten network, the gluten proteins must be hydrated and
   physically agitated, for example by mixing or stirring. Hydration is achieved by
   addition of water and/or at least one aqueous ingredient.
   Accordingly, the method of the invention comprises hydration and subjecting
   said one or more ingredients to mixing, during and/or after addition of said
20 CMP, to form a product comprising a gluten network, for example a wet
   product such as a dough.
   Including CMP in a dough gives effects on the gluten network which are
   apparent already in the dough as is shown in Example 6 and 7. When CMP is
   included, the elastic modulus of the dough is increased, and the mixing time
25 for the dough becomes approximately 10% longer before maximum dough
   development. The dough can thus better tolerate mixing and over-mixing than
   such a dough where CMP is not present.

   In a further embodiment, the mixing according to the method of the invention
   is continued until optimal development (described under Mixing below).
   The term mixing is defined herein as a physical or mechanical treatment, and
   may be for example by agitation, stirring or the like, and combinations
 5 thereof.
   Hydration
   Formation of the gluten network requires both mixing, as well as the presence
   of water.
   The water may be provided by addition of one or more aqueous or wet
10 ingredients as defined herein; said aqueous ingredients may be selected
   according to the desired product, and may for example selected from water,
   milk, whole egg, egg yolk, egg white, a milk-derived liquid such as whey,
   vegetable- or plant-derived juices, beer, wine and/or combinations thereof.
   In a specific embodiment of the method of the invention, the one or more
15 aqueous ingredients are selected from water, milk and/or egg (such as whole
   egg, egg yolk and/or egg white).
   In specific embodiments of the method of the invention, the mixing is
   performed during and/or after addition of one or more aqueous ingredient.
   Mixing
20 To produce an optimum loaf of bread, dough is preferably mixed to the peak
   of the mixing curve (Pomeranz, Modern cereal science and technology, VCH
   Publishers, New York (1987); Pomeranz, Composition and functionality of
   wheat flour components, in: Y. Pomeranz (Ed.), Wheat chemistry and
   technology, Vol. II, Amer. Assoc. Cereal Chem., St. Paul, MN (1988), pp. 219
25 343 1988). This point is known as optimal development, and may be
   determined empirically for different flours, e.g. by determining a farinograph.
   Figure 7 A describes a typical farinograph for a conventional flour-water
   system. The point of optimal dough development is at the peak, and is

                                         .,-U
   indicated by the middle vertical line. As can be seen, the mixing resistance
   declines after the peak, indicating breakdown of the gluten strands and/or
   gluten network. Thus, mixing should not continue after the point of optimal
   development.
 5 In contrast, figure 7B shows a farinograph for the same system as A, with
   inclusion of CMP. Here the dough can be mixed for longer period, without
   reaching breakdown of the gluten strands and/or gluten network.
   Thus, this increased mixing tolerance means that CMP can be mixed for longer
   without the dough collapsing and is less sensitive to fluctuations in the
10 process, and leading to a more robust process of making the dough.
   Furthermore, the increased mixing tolerance leads to less fluctuation in the
   quality and higher volume of the bakery food product, such as a bread.
   The mixing tolerance of a dough comprising CMP is increased in comparison to
   the same dough where no CMP is added. Accordingly, the invention in one
15 embodiment relates to a method according to the invention wherein mixing is
   continued until optimal development, such as where the dough is mixed until
   optimal development of the dough is achieved.
   In an alternative embodiment of the method according to the invention, the
   mixing is for at least twice as long as the same recipe without inclusion of CMP
20 requires; or for example at least 1.75 times, at least 1.5 times, or at least
   1.25 times as long.
   The method of the invention may be useful for increasing the elastic modulus
   of a dough. The increase may for example be at least 10%, more than 10%,
   from 10% to 80%, such from 10 to 50%, such as 10 to 30%. The elastic
25 modulus may be measured by extensograph.
   Alternatively, the mixing tolerance may be stated in terms of Mixing Tolerance
   Index (MTI), which may be calculated based on values extracted from a
   farinograph (see also Example 6). The formula for Mixing Tolerance Index is
   seen in Example 6-. Thus, the present invention may also relate to a method
30 for decreasing the mixing tolerance index of a dough, the mixing tolerance

                                           4./
   index being calculated according to the formula in example 6 by at least 5%,
   the method comprising the steps of
      i) providing one or more ingredients to be used in the manufacture of said
          food product, wherein at least one ingredient comprises gluten; and
 5    ii) adding casein glycomacropeptide (CMP) to said one or more ingredients,
          and hydrating and mixing to form a dough.
      In particular embodiments, step ii) comprises adding casein
         glycomacropeptide (CMP) to said one or more ingredients, such that the
         ratio of CMP to (the combined amount of alpha lactalbumin together with
10       beta lactoglobulin) in the dough is at least 2:1 (dry weight), for example
         at least 1:1, or at least 0.9:1, 0.8:1 (dry weight),
   In further embodiments, the ratio of CMP to (the combined amounts of alpha
   lactalbumin and beta lactoglobulin) in the dough is in the range from 100:0 to
   30:70, or 90:10 to 30:70, such as 80:20 to 30:70, 70:30 to 30:70, for
15 example 60:40 to 30:70.
   The mixing tolerance index may be decreased by for example decreased at
   least 5%, as compared to a corresponding dough; such as for example a
   decrease of at least of at least 10%, at least 20%, at least 30% at least 40%,
   at least 50%, at least 60%, at least 70%, at least 80%; or for example from 5
20 to 90%, such as 10 to 90%, 15 to 90%, 20 to 90%, 30 to 90%, 40 to 90%
   50% to 80%, 50 to 70%: or for example 10 to 80%, 10 to 70%, 10 to 60%,
   10 to 50%, 10 to 30%, 10 to 20%.
   Manufacture of bakery food product
   The method of the invention may further comprise a step of heat treatment. If
25 the method is directed to for example making a pasta, the heat treatment
   may be suitable for drying a pasta. If the product is a bakery food product the
   heat treatment is suitable for baking the food product.

   The heat treatment may for example be at a temperature within the range of
   100 to 400 degrees Celsius; and may have a duration of from 45 seconds to
   two hours.
   The method of the invention may further comprise one or more steps of
 5 proofing, resting and/or leavening.
   It is often the case that food products which rely on gluten network for the
   texture of the final food product are leavened. In a yeasted bread for
   example, the air or gas bubbles which are expanded by yeast fermentation in
   the leavening process in bread, are able to stretch the dough due the
10 extensibility of the gluten network. Without wishing to be bound by theory, it
   is believed that the gluten networks which are stabilised according to the
   invention are able to extend more without collapsing.
   However, leavening is not a prerequisite for the formation of a gluten network,
   and therefore is not a prerequisite for the gluten network stabilizing effect of
15 CMP. This is for example demonstrated in the case of pasta, which also relies
   on gluten network for its desired texture. Furthermore, leavening may be
   achieved in any suitable way.
   The food product may for example be leavened using biological leavening
   agents, chemical leavening agents, mechanical leavens or a combination
20 thereof.
   Examples of biological leavening agents include yeast, and sour dough.
   Examples of chemical leavening agents include bicarbonate, monocalcium
   phosphates (Ca(H2PO4)2). Other leavening agents developed include sodium
   aluminum sulfate (SAS), monocalcium phosphate, sodium acid pyrophosphate
25 (SAPP), sodium aluminum phosphates (SALP), sodium bicarbonate.
   Examples of mechanical leavening includes high intensity mixing.
   The method may also comprise steps of dividing, molding and/or shaping the
   composition.

   One particular embodiment relates to a method according to the invention
   wherein the product comprising a gluten network is divided, shaped, leavened,
   proved, and subjected to a heat treatment.
   It is believed that the heat treatment, proofing, resting and/or leavening, and
 5 the dividing, molding and/or shaping steps are not critical for the gluten
   network strengthening effect of CMP.
   The invention also relates to methods of preparing bakery food products
   and/or pasta.
   Thus some embodiments relate to a method according the invention, wherein
10 said product comprising a stabilised gluten network is divided, shaped,
   leavened and/or proved.
   Further embodiments relate to a method according to the invention,
   comprising subjecting said product comprising a gluten network to heat
   treatment/baking.
15 Further embodiments relate to a method according to the invention wherein
   said heat treatment is at temperature within the range of 100-400 degrees
   Celsius.
   Further embodiments relate to a method according to the invention, wherein
   said heat treatment has a duration of 45 sec -2 hours.
20 Manufacture of pasta
   Pasta differs from bread in that instead of baking, the dough is extruded and
   then dried. However, the same principles apply to the making of the dough.
   Food products which comprise gluten, but which do not form a gluten network
   Certain food products, for example cakes and biscuits are also commonly
25 made from wheat flour, although this flour usually has a low gluten content
   (7-9% protein content; about 5 to 7% gluten content). In contrast to breads,

                                        -)U
   the development of gluten networks is usually discouraged in these food
   products as it results in an undesirable and tough texture in these products.
   The addition of CMP will not improve texture in food products which do not
   rely on gluten network for their texture. For example, some cakes such as
 5 pound cake, rely on foaming of egg protein for the texture. In a pound cake,
   no gluten network is formed because of the negative effect of the presence of
   fat on the gluten network. Thus, inclusion of CMP cannot stabilize a gluten
   network, and will not impart increased resilience and therefore not improve
   texture.
10 Further methods
   It was observed that presence of alpha lactalbumin and/or beta lactoglobulin
   could inhibt the gluten network stabilising effect of CMP.
   Thus, the invention may also relate to a method of strengthening the gluten
   network in a food product according to the invention, such as a dough, bread
15 or pasta comprising the steps of
       - providing one or more ingredients to be used in the manufacture of said
   food product, wherein at least one ingredient comprises gluten, and
       - adding CMP such that the ratio of CMP to (the combined amount of alpha
   lactalbumin together with beta lactoglobulin) in the food product is at least 2:1
20 (dry weight), for example at least 1:1, or at least 0.9:1, 0.8:1 (dry weight).
   In further embodiments of the method of the invention, the food product
   comprises alpha lactalbumin and/or beta lactoglobulin, and the ratio of CMP to
   (the combined amounts of alpha lactalbumin and beta lactoglobulin) in the
   food product according to the invention is in the range from 90:10 to 30:70,
25 such as 80:20 to 30:70, 70:30 to 30:70, for example 60:40 to 30:70.
   In yet further embodiments, the ratio of CMP to (the combined amounts of
   alpha lactalbumin and beta lactoglobulin) in the food product according to the
   invention is in the range from 100:0 to 50:50, such as from 90:10 to 50:50,
   80:20 to 50:50, 70:30 to 50:50, 60:40 to 50:50.

   The method according to the invention, wherein the food product comprises
   an amount of alpha lactalbumin and/or beta lactoglobulin which corresponds
   to less than 50% of the amount of the CMP.
   Some embodiments relate to a method according to the invention, wherein
 5 the combined amount of alpha lactalbumin and beta lactoglobulin present in
   the one or more ingredients provided in step i) combined with the CMP
   provided in step ii), corresponds to less than 50% of the amount of the CMP
   which is added in step ii).
   Further embodiments relate to a method according to the invention, wherein
10 said CMP is provided in the form of a fraction of WPI or WPC where CMP
   makes up at least 50% of the total protein content of said fraction by weight
   Further embodiments relate to a method according to the invention, wherein
   the amounts of alpha lactalbumin and beta lactoglobulin together make up
   less than 50% of the total protein content of said fraction by weight.
15 Yet further embodiments relate to a method according to the invention,
   wherein the amounts of alpha lactalbumin and beta lactoglobulin together
   make up less than 50% of the weight of the CMP which is added in step ii).
   Specific embodiments relate to the method according to the invention,
   wherein said CMP is provided in the form of a whey fraction where CMP makes
20 up at least 50% of the total protein content of said fraction by dry weight.
   Further specific embodiments relate to the method according to the invention,
   wherein said CMP is provided in the form of a whey fraction where the
   amounts of alpha lactalbumin and beta lactoglobulin together make up less
   than 50% of the total protein content of said fraction by weight.
25 The invention in another aspect relates to a method of reducing staleness,
   and/or increasing shelf life, and/or increasing softness of a bakery food
   product. The increase in softness may for example be at least 5%, as
   compared to the corresponding bakery food product made without CMP; such
   as for example an increase of at least 10%, at least 15%, at least 20%, at

   least 25%, at least 30% at least 40% at least 50%, at least 75%, at least
   100%; or for example an increase in the range from 5% to 200%, such as
   from 5% to 175%, 5% to 150%, 5% to 100%, 5% to 80%, 5% to 75%, 5%
   to 50%; or for example from 10% to 200%, such as 15% to 200%, 20% to
 5 200%, 20% to 150%, 20% to 120%, 30% to 120%, 40% to 120%, 50% to
   120%.
   The softness may be measured by Texture Profile Analysis. The methods are
   well-known to person skilled in the art. See further in Example 3 for a brief
   description.
10 The bakery food product may be for example a bread as defined herein.
   The method of the invention as described herein may also be stated as a
   method of increasing mixing tolerance in dough.
   Furthermore, embodiments of the invention relate to a food product obtained
   by methods according to the invention, and also to the intermediate dough
15 produced by these methods. The amounts of CMP and other parameters as
   described and exemplified elsewhere in this description also apply to this
   method of the invention.
   Increased volume
   One particular embodiment relates to a method for stabilising a gluten
20 network according to the invention, wherein the gluten content of the
   ingredients is low, for example the gluten content is no more than 7%, such
   as from2 to 7%, 2 to 6%, 2 to 5% by dry weight of the flour or of the total of
   the ingredients, or for example wherein the only ingredient comprising gluten
   is a cake flour. Inclusion of CMP in recipes with low gluten content will lead to
25 an increased volume.
   Another particular embodiment relates to a method for stabilising a gluten
   network according to the invention, wherein the gluten content of the
   ingredients is high, for example the gluten content is not less than 8%, such
   as from 8 to 18%, 8 to 16%, 8 to 12%, 8 to 10% by dry weight of the flour or

   of the total of the ingrefients. High gluten content breads tend to stale faster,
   the inclusion of CMP leads to increased softness (indicated by reduced Peak
   force in TPA).
   Uses
 5 In a further aspect, the invention relates to the use of casein
   glycomacropeptide (CMP) to stabilize a gluten network in a food product.
   The parameters used to describe the method of stabilising a gluten network in
   a food product, may also be applied to the use of CMP to stabilise a gluten
   network in a food product.
10 In particular embodiments, the invention relates to the use of CMP in the
   methods of stabilising a gluten network in a food product as described herein
   The food product may be for example a a bakery food product, a dough, a
   pasta and any combinations thereof.
   Specfic embodiments relate to the use of a composition comprising at least
15 0.01 g CMP to stabilize a gluten network in a food product, such as 0.01 to 0.8
   g CMP/ g gluten; such as for example from 0.03 to 0.8, such as 0.05 to 0.8,
   0.08 to 0.8, 0.1 to 0.8; or for example 0.01 to 0.5 g CMP/g gluten, for
   example from 0.03 to 0.5, such as 0.05 to 0.5, 0.08 to 0.5, 0.1 to 0.5; or for
   example 0.01 to 0.4 g CMP/g gluten, such as 0.01 to 0.3 g, 0.01 to 0.2, 0.01
20 to 0.1 g CMP/g gluten.
   A further specific embodiment relates to the use of a composition comprising
   CMP, alpha lactalbumin and beta lactoglobulin to stabilize a gluten network in
   a food product, wherein the alpha lactalbumin and beta lactoglobulin together
   make up less than 50% of the CMP by dry weight, such as from 0 to 45%, 0
25 to 40%, 0 to 35%, 0 to 30%, 0 to 28%, 0 to      2 5%; or for example from 0.5 to
   45%, 0.8 to 45%,     2% to 10 to 40%, 12 to 35%, 15 to 35%, 20 to 35% of
   the weight of the total CMP content of said composition.
   Further embodiments relate to the use of a composition comprising CMP,
   alpha lactalbumin and beta lactoglobulin to stabilize a gluten network in a food

   product, wherein the ratio of CMP to (the combined amounts of alpha
   lactalbumin and beta lactoglobulin) in the composition is in the range from
   90:10 to 30:70, such as 80:20 to 30:70, 70:30 to 30:70, for example 60:40
   to 30:70. See also example 11.
 5 Further embodiments relate to the use of a composition comprising CMP,
   alpha lactalbumin and beta lactoglobulin to stabilize a gluten network in a food
   product, such that the use results in a food product wherein the ratio of CMP
   to (the combined amounts of alpha lactalbumin and beta lactoglobulin) in the
   composition according to the invention is in the range from 90:10 to 30:70,
10 such as 80:20 to 30:70, 70:30 to 30:70, for example 60:40 to 30:70.Other
   embodiments relate to the use of a composition comprising CMP as according
   to the invention to stabilize a gluten network in a food product, in particular to
   the use of the compositions described herein under the heading Dry
   Compositions.
15 In further embodiments, the invention relates to the use of CMP to increase
   softness and/or reduce staleness, and/or increase shelf life in a food product,
   such as a bakery food product, for example a bread.
   The use may be for example to increase softness and/or increase shelf life of a
   bakery food product (for example a bread) at least 5%, such as at least 10%,
20 such as for example at least 15% or at least 20%, at least   2 5%;  or for
   example from 2 to 50%, 4 to 40%, 3 to 30%: or 5 to 50%, 7 to 50%, 10 to
   50 The increase may be for example at one day, 1 to 5 days, 1 to 3 days. 1 to
   2 days or for example 1 day after baking.
   Compositions of the invention
25 The invention relates in a second aspect to a composition comprising gluten
   and CMP for use in a method of stabilizing a gluten network in a food product
   according to the invention. In particular embodiments, the composition is
   obtained when performing a method according to the invention.
   In specific embodiments, the invention relates to a food product comprising a
30 stabilised gluten network and CMP, said food product being obtained when

   performing the method of stabilising a gluten network according to the
   invention.
   In other specific embodiments, the invention relates to a composition for use
   in the method according to the invention, said composition comprising
 5 i) at least one ingredient comprising gluten and
   ii) at least one ingredient comprising CMP, wherein said composition
   comprises CMP in an amount of from 0.01 to 0.5 g CMP/g gluten.
   The compositions according to the invention may comprise gluten and CMP in
   an amount of from 0.01 to 0.5 g CMP/g gluten, for example from 0.01. to 0.45
10 g CMP/g gluten, such as 0.03 to 0.5, such as 0.05 to 0.5, 0.08 to 0.5, 0.1 to
   0.5; or for example from 0.01 to 0.4 g CMP/g gluten, such as from 0.01 to 0.3
   g, 0.01 to 0.2, or from 0.01 to 0.1 g CMP/g gluten.
   In some embodiments of the composition according to the invention, the
   combined amount of alpha-lactalbumin and beta-lactoglobulin may be less
15 than 50% of the total protein content; for example the combined amount of
   alpha-lactalbumin and beta-lactoglobulin in the composition of the invention
   may be in the range of from 0 to 0.5 g/g gluten, 0 to 0.45 g/g gluten, 0 to
   0.25 g/g gluten, such as for example 0 to 0.24 g/g gluten, or for example
   0.005 to 0.5 g/g gluten, 0.005 to 0.45 g/g gluten, 0.005 to 0.3 g/g gluten; or
20 0.005 to 0.25 g/g gluten, such as 0.005 to 0.24 g/g gluten.
   Alpha-lactalbumin and beta-lactoglobulin may inhibit the gluten network
   stabilizing effect of CMP. Therefore, particular embodiments relates to
   compositions where the amount of alpha-lactalbumin and beta-lactoglobulin
   present in total in the composition corresponds to less than 50% of the weight
25 of the CMP content of said composition, such as from 0 to 45%, 0 to 40%, 0
   to 35%, 0 to 30%, 0 to 28%, 0 to 25%; or for example from 0.5 to 45%, 0.8
   to 45%,    2% to 10 to 40%, 12 to 35%, 15 to 35%, 20 to 35% of the weight
   of the total CMP content of said composition.In other embodiments, ratio of
   CMP to (the combined amount of alpha lactalbumin together with beta
30 lactoglobulin) in the composition is at least 2:1 (dry weight), for example at
   least 1:1, or at least 0.9:1, 0.8:1 (dry weight).

                                          -) U
   For example the ratio of CMP to (the combined amounts of alpha lactalbumin
   and beta lactoglobulin) in the composition according to the invention may be
   in the range from 100:0 to 50:50, 90:10 to 50:50, such as 80:20 to 50:50,
   70:30 to 50:50 or 60:40 to 50:50.
 5 In some embodiments of the invention, any compositions of the invention is
   defined by specifying both the composition's CMP-content in relation to gluten
   content, and the composition's content of alpha-lactalbumin and/or
   betalactoglobulin in relation to CMP content. The ranges may for example be
   as specified above.
10 Said compositions of the invention may be a food product, for example a
   semi-manufactured food.
   The term "semi-manufactured" is used to refer to a food product which is an
   intermediate; that is, it is sold to the consumer in a form which is not yet its
   final form, and is processed to the final form by the consumer. Examples of
15 such semi-manufactured foods include food product mixes, such as bread or
   pastry mixes, or for example doughs which are to be formed and baked by the
   consumer, and the like.
   Dry compositions
   In one embodiment, the compositions of the invention are dry compositions.
20 Dry compositions typically comprise less than 25% (w/w) water, e.g. less than
   20% (w/w), less than 19% (w/w), less than 18% (w/w), less than 17%
   (w/w), less than 16% (w/w) or less than 15% (w/w) water. Such dry
   compositions may be compositions obtainable as intermediates when
   performing a method of stabilizing a gluten network in a food product
25 according to the invention, and may thus be obtained by mixing one or more
   ingredients to be used in the manufacture of a food product with a stabilized
   gluten network, which are dry ingredients. Thus, the invention in one
   embodiment relates to a composition for use in the method of stabilising a
   gluten network in a food product according to the invention, said composition
30 comprising i) at least one ingredient comprising gluten and ii) at least one

                                         -J/
   ingredient comprising CMP, wherein said composition comprises CMP in an
   amount of from 0.01 to 0.5 g CMP/g gluten, and wherein said ingredients are
   dry ingredients.
   The compositions of the invention relate to embodiments wherein said CMP is
 5 present in an amount of from 0.2 to 20 % (w/w) of dry weight, for example
   from example 0.2 to 15%, 0.2 to 10 %, 0.3 to 10% or 0.5 to 10% (w/w) dry
   ingredients; such as 1 to 10%, 1 to 8%, 1 to 5% or for example 0.0.2 to 3%
   (w/w) dry weight.
   Some embodiments of the compositions of the invention may comprise at
10 least one flour. Alternatively, in one embodiment, a composition according to
   the invention consists of CMP and at least one flour.
   The at least one flours may be selected from the group consisting of wheat,
   triticale, rye, barley, oat, buckwheat, spelt, millet, quinoa, soya, corn, rice,
   potato, almond, hazelnut and coconut. In one specific embodiment the at least
15 one flour comprises or consists of wheat flour.
   The wheat flour may be selected from the group consisting of Type 550,
   Danish wheat bread flour, Reform wheat flour, Manitoba and combinations
   thereof.
   The at least one flours may together have an average gluten content of from 5
20 to 13%, such as for example, from 8 to 13% content, from 8 to 9%, ; or for
   example from 10 to 13% by weight.
   In one embodiment the at least one flours have together a low gluten content,
   for example a gluten content which is at most 7%, for example less than 7%,
   for example no more than 8%, such as no more than 7, 6, 5, 4, 3, 2, 1% by
25 weight of the flour in the mix; or for example from 5 to 7% by weight.
   In a further embodiment, the composition according the invention may
   comprise one or more ingredients, which are selected from the group
   consisting of a dough improver which is not CMP, an emulsifier, a flavouring

                                         -U
   agent, a colouring agent, a preparation of gluten, additional gluten, malted
   wheat flour, leavening agent.
   The dough improver which is not CMP may be selected from the group
   consisting of ascorbic acid, bromate, sodium caseinate, calcium caseinate,
 5 sodium stearoyl lactylate (SSL), calcium stearoyl lactylate (CSL), ethoxylated
   mono- and diglycerides (EMG), polysorbates (PS), succinylated
   monoglycerides (SMG) DATEM, and enzymes such as one or more of amylase,
   glucose oxidase, lipase, lipoxygenase, hexose oxidase and xylanase.
   A specific embodiment of the invention relates to a composition according to
10 the invention, which does not contain any dough improver other than CMP.
   One specific embodiment of this aspect of the invention, is a mix, such as for
   example a bread mix, a doughnut mix, a sweet yeasted bread mix, a cake
   mix, a pasta flour.
   In another specific embodiment of this aspect, relates to a so called "clean
15 label" mix; i.e., wherein the mix does not comprise any E-number ingredients.
   These compositions of the invention may for example sold to the end
   consumer, such as in the form of for example bread mixes, or may be sold to
   food makers, who in turn produce and sell the final food product.
   These compositions will produce food products, such as bread or bakery food
20 product, with improved texture, as explained.
   The addition of CMP as sole dough improver provides a clean label mix.
   Addition of CMP to mixes allows the use of flours with lower gluten content
   without comprising the texture of the final product. Lower gluten content may
   be desirable in order to allow the use of speciality flours with no gluten (such
25 as for example one or more of millet, coconut, almond, hazel nut flours, and
   the like), and/or the use of flours with low gluten content but which may have
   other nutritional benefits (such as for example one or more of quinoa, rye,
   oat, spelt and the like).

   Thus, the invention in a further aspect relates to the use of a flour mix with
   low gluten content and CMP, for example in an amount of 0.01 to 0.5 g CMP
   per g gluten, for example from 0.03 to 0.5, such as 0.05 to 0.5, 0.08 to 0.5,
   0.1 to 0.5; or for example from 0.01 to 0.4 g CMP/g gluten, such as from 0.01
 5 to 0.3 g, 0.01 to 0.2, or from 0.01 to 0.1 g CMP/g gluten to prepare a low
   gluten content bread.
   In this context, the term "low gluten content" means a gluten content of no
   more than 7% (w/w) gluten, such as no more than 6, 5, 4, 3, 2, 1% (w/w);
   or for example from 5 to 7% gluten.
10 In embodiments of a further aspect, the invention relates to use of these
   compositions of the invention, in particular the use of said compositions to
   stabilize gluten network in a food product. Particular embodiments of this
   aspect relate to the use of any of the compositions according to the invention,
   in a method of stabilizing a gluten network in a food product according to the
15 invention.
   Wet compositions/dough
   In other embodiments, the compositions of the invention may be wet
   compositions such as dough. The compositions according to the invention may
   comprise one or more aqueous ingredients.
20 The one or more aqueous ingredients may be selected from water, milk, egg,
   a milk-derived liquid such as whey, vegetable- or plant-derived juices, and/or
   combinations thereof. In a specific embodiment of the method of the
   invention, the one or more aqueous ingredients are selected from water, milk
   and/or egg.
25 Further embodiments relate to a composition according to the invention which
   comprises a CMP-stabilized gluten network formed by a process, said process
   comprising subjecting said one or more ingredients to hydration and mixing
   during and/or after addition of said CMP, to form a product comprising a
   gluten network, such as a food product a food product selected from the group

                                       -to
   consisting of a bakery food product, a dough, a pasta and any combinations
   thereof.
   Accordingly, embodiments relating to wet compositions/dough may comprise
   one or more ingredients selected from the group consisting of a dough
 5 improver which is not CMP, an emulsifier, a flavouring agent, a colouring
   agent, additional gluten, leavening agent, malted wheat flour.
   Experiments have shown that adding CMP in addition to dough improvers will
   further improve the texture of the food product.
   The dough improver which is not CMP may be selected from the group
10 consisting of ascorbic acid, bromate, sodium caseinate, calcium caseinate,
   SSL, calcium stearoyl lactylate (CSL), ethoxylated mono- and diglycerides
   (EMG), polysorbates (PS), succinylated monoglycerides (SMG) DATEM and
   enzymes such as one or more of amylase, glucose oxidase, lipase,
   lipoxygenase, hexose oxidase and xylanase.
15 A specific embodiment of the invention relates to a wet composition/dough
   according to the invention which does not contain any dough improver other
   than CMP.
   Another embodiment relates to a wet composition/dough according to the
   invention, wherein the wet composition is a dough, and wherein CMP is
20 present in an amount of from 0.01 to 0.5 g CMP, 0.01 to 0.5 g CMP/g gluten,
   for example from 0.03 to 0.5, such as 0.05 to 0.5, 0.08 to 0.5, 0.1 to 0.5; or
   for example 0.01 to 0.4 g CMP/g gluten, such as 0.01 to 0.3 g, 0.01 to 0.2,
   0.01 to 0.1 g CMP/g gluten.
   Further embodiments relate to wherein CMP is present in an amount of from
25 for example 0.01 to 0.8 g CMP/ g gluten; such as for example from 0.03 to
   0.8, such as 0.05 to 0.8, 0.08 to 0.8, 0.1 to 0.8; or for example 0.01 to 0.5 g
   CMP/g gluten, such as 0.01 to 0.8 g, 0.01 to 0.7, 0.01 to 0.6, 0.01 to 0.5 g
   CMP/g gluten.

                                         -r -L
   Further embodiments of the wet composition/dough according to the invention
   relates to said compositions comprising one or more leavening agents selected
   from the group of chemical, and biological leavening agents, and/or has been
   mechanically leavened.
 5 One embodiment of a composition according to invention, relates to a dough
   consisting of a fat source, wheat flour, sugar, salt, yeast, water, optionally one
   or more further preservative such as calcium propionate, and CMP, wherein
   CMP is present in an amount of 0.01 g to 0.5g CMP/g gluten, such as 0.01 to
   0.8 g CMP/ g gluten; such as for example from 0.03 to 0.8, such as 0.05 to
10 0.8, 0.08 to 0.8, 0.1 to 0.8; or for example 0.01 to 0.5 g CMP/g gluten, such
   as 0.01 to 0.8 g, 0.01 to 0.7, 0.01 to 0.6, 0.01 to 0.5 g CMP/g gluten.
   Examples of other preservatives include calcium propionate, propionic acid,
   acetic acid.
   Food products
15 Further embodiments of the invention relates to a composition which is a food
   product which is selected from the group consisting of a bakery food product,
   a dough, a pasta and any combinations thereof.
   Said composition may for example be obtainable or obtained when performing
   the method according to the invention.
20 The invention also relates to a food product comprising a stabilised gluten
   network, CMP, alpha lactalbumin and beta lactoglobulin, said food product
   being obtained when performing the method according to the invention and
   wherein the ratio of CMP to (the combined amount of alpha lactalbumin
   together with beta lactoglobulin) in the food product is at least 1: 1, or at least
25 0.9:1, 0.8:1 (dry weight); or for example is in the range from 90:10 to 30:70,
   such as 80:20 to 30:70, 70:30 to 30:70, for example 60:40 to 30:70.
   Further embodiments relate to wherein the ratio of CMP to (the combined
   amount of alpha lactalbumin together with beta lactoglobulin) is in the range
   from 100:0 to 50:50, such as from 90:10 to 50:50, 80:20 to 50:50, 70:30 to
30 50:50, 60:40 to 50:50. Further embodiment relate to where said food product

                                        -r ,
   comprises an amount of alpha lactalbumin and/or beta lactoglobulin which
   corresponds to less than 50% of the amount of the CMP in the food product.
   Said compositions may for example be a bakery food product and CMP may be
   present in an amount of from 0.01 to 0.5 g CMP/g gluten (w/w), for example
 5 from 0.03 to 0.5, such as 0.05 to 0.5, 0.08 to 0.5, 0.1 to 0.5; or for example
   0.01 to 0.4 g CMP/g gluten, such as 0.01 to 0.3 g, 0.01 to 0.2, 0.01 to 0.1 g
   CMP/g gluten, or for example 0.01 to 0.8 g CMP/ g gluten; such as for
   example from 0.03 to 0.8, such as 0.05 to 0.8, 0.08 to 0.8, 0.1 to 0.8; or for
   example 0.01 to 0.5 g CMP/g gluten, such as 0.01 to 0.8 g, 0.01 to 0.7, 0.01
10 to 0.6, 0.01 to 0.5 g CMP/g gluten
   Examples of such bakery food product are for example a bread as defined
   herein.
   One embodiment of a composition according to invention, relates to a bread
   consisting of a fat source, wheat flour, sugar, salt, yeast, water, optionally one
15 or more preservatives (such as calcium propionate, propionic acid and/or
   acetic acid)fr, and CMP, wherein CMP is present in an amount of 0.01 g to 0.5
   g CMP/g gluten, such as 0.01 to 0.8 g CMP/ g gluten; such as for example
   from 0.03 to 0.8, such as 0.05 to 0.8, 0.08 to 0.8, 0.1 to 0.8; or for example
   0.01 to 0.5 g CMP/g gluten, such as 0.01 to 0.8 g, 0.01 to 0.7, 0.01 to 0.6,
20 0.01 to 0.5 g CMP/g gluten.
   In another embodiment, the composition according to the invention may be a
   pasta, wherein the CMP is present in an amount of from 0.01 to 0.5 g CMP/g
   gluten (w/w), for example from 0.03 to 0.5, such as 0.05 to 0.5, 0.08 to 0.5,
   0.1 to 0.5; or for example 0.01 to 0.4 g CMP/g gluten, such as 0.01 to 0.3 g,
25 0.01 to 0.2, 0.01 to 0.1 g CMP/g gluten, or for example 0.01 to 0.8 g CMP/ g
   gluten; such as for example from 0.03 to 0.8, such as 0.05 to 0.8, 0.08 to
   0.8, 0.1 to 0.8; or for example 0.01 to 0.5 g CMP/g gluten, such as 0.01 to
   0.8 g, 0.01 to 0.7, 0.01 to 0.6, 0.01 to 0.5 g CMP/g gluten.
   Particular food products
30 Longer shelf life bakery food products

                                         -r -)
   A bakery food product, such as a bread according to the invention, will have
   an increased volume, increased softness and increased resilience.
   These effects contribute to prolonged softness of the bread, and delays
   staling.
 5 Bread staling is responsible for significant financial loss for both consumers
   and producers and every year bread worth many millions of dollars is
   discarded.
   Staling has previously been thought more to be associated with the changes in
   starch structure during storage. Thus, it was surprising that the stabilizing the
10 gluten network would have such dramatic effect on softness and volume.
   The inclusion of CMP leads to an increased shelf-life of breads, as shown in
   Figure 10.
   Thus, one embodiment of this aspect relates to a food product, for example a
   bread, comprising a stabilized gluten network and CMP, and wherein the shelf
15 life is increased by at least 10%, such as at least 15%, for example from 25%
   to 50%, 25% to 80% as compared to the food product, such as the bread,
   without CMP.
   Alternatively, the increased shelf-life may be specified in number of days with
   which the shelf-life is extended.
20 For example, the shelf-life of a bread according to the invention may be
   extended by at least one, at least 2, at least 3 days, such as for example,
   from one to 4 days, 1 to 2, 1 to 3, 1 to 4, 1 to 5, 1 to 6, 1 to 7 days as
   compared to the bread with the same recipe but lacking CMP.
   Other embodiments, relate to a food product, such as a bread, according to
25 the invention which comprises CMP in an amount of 0.01 to 0.8 g CMP/ g
   gluten; such as for example from 0.03 to 0.8, such as 0.05 to 0.8, 0.08 to
   0.8, 0.1 to 0.8; or for example 0.01 to 0.5 CMP per g gluten, such as for
   example from 0.03 to 0.5, such as 0.05 to 0.5, 0.08 to 0.5, 0.1 to 0.5; or for
   example 0.01 to 0.4 g CMP/g gluten, such as 0.01 to 0.3 g, 0.01 to 0.2, 0.01

   to 0.1 g CMP/g gluten and which has an increased shelf life, for example as
   exemplified above.
   Such bakery food products comprising CMP also display an improved
   sliceability. This leads to less transportation damage and therefore less waste
 5 which is an economic advantage.
   Softer breads
   Dilution of gluten network When non-gluten containing ingredients are
   included in a food product which relies on a gluten network for its texture, the
   gluten network is weakened and the texture of the food product is thereby
10 compromised.
   The inclusion of CMP, with or without addition of further dough improvers, can
   compensate for this weakness.
   Thus, one embodiment of this aspect relates to a food product according to
   the invention which contains less than 9 % gluten based on weight of final
15 product, and which contains 0.01 to 0.8 g CMP/ g gluten; such as for example
   from 0.03 to 0.8, such as 0.05 to 0.8, 0.08 to 0.8, 0.1 to 0.8; or for example
   0.01 to 0.5g CMP/g gluten, for example from 0.03 to 0.5, such as 0.05 to 0.5,
   0.08 to 0.5, 0.1 to 0.5; or for example from 0.01 to 0.4 g CMP/g gluten, such
   as from 0.01 to 0.3 g, 0.01 to 0.2, or from 0.01 to 0.1 g CMP/g gluten.
20 One specific example of this embodiment relates to a bread which contains a
   low gluten content, and 0.0025 g to 0.5 g CMP/g gluten, wherein the gluten
   content of the bread is no more than 7%, such as no more than 6%, no more
   than 5, 4, 3, 2, 1% by weight of the bread.
   Sweetened breads
25 Dilution of the gluten network may in other examples be due to the inclusion
   of for example, egg, fats, liquids which have a negative effect on the gluten
   network.

                                         -r .. ,
   For example, sweet breads typically include ingredients such as eggs, and
   butter. These foods will not form a strong gluten network, and the texture of
   the final bread produced may be compromised. Moreover the dough is more
   difficult to work with.
 5 Inclusion of CMP in such breads may compensate for dilution, and produce
   breads with acceptable texture.
   Thus, the invention in one embodiment relates to a food product, such as a
   sweetened bread as defined herein comprising 0.01 to 0.8 g CMP/ g gluten;
   such as for example from 0.03 to 0.8, such as 0.05 to 0.8, 0.08 to 0.8, 0.1 to
10 0.8; or for example 0.02 to 0.5 g CMP/g gluten. for example from 0.03 to 0.5,
   such as 0.05 to 0.5, 0.08 to 0.5, 0.1 to 0.5; or for example 0.01to 0.4 g
   CMP/g gluten, such as 0.01 to 0.3 g, 0.01 to 0.2, 0.01 to 0.1 g CMP/g gluten.
   Breads containinginsolubleparticles
   Other examples of dilution of gluten content relate to food products, such as
15 breads, where coarse and/or insoluble particles are included, such as one or
   more of seeds, bran, nuts, dried fruit pieces and the like. Such particles can
   tear the strands of gluten in the gluten network and in this manner
   compromise the strength of the gluten network.
   Inclusion of CMP in such food products may strengthen the gluten network,
20 and produce breads with acceptable texture despite the inclusion of insoluble
   particles.
   Thus, one embodiment of this aspect relates to a food product according to
   the invention, such as a bread, comprising 0.01 to 0.8 g CMP/ g gluten; such
   as for example from 0.03 to 0.8, such as 0.05 to 0.8, 0.08 to 0.8, 0.1 to 0.8;
25 or for example 0.01 to 0.5 g CMP/g gluten and further comprising one or more
   types of insoluble particles, for example selected from the group consisting of
   insoluble fibre (e.g. bran, husks, bark and the like); whole or crushed seeds,
   nuts, and/or grains; fruit (e.g. dried fruit, berries and the like), and
   combinations thereof.

                                         -to
   Types of bread that may benefit from the inclusion of CMP in order to improve
   the texture include whole meal bread, high fibre bread, corn bread, hearth
   breads and mixed grain bread.
   Combinations
 5 The gluten network of a food product may be compromised due to a
   combination of the above described reasons, for example inclusion of flour
   with low gluten content, inclusion of other ingredients which dilute the gluten,
   and/or inclusion of insoluble particles as described above.
   One embodiment relates therefore to a food product according to the
10 invention, such as a bread, wherein the gluten network is compromised due to
   one or more of the following reasons: inclusion of flour with low gluten
   content, such as one or more of weak flour, cake flour, flour from rye, oat,
   spelt, etc; inclusion of further ingredients such as eggs, butter, milk, etc;
   and/or inclusion of insoluble particles such as insoluble fibre (e.g. bran, husks,
15 bark and the like); whole or crushed seeds, nuts, and/or grains; fruit (e.g.
   dried fruit, berries and the like), and combinations thereof; and wherein the
   food product comprises CMP in an amount of 0.01 to 0.8 g CMP/ g gluten;
   such as for example from 0.03 to 0.8, such as 0.05 to 0.8, 0.08 to 0.8, 0.1 to
   0.8; or for example 0.01 to 0.5 CMP/g gluten, for example from 0.03 to 0.5,
20 such as 0.05 to 0.5, 0.08 to 0.5, 0.1 to 0.5; or for example 0.01 to 0.4 g
   CMP/g gluten, such as 0.01 to 0.3 g, 0.01 to 0.2, 0.01 to 0.1 g CMP/g gluten.
   Yeasted Food products
   Many of the food products which rely on gluten network for their desired
   texture, also rely on leavening agents to achieve the desired texture.
25 For example in bread which is leavened by yeast, air bubbles in the dough are
   expanded by yeast fermentation. The extensible properties of the gluten
   network allow this expansion, and the leavening in combination with the
   gluten network's characteristics contribute to the texture of the bread.

                                         't /
   The stabilizing effect of CMP on the gluten network is thus particularly
   noticeable in food products which are leavened.
   When CMP is included, the amount of leavening agent used may also be
   increased, due to the stronger gluten network. Adjusting the amount of
 5 leavening agent is within the skill of the art.
   Thus, some embodiments of these aspects relate to a food product comprising
   a gluten network and CMP, and further comprising one or more leavening
   agents.
   The food product may for example be leavened using biological leavening
10 agents, chemical leavening agents, mechanical leavens or a combination
   thereof.
   Examples of biological leavening agents include yeast, and sour dough.
   Examples of chemical leavening agents include bicarbonate, monocalcium
   phosphates (Ca(H2PO4) 2). Other leavening agents developed include sodium
15 aluminum sulfate (SAS), monocalcium phosphate, sodium acid pyrophosphate
   (SAPP), sodium aluminum phosphates (SALP), sodium bicarbonate.
   Examples of mechanical leavening includes high intensity mixing.
   Exemplary embodiments include a food product according to the invention
   comprising a gluten network and CMP, further comprising one or more
20 leavening agents, such as yeast; for example wherein the CMP is present in an
   amount from 0.01 to 0.8 g CMP/ g gluten; such as for example from 0.03 to
   0.8, such as 0.05 to 0.8, 0.08 to 0.8, 0.1 to 0.8; or for example 0,02 to 0.5 g
   CMP /g gluten, such as for example from 0.03 to 0.5, such as 0.05 to 0.5,
   0.08 to 0.5, 0.1 to 0.5; or for example 0.01 to 0.4 g CMP/g gluten, such as
25 0.01 to 0.3 g, 0.01 to 0.2, 0.01 to 0.1 g CMP/g gluten. Examples of such food
   products may be a bread, for example a sweetened bread as exemplified
   herein

   Food product comprising one or more additional dough improvers
   In order to improve texture of breads, for example to improve shelf-life of
   bread, conventional dough improvers are used.
   However, when the amount of enzymes and emulsifiers included exceeds a
 5 certain level, the structure of the breadcrumb is weakened beyond
   acceptance.
   Addition of CMP to a bread containing maximum dosage of enzymes and
   emulsifiers will extend the softness and shelf-life by 15-25%, without
   weakening the structure.
10 Thus, one embodiment of this aspect of the invention relates to a food
   product, such as a bread, comprising a gluten network and CMP, and further
   comprising one or more dough improvers.
   The dough improvers described are applicable also in this embodiment of this
   aspect of the invention.
15 The CMP may be present in an amount of 0.01 to 0.8 g CMP/ g gluten; such as
   for example from 0.03 to 0.8, such as 0.05 to 0.8, 0.08 to 0.8, 0.1 to 0.8; or
   for example 0.01 to 0.5 g CMP/g gluten, such as for example for example
   from 0.03 to 0.5, such as 0.05 to 0.5, 0.08 to 0.5, 0.1 to 0.5; or for example
   0.01 to 0.4 g CMP/g gluten, such as 0.01 to 0.3 g, 0.01 to 0.2, 0.01 to 0.1 g
20 CMP/g gluten.
   Food product which does not contain any additional dough improvers.
   As mentioned before, inclusion of CMP by itself can stabilize and/or strengthen
   the gluten network and improve the texture of a food product such as bread,
   without contribution of other dough improvers.
25 Thus, one embodiment of this aspect of the invention relates to a food product
   according to the invention, such as a bread, comprising a gluten network and
   CMP, and which does not comprise further dough improvers.

   Another embodiment of this aspect relates to a food product, such as a bread,
   comprising a gluten network and CMP, and which furthermore does not
   comprise any ingredients which require listing on the ingredient list by E
   number, such as current EU approved additives; that is, pure forms of the
 5 substances are not intentionally added.
   Food products which do not contain intentional addition of ingredients which
   have an e-number, are perceived as more wholesome, and natural by
   customers. CMP, which is a milk-derived protein, does not have an e-number.
   The amount of CMP in these embodiments may be from 0.01 to 0.8 g CMP/ g
10 gluten; such as for example from 0.03 to 0.8, such as 0.05 to 0.8, 0.08 to
   0.8, 0.1 to 0.8; or for example 0.01 to 0.5 g CMP/g gluten, such as 0.01 to
   0.8 g, 0.01 to 0.7, 0.01 to 0.6, 0.01 to 0.5 g CMP/g gluten; such as 0.2 to 0.5
   g CMP/ g gluten, such as for example for example from 0.03 to 0.5, such as
   0.05 to 0.5, 0.08 to 0.5, 0.1 to 0.5; or for example 0.01 to 0.4 g CMP/g
15 gluten, such as 0.01 to 0.3 g, 0.01 to 0.2, 0.01 to 0.1 g CMP/g gluten.
   Wheat breads
   The inventors have seen particularly good result in breads which are plain,
   wheat flour based breads, such as for example hamburger buns, and breads
   used for toast.
20 In these embodiments, the bread of the invention comprises or consists of:
   -a source of fat (such as for example oil, shortening, butter or combinations
   thereof); wheat flour such as wheat bread flour, for example type 550, Danish
   wheat bread flour, Reform flour, Manitoba or combinations thereof; sugar;
   salt; yeast; one or more further dough improvers which are not CMP (such as
25 dough improvers mentioned elsewhere herein); one or more preservatives (for
   example calcium propionate); and CMP.
   The CMP may be present in an amount of for example 0.01 to 0.8 g CMP/ g
   gluten; such as for example from 0.03 to 0.8, such as 0.05 to 0.8, 0.08 to

                                         -)U
   0.8, 0.1 to 0.8; or for example 0.01 to 0.5 g CMP/g gluten, such as 0.01 to
   0.8 g, 0.01 to 0.7, 0.01 to 0.6, 0.01 to 0.5 g CMP/g gluten.
   Alternatively, CMP may be present in amount of 0.2 to 20% w/w of dry
   ingredients, such as for example 0.2 to 15%, 0.2 to 10%, 0.3 to 10% or 0.5
 5 to 10% (w/w) dry ingredients; such as 1 to 8%, 1 to 5% or for example 0.2 to
   3%.
   In an example where wheat flour is present in an amount of 2000 g (grams),
   and water is present in 1100 g, the amount of fat source may be from 30 to
   90 g, such as 40 to 80, 45 to 75 or 60 to 80; sugar may be present in an
10 amount from 0 the 100, such as 20 to 80, 40 to 80 or 60 to 80 g; Salt may be
   present in an amount of from 0 to 50 g, such as 20 to 50 g, such as about 30
   g; Yeast may be present in an amount of from 30 to 150 g, such as 50 to 100
   g; and CMP may be present in an amount of 5 to 50 grams, such as 5 to 45, 5
   to 40, 5 to 35, 6 to 30, 6 to 25, 6 to 25, 6 to 20, 6 to 18, 6 to 15, 6 to 13, 6
15 to 12, 7 to 12, 8 to 12, 9 to 11 grams, such as about 10 grams.
   The recipe may be scaled up, keeping the same ratios of ingredients. One
   particular embodiment is illustrated in Example 16.
   Another example relates to a bread for toast.
   In an example where wheat flour is present in an amount of 1200 g and water
20 is present in an amount of 500 g, the fat source may be present in an amount
   of 30 to 100 g, such as 40 to 90, 50 to 90 or 70 to 80 g; the sugar may be
   present in an amount of 50 to 200 g, such as 70 to 170, 80 to 110, about 100
   g; Salt may be present in an amount of is present in an amount of from 0 to
   50, such as 20 to 50, such as about 35; Yeast may be present in an amount of
25 from 30 to 150, such as 50 to 100; CMP may be present in an amount of 5 to
   50 grams, such as 5 to 45, 5 to 40, 5 to 35, 6 to 30, 6 to 25, 6 to 25, 6 to 20,
   6 to 18, 6 to 15, 6 to 13, 6 to 12, 7 to 12, 8 to 12, 9 to 11 grams, such as
   about 10 grams.
   The recipe may be scaled up, keeping the same ratios of ingredients. One
30 particular embodiment and example is shown in Example 17.

   Soft Rye bread
   A further embodiment of compositions of the invention relates to a bread
   which comprises rye flour, a preparation of wheat gluten protein and CMP, in
   order to provide a rye bread which has a soft texture.
 5 CMP may be present at an amount of 0.01 to 0.8 g CMP/ g gluten; such as for
   example from 0.03 to 0.8, such as 0.05 to 0.8, 0.08 to 0.8, 0.1 to 0.8; or for
   example 0.01 to 0.5 g CMP/g gluten for example from 0.03 to 0.5, such as
   0.05 to 0.5, 0.08 to 0.5, 0.1 to 0.5; or for example 0.01 to 0.4 g CMP/g
   gluten, such as 0.01 to 0.3 g, 0.01 to 0.2, 0.01 to 0.1 g CMP/g gluten.
10 Further embodiments
   Particular embodiments of the compositions of the invention, relate to
   compositions of the invention, particularly those described under the headings
   Wet compositions/dough and Food products, which comprise alpha lactalbumin
   and/or beta lactoglobulin, and wherein the ratio of CMP to (the combined
15 amount of alpha lactalbumin together with beta lactoglobulin) in the
   composition or food product is at least 2:1 (dry weight), for example at least
   1:1, or at least 0.9:1, 0.8:1 (dry weight).
   In further embodiments, the ratio of CMP to (the combined amounts of alpha
   lactalbumin and beta lactoglobulin) in the composition or food product
20 according to the invention is in the range from 100:0 to 30:70, 90:10 to
   30:70, such as 80:20 to 30:70, 70:30 to 30:70, for example 60:40 to 30:70.
   In yet further embodiments, the ratio of CMP to (the combined amounts of
   alpha lactalbumin and beta lactoglobulin) in the composition or food product
   according to the invention is in the range from 100:0 to 50:50, such as from
25 90:10 to 50:50, 80:20 to 50:50, 70:30 to 50:50, 60:40 to 50:50.
   The method according to the invention, wherein the composition or food
   product comprises an amount of alpha lactalbumin and/or beta lactoglobulin
   which corresponds to less than 50% of the amount of the CMP.

   Method of making a CMP-rich whey fraction
   The invention in a further aspect relates to a method of preparing a CMP-rich
   whey fraction suitable for use in methods to stabilise a gluten network in a
   food product, wherein the method of preparing comprising the steps of
 5 i) providing a milk product comprising micellar casein,
   ii) preparing a micellar casein isolate, for example by subjecting the milk
   product of step i) to microfiltration, yielding a micellar casein isolate,
   iii) Optionally adding cream, vegetable oil and/or protein to the micellar casein
   isolate,
10 iv) using the micellar casein isolate in a cheesemaking method, wherein the
   micellar casein is cleaved by rennet and a curd is allowed to form,
   v) draining and recovering the whey from the curd formed in the
   cheesemaking process, which is a CMP-rich whey fraction.
   The CMP-rich whey fraction thus formed will be enriched in CMP, which is
15 formed by cleavage of the casein by rennet. The CMP-rich whey fraction will
   also be depleted of alpha lactalbumin and beta lactoglobulin, which were
   removed by the microfiltration step. Microfiltration (MF) allows separation of
   the micellar casein from the alpha lactalbumin/beta lactoglobulin proteins. The
   micellar casein is found in the MF retentate, while alpha lactalbumin and beta
20 lactoglobulin are found in the MF permeate.
   The milk product comprising micellar casein which is provided, may be for
   example any suitable milk, for example skimmed milk, part skim milk, whole
   milk, recombined milk or any other suitable milk. The milk may be from for
   example a mammal selected from cow, horse, goat, buffalo, sheep and camel,
25 though typically cow's milk is used.
   In one specific embodiment, the milk product comprising micellar casein is a
   skimmed milk, in particular a pasteurized skimmed milk.
   The pore size of the microfiltration membrane is selected so as to retain
   micellar casein to provide a micellar casein retentate, and allow alpha
30 lactalbumin and beta lactoglobulin to pass through the membrane. The pore

   size of the membrane may thus be in the range from 0.05 to 0.3 microns,
   such as from 0.05 to 0.2, 0.05 to 0.15, such as approximately 0.1 microns.
   In some embodiments, microfiltration is as a warm microfiltration, performed
   at a temperature between 40 and 60 OC, such as 45 to 55 OC, such as 48 to
 5 54 OC, such as at about 50 OC.
   In some embodiments, the micellar casein isolate is subsequently subjected to
   a second microfiltration with a larger pore size, selected such that it will
   remove microrganisms and/or spores. The pore size of the membrane in this
   MF may thus be in the range from 0.5 microns to 3 microns, such as from 0.5
10 to 2.5, 0.5 to 2 microns, 1 to 2 microns, 1.2 to 1.6 microns, such as about 1.4
   microns. The second MF may also be performed as a warm microfiltration.
   Thus, in some embodiments the method according to this aspect of the
   invention relates to a method comprising the steps:
   i) providing a milk product comprising micellar casein as a starting product,
15 wherein the milk is pasteurized, skimmed milk,
   ii) subjecting the milk product of i) to microfiltration, yielding a micellar casein
   isolate, wherein the microfiltration is a warm microfiltration performed at a
   temperature between 40 and 60 0 C, such as 45 to 550 C, such as 48 to 540 C,
   such as at about 500 C and the pore size of the membrane is in the range from
20 0.05 to 0.3 microns, such as from 0.05 to 0.2, 0.05 to 0.15, such as
   approximately 0.1 microns;
   iii) Optionally adding cream, vegetable oil and/or protein to the micellar casein
   isolate,
   iv) using the micellar casein isolate in cheesemaking, wherein the micellar
25 casein is cleaved by rennet and a curd is allowed to form,
   v) draining and recovering the whey from the curd formed in the
   cheesemaking process, which is a CMP-rich whey fraction.
   In particular embodiments, step i) of providing a milk product comprising
   micellar casein as a starting product comprises the substeps:
30 a) pasteurizing a skimmed milk (for example at 50 to 74 OC, 60 to 74 OC, or

   65 to 74 OC)
   b) subsequently bringing the pasteurized skimmed milk to a temperature of
   50 to 70 OC, (such as 50 to 60 OC, 50 to 55 OC, or about 55 OC)
   c) and optionally holding at the temperature in b) for a time in the range of
 5 from 1 minute to 60 minutes, such as from 1 to 50 mins, 1 to 40 mins, 1 to
   30 mins, 1 to 20 mins, 1 to 15 mins, 1 to 10 mins, such as 1 to 5 mins.
   In further embodiments one or both of the microfiltration(s) may be a
   microfiltration/diafiltration, for example using water as a diluent. In particular
   embodiments, at least the first microfiltration (separation of micellar casein
10 from alpha lactalbumin/beta lactoglobulin) is performed as a
   microfiltration/diafiltration. In the context of this application the term
   microfiltration/ultrafiltration means a microfiltration process in which the MF
   retentate is diluted and re-microfiltered.
   In a further embodiment, the MF permeate (from either of the microfiltrations)
15 may be ultrafiltrated. In further embodiments, the ultrafiltration permeate is
   fed back and used as a diluent in the microfiltration/diafiltration. In yet further
   embodiments, the method comprises further steps of reverse osmosis of the
   ultrafiltration permeate; the Reverse osmosis water may be fed back and used
   as a diluent in the microfiltration/diafiltration.
20 Thus, one embodiment of invention relates to the CMP-rich whey fraction
   obtainable or obtained by the method.
   The CMP-rich whey fraction obtained by the method according to this aspect of
   the invention may further be spray dried.
   Another embodiment of the invention relates to the use of the CMP-rich whey
25 fraction obtainable or obtained by the method, in a method to stabilise a
   gluten network in a food product according to the invention, such as in any of
   the methods of stabilising a gluten network described herein.
   Another embodiment of the invention relates to the use of the CMP-rich whey
   fraction obtainable or obtained by the method, in preparing compositions for
30 use in a method to stabilise a gluten network in a food product according to

   the invention, such as in any of the methods of stabilising a gluten network as
   described herein. Such compositions for use may be as described herein.
   Alternatively, the compositions for use in the methods of stabilising a gluten
   network in a food product according to the invention are made using CMP-rich
 5 whey fraction obtainable or obtained by the method according to the
   invention.
   Examples
   Example 1-Effect of CMP in conjunction with bread flour and cake flour
   respectively
10 Breads were prepared using different flours which varied in the gluten content,
   with and without addition of CMP.
   The CMP was provided in the form of a CMP-containing fraction, as described
   in Example 14 (LacProdan 10). The content of the CMP was about 60- 75 %
   by dry weight.
15 The method used in the following examples for baking bread was so-called "all
   in", i.e. all ingredients are added in the first step, and comprised the steps:
       -   Scaling of ingredients.
       -   Development of the dough by physical agitation (mixing) of ingredients
           in a water mixture until optimal development.
20     -   Dividing, shaping (molding), proving and baking;
       -   De-panning and cooling.
   An overview of standard method of baking the bread is given in Figure 1.
   Breads which are to be tested using Texture Profile Analysis are made in in
   closed tin (or moulds), while breads for experiments where volume is
25 measured are made in open tins.

   Table 1 gives the ingredients of the breads. The results are displayed in Figure
   2.
   As can be seen from the Table 1, as well as figure 2, the addition of CMP
   results in an increased volume. Volume measurement was performed by
 5 Rapeseed displacement as measured according to the AACC Method 10-05.01
   titled Guidelines for Measurement of Volume by Rapeseed Displacement,
   published in Approved Methods of Analysis 11th Edition.
   Table 1: Effects on inclusion of CMP on breads made with cake resp bread
   flour.
10 See also Figure 2.
                     Cake     Bread     Cake      Bread/CMP     50/50      50/50
                    flour     flour     /CMP                    flour      CMP
   INGREDIENTS       1        2         3         4             5          6
   (g)
   CMP               0        0         20        20            0          20
   Bread flour       0        2000      0         2000          1000       1000
   Cake flour        2000     0         2000      0             1000       1000
   Dry yeast        45        45        45        45            45         45
   Salt              30       30        30        30            30         30
   Oil               80       80        80        80            80         80
   Sugar             80       80        80        80            80         80
   Water             1125      1150     1125      1150          1137       1137
   Dough Temp        26.3     27        27.1      27.3          27.1       26.3
   (OC)
   Dough Weight 400 g         400 g     400 g     400 g         400 g      400 g
   Bread Volume      1200      1600     2175      1775          1525       1650
   (ml)

    Conclusions
   The water level increased in the food product by 2.5% when the flour was
    switched from cake to bread flour.
    CMP has a good effect on bread flour, and an extreme effect on cake flour.
 5 This may be due to the fact that the effect of CMP on a weak gluten network
    (cake flour) is more noticeable than its effect on an already strong network
    (bread flour).
    Example 2-Conversion of weak flour to bread baking quality
    Sample breads were baked using a flour blend consisting of 50% bread flour
10 and 50% Cake flour. Sample 9 is baked using 100% bread flour (Danish bread
    flour, protein content 12%, gluten content about 10%).
   The breads were baked using the same method as described in Example 1.
    Evaluation of crumb structure was performed according to AACCI Method 10
    12.01 titled Guidelines for scoring Experimental Bread, and published in the
15 AACC Approved Methods of Analysis 11th Edition.
    Volume was measured as in Example 1.
   Table 2: Incredients in test breads
    The results are also displayed in Figure 3. Figure 3 shows the effect of
    different dough improvers and CMP on weak flours.
                                                 0       1      10
                  0                                       N
                      0u a-                               02    u
                         U
                                                 U         -                   CO
                         N        MLO)                          IN       00    (
                    ~    20
                                                               10
   ____
                                _      _         10    {10             ___       __

  WPC                        20                            10
  WIPI                               20
  Denature    20                                   10
  d WPC
  Sodium                                                        30
  Caseinate
  Ascorbic    0.2    0.2     0.2     0.2     0.2   0.2     0.2  0.2   0.2
  acid
  Cake        1000   1000     1000   1000    1000  1000    1000 1000  0
  flour
  (9%
  protein, 7
  % gluten)
  Bread       1000   1000     1000   1000    1000  1000    1000 1000  2000
  flour
   (12 %
  protein,
  10%
  gluten)
  Dry yeast   45     45      45      45      45    45      45   45    45
  Oil         80     80      80      80      80    80      80   80    80
  Sugar       80     80      80      80      80    80      80   80    80
  Salt        30     30      30      30      30    30      30   30    30
  Water       1150   1150     1150   1150    1150  1150    1150 1150  1150
  Volume      1300   1450     1350   1225    1425  1350    1300 1175  1150
  (ml)
  CMP = purified CMP, LacProdan@ 20.
  95-98% of the total protein content of LacProdan-20 is CMP.
  IM8027 @= Denatured WPC
  WPC= LacProdan 80 @ (Arla Foods); LacProdan 80 is a native whey protein
5 concentrate with a protein content of 82%.

   WPI= BK-9250@
   Cassionat= Sodium Caseinate (MiProdan 30@); Miprodan is a sodium
   caseinate preparation with a protein content of 93.5%.
   Conclusions from Table 2
 5 All breads produced had a greater volume than reference. Thus, inclusion of
   CMP increases volume of the sample breads as compared to the negative
   control (Sample 9, Bread flour).
   Further, crumb structure is finer when CMP is included, as compared to the
   reference bread.
10 Calcium caseinate is also known as a dough improver. Without wishing to be
   bound by theory, it is thought that calcium caseinate may improve texture in a
   food product by binding water. However, caseinate does not lead to a stronger
   gluten network to the same extent as the inclusion of CMP, as is shown by
   comparative experiments in Example 2.
15 Example 3- Effect of CMP in conjunction with whole wheat flour
   Sample breads were prepared using a whole wheat flour (Graham flour) and
   bread flour. Samples 3 and 5 also include DATEM.
   Graham flour is a coarsely milled wheat flour, where the whole grain is milled,
   and contains the bran, germ and endosperm of the wheat kernel.
20 The samples were prepared according to the same method as described in
   Example 1.
   Volume was measured in the same way as in Example 1 (see Figure 4A)
   Softness and resilience were measured by Texture Profile Analysis (TPA
   measurements). Breads were made according to Example 1, in closed tins and
25 a sample from the middle of the bread is removed and subjected to Texture
   Profile Analysis.

                                         00
   Texture Profile Analysis is a well-known double compression test for
   determining the textural properties of foods. During TPA, samples are
   compressed twice using a texture analyzer to provide insight into how samples
   behave when chewed. The texture analyser apparatus used in the present
 5 examples was a TA.XTPlus Texture Analyser from Stable Micro Systems
   (Stable Micro Systems Ltd., Vienna Court, Lammas Road, Godalming, Surrey
   GU7 1YL, UK ) and the data generated was analysed using the Texture
   Exponent Software. See Table 3A below for the settings used.
   In-depth explanation of the parameters and their calculations are available at
10 the home pages www.texturetechnologies.com, and in particular at
   http://texturetechnologies.com/texture-profile-analysis/texture-profile
   analysis.php.
   The tests in the examples were performed with the following parameters:
   Table 3A: Settings for Texture Profile Analysis.
   Parameter                    Value
   Strain                       40%
   Pre-speed                    1.0 mm/s
   Test speed                   1.7 mm/s
   Post test speed              10 mm/s (double
                                compression)
   Probe                        P/35 metal (Aluminium)
   Load cell                    5 kg
   Sample thickness             Bread was cut in 25 mm
                                slices
15 Resilience
   Briefly, resilience is a measure of the is how well a product "fights to regain its
   original height" after a compression. It is calculated by dividing the upstroke
   energy of the first compression by the downstroke energy of the first
   compression. This corresponds to Area 3 (Area under the curve from start of

   compression to Peak force) divided by Area 4 (area under the curve from peak
   force to probe withdrawal). See further Figure 13.
   Peak force
   Softness in the present application corresponds to the measurement Hardness
 5 in Texture Profile Analysis. The Hardness value is the peak force that occurs
   during the first compression (indicated in Figure 13). An increased peak force
   is termed an increased Hardness, or reduced Softness.
   The resulting breads all presented similar crumb structure and crust colour as
   the negative control. However, softness was increased, i.e. the Peak force was
10 decreased, see Fig 4B). The resilience was the similar to the negative control.
   TPA measurements show less compression force is needed for a certain
   compression distance in the crumb (i.e., increased softness). The same TPA
   measurements show springiness and resilience are alike (despite more
   softness) with or with out cGMP.
15 Table 3B: Sample breads comprising CMP in whole grain wheat flour.
   See also figure 4.
                     Negative
                     Control
   INGREDIENTS       1           2         3          4          5
   (g)               Reference   CMP       DATEM      CMP        DATEM+
                                 0.7%      0.50/0     0.7%       CMP
   CMP                           14                   14         14
   DATEM                                   9                     9
   Ascorbic acid     0.35        0.35      0.35       0.35       0.35
   Whole grain       1400        1400      1400       1400       1400
   flour
   Bread flour       400         400       400        400        400
   Dry yeast         40          40        40         40         40

   Salt             36          36          36        36        36
   Butter           80          80          80        80        80
   Sugar            60          60          60        60        60
   Water            1050        1050        1050      1050      1050
   Weight           3066        3080        3075      3080      3089
   (dough, g wet
   weight)
   Weight,          400         400         400       400       400
   Bread
   Volume (ml)      1025        1150        1150      1150      1250
   Table 3C Results
                 Reference     CMP 0,70/     DATEM        CMPO,7%      DATEM
                                             0,5%/                     +CMP
   Volume         1025         1150          1150         1150         1250
   (ml)
   Peak force    817           610           754          599          587
   (g)
   Resilience    0,34          0,38          0,43         0,37        0,4
   (unitless)
   See also Figure 4.
 5 Conclusions Example 3
   The results show that the crumb structure is not changed, but crumb softness
   and volume is increased. Resilience is the same as the reference.
   In view of that the volume of the products comprising CMP is increased, the
   fact that the resilience remains similar even though the volume is greater, can
10 be taken as evidence for a stronger gluten network.

                                      U -J
   Example 4- Trial with direct and intermediated prove
   Sample breads were prepared using Danish wheat bread flour according to the
   following method:
   Direct prove: the dough was prepared and allowed to develop (leaven) fully,
 5 and thereafter baked.
   Intermediate prove: The dough was prepared and allowed to develop to 75%.
   The dough was frozen and later thawed again and allowed to develop (leaven)
   further; and thereafter baked.
   The ingredients are shown in Table 4. See also figures 5A, B, C.
10 Table 4: Toast bread recipe
   INGREDIENTS      1           2           3            4           5
   (g)              Ref         WPI         Guar+CMP     Guar        CMP
   CMP                          10          5                        10
   Guar gum                                 10           10
   WPI                          10
   SSLveg 45        10          10          10           10          10
   Bread Flour      2000        2000        2000         2000        2000
   (12 %
   protein; 10 %
   gluten)
   Dry yeast       40           40         40            40          40
   Salt             30          30          30           30          30
   Oil              80          80          80           80          80
   Sugar            80          80          80           80          80
   Water            1100        1100        1100         1100        1100
   Dough Temp       29.6        31.8        28.9         33.1        33
   (OC)

   Dough            3340          3350         3355         3350         3350
   Weight (g)
   Volume (ml)      1000          1125         1125         1125         1250
   A part sample of the doughs were frozen, thawed, and baked after 10 days,
   and the volume measured as described in Example 1. The results are shown in
   figure 5A.
   Texture profile analyses were performed on the breads prepared, after 2 days.
 5 The force required to compress the breads fixed distance (max force, g) is
   indicated in the figure 5B.
   As is shown, more force is required to compress the Reference bread, while
   inclusion of CMP on its own gives the softest (requires least force) bread.
   Part of the softness effect may be attributed to the increased volume of the
10 CMP breads. Stabilised gluten networks will support formation of larger air (or
   gas) inclusions, i.e. bubbles, formed in leavening. The larger bubbles will
   contribute to increased volume, and also will require less force to compress.
   This difference between CMP-comprising breads and the reference breads will
   increase over time between 2 to 10 days (see Figure 10, where it can be seen
15 that the difference between Reference and 1% cGMP increases at Day 2 and
   Day 9).
   The resilience of the test breads were also measured, according to the method
   described in Example 1 (see Figure 5C). The resilience of the test breads
   remains the same or similar.
20
   Conclusions Example 4
   Inclusion of WPI (whey protein isolate) will not give the same effect as
   inclusion of CMP, leading to lower volume increase (Fig. 5A), and does not
   improve the texture as much as CMP does (Fig. 5B). Even though WPI does
25 comprise CMP, it also contains the proteins alpha lactalbumin and beta

  lactoglobulin which are believed to at least partially inhibit the formation of
  gluten network, and thus do not allow the full CMP effect to take place.
  It can also be seen from the results that CMP may be added "on top" of the
  known dough conditioners, to further improve the volume.
5 The resilience of the different breads were comparable. As explained above,
  this could in fact represent an increase in gluten network strength.

                                        00
   Example 5- CMP inclusion in sweet yeasted breads
   Effect of inclusion of CMP was tested in a brioche recipe, which is an example
   of a sweet yeasted bread. The recipe is displayed below in Table 5.
   Table 5: Brioche recipe with inclusion of CMP
   INGREDIENTS           Reference            1 (WPI)             2 (CMP)
   CMP                                                            10
   WPI                                        10
   Bread flour (12 %     1150                 1150                1150
   protein; 10 %
   gluten)
   Dry yeast             40                  40                   40
   Salt                  25                   25                  25
   Butter                200                  200                 200
   Sugar                 100                  100                 100
   Water                 400                 400                  400
   Skimmed milk          50                   50                  50
   protein
   Whole eggs            200                  200                 200
   Calcium               4                   4                    4
   propionate
 5 The resulting brioches were tested for volume (ml) according to the method
   described in Example 1, and the results are shown in Figure 6A.
   Texture profile analyses were also performed as described in Example 1, and
   these results are shown in Figure 6B.
   The inclusion of CMP led to a distinct increase in the softness in breads
10 comprising CMP as compared to the reference, where the difference increases
   over time (see Fig. 6B).

                                          U/
   Volume measurements indicate that the inclusion of CMP leads to an increase
   in the volume of the product as compared to both reference brioche and
   brioche comprising WPI.
   It is likely that part of the increased softness is due to increased volume.
 5 Example 6: Comparative farinographs showing performance of flour
   during mixing.
   A dough was prepared by mixing distilled water with flour and agitation.
   The flour was a German wheat flour Type T 550. The protein content of this
   flour is 12 %
10 Farinographs were registered using a Farinograph (Farinograph@ - AT, from
   Brabender)
   The method for measurement of farinographs was performed according to the
   AACC Method 54-22.01 titled Rheological Behavior of Flour by Farinograph
   Constant Dough Weight Procedure, published in Approved Methods of Analysis
15 1 1 th Edition.
   As can be seen from the farinograph (see Fig. 7A), after 2 mins the dough is
   developed and the resistance to mixing is already decreasing, indicating the
   destruction of dough and breakdown of gluten network.
   The farinograph in Figure 7B shows the process when 2% CMP is added to the
20 flour. In contrast to what was seen without CMP, the addition of CMP leads to
   a great increase in the mixing tolerance. After 2 mins the dough is developed,
   but in contrast to what was seen without CMP, the addition of CMP leads to a
   great increase in mixing tolerance, and no destruction of the dough/gluten
   network. Indeed, destruction is seen first after 10 minutes of mixing.
25 Experiments have also been done with 0.25% CMP, 0.5% and 1.0% CMP and
   show the same results, i.e. that declination of the curve which is seen for flour
   without addition of CMP, is eliminated when CMP is added. Table 11 shows the
   relevant time points.

   Table 11
   Sample Arrival        Departure Stability     Peak        BU at   BU at    MTI
             Time       Time         (minutes);  Time        Peak    PT+5
              (minutes) (minutes) (AT-DT)        (minutes) Time      mins
   Ref       2.25        5.5         2.75        3.25        540     480      0.11
   0.25/o    0.75        14.5        13.75       1.75        610     570      0.06
   CMP
   0.5/       1.5        14          12.5        2.5         580     560      0.03
   CMP
    10/0      1.25       13          11.75       1.75        560     540      0.04
   CMP
   CMP was provided as Lacprodan@ 20
   Definitions.
   Arrival time (AT) - The time it takes to reach the target water to flour ratio,
 5 set to 500 Brabender Units (BU). This is the rule of thumb for desired taste,
   texture and dough performance in baking and proofing of bread.
   Peak time (PT) - The time required to reach the maximum viscosity (highest
   point on the curve). Mixing past this point leads to gluten strand to break
   down.
10 Departure time (DT)- The point in time at which the top of the curve goes
   below the 500 BU line. This point is generally considered the point at which
   gluten is breaking down and dough has become over mixed.
   Stability time (ST)- The interval between arrival time and departure time
   Mixing tolerance index (MTI)- The difference from the curve at PT and the
15 value at 5 minutes after PT. The formula is (((BU at PT) - (BU at PT+5 mins))
   /BU at PT). This formula yields the percentage BU lost over time. This is used

                                        U :7
   by bakers to determine the amount that a dough will soften over a period of
   mixing.
   An example of a farinograph is showed in figure7A and B.
   Example 7- Comparative extensographs showing resistance to
 5 stretching (elastic modulus)
   A Brabender@ Extensograph@ (available from Brabender@ GmbH & Co. KG
   Kulturstr. 51-55; 47055 Duisburg; Germany) was used for measuring the
   stretching properties of the dough, in particular the resistance to extension
   and the extensibility. The Extensograph@-E shows the influence of dough
10 improvers such as ascorbic acid, enzymes (proteinases), and emulsifiers and,
   permits to determine the rheological properties of each flour.
   A sample dough was prepared by mixing flour, with and without inclusion of
   CMP, distilled water and salt. After proving, the dough was stretched until
   rupture in the Extensograph. The force required is measured and recorded.
15 Extensographs were registered after resting times of 45 min, 90 min and 135
   mins respectively. Two samples were measured for each time point. Samples
   measured at times 45 and 90 minutes reach over 700 BU (Brabender Units).
   The samples measured at 135 mins for both with and without CMP reach 500
   and 600 BU.
20 The results are shown in Figures 8A (Flour+ 2% salt) and 8B (Flour + 2% salt
   + 2% CMP).
   . From the results it can be seen that the inclusion of CMP leads to a dramatic
   increase in the resistance to stretching (elastic modulus) of the dough
   comprising CMP as compared to that without CMP, in particular for samples
25 measured at 45 and 90 minutes. This increase indicates the strengthening of
   the gluten network.

                                   / U
Example 8- Thin Layer Chromatography of samples
Standard thin layer chromatography was performed on CMP -containing
samples, which is a CMP containing fraction derived from a sweet whey.

                                      /1.
  Table 6
   Sample    beta    alpha    CMP         F      beta alpha CMP  % sum
   number    areal   areal    areal                           i
   A      22213308 7258542 11003503     679,35   27,7  7,0  13,5  48,3
   B      21818349 7096120 10804450     695,41   27,9  7,0  13,6  48,5
   C      23601354 7638459 11731811     626,57   27,1  6,8  13,3  47,3
   D      21302360 6546091   9853455    683,06   26,7  6,4  12,2  45,3
  Beta= Beta lactoglobulin; Alpha= Alpha lactalbumin
  The chromatograph for sample A is shown in Figure 9.
  Example 9- A bread mix
5 A bread mix with the following ingredients is prepared:
  Ingredient                                Amount (g )
  Wheat flour (12 % protein; 10 %           50
  gluten)
  Durum wheat flour                         20
  Rye flour                                 25
  Salt                                      1.5
  Sour dough starter                        0.5
  Oil                                       2.0
  DATEM (E472e)                             0.15
  Mono- and diglycerides of fatty acids     0.25
  (E47 1)
  Ascorbic acid                             0.01
  CMP                                       0.5
  SUM                                       100

                                         / 4.
   Example 10- Effect of CMP
   A bread was made according to the method described in Example 1.
   The ingredients of the bread are described below in Table 8.
   Table 8 Ingredients
   Ingredients     Ref              CMP 0.50/0      CMP 1.0%b       CMP 1.5%/
   (g)
   Oil             80               80              80              80
   Sugar           80               80              80              80
   Flour           2000             2000            2000            2000
   Salt            30               30              30              30
   Dry yeast       40               40              40              40
   SSL             5                5               5               5
   CMP                              10              20              30
   water           1150             1150            1150            1150
   Weight          3385             3395            3405            3415
   Dough temp      28.4             27.8            28              27.6
 5
   CMP is added in the form of Lacprodan20@. The flour is Reform flour and
   contains 9 to 11  0/0 gluten. SSL = sodium stearoyl lactylate.
   Peak force was measured by Texture Profile Analysis as described above.
   As can be seen from figure 11 A, the force required to compress a bread a
10 certain distance, is less for a bread comprising CMP in comparison to the
   Reference bread. Furthermore, it can be seen that increasing the amount of
   CMP in the bread beyond 1 0/ CMP does not further increase the softness of
   the bread, neither at Day 2 nor Day 9. Also, inclusion of higher amounts of
   CMP does not produce deleterious effects.

                                        / -J
   This experiment further demonstrates that bread comprising CMP also remains
   softer than the reference bread over time.
   Volume was measured as described above in Example 1 using Rapeseed
   Displacement. The bread was made in an open mould, and the weight of the
 5 dough prior to baking was the same for all samples, 400g.
   Figure 11 B shows the volume results. It can be seen that CMP 0.5, CMP 1 and
   CMP 1.5 all increased the volume of the bread considerably over that of the
   reference bread.
   Example 11- Dilution experiments
10 To study the interference of alpha lactalbumin + beta lactoglobulin on CMP
   effect, a seried of sample breads were made with increasing amounts of alpha
   lactalbumin+ beta lactoglobulin in relation to amount CMP.
   The breads were baked in standard manner (see Example 1). The ingredients
   are given below in Tables
15 As usual, experiments where softness is measured are performed in closed tin
   (or moulds), while experiments where volume is measured are performed in
   open tins.
   The softness was measured by TPA analysis and the results shown in Figure
   12 A.
20 The volume was measured by Rapeseed oil displacement as described above
   and the results are shown in Figure 12B.
   Table 1OA: Ingredients
   SAP             104482  104483  104484    104485 104486  104487
                 REF      CMP 10 CMP 20        20%    30%     40%
                        1       2         3       4      5       6
   Oil                100     100     100       100    100     100
   Sugar               80      80      80        80     80      80
   Flour             2000    2000    2000      2000   2000    2000
   Salt                30      30      30        30     30      30
   Dry yeast           40      40      40        40     40      40

   SSL                     5           5          5          5         5          5
   (ALA+BLG)                                                 2         3          4
   CMP10                              10
   CMP 20                                        10          8         7          6
   Water               1150       1150       1150        1150      1150       1150
   Dough temp           26,5       26,9       26,9        28,8      26,9       28,2
   DOugh weight 950gram
   (ALA+BLG)= protein fraction prepared from whey, where the protein consists
   of alpha lactalbumin and beta lactoglobulin.
    Table 1OB: Ingredients, cont'd
   SAP            104488     104489      104490     104491     104492    104493
                    50%        60%         70%        80%        90%      100%
                         7          8          9         10        11         12
   Oil                100        100        100         100       100        100
   sugar               80         80         80          80        80         80
   flour            2000       2000        2000       2000       2000      2000
   Salt                30         30         30          30        30         30
   Dry yeast           40         40         40          40        40         40
   SSL                   5          5          5           5         5          5
   (ALA+BLG)             5          6          7           8         9        10
   CMP 10
   CMP20                 5          4          3           2         1
   Water            1150                   1150       1150       1150      1150
   Dough
   temp              27,1       28,5         27        28,1        28       27,8
   Dough weight
   950gram
 5 The results show that increasing the amount of (alpha lactalbumin + beta
   lactoglobulin ) in relation to CMP beyond a certain level, leads to loss of the
   CMP softening effect.
   The results show that the negative effects of the presence of alpha
   lactalbumin/beta lactoglobulin begin to be apparent at levels of 70% - 60%
10 CMP ( 3 00 /o- 40% ala+blg). However, the negative effects become clearer once
   the levels of alpha lactalbumin+beta lactoglobulin exceed the levels of CMP
   (40% CMP and 30% CMP, which correspond to 60% ala+blg and 70%
   ala+blg, respectively).

                                      / J
  Thus results are seen at ratios of CMP to (alpha lactalbumin+beta
  lactoglobulin) of 100:0, 90:10, 80:20, 70:30, 60:40 and 50:50.
  Example 12- Doughnut mix
5 A mix for doughnut is prepared by providing and mixing the following
  ingredients.
  Ingredients                              Amount (kg)
  Wheat flour (12 % protein; 10 %          100
  gluten)
  Sugar                                    8
  Fat powder                               5
  Whole egg powder                         1
  Salt                                     1
  Skimmed milk powder                      1
  Baking powder                            0.5
  CMP                                      0.5
  SSL                                      0.5
  Vanilla powder                           0.2
  CMP is provided in the form of a purified preparation (LacProdan 20).

                                        / U
   Example 13- Comparison of softness over time
   A wheat flour bread for toast was prepared using Danish and Canadian wheat
   flour. The bread had a fixed volume. The results in Figure 10 show that
   increased force is required to compress the bread to a fixed distance over time
 5 (decreasing softness, indicating staling of bread). However, inclusion of CMP
   greatly reduces the force required as compared to the Reference bread.
   Ingredient    Ref           1% cGMP       HydroGMP    0.50%          Manitoba
   (g)
   Oil           100           100           100         100            100
   Danish        2000          2000          2000
   bread Flour
   Sugar         100           100           100         100            100
   salt          40            40            40          40            40
   Dry yeast     50            50            50          50             50
   Water         1100          1120          1120        1120           1120
   Manitoba                                              2000           2000
   flour
   CMP                         20                                       20
   Hydro CMP
   Calcium       5             5             5           5              5
   Propionate
   Mono          10            10            10          10             10
   Ref: Reference bread, baked using Danish bread flour, without CMP
   1% cGMP: Bread with 1% CMP
10 Hydro GMP: Made with Deglycoslylated CMP
   0,50%/: Control bread, made using Manitoba flour and no CMP

   Manitoba: Bread made using Manitoba flour and with 1% CMP
   1% cGMP (right-most columns): Bread made using Manitoba flour and 1 0/
   CMP.
   The first (left) column in each triplet is measurement taken day 2, the second
 5 columns is the measurement taken on day 3, and the final (right) is the
   measurement taken on day 12.
   Example 14- Lacprodan @ CGMP-10.
   Lacprodan @ CGMP-10 has a high content of CMP, and may be used as a
   source of CMP in the present invention.
10 Table 7: Lacprodan @ CGMP-10 Chemical Specification
   Component                                  Percentage by dry weight
   Protein (Nx 6.38 ) as is                   80-84 (Min/max)
   Protein (Nx6.38) d.m.                      83-87
   Lactose                                    2.0 (max.)
   Fat                                        0.5 (max)
   Ash                                        6.5 (level)
   Moisture                                   5.0 (max)
   CMP content (of protein)                   75-85
   Sialic acids                               6 (Level)
   Source: PI Lacprodan @ CGMP-10 28-02-13 0062, available online at
   www.arlafoodsingredients.com.

                                        / U
     Example 15- Lacprodan @ CGMP-10
   Lacprodan @ CGMP-10 may be prepared according to the methods described
   in patent application W09929183.
 5 Example 16 - Hamburger buns
   The table below gives an example of a recipe suitable for making hamburger
   buns.
   The reference recipe may include from 1 to 3 g of one or more dough
   improvers (excluding CMP), such as one or more of ascorbic acid, bromate,
10 sodium caseinate, calcium caseinate, sodium stearoyl lactylate (SSL), calcium
   stearoyl lactylate (CSL), ethoxylated mono- and diglycerides (EMG),
   polysorbates (PS), succinylated monoglycerides (SMG) , DATEM, S500
   Puratos; and enzymes such as one or more of amylase, glucose oxidase,
   lipase, lipoxygenase, hexose oxidase and xylanase
   INGREDIENTS (g)                  REF     CMP
   Oil/shortening                  60       60
   Wheat Flour (12 % protein;       2000     2000
   10 % gluten)
   Sugar                           60       60
   Salt                             30       30
   Yeast                            100      100
   Water                            1100     1100
   Calcium propionate               2        2
   Dough Improver                   1 to 3

  CMP                                       10
  Example 17- Bread for toast
  The table below gives an example of a recipe suitable for making hamburger
  buns.
5 The reference recipe may include from 1 to 3 gs of one or more dough
  improvers (excluding CMP), such as those mentioned in Example 16.
  INGREDIENTS (g)                 REF          CMP
  Oil/shortening                  80           80
  Wheat Flour (12 % protein; 10   1200         1200
  % gluten)
  Sugar                           100          100
  Salt                            35           35
  Dry yeast                       50           50
  Water                           500          500
  Calcium propionate              2            2
  Dough Improver                  1 to 3
  CMP                                          10
  Weight                          1450         1450

                                      U U
CLAIMS
1.     A method of preparing a CMP-rich whey fraction suitable for stabilizing a
gluten network in a food product, the method comprising the steps of
i) providing a milk product comprising micellar casein,
ii) subjecting the milk product of step i) to microfiltration, yielding a micellar
casein isolate,
iii) Optionally adding cream, vegetable oil and/or protein to the micellar casein
isolate,
iv) using the micellar casein isolate in a cheesemaking method, wherein the
micellar casein is cleaved by rennet and a curd is allowed to form,
v) draining and recovering the whey from the curd formed in the
cheesemaking process, which is a CMP-rich whey fraction.
2.     A method according to claim 1, wherein the CMP-rich whey fraction will
also be depleted of alpha lactalbumin and beta lactoglobulin.
3.     A method according to claim 1 or 2, wherein the milk product
comprising micellar casein is selected from the group comprising skimmed
milk, part skim milk, whole milk, recombined milk or any other suitable milk.
4.     A method according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the
milk product comprising micellar casein is from a mammal selected from the
group comprising cow, horse, goat, buffalo, sheep and camel.
5.     A method according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the
milk product comprising micellar casein is a skimmed milk
6.     A method according to claim 5, wherein the milk product comprising
micellar casein is a pasteurized skimmed milk.
7.     A method according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the
pore size of the microfiltration membrane is selected so as to retain micellar
casein to provide a micellar casein retentate, and allow alpha lactalbumin and
beta lactoglobulin to pass through the membrane.

                                      U I
8.      A method according to claim 7, wherein the pore size of the membrane
is in the range from 0.05 to 0.3 microns
9.             A method according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein
the microfiltration is performed at a temperature between 40 and 60 OC.
10.     A method according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the
micellar casein isolate is subsequently subjected to a second microfiltration
with a larger pore size, selected such that it will remove microrganisms and/or
spores.
11.     A method according to claim 10, wherein the pore size of the
membrane in the second microfiltration is in the range from 0.5 microns to 3
microns.
12.     A method of preparing a CMP-rich whey fraction suitable for stabilizing a
gluten network in a food product, the method comprising the steps:
i) providing a milk product comprising micellar casein as a starting product,
wherein the milk is pasteurized, skimmed milk,
ii) subjecting the milk product of i) to microfiltration, yielding a micellar casein
isolate, wherein the microfiltration is a warm microfiltration performed at a
temperature between 40 and 60 0 C, such as 45 to 550 C, such as 48 to 540 C,
such as at about 500 C and the pore size of the membrane is in the range from
0.05 to 0.3 microns, such as from 0.05 to 0.2, 0.05 to 0.15, such as
approximately 0.1 microns;
iii) Optionally adding cream, vegetable oil and/or protein to the micellar casein
isolate,
iv) using the micellar casein isolate in cheesemaking, wherein the micellar
casein is cleaved by rennet and a curd is allowed to form,
v) draining and recovering the whey from the curd formed in the
cheesemaking process, which is a CMP-rich whey fraction.

                                      U.1
13.     A method according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein step i)
of providing a milk product comprising micellar casein as a starting product
comprises the substeps:
a) pasteurizing a skimmed milk
b) subsequently bringing the pasteurized skimmed milk to a temperature of
50 to 70 OC
c) and optionally holding at the temperature in b) for a time in the range of
from 1 minute to 60 minutes.
14.     A method according to any one of the preceding claims wherein one or
both of the microfiltration(s) steps is performed as a diafiltration.
15.     A method according to claim 14 wherein water is used as a diluent.
16.     A method according to claim 14 or 15, wherein at least the first
microfiltration step is performed as a diafiltration.
17.     A method according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the
microfiltration permeate may be ultrafiltrated.
18.     A method according to claim 17, wherein the ultrafiltration permeate is
fed back and used as a diluent in the diafiltration. .
19.     A method according to claim 17 or 18, wherein the method comprises
further steps of reverse osmosis of the ultrafiltration permeate and the
reverse osmosis water may be fed back and used as a diluent in the
diafiltration.
20.     A CMP-rich whey fraction obtainable or obtained by the method of any
one of claims 1 to 19.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
                                                    pc t dk 2015050072- s eql . t x t
 <removed-date>
                                      SEQUENCE LI STI NG
               <110> Ar l a Foods amba
               <120> Dough and br ead i mpr ov er
               <130> 53072x x 01
               <160> 2
               <170> Bi SSAP 1. 3
               <210>   1
 <removed-apn>
               <211>   64
               <212>   PRT
               <213>   Bov i dae
               <400> 1
               Met Al a I l e Pr o     Pr o Ly s Ly s As n Gl n   As p Ly s Thr Gl u I l e   Pr o Thr
               1                       5                          10                         15
               I l e As n Thr I l e    Al a Ser Gl y Gl u Pr o    Thr Ser Thr Pr o Thr       Thr Gl u
                              20                           25                        30
               Al a Val Gl u Ser       Thr Val Al a Thr Leu       Gl u As p Ser Pr o Gl u    Val I l e
                          35                           40                       45
               Gl u Ser Pr o Pr o      Gl u I l e As n Thr Val    Gl n Val Thr Ser Thr       Al a Val
                     50                           55                        60
               <210>   2
               <211>   64
               <212>   PRT
               <213>   Bov i dae
               <400> 2
               Met Al a I l e Pr o     Pr o Ly s Ly s As n Gl n   As p Ly s Thr Gl u I l e   Pr o Thr
               1                       5                          10                         15
               I l e As n Thr I l e    Al a Ser Gl y Gl u Pr o    Thr Ser Thr Pr o I l e     Thr Gl u
                              20                           25                        30
               Al a Val Gl u Ser       Thr Val Al a Thr Leu       Gl u Al a Ser Pr o Gl u    Val I l e
                          35                           40                       45
               Gl u Ser Pr o Pr o      Gl u I l e As n Thr Val    Gl n Val Thr Ser Thr       Al a Val
                     50                           55                        60
                                                                   Page 1
This data, for application number 2015245667, is current as of 2018-05-23 21:00 AEST

