                                          ABSTRACT
          The present invention provides a gas generator, comprising a water tank and an
   electrolysis device. The water tank has a first hollow portion for containing
   electrolyzed water. The electrolysis device is disposed inside the first hollow portion
 5 of the water tank for electrolyzing the electrolyzed water to generate a hydrogen
   oxygen mixed gas. When the electrolysis device starts to electrolyze the electrolyzed
   water, the first hollow portion of the water tank is filled with the electrolyzed water
   for standing at a full level of water. And after the electrolysis device electrolyzed the
   electrolyzed water, the level of water for the electrolyzed water filled into the first
10 hollow portion of the water tank is higher than 95% of the full level of water. The
   gas generator of the present invention provides the design for saving space and
   nearly a zero gas chamber to reduce the possibility of explosions resulting from
   hydrogen-oxygen mixed gas.
                                                  52

                                                                                     P/00/011
                                                                                Regulation 3.2
                                      AUSTRALIA
                                    Patents Act 1990
           COMPLETE SPECIFICATION
                         FOR A STANDARD PATENT
                                      ORIGINAL
                       TO BE COMPLETED BY APPLICANT
Name of Applicant:            Hsin-Yung Lin
Invention Title:              A Gas Generator
Divisional of:                2015242943 dated 12 October 2015
Address for Service:          A.P.T. Patent and Trade Mark Attorneys
                              PO Box 833, Blackwood, SA 5051
The following statement is a full description of this invention, including the best method
of performing it known to me/us:
                                              1

                               A GAS GENERATOR
                          BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
   1. Field of the invention
          The present invention relates to a gas generator, and more particularly, the
 5 present invention relates to a gas generator which can prevent explosions and has
   function of controlling the temperature of the electrolyzed water and cooling down
   the electrolyzed water after generated hydrogen-oxygen mixed gas.
   2. Description of the prior art
          People are always paying a great deal of attention on health developments.
10 Many developments in medical technology are often targeted on treating diseases
   and prolonging human life. However, most of the treatments in the past are passive,
   which means that they only treat the disease when the disease occurs. These methods
   include operation, medication, radiation therapy, chronic diseases care, rehabilitation,
   corrective therapy, or even medical treatments for cancers. But in recent years, much
15 of the research from medical experts are gradually moving towards preventive
   medical methods, such as research on healthy food, screening and preventing
   inherited diseases, which actively prevents diseases from occurring in the future.
   Because of the focus on prolonging human life, many anti-aging and anti-oxidation
   technologies including skin care products and anti-oxidation food/medicine are
20 gradually being developed and have become increasingly popular to the general
   public.
           Studies have found that there are instable oxygen species (0+), also known as
     free radicals, in the human body. The free radicals are usually generated due to
     diseases, diet, environment and one's lifestyle, but can be excreted in the form of
25   water by reacting with the inhaled hydrogen. With this method, the amount of free
                                                 2

     radicals in the human body can be reduced, thereby restoring the body condition
     from an acidic state to an alkaline state, achieving an anti-oxidation, anti-aging and
     beauty health effect, and even eliminating chronic diseases. Furthermore, there are
     also clinical experiments showing that patients who need to inhale a high
 5   concentration of oxygen for an extended period of time would experience lung
     damage and the lung damage, and they could be ameliorated by inhaling hydrogen.
           In addition to healthy uses, the application of hydrogen-oxygen gas also can
     create hydrogen-oxygen fire to heat or bum, or clean up the carbon accumulated in
     engine as well.
10         Generally, hydrogen-oxygen gas is generated through electrolyzing liquid
     water. However, it's easy to generate high temperature in the electrolyzing process,
     which will allow the efficiency of electrolyzing to be decreased and cause energy
     consumption problems. Furthermore, to avoid hydrogen explosions, air-cooling
     type hydrogen-oxygen electrolysis tank are usually used, which is utilizing fan to
15   cool down. However, if the fan malfunctions, the temperature of the electrolysis
     tank will be raised, and it's easy to cause hydrogen explosions.
                             SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
          Therefore, an aspect of the present invention is to provide a gas generator,
   which electrolyzes      liquid water and generates hydrogen-oxygen mixed gas.
20 Meanwhile, the gas generator of the present invention can maintain the quantity of
   the hydrogen-oxygen mixed gas in the water tank, and cool down the temperature of
   the hydrogen-oxygen mixed gas as well, to avoid gas explosions.
          The present invention provides a gas generator, comprising a water tank and an
   electrolysis device. The water tank has a first hollow portion for containing
25 electrolyzed water. The electrolysis device is disposed inside the first hollow portion
   of the water tank for electrolyzing the electrolyzed water to generate a hydrogen
   oxygen mixed gas. When the electrolysis device starts to electrolyze the electrolyzed
                                                   3

   water, the first hollow portion of the water tank and the electrolysis device are filled
   with the electrolyzed water for standing at a full level of water. And after the
   electrolysis device electrolyzed the electrolyzed water, the level of water for the
   electrolyzed water filled into the first hollow portion of the water tank and the
 5 electrolysis device are higher than 90% of the full level of water.
          After the    electrolysis  device   electrolyzed  the  electrolyzed  water,   the
   electrolyzed water is filled into the first hollow portion of the water tank and the
   electrolysis device for allowing the level of water thereof to be between 90% of the
   full level of water and 99.99% of the full level of water.
10        The water tank can further comprise a pipe for outputting the hydrogen-oxygen
   mixed gas. When the electrolysis device pauses to electrolyze the electrolyzed water
   for generating the hydrogen-oxygen mixed gas, the pipe can be used to recharge the
   electrolyzed water for allowing the first hollow portion of the water tank and the
   electrolysis device to be filled with the electrolyzed water.
15        Additionally, the gas generator of the present invention can selectively further
   comprise a water pump, connected with the first hollow portion of the water tank for
   enforcing to circulate the electrolyzed water in the first hollow portion of the water
   tank and the electrolysis device.
          The electrolysis device can further selectively comprise a partition and an
20 electrolysis tank. The partition comprises a connecting hole. The partition is used to
   divide the first hollow portion into an upper portion and a lower portion. And the
   upper portion and the lower portion are connected through the connecting hole.
          The electrolysis device can further selectively comprise a plurality of
   electrodes and a pad. The plurality of the electrodes is respectively disposed on the
25 space inside the electrolysis tank for forming a plurality of electrode channels. The
   pad is disposed on the upper surface of each electrode and has a plurality of upper
   vias. The upper portion of the first hollow portion is connected with the plurality of
   electrode channels through the plurality of upper vias of the pad. And each electrode
                                                   4

   channel is respectively connected with the upper portion of the first hollow portion
   through the corresponding upper via.
          The electrolysis tank can further selectively have a lower surface. The lower
   surface of the electrolysis tank has a plurality of lower vias. The lower portion of the
 5 first hollow portion is connected with the plurality of electrode channels through the
   plurality of lower vias of the lower surface of the electrolysis tank. And each
   electrode channel is respectively connected with the lower portion of the first hollow
   portion through the corresponding lower via.
          The gas generator of the present invention can selectively further comprise a
10 flow quantity detector. The flow quantity detector is coupled to the electrolysis
   device for detecting the flow quantity of the hydrogen-oxygen mixed gas, and further
   controlling the quantity of the hydrogen-oxygen mixed gas outputted from the
   electrolysis device. The flow quantity detector can selectively cut off the electrical
   connection between the electrolysis device and the power source. By means of the
15 electrolyzed water is filled in the first hollow portion of the water tank and the
   electrolysis device, the present invention can maintain the quantity of the hydrogen
   oxygen mixed gas in the water tank, and cool down the temperature of the hydrogen
   oxygen mixed gas as well, to avoid gas explosions.
          The gas generator of the present invention can selectively further comprise a
20 power source. The plurality of electrodes comprise a negative plate, a positive plate,
   and a plurality of bipolar plates. The plurality of bipolar plates are disposed with
   space between the negative plate and the positive plate. The negative plate is
   connected to the negative pole of the power source. And the positive plate is
   connected to the positive pole of the power source.
25        The gas generator of the present invention can selectively further comprise a
   nebulized gas mixing tank. The nebulized gas mixing tank is connected to the water
   tank for receiving the hydrogen-oxygen mixed gas. The nebulized gas mixing tank
   generates a nebulized gas to be mixed with the hydrogen-oxygen mixed gas to form a
   healthy gas for user to breathe, wherein the nebulized gas is selected from a group
                                                  5

   consisting of water vapor, nebulized medicinal liquid, evaporated essential oil, and
   the combination thereof.
          To summarize the statement mentioned above, the priority of the present
   invention is to provide a gas generator, comprising a water tank and an electrolysis
 5 device. The design for the electrolysis device disposed inside the water tank of the
   present invention can save space. Meanwhile, by means of the electrolyzed water
   filled in the first hollow portion of the water tank and the electrolysis device, the
   present invention can prevent chambers from existing in the water tank, and decrease
   the temperature of the electrolysis device to avoid gas explosions. Furthermore, the
10 design for the gas outlet and the inlet opening of the electrolysis device of the present
   invention allows the electrolyzed water in the water tank to be recharged in the
   electrolysis device. The hydrogen-oxygen mixed gas generated by the electrolysis
   device can be outputted to the water tank to achieve the goal of gas-water circulation.
   Additionally, in the present invention, the design for the connection structure of the
15 water pump, the water tank, and the electrolysis device can allow the electrolyzed
   water contained in the first hollow portion and the electrolysis device to be enforced
   to circulate, which allows the chamber in the water tank to be nearly zero so as to
   avoid gas explosions.
          Furthermore, another aspect of the present invention is to provide a gas
20 generator, which has the functions of controlling the temperature of the electrolyzed
   water and cooling down the electrolyzed water after generated hydrogen-oxygen
   mixed gas, which then allows the temperature of the electrolyzed water to be in a
   temperature    range providing      optimal electrolytic    efficiency   for effectively
   electrolyzing electrolyzed water to generate hydrogen-oxygen mixed gas, to solve the
25 energy consumption problems.
          The present invention provides a gas generator, comprising an electrolysis
   device, a cooling device, and a water pump. The electrolysis device contains
   electrolyzed water. The electrolysis device is used to electrolyze the electrolyzed
   water to generate a hydrogen-oxygen mixed gas. The cooling device is connected to
                                                 6

   the electrolysis device, used to cool down the electrolyzed water after the hydrogen
   oxygen mixed gas is generated. And the water pump is connected between the
   cooling device and the electrolysis device, used to enforce to circulate the
   electrolyzed water.
 5       Additionally, the gas generator of the present invention can selectively further
   comprise a microcomputer controller. The microcomputer controller is coupled to the
   water pump, used to detect the temperature of the electrolyzed water and control an
   inputting flow rate and an outputting flow rate of the water pump according to the
   detected temperature of the electrolyzed water.
10       The microcomputer controller can selectively comprise a temperature sensor.
   The temperature sensor is used to detect the temperature of the electrolyzed water.
         The cooling device can selectively comprise a radiator and a fan. The radiator
   comprises a box and a radiating tube. The radiating tube is disposed in the box. And
   the fan is fixed on an outer surface of the box of the radiator.
15       Additionally, the gas generator of the present invention can selectively further
   comprise a water tank. The water tank has a first hollow portion. The first hollow
   portion of the water tank contains the electrolyzed water. The electrolysis device is
   disposed inside the first hollow portion of the water tank, wherein the first hollow
   portion is connected with the electrolysis device, the radiator is connected to the
20 water tank, and the water pump is connected between the radiator and the water tank.
         The water tank can selectively comprise an outlet opening and an inlet opening.
   The radiator can selectively comprise an inlet and an outlet. The inlet and the outlet
   of the radiator are connected through the radiating tube. The water pump can
   selectively comprise an inlet pipe and an outlet pipe. The outlet opening of the water
25 tank is connected with the inlet of the radiator. The outlet of the radiator is connected
   with the inlet pipe of the water pump. And the outlet pipe of the water pump is
   connected with the inlet opening of the water tank.
         Additionally, the gas generator of the present invention can selectively further
                                                  7

   comprise a nebulized gas mixing tank, wherein the nebulized gas mixing tank is
   coupled to the electrolysis device for receiving the hydrogen-oxygen mixed gas. The
   nebulized gas mixing tank generates a nebulized gas to be mixed with the hydrogen
   oxygen mixed gas to form a healthy gas for user to breathe, wherein the nebulized
 5 gas is selected from a group consisting of water vapor, nebulized medicinal liquid,
   evaporated essential oil, and the combination thereof.
         To summarize the statement mentioned above, the priority of the present
   invention is to provide a gas generator, comprising electrolysis device, cooling
   device, and water pump. The gas generator of the present invention can cool down
10 the electrolyzed water after the hydrogen-oxygen mixed gas is generated through the
   cooling device, and enforce to circulate the electrolyzed water through the water
   pump to achieve the goal of heat radiation. Meanwhile, the present invention can
   allow the temperature of the electrolyzed water to be in a temperature range
   providing optimal electrolytic efficiency for effectively electrolyzing electrolyzed
15 water to generate hydrogen-oxygen mixed gas, to solve the energy consumption
   problems.
         Furthermore, another aspect of the present invention is to provide a gas
   generator, comprising electrolysis device, cooling device, and water pump. The
   electrolysis device contains electrolyzed water. The electrolysis device is used to
20 electrolyze the electrolyzed water to generate a hydrogen-oxygen mixed gas. The
   cooling device is connected to the electrolysis device, used to cool down the
   electrolyzed water after the hydrogen-oxygen mixed gas is generated. And the water
   pump is connected between the cooling device and the electrolysis device, used to
   enforce to circulate the electrolyzed water. Wherein, the temperature of the
25 electrolyzed water contained in the electrolysis device is a normal electrolyzed
   temperature, and the normal electrolyzed temperature is between 55 C to 65 C.
         Additionally, the gas generator of the present invention can selectively further
   comprise a microcomputer controller. The microcomputer controller is coupled to the
   water pump, used to detect the temperature of the electrolyzed water and control an
                                                 8

   inputting flow rate and an outputting flow rate of the water pump according to the
   detected temperature of the electrolyzed water.
          The cooling device can selectively comprise a radiator and a fan. The radiator
   comprises a box and a radiating tube. The radiating tube is disposed in the box. And
 5 the fan is fixed on an outer surface of the box of the radiator.
          Additionally, the gas generator of the present invention can selectively further
   comprise a water tank. The water tank has a first hollow portion. The first hollow
   portion of the water tank contains the electrolyzed water. The electrolysis device is
   disposed inside the first hollow portion of the water tank, wherein the first hollow
10 portion is connected with the electrolysis device, the radiator is connected to the
   water tank, and the water pump is connected between the radiator and the water tank.
          Additionally, the gas generator of the present invention can selectively further
   comprise a nebulized gas mixing tank, wherein the nebulized gas mixing tank is
   coupled to the electrolysis device for receiving the hydrogen-oxygen mixed gas. The
15 nebulized gas mixing tank generates a nebulized gas to be mixed with the hydrogen
   oxygen mixed gas to form a healthy gas for user to breathe, wherein the nebulized
   gas is selected from a group consisting of water vapor, nebulized medicinal liquid,
   evaporated essential oil, and the combination thereof.
          To summarize the statement mentioned above, the priority of the present
20 invention is to provide a gas generator, comprising electrolysis device, cooling
   device, and water pump. Wherein, the temperature of the electrolyzed water
   contained in the electrolysis device is between 55C to 650 C.The gas generator of the
   present invention can cool down the electrolyzed water after the hydrogen-oxygen
   mixed gas is generated through the cooling device, and enforce to circulate the
25 electrolyzed water through the water pump to achieve the goal of heat radiation.
   Meanwhile, the present invention can allow the temperature of the electrolyzed water
   to be in a temperature range (551C to 65C) providing optimal electrolytic efficiency
   for effectively electrolyzing electrolyzed water to generate hydrogen-oxygen mixed
   gas, to solve the energy consumption problems.
                                                  9

          Furthermore, another aspect of the present invention is to provide a gas
   generator, comprising an electrolysis device and a condense filter. The condense
   filter is connected to the electrolysis device for condensing the hydrogen-oxygen
   mixed gas and filtering the impurities of the hydrogen-oxygen mixed gas. When the
 5 electrolysis device is paused to electrolyze the electrolyzed water for generating the
   hydrogen-oxygen mixed gas, the gas outlet via of the condense filter can be used to
   input recharged water, and the impurities can be flushed back to the electrolysis
   device and the first hollow portion via the recharged water through the gas inlet via
   and the pipe.
10        To summarize the statement mentioned above, the priority of the present
   invention is to provide a gas generator, comprising electrolysis device and condense
   filter. In the present invention, the hydrogen-oxygen mixed gas generated by the
   electrolysis device can be cooled down and filtered by the condense filter, to provide
   a hydrogen-oxygen mixed gas which is appropriate for human to breathe. Meanwhile,
15 through the design of the present invention, the electrolyte can be flushed back to the
   electrolysis device when recharging water, used to decrease the consumption of the
   electrolyte and avoid the electrolyte to block the condense filter.
          Furthermore, another aspect of the present invention is to provide a gas
   generator, comprising an electrolysis device and a humidification device. The
20 humidification device comprises a hollow body, a second pipe, at least one
   outputting pipe, and an oscillation device. The hollow body is used to contain
   recharged water. The second pipe is disposed on the hollow body and connected to
   the electrolysis device for receiving the hydrogen-oxygen mixed gas. The at least one
   outputting pipe is disposed in the hollow body and connected to the second pipe. The
25 surface of the at least one outputting pipe has a plurality of vias. The oscillation
   device is disposed in the hollow body and positioned under the at least one
   outputting pipe for oscillating the recharged water. When the electrolysis device is
   electrolyzing the electrolyzed water to generate the hydrogen-oxygen mixed gas, the
   hydrogen-oxygen mixed gas is outputted through the plurality of vias of the at least
                                                 10

   one outputting pipe, and then the hydrogen-oxygen mixed gas is humidified by the
   recharged water which is oscillated by the oscillation device.
         Additionally, the hydrogen-oxygen mixed gas outputted through the plurality
   of vias of the at least one outputting pipe can be combined with the recharged water
 5 which is oscillated by the oscillation device to generate hydrogen water.
         Additionally, the gas generator of the present invention can further comprise a
   hand-held atomize device for receiving the humidified hydrogen-oxygen mixed gas.
   The hand-held atomize device can generate a nebulized gas to be mixed with the
   humidified hydrogen-oxygen mixed gas to form a healthy gas for a user to breathe.
10       To summarize the statement mentioned above, the priority of the present
   invention is to provide a gas generator, comprising electrolysis device and
   humidification device. In the present invention, the hydrogen-oxygen mixed gas
   generated by the electrolysis device can be humidified by the humidification device,
   to provide a hydrogen-oxygen mixed gas which is appropriate for human to breathe.
15 Additionally, through the humidification device, the hydrogen-oxygen mixed gas
   generated by the electrolysis device can generate hydrogen water with higher
   concentration    of hydrogen-oxygen      mixed gas.     In practical  application,  the
   concentration of hydrogen-oxygen mixed gas of the hydrogen water can be adjusted
   according to the requirement of the user. Furthermore, the design of the present
20 invention can be used to recharge recharged water. Meanwhile, the electrolyte will
   be flushed back to the electrolysis device to recover the filter ability of the
   circulating channel, avoid the circulating channel to be blocked or corroded, and
   decrease the consumption of the electrolyte.
         Furthermore, another aspect of the present invention is to provide a gas
25 generator, comprising a hydrogen water generator. The hydrogen water generator
   comprises a container, a gas inlet pipe, a thinning pipe, an oscillation device, and a
   liquid inputting/outputting structure. The surface of the thinning pipe having a
   plurality of vias for allowing the gas comprising hydrogen to be formed as a
   plurality of thin bubbles after outputting from the thinning pipe to the water through
                                                 11

   the vias. The oscillation device can be used to oscillate the water contained in the
   container for mixing the thin bubbles with water to form hydrogen water and
   humidified gas.
          The advantages and spirits of the invention may be understood by the
 5 following recitations together with the appended drawings.
              BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE APPENDED DRAWINGS
          Some of the embodiments will be described in detail, with reference to the
   following figures, wherein like designations denote like members, wherein:
          FIG. lA and FIG. 1B show a schematic diagram of the gas generator in the
10 first embodiment with different visual angle of the present invention.
          FIG. 2A and FIG. 2B show a schematic diagram with different visual angles of
   the present invention which only has the combination of the upper cover of the water
   tank and the electrolysis device in the embodiment shown in FIG. 1A.
          FIG. 3A and FIG. 3B show a schematic diagram with different visual angles of
15 the present invention which only has the combination of the electrolysis device and
   the tank body of the water tank in the embodiment shown in FIG. lA.
          FIG. 4A and FIG. 4B show an explosion diagram of the electrolysis device of
   the gas generator with different visual angles in the embodiment shown in FIG. 1A
   of the present invention.
20        FIG. 5A and FIG. 5B show a top view diagram and a cross-section diagram
   crossing along the A-A line of the top view diagram of the tank body of the water
   tank and the electrolysis device of the gas generator in the embodiment shown in FIG.
   3A of the present invention.
          FIG. 6 shows a schematic diagram with different visual angles of the present
25 invention which only has the combination of the electrolysis tank, the partition, and
   the electrodes in the embodiment shown in FIG. lA.
                                                 12

         FIG. 7A and FIG. 7B show a top view diagram and a cross-section diagram
   crossing along the B-B line of the top view diagram of the tank body of the water
   tank and the electrolysis device of the gas generator in the embodiment shown in FIG.
   3A of the present invention.
 5       FIG. 8 shows a schematic diagram of the gas generator in the second
   embodiment of the present invention.
         FIG. 9A and FIG. 9B show a schematic diagram of the gas generator in the
   tenth embodiment with different visual angles of the present invention.
         FIG. 10A and FIG. 1OB show a schematic diagram with different visual angles
10 of the present invention which only has the combination of the condense filter and
   the cover body of the water tank in the embodiment shown in FIG. 9A.
         FIG. 11 shows a schematic diagram of the present invention in the embodiment
   shown in FIG. 10A without the cover body of the water tank.
         FIG. 12 shows a schematic diagram of the present invention in the embodiment
15 shown in FIG. 11 without the filter gauze.
         FIG. 13 shows a schematic diagram of the present invention in the embodiment
   shown in FIG. 12 without the cover of the filter gauze.
         FIG. 14A and FIG. 14B show a top view diagram and a cross-section diagram
   crossing along the C-C line of the top view diagram of the condense filter of the gas
20 generator in the embodiment shown in FIG. 10A of the present invention.
         FIG. 15A and FIG. 15B show a schematic diagram of the gas generator in the
   fourteenth embodiment with different visual angle of the present invention.
         FIG. 16 shows a schematic diagram of the present invention which only has the
   humidification device in the embodiment shown in FIG. 15A.
25       FIG. 17 shows a schematic diagram of the gas generator in the fifth
   embodiment of the present invention.
                                                 13

          FIG. 18A and FIG. 18B show a schematic diagram of the gas generator in the
   fifteenth embodiment with different visual angle of the present invention.
          FIG. 19 shows a back view diagram of the gas generator in the embodiment
   shown in FIG. 18A of the present invention.
 5        FIG. 20A and FIG. 20B show a top view diagram and a cross-section diagram
   crossing along the D-D line of the top view diagram of the present invention which
   only has the condense filter and the cover body of the water tank in the embodiment
   shown in FIG. 18A.
          FIG. 21A shows a schematic diagram of the hydrogen water generator in an
10 embodiment of the present invention.
          FIG. 21B shows a schematic diagram of the interior of the hydrogen water
   generator shown in FIG. 21A in an embodiment of the present invention.
          FIG. 22 shows a schematic diagram of the hydrogen water generator in another
   embodiment of the present invention.
15        The advantages, sprits, and features of the present invention will be explained
   and discussed with embodiments and figures as following.
                  DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
          A detailed description of the hereinafter described embodiments of the
   disclosed apparatus and method are presented herein by way of exemplification and
20 not limitation with reference to the Figures. Although certain embodiments are
   shown and described in detail, it should be understood that various changes and
   modifications may be made without departing from the scope of the appended claims.
   The scope of the present invention will in no way be limited to the number of
   constituting components, the materials thereof, the shapes thereof, the relative
25 arrangement thereof, etc., and are disclosed simply as an example of embodiments of
   the present invention.
                                                14

          The present invention provides a gas generator. The gas generator is an
   explosion-proof gas generator. Please refer to FIG. 1A, FIG. 1B, FIG. 2A, and FIG.
   2B. FIG. 1A and FIG. 1B show a schematic diagram of the gas generator in the first
   embodiment with different visual angles of the present invention, FIG. 2A and FIG.
 5 2B show a schematic diagram with different visual angles of the present invention
   which only has the combination of the upper cover of the water tank and the
   electrolysis device in the embodiment shown in FIG. 1A. As shown in figures, in the
   first embodiment, the gas generator 1 of the present invention comprises a water tank
   2 and an electrolysis device 3. The water tank 2 contains an electrolyzed water W.
10 The electrolysis device 3 is disposed inside the water tank 2 for electrolyzing the
   electrolyzed water W to generate a hydrogen-oxygen mixed gas G. When the
   electrolysis device 3 starts to electrolyze the electrolyzed water W, the water tank 2
   and the electrolysis device 3 are filled with the electrolyzed water W for standing at a
   full level of water. And after the electrolysis device 3 electrolyzed the electrolyzed
15 water W, the level of water for the electrolyzed water W filled into the water tank 2
   and the electrolysis device 3 is higher than 90% of the full level of water. The
   following statement will explain the design of each element of the present invention
   respectively.
          The water tank 2 of the present invention has a first hollow portion 20 and a
20 pipe 22. The first hollow portion 20 of the water tank 2 is used to contain an
   electrolyzed water W. The major constituent of the electrolyzed water W is pure
   water. According to the requirement, a few electrolytes can be added into the pure
   water, such as sodium hydroxide, calcium carbonate, and sodium chloride. The pipe
   22 of the water tank 2 is connected with the first hollow portion 20 of the water tank
25 2, used to output the hydrogen-oxygen mixed gas G generated from the electrolysis
   device 3 and recharge the electrolyzed water W in the water tank 2.
          Additionally, please refer to FIG. 3A and FIG. 3B. FIG. 3A and FIG. 3B show
   a schematic diagram with different visual angles of the present invention which only
   has the combination of the electrolysis device and the tank body of the water tank in
                                                  15

   the embodiment shown in FIG. 1A. In this embodiment, the water tank 2 further
   comprises a tank body 24 and a cover body 26.
         The tank body 24 of the water tank 2 can be approximately divided into a first
   base 240 and a first wall portion 242. The first wall portion 242 is formed by
 5 extending outward from the inner surface of the first base 240 along the direction of
   the normal vector of the inner surface. The first wall portion 242 encloses the first
   hollow portion 20. The other end of the first hollow portion 20 relative to the first
   base 240 has a first opening portion 244. Meanwhile, the other side of the first wall
   portion 242 relative to the first base 240 has a first side margin 248. And the first
10 side margin 248       encloses the first opening portion 244 mentioned           above.
   Additionally, the tank body 24 of the water tank 2 further comprises an outlet
   opening 249a and an inlet opening 249b. In this embodiment, the outlet opening 249a
   of the tank body 24 of the water tank 2 is connected with the two surfaces of the first
   wall portion 242 of the tank body 24 of the water tank 2 relative to the direction of
15 the electrolysis device 3, and the inlet opening 249b of the tank body 24 of the water
   tank 2 is connected with the two surfaces of the first wall portion 242 of the tank
   body 24 of the water tank 2 relative to the direction of the electrolysis device 3. The
   outlet opening 249a and the inlet opening 249b of the tank body 24 of the water tank
   2 is connected with each other through the first hollow portion 20. The outlet
20 opening 249a and the inlet opening 249b of the tank body 24 of the water tank 2 can
   be used to connect a water pump and the first hollow portion 20 of the water tank 2.
         The cover body 26 of the water tank 2 can be approximately divided into a
   second base 260 and a second wall portion 262. The second wall portion 262 is
   formed by extending outward from the inner surface of the second base 260 along
25 the direction of the normal vector of the inner surface. The second wall portion 262
   encloses a second hollow portion 264. The other end of the second hollow portion
   264 relative to the second base 260 has a second opening portion 266. The cover
   body 26 of the water tank 2 can dispose the first side margin 248 of the tank body 24
   of the water tank 2 in the second hollow portion 264 through the second opening
                                                 16

   portion 266. Pipe 22 can be disposed on the second base 260 of the cover body 26 of
   the water tank 2, and connect the two surfaces of the second base 260 of the cover
   body 26 of the water tank 2 relative to the direction of the tank body 24 of the water
   tank 2. However, the present invention is not limited to the statement mentioned
 5 above. In practical application, pipe 22 also can be replaced by a pilot hole or other
   elements which has the function of output/input. The cover body 26 of the water tank
   2 further comprises a plurality of cover holes (as shown in FIG. 10A). The plurality
   of cover holes connect the two surfaces of the second base 260 of the cover body 26
   of the water tank 2 relative to the direction of the tank body 24 of the water tank 2,
10 used for the electrode column of the electrolysis device 3 to pass through and then be
   disposed on the electrolysis device 3, or used for the detector (such as flow quantity
   detector, water level meter, safety valve) to pass through and then be disposed on the
   cover body 26 of the water tank 2.
          Additionally, in this embodiment, the water tank 2 further comprises a seal 28,
15 disposed between the tank body 24 and the cover body 26 of the water tank 2, used
   to allow the tank body 24 and the cover body 26 of the water tank 2 to be combined
   tightly. The seal 28 has a third opening portion 280. When the seal 28 is disposed
   between the tank body 24 and the cover body 26 of the water tank 2, the third
   opening portion 280 of the seal 28 encloses a plurality of cover holes 261 and the
20 second opening portion 266. The corresponding surface of the tank body 24 of the
   water tank 2 and the seal 28 can further have a first embed structure 246 and a
   corresponding third embed structure 282 respectively. The first embed structure 246
   and the corresponding third embed structure 282 can be embedded with each other.
   The first embed structure 246 encloses the first opening portion 244. The third
25 embed structure 282 encloses the third opening portion 280.
          Please refer to FIG. 4A and FIG. 4B. FIG. 4A and FIG. 4B show an explosion
   diagram of the electrolysis device of the gas generator with different visual angles in
   the embodiment shown in FIG. 1A of the present invention. The electrolysis device 3
   comprises an electrolysis tank 32, a plurality of electrodes 34, a pad 36, an upper
                                                 17

   cover body 37, and a lower cover body 38. The plurality of electrodes 34 are
   respectively disposed on the space inside the electrolysis tank 32 and formed a
   plurality of electrode channels Si. The pad 36 is disposed on the upper surface of
   each electrode 34. The upper cover body 37 is covered on the other end of the pad 36
 5 relative to the electrolysis tank 32. The lower cover body 38 is covered on the other
   end of the lower surface of the electrolysis tank 32 relative to the upper cover body
   37.
          Please refer to FIG. 5A and FIG. 5B. FIG. 5A and FIG. 5B show a top view
   diagram and a cross-section diagram crossing along the A-A line of the top view
10 diagram of the tank body of the water tank and the electrolysis device of the gas
   generator in the embodiment shown in FIG. 3A of the present invention. The
   electrolysis device further has a partition 30. The partition 30 is formed by extending
   outward from the side surface of the electrolysis tank relative to the water tank 2
   along the direction of the normal vector of the side surface, used to divide the first
15 hollow portion 20 of the water tank 2 into an upper portion 200 and a lower portion
   202. The partition 30 comprises a connecting hole 300. The connecting hole 300
   connects the two surfaces of the partition 30 relative to the direction of the first base
   240 of the tank body 24 of the water tank 2. The upper portion 200 and the lower
   portion 202 of the first hollow portion 20 are connected through the connecting hole.
20 The design of the connecting hole is not limited to this embodiment. In practical
   application, the amount and the shape of the connecting hole can be selected or
   designed according to the practical requirement.
          Please refer to FIG. 6. FIG. 6 shows a schematic diagram with different visual
   angles of the present invention which only has the combination of the electrolysis
25 tank, the partition, and the electrodes in the embodiment shown in FIG. 1A. The
   electrolysis tank 32 can be approximately divided into a fourth base 320 and a fourth
   wall portion322. The fourth wall portion 322 is formed by extending outward from
   the inner surface of the fourth base 320 along the direction of the normal vector of
   the inner surface. The fourth wall portion 322 encloses the fourth hollow portion 324.
                                                  18

   The other end of the fourth hollow portion 324 relative to the fourth base 320 has a
   fourth opening portion 326. The fourth hollow portion 324 is adapted to contain the
   electrolyzed water W. Additionally, in order to explain the design of the electrolysis
   tank of the present invention, FIG. 6 omits a plurality of electrodes of the present
 5 invention. However, in practical application, the design thereof can be selected
   according to the practical requirement.
           Please refer to FIG. 5A, FIG. 5B, FIG. 6, FIG. 7A, and FIG. 7B. FIG. 7A and
   FIG. 7B show a top view diagram and a cross-section diagram crossing along the B
   B line of the top view diagram of the tank body of the water tank and the electrolysis
10 device of the gas generator in the embodiment shown in FIG. 3A of the present
   invention. In this embodiment, the lower surface of the electrolysis tank 32 is the
   fourth base 320 of the electrolysis tank 32. The fourth base 320 of the electrolysis
   tank 32 has a plurality of lower vias 3202. The plurality of lower vias 3202 connect
   the two surfaces of the fourth base 320 of the electrolysis tank 32 relative to the
15 direction of the first base 240 of the tank body 24 of the water tank 24. The fourth
   base 320 of the electrolysis tank 32 further has a plurality of fillisters 3204. The
   plurality of fillisters 3204 are formed by extending inward from the surface of the
   fourth base 320 of the electrolysis tank 32 relative to the fourth opening portion 326
   along the direction of the normal vector of the surface. Each fillister 3204 is
20 separately disposed between the lower via 3202 and the adjacent lower via 3202. The
   plurality of fillisters 3204 can be used to dispose the electrodes 34. Meanwhile, the
   fourth wall portion 322 of the electrolysis tank 32 further has a plurality of fix
   columns 3220. The plurality of fix columns 3220 are formed by extending outward
   from the surface of the fourth wall portion 322 relative to the plurality of lower via
25 3202 along the direction of the normal vector of the surface. The fix column 3220
   and the adjacent fix column 3220 can be used to fix the electrodes 34 disposed in the
   fillister 3204. When the plurality of electrodes 34 are respectively disposed on the
   space in the fillister 3204 of the electrolysis tank 32 and fixed between the fix
   column 3220 and the adjacent fix column 3220, a plurality of electrode channels Si
30 will be formed in the electrolysis tank 32. Each electrode channel SI can be
                                                 19

   connected with the lower portion 202 of the first hollow portion 20 respectively
   through the corresponding lower via 3202.
         Pad 36 has a plurality of upper vias 360. The plurality of the upper vias 360
   connect the two surfaces of the pad 36 relative to the direction of the electrolysis tank
 5 32. Additionally, each electrode channel Si also can be connected with the upper
   portion 200 of the first hollow portion 20 respectively through the corresponding
   upper via 360.
         The plurality of electrodes 34 comprise a negative plate 340, a positive plate
   342, and a plurality of bipolar plates 344. The plurality of bipolar plates 344 are
10 disposed on the space between the negative plate 340 and the positive plate 342. In
   this embodiment, the electrolysis device 3 further comprises two electrode columns
   33, used to fix the negative plate 340 and the positive plate 342 on the cover body 26
   of the water tank 2 respectively for disposing the electrolysis device 3 in the midair
   in the water tank 2. Additionally, in this embodiment, the gas generator further
15 comprises a power source (not shown in the figure). The negative plate 340 can be
   connected to the negative pole of the power source, and the positive plate 342 can be
   connected to the positive pole of the power source.
         The upper cover body 37 comprises at least a first channel 370. As shown in
   FIG. 4B, the first channel 370 is formed by extending inward from the surface of the
20 upper cover body 37 relative to the pad 36 along the direction of the normal vector of
   the surface. The plurality of upper vias 360 on the pad 36 are connected with the first
   hollow portion 20 through the at least one first channel 370.
         The lower cover body 38 comprises at least a second channel 380. As shown in
   FIG. 4A, the second channel 380 is formed by extending inward from the surface of
25 the lower cover body 38 relative to the fourth base 320 of the electrolysis tank 32
   along the direction of the normal vector of the surface. The plurality of lower vias
   3202 on the fourth base 320 of the electrolysis tank 32 is connected with the first
   hollow portion 20 through the at least one second channel 380.
                                                20

          Additionally, please refer to FIG. 8. FIG. 8 shows a schematic diagram of the
   gas generator in the second embodiment of the present invention. In the second
   embodiment, the gas generator 1 of the present invention further comprises a water
   pump 5 (shown by dotted line only in FIG. 8). The water pump 5 can be used to
 5 enforce to circulate the electrolyzed water W contained in the first hollow portion 20
   and the electrolysis device 3. The water pump 5 comprises an inlet pipe 50 and an
   outlet pipe 52. The outlet pipe 52 of the water pump 5 is used to connect the water
   pump 5 and the inlet opening 249b of the water tank 2. The inlet pipe 50 of the water
   pump 5 is used to connect the water pump 5 and the outlet opening 249a of the water
10 tank 2.
          Additionally, in the third embodiment, the gas generator 1 of the present
   invention further comprises a nebulized gas mixing tank 4 (as shown in FIG. 15A).
   The nebulized gas mixing tank 4 can be coupled to the electrolysis device 3 for
   receiving the hydrogen-oxygen mixed gas G. The nebulized gas mixing tank 4 can
15 generate a nebulized gas G2 and be mixed with the hydrogen-oxygen mixed gas G to
   form a healthy gas for user to breathe. In practical application, the nebulized gas G2
   can be selected from a group consisting of water vapor, nebulized medicinal liquid,
   evaporated essential oil, and the combination thereof.
          After explaining the design of each element in the statement mentioned above,
20 the following statement will describe the combination method and the application of
   each element of the gas generator of the present invention.
          In the electrolysis device 3 which is assembled completely, plurality of
   electrodes is disposed with space in the electrolysis tank 32, the pad 36 is disposed
   on the upper surface of each electrode34, the upper cover body 37 is covered on the
25 other end of the pad 36 relative to the electrolysis tank 32, and the lower cover body
   38 is covered on the other end of the lower surface of the electrolysis tank 32 relative
   to the upper cover body 37.
          In the water tank 2 and the electrolysis device 3 which is assembled completely,
   the positive plat 342 and the negative plate 340 of the electrolysis device 3 are fixed
                                                  21

   on the cover body 26 of the water tank 2 respectively through two electrode columns
   33. And the detector (such as flow quantity detector 82) are passed through the
   plurality of cover holes 261 of the cover body 26 of the water tank 2 and disposed on
   the cover body 26 of the water tank 2. The seal 28 is disposed on the tank body 24 of
 5 the water tank 2. The seal 28 and the tank body 24 of the water tank 2 are embedded
   with each other through the third embed structure 282 of the seal 28 and the first
   embed structure 246 of the tank body 24 of the water tank 2. The first side margin
   248 of the tank body 24 of the water tank 2 is covered in the second hollow portion
   264 of the cover body 26 of the water tank 2 through the second opening portion 266
10 of the cover body 26 of the water tank 2, for allowing the tank body 24 of the water
   tank 2 and the cover body 26 of the water tank 2 to be combined tightly, and
   allowing the electrolysis device 3 to be disposed in the midair in the water tank 2.
   Wherein, the first hollow portion 20 of the water tank 2 is connected with the
   electrolysis device 3.
15        In the water tank 2, the electrolysis device 3, and the water pump 5 which is
   assembled completely, the water tank 2 and the water pump 5 are connected with
   each other through the connection of the outlet pipe 52 of the water pump 5 and the
   inlet opening 249b of the water tank 2 and the connection of the inlet pipe 50 of the
   water pump 5 and the outlet opening 249a of the water tank 2. Additionally, in the
20 third embodiment, the nebulized gas mixing tank 4 is connected to the electrolysis
   device 3.
          In practical application, the water tank 2 contains electrolyzed water W, the
   electrolysis device 3 is disposed in the water tank 2 for electrolyzing the electrolyzed
   water W to generate a hydrogen-oxygen mixed gas G. The hydrogen-oxygen mixed
25 gas G generated in the electrode channel SI is outputted into the first hollow portion
   20 through the corresponding upper via 360 of the pad 36 and the corresponding first
   channel 370 of the upper cover body 37. The hydrogen-oxygen mixed gas G inputted
   into the first hollow portion 20 is further outputted through the pipe 22 of the water
   tank 2 for the user to breathe. But the present invention is not limited to the statement
                                                 22

   mentioned above. In practical application, the hydrogen-oxygen mixed gas G
   inputted into the first hollow portion 20 can further be mixed with the nebulized gas
   G2 generated from the nebulized gas mixing tank 4 to form healthy gas for user to
   breathe.
 5       Additionally, when the electrolysis       device 3 pauses to electrolyze the
   electrolyzed water W for generating the hydrogen-oxygen mixed gas G, the pipe 22
   can be used to recharge the electrolyzed water W for allowing the first hollow
   portion 20 and the electrolysis device 3 to be filled with the electrolyzed water W.
   The electrolyzed water W recharged in the first hollow portion 20 can be outputted to
10 corresponding electrode channel Si through the second channel 380 of the lower
   cover body 38 of the electrolysis device 3 and the plurality of lower via 3202, for
   providing the needed electrolyzed water W when the electrolysis device 3 is
   electrolyzing. Wherein, when the electrolysis device 3 starts to electrolyze the
   electrolyzed water W, the water tank 2 and the electrolysis device 3 are filled with
15 the electrolyzed water W for standing at a full level of water. After the electrolysis
   device 3 electrolyzed the electrolyzed water W, the level of water for the
   electrolyzed water W filled into the water tank 2 and the electrolysis device 3 is still
   higher than 90% of the full level of water. In practical application, the gas generator
   of the present invention detects the level of water in the first hollow portion of the
20 water tank and the electrolysis device through water level meter to control whether
   the electrolyzed water is needed to be recharged or not, which allows the level of
   water in the first hollow portion of the water tank and the electrolysis device to be
   between 90% of the full level of water and 99.99% of the full level of water.
   Therefore, the design of the gas generator of the present invention can prevent gas
25 chambers from existing in the water tank, and further decrease the temperature of the
   electrolysis device, to reduce the possibility of gas explosions resulting from high
   temperature and enhance the safety thereof.
         Additionally, the first hollow portion 20 of the water tank 2 is further
   connected with the water pump 5. The water pump 5 can be used to enforce to
                                                23

   circulate the electrolyzed water W contained in the first hollow portion 20 and the
   electrolysis device 3. The electrolyzed water in the upper portion 200 and the lower
   portion 202 of the first hollow portion 20 is circulated through the connecting hole
   300. Wherein, after the electrolysis device 3 electrolyzed the electrolyzed water W,
 5 the electrolyzed water w is filled into the first hollow portion 20 of the water tank 2
   and the electrolysis device 3 for allowing the level of water thereof to be between
   90% of the full level of water and 99.99% of the full level of water. Additionally, the
   gas generator of the present invention provides the design for nearly zero gas
   chamber through enforcing to circulate the electrolyzed water contained in the first
10 hollow portion and the electrolysis device to control the pressure or storage quantity
   of the hydrogen-oxygen mixed gas in the water tank to reduce the possibility of gas
   explosions.
         Additionally, the flow quantity detector 82 is coupled to the electrolysis device
   3 to detect the flow quantity of the hydrogen-oxygen mixed gas G, and then
15 controlling the outputted quantity of the hydrogen-oxygen mixed gas G from the
   electrolysis device 3 according to the detected flow quantity of the hydrogen-oxygen
   mixed gas G. Wherein, the flow quantity detector 82 can selectively cut the electrical
   connection between the electrolysis device 3 and the power source (not shown in the
   figure) off.
20       To summarize the statement mentioned above, the design of the present
   invention, which is disposing the electrolysis device in the water tank, can save place.
   Meanwhile, through the electrolyzed water filled in the first hollow portion of the
   water tank and the electrolysis device, the present invention can prevent gas
   chambers from existing in the water tank, and decrease the temperature of the
25 electrolysis device, to avoid gas explosions. Furthermore, the design for the gas
   outlet and the inlet opening of the electrolysis device of the present invention allows
   the electrolyzed water in the water tank to be recharged into the electrolysis device.
   The hydrogen-oxygen mixed gas generated by the electrolysis device can be
   outputted to the water tank to achieve the goal of gas-water circulation. Additionally,
                                                 24

   in the present invention, the design for the connection structure of the water pump,
   the water tank, and the electrolysis device can allow the electrolyzed water contained
   in the first hollow portion and the electrolysis device to be enforced to circulate,
   which allows the chamber in the water tank to be nearly zero to avoid gas explosions.
 5        Please refer to FIG. 17. In the fourth embodiment, the present invention further
   provides a gas generator, which has function of controlling the temperature of the
   electrolyzed water and cooling down the electrolyzed water after generated
   hydrogen-oxygen mixed gas. In this embodiment, the gas generator 1 comprises an
   electrolysis device 3, a water pump 5, and a cooling device 7. The electrolysis device
10 3 contains an electrolyzed water W. The electrolysis device 3 is used to electrolyze
   the electrolyzed water W to generate a hydrogen-oxygen mixed gas G. The cooling
   device 7 is connected to the electrolysis device 3, used to cool down the electrolyzed
   water W after the hydrogen-oxygen mixed gas G is generated. The water pump 5 is
   connected between the cooling device 7 and the electrolysis device 3, used to enforce
15 to circulate the electrolyzed water W.
          Please refer to FIG. 17. FIG. 17 shows a schematic diagram of the gas
   generator in the fifth embodiment of the present invention. In the fifth embodiment,
   the gas generator 1 of the present invention further comprises a water tank 2. The
   water tank 2 has a first hollow portion 20 and a pipe 22 (shown by dotted line only in
20 FIG. 17). The first hollow portion 20 of the water tank 2 contains electrolyzed water
   W. The electrolysis device 3 is disposed in the first hollow portion 20 of the water
   tank 2. The first hollow portion 20 is connected with the electrolysis device 3.
          Additionally, in the sixth embodiment, the gas generator 1 of the present
   invention further comprises a nebulized gas mixing tank 4 (as shown in FIG. 15A).
25 The nebulized gas mixing tank 4 can generates a nebulized gas G2 and be mixed
   with the hydrogen-oxygen mixed gas G to form a healthy gas for a user to breathe.
          The following statement will explain the design of each element of the present
   invention respectively.
                                                  25

         The designs of the structures of the water tank 2, the electrolysis device 3, the
   water pump 5, and the nebulized gas mixing tank 4 have been explained in the
   statements mentioned above, so unnecessary details will not be given again herein.
         Please refer to FIG. 15A, FIG. 15B, and FIG. 17. In the fourth embodiment, the
 5 cooling device 7 of the present invention comprises a radiator 70 and a fan 72. The
   radiator 70 comprises a box 700 and a radiating tube 702. The radiating tube 702 is
   disposed in the box 700 of the radiator 70. The shape of the radiating tube 702 is a
   snake-shaped (not shown in the figure), used to increase the radiating area for
   increasing the radiating efficiency. But the present invention is not limited to the
10 statement mentioned above. In practical application, the radiating tube 702 also can
   be a helix-shaped tube. Furthermore, in practical application, the radiating tube 702
   can be formed by materials selected from a group consisting of silver, aluminum,
   copper, silver alloy, aluminum alloy, and copper alloy. Additionally, the radiator 70
   comprises an inlet 704 and an outlet 706. The inlet 704 of the radiator 70 is
15 connected with the two surfaces of the box 700 of the radiator 70 relative to the
   direction of the radiating tube 702. The outlet 706 of the radiator 70 is connected
   with the two surfaces of the box 700 of the radiator 70 relative to the direction of the
   radiating tube 702. Wherein, the inlet 704 and the outlet 706 of the radiator 70 are
   connected with each other through the radiating tube 702.
20       Additionally, in the fourth embodiment, the gas generator 1 of the present
   invention further comprises a microcomputer controller (not shown in the figure).
   The microcomputer controller is used to detect the temperature of the electrolyzed
   water W and control an inputting flow rate and an outputting flow rate of the water
   pump 5 according to the detected temperature of the electrolyzed water W.
25 Furthermore, the microcomputer controller comprises a temperature sensor (not
   shown in the figure). The temperature sensor is used to detect the temperature of the
   electrolyzed water W contained in the electrolysis device 3. Furthermore, the
   microcomputer controller further comprises a flow quantity detector 82. The flow
   quantity detector 82 is used to detect the flow quantity of the hydrogen-oxygen
                                               26

   mixed gas G, and further to control the quantity of the hydrogen-oxygen mixed gas G
   outputted from the electrolysis device 3. The flow quantity detector 82 can
   selectively cut off the electrical connection between the electrolysis device 3 and the
   power source (not shown in the figure).
 5       After explaining the design of each element respectively, the following
   statement will describe the combination method and the application of each element.
         In the water tank 2 and the electrolysis device 3 which is assembled completely,
   the electrolysis device 3 which is assembled completely is disposed in the first
   hollow portion 20 of the water tank 2, wherein the first hollow portion 20 of the
10 water tank 2 is connected with the electrolysis device 3. Additionally, the
   combination method of the water tank 2 and the electrolysis device 3 has been
   explained in the statement mentioned above, so unnecessary details will not be given
   again herein.
         In the water tank 2, the electrolysis device 3, the water pump 5, and the cooling
15 device 7 which is assembled completely, the first hollow portion 20 of the water tank
   2 is connected with the electrolysis device 3 (not shown in the figure). The cooling
   device 7 is connected to the water tank 2. The water pump 5 is connected between
   the radiator 7 and the water tank 2. But the present invention is not limited to the
   statement mentioned above. In practical application, the radiator 70 can be connected
20 to the electrolysis device 3 directly, the water pump 5 can be connected between the
   radiator 7 and the water tank 2 directly, which means the water tank 2 of the gas
   generator of the present invention is unnecessary, or the electrolysis device 3 of the
   gas generator of the present invention is not needed to be disposed in the water tank
   2.
25       The following statement will describe the connecting relationship between the
   water tank 2, the electrolysis device 3, and the water pump 5 which is assembled
   completely. Please refer to FIG. 15A and FIG. 15B. The outlet opening 249a of the
   water tank 2 which the electrolysis device 3 has been disposed in is connected with
   the inlet 704 of the radiator 70 of the cooling device 7. The outlet 706 of the radiator
                                                 27

   70 of the cooling device 7 is connected with the inlet pipe 50 of the water pump 5.
   The outlet pipe 52 of the water pump 5 is connected with the outlet opening 249b of
   the water tank 2. But the present invention is not limited to the connecting
   relationship mentioned above. In practical application, the outlet opening 249a of the
 5 water tank 2 which the electrolysis device 3 has been disposed in can be connected
   with the inlet pipe 50 of the water pump 5, the outlet pipe 52 of the water pump 5 can
   be connected with the inlet 704 of the radiator 70 of the cooling device 7, and the
   outlet 706 of the radiator 70 of the cooling device 7 can be connected with the inlet
   opening 249b of the water tank 2.
10        In practical application, an electrolyzed water W is contained in the water tank
   2. The electrolysis device 3 is disposed in the water tank 2, used to electrolyze the
   electrolyzed water W to generate a hydrogen-oxygen mixed gas G. The hydrogen
   oxygen mixed gas G generated in the electrode channel SI is outputted to the first
   hollow portion 20 through the corresponding upper via 360 of the pad 36 and the
15 corresponding first channel 370 of the upper cover body 37. The hydrogen-oxygen
   mixed gas G inputted into the first hollow portion 20 is further outputted through the
   pipe 22 of the water tank 2 for a user to breathe. But the present invention is not
   limited to the statement mentioned above. In practical application, the hydrogen
   oxygen mixed gas G outputted from the first hollow portion 20 can further be mixed
20 with the nebulized gas G2 generated by the nebulized gas mixing tank 4 to form a
   healthy gas for a user to breathe.
          Additionally, when the electrolysis        device 3 pauses to electrolyze the
   electrolyzed water W for generating the hydrogen-oxygen mixed gas G, the pipe 22
   can be used to recharge the electrolyzed water W for allowing the first hollow
25 portion 20 and the electrolysis device 3 to be filled with the electrolyzed water W.
   The electrolyzed water W recharged in the first hollow portion 20 can be outputted to
   the corresponding electrode channel SI through the second channel 380 of the lower
   cover body 38 of the electrolysis device 3 and the plurality of lower via 3202, for
   providing the needed electrolyzed water W while the electrolysis device 3 is
                                                  28

   electrolyzing.
         Additionally, the water tank 2, the electrolysis device 3, the water pump 5, and
   the cooling device 7 are connected with each others. In application, the electrolyzed
   water W after the hydrogen-oxygen mixed gas G is generated can be enforced to be
 5 outputted from the outlet opening 249a of the water tank 2 to the inlet 704 of the
   radiator 70 of the cooling device 7 through the water pump 5. Then, the electrolyzed
   water W can be cooled down in the radiating tube 702 of the radiator 70. The cooled
   electrolyzed water W can be enforced to be outputted to the inlet pipe 50 of the water
   pump 5 by water pump 5 through the outlet 706 of the radiator 70. Furthermore, the
10 electrolyzed water W can be enforced to be inputted into the inlet opening 249b of
   the water tank 2 by the water pump 5 through the outlet pipe 52 of the water pump 5.
   Therefore, the gas generator of the present invention can cool down the electrolyzed
   water after the hydrogen-oxygen mixed gas is generated through the cooling device,
   and enforce to circulate the electrolyzed water through the water pump to achieve the
15 goal of heat radiation. Wherein, the temperature of the electrolyzed water contained
   in the electrolysis device is a normal electrolyzed temperature. In practical
   application, the temperature of the electrolyzed water W contained in the electrolysis
   device 3 can be between 55"C to 650 C.
         Additionally, the microcomputer controller 8 is coupled to the water pump 5,
20 used to detect the temperature of the electrolyzed water W and control an inputting
   flow rate and an outputting flow rate of the water pump 5 according to the detected
   temperature of the electrolyzed water W. In practical application, when the
   temperature of the electrolyzed water W sensed by the temperature sensor 80 is
   higher than a predetermined temperature, the information that the temperature is too
25 high will be sent back to the microcomputer controller 8. Then, the microcomputer
   controller 8 will further control the water pump 5 for speeding up the flow rate of the
   circulation of the electrolyzed water W to allow the temperature of the electrolyzed
   water to be decreased to the range of the predetermined temperature. However, when
   the temperature of the electrolyzed water W sensed by the temperature sensor 80 is
                                                 29

   lower than a predetermined temperature, the information that the temperature is too
   low will be sent back to the microcomputer controller 8. Then, the microcomputer
   controller 8 will further control the water pump 5 for slowing down the flow rate of
   the circulation of the electrolyzed water W to allow the temperature of the
 5 electrolyzed water to be increased to the range of the predetermined temperature.
   Wherein, the predetermined temperature is the temperature which can provide
   optimal electrolytic efficiency. In this embodiment, the predetermined temperature is
   a normal electrolyzed temperature. In practical application, the normal electrolyzed
   temperature is between 55 C to 650 C.
10        To summarize the statements mentioned above, the priority of the present
   invention is to provide a gas generator, comprising an electrolysis device, a cooling
   device, and a water pump. The gas generator of the present invention can cool down
   the electrolyzed water after the hydrogen-oxygen mixed gas is generated through the
   cooling device, and enforce to circulate the electrolyzed water through the water
15 pump to achieve the goal of heat radiation. Meanwhile, the present invention can
   allow the temperature of the electrolyzed water to be in a temperature range which
   can provide an optimal electrolytic efficiency for effectively electrolyzing the
   electrolyzed water to generate hydrogen-oxygen mixed gas, to solve the energy
   consumption problems.
20        Please refer to FIG. 9A and FIG. 9B. The present invention further provides a
   gas generator, which is a gas generator having function of filtering. In the seventh
   embodiment, the gas generator 1 comprises an electrolysis device 3 and a condense
   filter 6. The electrolysis device 3 contains an electrolyzed water W (not shown in the
   figure). The electrolysis device 3 is used to electrolyze the electrolyzed water W to
25 generate a hydrogen-oxygen mixed gas G. The condense filter 6 is connected to the
   electrolysis device 3, used to condense the hydrogen-oxygen mixed gas G and filter
   out the impurities in the hydrogen-oxygen mixed gas G. Wherein, when the
   electrolysis device 3 pauses to electrolyze the electrolyzed water W for generating
   the hydrogen-oxygen mixed gas G, the condense filter 6 can be used to input a
                                                 30

   recharged water W2 (not shown in the figure), and the impurities can be flushed back
   to the electrolysis device 3 via the recharged water W2 through the condense filter 6.
          Additionally, in the eighth embodiment, the gas generator 1 of the present
   invention further comprises a water tank 2. The water tank 2 has a first hollow
 5 portion 20. The first hollow portion 20 of the water tank 2 contains the electrolyzed
   water W. The electrolysis device 3 is disposed in the first hollow portion 20 of the
   water tank 2. The first hollow portion 20 is connected with the electrolysis device 3.
          Additionally, in the ninth embodiment, the gas generator 1 of the present
   invention further comprises a nebulized gas mixing tank 4 (as shown in FIG. 15A).
10 The nebulized gas mixing tank 4 can be used to receive the filtered hydrogen-oxygen
   mixed gas G. The nebulized gas mixing tank 4 can generate nebulized gas G2 and be
   mixed with the filtered hydrogen-oxygen mixed gas G to form a healthy gas for a
   user to breathe.
          Please refer to FIG. 9A and FIG. 9B. FIG. 9A and FIG. 9B show a schematic
15 diagram of the gas generator in the tenth embodiment with different visual angles of
   the present invention. In the tenth embodiment, the gas generator 1 of the present
   invention further comprises a water pump 5 and a cooling device 7.
          The following statement will explain the design of each element of the present
   invention respectively.
20        The designs of the structures of the water tank 2, the electrolysis device 3, and
   the nebulized gas mixing tank 4 have been explained in the statement mentioned
   above, so unnecessary details will not be given again herein.
          Please refer to FIG. 10A, FIG. 1OB, FIG. 11, FIG. 12, FIG. 13, FIG.14A, and
   FIG. 14B. The condense filter 6 of the present invention has a gas inlet via 60 and a
25 gas outlet via 62. The gas inlet via 60 can be connected to the electrolysis device 3,
   used to receive the hydrogen-oxygen mixed gas. The gas outlet via 62 is used to
   output the filtered hydrogen-oxygen mixed gas G. Additionally, the condense filter 6
   of the present invention comprises a plurality of condense plate 64. Each condense
                                                 31

   plate 64 has a channel 640. The channel 640a of the condense plate 64 is connected
   with the adjacent channel 640a of the condense plate 64 to form a circulating channel
   640 for the hydrogen-oxygen mixed gas G to flow through, for condensing the
   hydrogen-oxygen mixed gas G. The gas inlet via 60 and the gas outlet via 62 can be
 5 connected with each other through the circulating channel 640. Additionally, an
   active carbon fiber is disposed in the channel 640a, used to filter the impurities in the
   hydrogen-oxygen mixed gas G. A filter material is further disposed on the channel
   640a, wherein the filter material is selected from a group consisting of ceramics,
   quartz, kieselguhr, meerschaum, and the combination thereof. The filter material can
10 be further used to filter the impurities in the hydrogen-oxygen mixed gas G. Wherein,
   the impurities is electrolyte in the electrolyzed water W, which is sodium hydroxide.
   But the present invention is not limited to the statement mentioned above. In
   practical application, the impurities can be calcium carbonate or sodium chloride.
   Additionally, the gas inlet via 60 of the present invention is formed by a filter gauze
15 600 and a cover of the filter gauze 602. The filter gauze 600 and the cover of the
   filter gauze 602 can be connected to the electrolysis device 3, used to receive the
   hydrogen-oxygen mixed gas G, and preliminarily filter the hydrogen-oxygen mixed
   gas G. Wherein, the electrolysis device 3 is contained in the water tank 2 to further
   be connected with the condense filter 6.
20        After explaining the design of each element in the statement mentioned above,
   the following statement will describe the combination method and the application of
   each element of the present invention.
          In the electrolysis device 3 which is assembled completely, a plurality of
   electrodes are disposed respectively on the space in the electrolysis tank 32. The pad
25 36 is disposed on the upper surface of each electrode 34. The upper cover body 37 is
   covered on the other end of the pad 36 relative to the electrolysis tank 32. The lower
   cover body 38 is covered on the other end of the lower surface of the electrolysis
   tank 32 relative to the upper cover body 37.
          In the water tank 2 and the electrolysis device 3 which is assembled completely,
                                                  32

   the positive plate 342 and the negative plate 340 of the electrolysis device 3 are fixed
   on the cover body 26 of the water tank 2 respectively through two electrode columns
   33. And the detector (such as flow quantity detector 82) are passed through the
   plurality of cover holes 261 of the cover body 26 of the water tank 2 and disposed on
 5 the cover body 26 of the water tank 2. The seal 28 is disposed on the tank body 24 of
   the water tank 2. The seal 28 and the tank body 24 of the water tank 2 are embedded
   with each other through the third embed structure 282 of the seal 28 and the first
   embed structure 246 of the tank body 24 of the water tank 2. The first side margin
   248 of the tank body 24 of the water tank 2 is covered in the second hollow portion
10 264 of the cover body 26 of the water tank 2 through the second opening portion 266
   of the cover body 26 of the water tank 2, for allowing the tank body 24 of the water
   tank 2 and the cover body 26 of the water tank 2 to be combined tightly, and
   allowing the electrolysis device 3 to be disposed in the midair in the water tank 2.
   Wherein, the first hollow portion 20 of the water tank 2 is connected with the
15 electrolysis device 3.
         In the water tank 2, the electrolysis device 3, and the condense filter 6 which is
   assembled completely, the water tank 2 which the electrolysis device 3 has been
   disposed in is connected with the condense filter 6 through the connection between
   the pipe 22 of the water tank 2 and the gas inlet via 60 of the condense filter 6.
20 Additionally, the nebulized gas mixing tank 4 can be connected to the gas outlet via
   62 of the condense filter 6.
         In practical application, the water tank 2 contains an electrolyzed water W. The
   electrolysis device 3 is disposed in the water tank 2, used to electrolyze the
   electrolyzed water W to generate a hydrogen-oxygen mixed gas G. The hydrogen
25 oxygen mixed gas G generated in the electrode channel SI is outputted into the first
   hollow portion 20 through the corresponding upper via 360 of the pad 36 and the
   corresponding first channel 370 of the upper cover body 37. The hydrogen-oxygen
   mixed gas G inputted into the first hollow portion 20 is further outputted through the
   pipe 22 of the water tank 2. The hydrogen-oxygen mixed gas G outputted from the
                                                 33

   pipe 22 of the water tank 2 can be inputted into the condense filter 6 through the gas
   inlet via 60 of the condense filter 6 to be condensed and filtered. The hydrogen
   oxygen mixed gas G inputted through the gas inlet via 60 of the condense filter 6 will
   pass through the filter gauze 600 and the cover of the filter gauze 602 first to be
 5 preliminarily filtered. Then, the hydrogen-oxygen mixed gas G which has been
   filtered preliminarily will further be inputted into the circulating channel 640 to be
   condensed. Meanwhile, the hydrogen-oxygen mixed gas G can be filtered through
   the active carbon fiber and the filter material disposed in the channel 640a. The
   impurities will be adhered in the circulating channel 640. The filtered hydrogen
10 oxygen mixed gas G can be outputted through the gas outlet via 62 of the condense
   filter 6 for the user to breathe. But the present invention is not limited to the
   statement mentioned above. In practical application, the hydrogen-oxygen mixed gas
   G outputted from the condense filter 6 can further be mixed with the nebulized gas
   G2 generated by the nebulized gas mixing tank 4 to form a healthy gas for a user to
15 breath
          Additionally, when the electrolysis      device 3 pauses to electrolyze the
   electrolyzed water W for generating the hydrogen-oxygen mixed gas G, the gas
   outlet via 62 of the condense filter 6 can be used to recharge the electrolyzed water
   W. The recharged water W2 which is recharged from the gas outlet via 62 of the
20 condense filter 6 can be outputted into the first hollow portion 20 of the water tank 2
   through the pipe 22 which is connected with the gas outlet via 62. The electrolyzed
   water W recharged in the first hollow portion 20 can be outputted into the
   corresponding electrode channel Si through the second cannel 380 of the lower
   cover body 38 of the electrolysis device and the plurality of lower vias 3202 for
25 providing the needed electrolyzed water W when the electrolysis device 3 is
   electrolyzing. Meanwhile, the impurities adhered in the circulating channel 640 of
   the condense filter 6 can be flushed back to the water tank 2 which the electrolysis
   device 3 has been disposed in by the recharged water W2 mentioned above through
   the gas inlet via 60 and the pipe 22.
                                                 34

         Additionally, the flow quantity detector 82 which is coupled to the electrolysis
   device 3 can detect the flow quantity of the hydrogen-oxygen mixed gas G. Wherein,
   the generated flow rate of the hydrogen-oxygen mixed gas G of the gas generator 1 is
   between 0.01 L/min to 12 L/min.
 5       To summarize the statement mentioned above, the priority of the present
   invention is to provide a gas generator, a comprising electrolysis device and a
   condense filter. In the gas generator of the present invention, the hydrogen-oxygen
   mixed gas generated by the electrolysis device can be condensed and filtered through
   the condense filter, for providing a hydrogen-oxygen mixed gas which is appropriate
10 for humans to breathe. Meanwhile, through the design of the present invention, the
   electrolyte can be flushed back to the electrolysis device when recharging water,
   used to decrease the consumption of the electrolyte and avoid the electrolyte to block
   the condense filter.
         Please refer to FIG. 15A, FIG. 15B, and FIG. 16. In the eleventh embodiment,
15 the present invention further provides a gas generator having the function of
   humidification. The gas generator 1 comprises an electrolysis device 3 and a
   humidification device 9. The electrolysis device 3 contains the electrolyzed water W,
   used to electrolyze the electrolyzed water W to generate a hydrogen-oxygen mixed
   gas G. The humidification device 9 is connected to the electrolysis device 3, used to
20 receive and humidify the hydrogen-oxygen mixed gas G.
         Additionally, in the twelfth embodiment, the gas generator 1 of the present
   invention further comprises a condense filter 6. The condense filter 6 can be disposed
   between the electrolysis device 3 and the humidification device 9, used to condense
   and filter the hydrogen-oxygen mixed gas G generated by the electrolysis device 3.
25       Additionally, in the thirteenth embodiment, the gas generator 1 of the present
   invention further comprises a nebulized gas mixing tank 4. The nebulized gas mixing
   tank 4 can be used to receive the filtered hydrogen-oxygen mixed gas G. The
   nebulized gas mixing tank 4 can generate nebulized gas G2 and be mixed with the
   hydrogen-oxygen mixed gas G to form a healthy gas for a user to breathe. But the
                                                35

   present invention is not limited to the statement mentioned above. In another
   embodiment, the nebulized gas mixing tank 4 of the present invention can be a hand
   held atomize device (not shown in the figure). The hand-held atomize device can be
   connected to the humidification device 9, used to receive the humidified hydrogen
 5 oxygen mixed gas. The hand-held atomize device generates a nebulized gas and is
   mixed with the humidified hydrogen-oxygen to form a healthy gas for a user to
   breathe. Wherein, the nebulized gas is selected from a group consisting of water
   vapor, nebulized medicinal liquid, evaporated essential oil, and the combination
   thereof. In practical application, the hand-held atomize device has a pressed structure.
10 The user can press the pressed structure of the hand-held atomize device for
   outputting an appropriate quantity of healthy gas to breathe.
         Please refer to FIG. 15A, and FIG. 15B. FIG. 15A and FIG. 15B show a
   schematic diagram of the gas generator in the fourteenth embodiment with different
   visual angles of the present invention. Additionally, in the fourteenth embodiment,
15 the gas generator 1 of the present invention further comprises a water tank 2, a water
   pump 5, a cooling device 7, and a gas output device 10. The gas output device 10 can
   be used to output the healthy gas for a user to breathe, wherein the healthy gas is the
   mixture of humidified hydrogen-oxygen mixed gas G and nebulized gas G2.
         The following statement will respectively explain the design of each element of
20 the present invention.
         The designs of the structures of the condense filter 6 and the nebulized gas
   mixing tank 4 have been explained in the above mentioned statements, so
   unnecessary details will not be given again herein.
         The humidification device 9 of the present invention comprises a hollow body
25 90, a second pipe 92, at least one outputting pipe 94, an oscillation device 95 (shown
   by dotted line only in FIG. 15), a third pipe 96, and a fourth pipe 98. The hollow
   body 90 can be used to contain the recharged water W2. The second pipe 92 is
   disposed on the hollow body 90, which can be used to connect with the electrolysis
   device 3 (not shown in the figure). The outputting pipe 94 is disposed in the hollow
                                                 36

   body 90 and connected to the second pipe 92. The second pipe 92 is connected with
   the two outputting pipe 94 to form a T-shaped structure. But the present invention is
   not limited to the statement mentioned above. In practical application, the connection
   between the second pipe and the outputting pipe can be adjusted according to the
 5 using condition. Additionally, the surfaces of the two outputting pipe 94 have a
   plurality via, wherein the via mentioned above has a scale diameter. In practical
   application, the scale of the   via can be between 2 meters to 10 meters. But the
   present invention is not limited to the statement mentioned above. The scale of the
   via can be adjusted according to the requirement of users. A rubber bung is disposed
10 on the end of the two outputting pipe 94 which is connected to the second pipe 92,
   used to output the hydrogen-oxygen mixed gas G received by the second pipe 92 to
   the hollow body 90 through the plurality of via (not shown in the figure) of the two
   outputting pipe 94. But the present invention is not limited to the statement
   mentioned above. In practical application, the design of the end of the two outputting
15 pipe 94 which is connected to the second pipe 92 can be enclosed. The oscillation
   device 95 can be disposed in the hollow body 90 and beneath the outputting pipe 94
   to oscillate recharged water. The oscillation device 95 can comprise an ultrasonic
   wave oscillation device, used to oscillate the recharged water contained in the hollow
   body 90. In practical application, the oscillation device is not limited to the ultrasonic
20 wave oscillation device mentioned in this embodiment, and the position is not limited
   to the spot shown in FIG. 15B. Any device which is disposed in the hollow body and
   can be used to oscillate or agitate the water for effectively dispersing the hydrogen
   oxygen mixed gas to form micro bubbles is comprised in the definition of the
   oscillation device of the present invention. For example, the oscillation device 95
25 also can comprise a centrifugal blade and s driving motor which are connected to the
   centrifugal blade. The driving motor can drive the centrifugal blade to rotate for
   generating swirl in the water to help the hydrogen of the hydrogen-oxygen mixed gas
   to be effectively distributed in the water to form hydrogen water. The oscillation
   device 95 can comprise an ultrasonic wave oscillation device, a centrifugal blade,
30 and a driving motor mentioned above at the same time for generating the hydrogen
                                                 37

   water more effectively. The third pipe 96 can be disposed on the hollow body 90,
   used to output the hydrogen water H or input the recharged water W2. In practical
   application, the third pipe can be connected to a pilot via. Through the third pipe and
   the pilot via, the hydrogen water H can be outputted or the recharged water W2 can
 5 be inputted. The fourth pipe 98 can be disposed on the hollow body 90, used to
   output the humidified hydrogen-oxygen mixed gas G.
          Additionally, in another embodiment, the gas generator 1 of the present
   invention further comprises a water tank 2. The water tank 2 has a first hollow
   portion 20. The first hollow portion 20 of the water tank 2 contains the electrolyzed
10 water W. The electrolysis device 3 is disposed in the first hollow portion 20 of the
   water tank 2. The first hollow portion 20 is connected with the electrolysis device 3.
   Additionally, the humidification device 9 of the present invention can further
   comprise a second water pump (not shown in the figure). The second water pump
   can be disposed on the cover body 26 of the water tank 2 and connected to the first
15 hollow portion 20, used to draw gas in the water tank 2 to form a negative pressure.
          After explaining the design of each element in the statements mentioned above,
   the following statement will describe the combination method and the application of
   each element of the gas generator of the present invention.
          In the electrolysis device 3 which is assembled completely, a plurality of
20 electrodes are disposed on the space in the electrolysis tank 32. The pad 36 is
   disposed on the upper surface of each electrode. The upper cover body 37 is covered
   on the other end of the pad 36 relative to the electrolysis tank 32. The lower cover
   body 38 is covered on the other end of the lower surface of the electrolysis tank 32
   relative to the upper cover body 37.
25        In the water tank 2 and the electrolysis device 3 which is assembled completely,
   the positive plate 342 and the negative plate 340 of the electrolysis device 3 are fixed
   on the cover body 26 of the water tank 2 through the two electrode columns 33
   respectively. And the detector (such as flow quantity detector 82) are passed through
   the plurality of cover holes 261 of the cover body 26 of the water tank 2 and disposed
                                                  38

   on the cover body 26 of the water tank 2. The seal 28 is disposed on the tank body 24
   of the water tank 2. The seal 28 and the tank body 24 of the water tank 2 are
   embedded with each other through the third embed structure 282 of the seal 28 and
   the first embed structure 246 of the tank body 24 of the water tank 2. The first side
 5 margin 248 of the tank body 24 of the water tank 2 is covered in the second hollow
   portion 264 of the cover body 26 of the water tank 2 through the second opening
   portion 266 of the cover body 26 of the water tank 2, for allowing the tank body 24
   of the water tank 2 and the cover body 26 of the water tank 2 to be combined tightly,
   and allowing the electrolysis device 3 to be disposed in the midair in the water tank 2.
10 Wherein, the first hollow portion 20 of the water tank 2 is connected with the
   electrolysis device 3.
         In the water tank 2, the electrolysis device 3, the condense filter6, and the
   humidification device 9 which is assembled completely, the water tank 2 which the
   electrolysis device 3 has been disposed in is connected with the condense filter 6
15 through the connection between the pipe 22 of the water tank 2 and the gas inlet via
   60 of the condense filter 6. Additionally, the condense filter 6 and the humidification
   device 9 are connected with the water tank through the connection between the gas
   outlet via 60 of the condense filter 6 and the second pipe 92 of the humidification
   device 9. Furthermore, in the thirteenth embodiment, the nebulized gas mixing tank 4
20 can be connected to the fourth pipe 98 of the humidification device 9.
         In practical application, the water tank 2 contains an electrolyzed water W. The
   electrolysis device 3 is disposed in the water tank 2, used to electrolyze the
   electrolyzed water W to generate a hydrogen-oxygen mixed gas G. The hydrogen
   oxygen mixed gas G generated in the electrode channel Si is outputted into the first
25 hollow portion 20 through the corresponding upper via 360 of the pad 36 and the
   corresponding first channel 370 of the upper cover body 37. The hydrogen-oxygen
   mixed gas G inputted into the first hollow portion 20 is further outputted through the
   pipe 22 of the water tank 2. The hydrogen-oxygen mixed gas G outputted from the
   pipe 22 of the water tank 2 can be inputted into the condense filter 6 through the gas
                                                 39

   inlet via 60 of the condense filter 6 to be condensed and filtered. The hydrogen
   oxygen mixed gas G inputted through the gas inlet via 60 of the condense filter 6 will
   pass through the filter gauze 600 and the cover of the filter gauze 602 first to be
   preliminarily filtered. Then, the hydrogen-oxygen mixed gas G which has been
 5 filtered preliminarily will further be inputted into the circulating channel 640 to be
   condensed. Meanwhile, the hydrogen-oxygen mixed gas G can be filtered through
   the active carbon fiber and the filter material disposed in the channel 640a. The
   impurities will be adhered in the circulating channel 640. The filtered hydrogen
   oxygen mixed gas G can be outputted through the gas outlet via 62 of the condense
10 filter 6.
          Additionally, the filtered hydrogen-oxygen mixed gas G can be outputted to the
   humidification device 9 through the second pipe 92 which is connected to the gas
   outlet via 62. The filtered hydrogen-oxygen mixed gas G received by the second pipe
   92 can be outputted to the hollow body 90 through the plurality of vias of the two
15 outputting pipe 94. In practical application, the plurality of vias on the surface of the
   outputting pipe 94 can be used to thin the hydrogen-oxygen mixed gas which is
   inputted into the humidification device for forming thin bubbles which can be
   dissolved easily. Meanwhile, the recharged water contained in the humidification
   device 9 is oscillated by the oscillation device 95, used to allow the gas to be
20 dissolved in the oscillated recharged water easily. Wherein, the hydrogen-oxygen
   mixed gas G outputted from the via mentioned above can be humidified by the
   recharged water which is oscillated by the oscillation device 95 to generate
   humidified hydrogen-oxygen mixed gas for a user to breathe. But the present
   invention is not limited to the statement mentioned above. In practical application,
25 the humidified hydrogen-oxygen mixed gas G outputted from the humidification
   device 9 can further be mixed with the nebulized gas G2 generated by the nebulized
   gas mixing tank 4, to form healthy gas for a user to breathe. Additionally, the
   hydrogen-oxygen mixed gas G, which is outputted from the outputting pipe which
   has via on the surface thereof, also can be combined with the recharged water which
30 is oscillated by the oscillation device 95 to generate a hydrogen water H. More
                                                 40

   particularly, the hydrogen-oxygen mixed gas G, which is outputted from the
   outputting pipe which has via on the surface thereof, is a thin bubble which can be
   dissolved easily. And the recharged water which is oscillated by the oscillation
   device 95 is recharged water which allows gas to be dissolved easily. Therefore, by
 5 means of the gas generator of the present invention, the hydrogen water H with high
   concentration of hydrogen-oxygen mixed gas can be generated.
          Additionally, when the electrolysis       device 3 pauses to electrolyze the
   electrolyzed water W for generating the hydrogen-oxygen mixed gas G, the second
   water pump can be used to draw the gas in the water tank 2 to form a negative
10 pressure. The recharged water W2 which is inputted through the third pipe 96 can be
   outputted back to the water tank 2 which the electrolysis device3 has been disposed
   in by the humidification device 9 through the negative pressure mentioned above.
   More particularly, the recharged water can be inputted into the condense filter 6 from
   the humidification device 9 through the combination between the second pipe 92 of
15 the humidification device 9 and the gas outlet via 62 of the condense filter 6.
   Additionally, the impurities adhered in the circulating channel 640 of the condense
   filter 6 can be flushed back to the water tank 2 which the electrolysis device3 has
   been disposed in via the recharged water through the gas inlet via 60 and the pipe 22
   mentioned above, used to recover the filter ability of the circulating channel, avoid
20 the circulating channel to be blocked or corroded, and decrease the consumption of
   the electrolyte. In practical application, the present invention utilizes the recharged
   water to allow the impurities (which means electrolytes) to be flushed back to the
   water tank 2 which the electrolysis device 3 has been disposed in, which can be used
   to provide the needed electrolyzed water W while the electrolysis device 3 is
25 electrolyzing. Additionally, the recharged water W recharged in the first hollow
   portion 20 of the water tank 2 can be outputted to the corresponding electrode
   channel Si through the second channel 380 of the lower cover body 38 of the
   electrolysis device 3 and the plurality of lower vias 3202, used to provide the needed
   electrolyzed water W while the electrolysis device 3 is electrolyzing.
                                                 41

          To summarize the statement mentioned above, the priority of the present
   invention is to provide a gas generator, a comprising electrolysis device and a
   humidification device. In the gas generator of the present invention, the hydrogen
   oxygen mixed gas generated by the electrolysis device can be humidified by the
 5 humidification device for a user to breathe. Additionally, the hydrogen-oxygen
   mixed gas generated by the electrolysis device can further generate hydrogen water
   H with high concentration of hydrogen-oxygen mixed gas through the humidification
   device. In practical application, the concentration of hydrogen-oxygen mixed gas of
   the hydrogen water can be adjusted according to the requirement of the user.
10 Furthermore, the design of the present invention can be used to recharge recharged
   water. Meanwhile, the electrolyte will be flushed back to the electrolysis device to
   recover the filter ability of the circulating channel, avoid the circulating channel to be
   blocked or corroded, and decrease the consumption of the electrolyte.
          Please refer to FIG. 18A, FIG. 18B, FIG. 19, FIG. 20A, and FIG. 20B. FIG.
15 18A and FIG. 18B show a schematic diagram of the gas generator in the fifteenth
   embodiment with different visual angles of the present invention, FIG. 19 shows a
   back view diagram of the gas generator in the embodiment shown in FIG. 18A of the
   present invention, and FIG. 20A and FIG. 20B show a top view diagram and a cross
   section diagram crossing along the D-D line of the top view diagram of the present
20 invention which only has the condense filter and the cover body of the water tank in
   the embodiment shown in FIG. 18A. In the fifteenth embodiment, the gas generator
   of the present invention comprises a water tank electrolysis device, a nebulized gas
   mixing tank, a water pump, a condense filter, a cooling device, and a humidification
   device. The structure of the elements mentioned above has been explained in the
25 above statement, so unnecessary details will not be given again herein. Additionally,
   compared with the circulating channel shown in FIG. 14B, in this embodiment
   shown in FIG. 20B, the circulating channel 640 can achieve the goal of condensing
   when the circulating channel is formed by two channel 640a only, which will
   simplify the design and reduce the cost of the condense filter 6 as well. Furthermore,
30 in this embodiment, the water pump 5 (not shown in the figure), the condense filter 6,
                                                   42

   and the cooling device 7 are integrated and then disposed on the cover body of the
   water tank 2. Compared with the fourteenth embodiment, the design mentioned
   above can save much more space. Additionally, when the water tank 2, the water
   pump 5, the condense filter 6, and the cooling device7 are assembled with the
 5 nebulized gas mixing tank 4 and the humidification device 9, the present invention
   has the advantages of convenient assembling and simplified piping for optimizing the
   design of the gas generator of the present invention.
          To summarize the statement mentioned above, the present invention provides a
   gas generator, a comprising electrolysis device, a cooling device, and a water pump.
10 The gas generator of the present invention can utilize the cooling device to cool
   down the electrolyzed water after the hydrogen-oxygen mixed gas is generated, and
   utilize the water pump to enforce to circulate the electrolyzed water to achieve the
   goal of heat radiation. Meanwhile, the present invention can allow the temperature of
   the electrolyzed water to be in a temperature range of providing optimal electrolytic
15 efficiency for effectively electrolyzing electrolyzed water to generate hydrogen
   oxygen mixed gas, to solve the energy consumption problems. Furthermore, the gas
   generator of the present invention utilizes the design of disposing the electrolysis
   device in the water tank to save space. Meanwhile, through the first hollow portion
   of the water tank is full of hydrogen-oxygen mixed gas generated by the electrolysis
20 device and the electrolyzed water in the electrolysis device, the gas chamber in the
   water tank can be eliminated and the temperature of the electrolysis device can be
   decreased to reduce the possibility of gas explosions. Additionally, the design of the
   gas outlet and the inlet opening of the electrolysis device of the present invention
   allows the electrolyzed water in the water tank to be recharged in the electrolysis
25 device, and the hydrogen-oxygen mixed gas generated by the electrolysis device can
   be outputted from the water tank to achieve the goal of water-gas circulation.
   Furthermore, the water pump, the water tank, and the electrolysis device of the
   present invention are connected with each other, which can enforce to circulate the
   electrolyzed water in the first hollow portion and the electrolysis device for
30 eliminating gas chambers so as to reduce the possibility of gas explosions.
                                                43

   Additionally, the hydrogen-oxygen mixed gas generated by the electrolysis device
   can be cooled down and filtered by the condense filter, to provide a hydrogen
   oxygen mixed gas which is appropriate for humans to breathe. Meanwhile, through
   the design of the present invention, the electrolyte can be flushed back to the
 5 electrolysis device while recharging water, used to decrease the consumption of the
   electrolyte and avoid the electrolyte to block the condense filter. Furthermore, the
   hydrogen-oxygen mixed gas generated by the electrolysis device can be humidified
   by the humidification device, to provide a hydrogen-oxygen mixed gas which is
   appropriate for humans to breathe. Additionally, through the humidification device,
10 the hydrogen-oxygen mixed gas generated by the electrolysis device can generate
   hydrogen water with higher concentration of hydrogen-oxygen mixed gas. In
   practical application, the concentration of hydrogen-oxygen mixed gas of the
   hydrogen water can be adjusted according to the requirement of the user. And the
   design of the present invention can be used to recharge recharged water. Meanwhile,
15 the electrolyte will be flushed back to the electrolysis device to recover the filter
   ability of the circulating channel, avoid the circulating channel to be blocked or
   corroded, and decrease the consumption of the electrolyte.
          Please refer to FIG. 21A and FIG. 21B. FIG. 21A shows a schematic diagram
   of the hydrogen water generator in an embodiment of the present invention, and FIG.
20 21B shows a schematic diagram of the interior of the hydrogen water generator
   shown in FIG. 21A in an embodiment of the present invention. It is worth noting that
   the visual angle in FIG. 21A is different from the visual angel in FIG. 21B, which is
   used for showing the interior of the hydrogen water generator clearly. The hydrogen
   water generator 100 comprises a container 1000, a gas inlet pipe 1200, a thinning
25 pipe 1400, an oscillation device 1600, and a liquid inputting/outputting structure
   1800. The container 1000 can be used to contain water. But in the practical
   application, the container 1000 is not limited to contain water, and the container 1000
   also can be used to contain liquid according to the requirement. The gas inlet pipe
   1200 is disposed on the container 1000, comprising a first end 12000 extending to
30 the interior of the container 1000, and a second end 12200 connecting to the outside
                                                 44

   part of the container 1000. Therefore, the gas inlet pipe 1200 can receive gas
   comprising hydrogen from a hydrogen source through the second end 12200, and
   then input the gas comprising hydrogen into the container 1000, wherein the gas
   comprising hydrogen can be pure hydrogen or hydrogen-oxygen mixed gas in
 5 practical application.
          The first end 12000 of the gas inlet pipe 1200 mentioned above is connected to
   the middle of the thinning pipe 1400. The received gas comprising hydrogen can be
   inputted into the thinning pipe 1400. The surface of the thinning pipe 1400 has vias
   for the gas comprising hydrogen to pass through to the interior of the container 1000.
10 Additionally, the two ends of the thinning pipe 1400 is closed, to prevent the leakage
   of the gas comprising hydrogen or avoid the water contained in the container 1000 to
   get into the thinning pipe 1400.
          In this embodiment, the vias is used for allowing the gas comprising hydrogen
   to be formed as a plurality of thin bubbles after outputting from the thinning pipe
15 1400 to the water contained in the container 1000 through the        vias. In practical
   application, the scale of the via is between 2 meters and 10 meters. But the present
   invention is not limited to the statement mentioned above. The scale can be adjusted
   according to the requirement.
          Additionally, the hydrogen water generator        1000 further comprises      an
20 oscillation device 1600, used to further increase the solubility of hydrogen. The
   oscillation device 1600 is disposed in the container 1000, used to oscillate the water
   contained in the container 1000. As shown in the FIG. 21B, in this embodiment, the
   oscillation device 1600 is disposed on the bottom of the container 1000. The
   oscillation device 1600 can comprise an ultrasonic wave oscillation device for
25 oscillating the water in the container 1000, for allowing the hydrogen to be
   effectively distributed in the water, which allows the concentration of the hydrogen
   to be increased to form hydrogen water. Furthermore, the oscillation device can
   comprise a centrifugal blade and a driving motor connected to the centrifugal blade.
   The driving motor can drive the centrifugal blade to rotate for generating swirl in the
                                                 45

   water to help hydrogen to be effectively distributed in the water to form hydrogen
   water.
         Please refer to FIG. 21A, the hydrogen water generator 100 further comprises a
   liquid inputting/outputting structure 1800. The liquid inputting/outputting structure
 5 1800 shown in FIG. 21A is a liquid inputting/outputting opening. Through the liquid
   inputting/outputting opening 1800, the container 1000 can be recharged with water
   from the exterior, and the hydrogen water also can be outputted from the container
   1000. In practical application, the liquid inputting/outputting structure also can be a
   straw-shaped device connected between the exterior and the interior of the container.
10 Furthermore, the liquid inputting/outputting structure also can be designed as an inlet
   structure and an outlet structure, such as an inlet opening and an outlet opening, to
   provide the same function mentioned above.
         In the embodiment shown in FIG. 21A, the hydrogen water generator 100
   further comprises a gas outlet structure 1900. When the humidified gas comprising
15 hydrogen floats up to the container 1000, the humidified gas comprising hydrogen
   can be collected by the gas outlet structure 1900 and then be outputted to the exterior.
   In practical application, the generated flow rate of the humidified gas outputted from
   the gas outlet structure 1900 can be between 0.01 L/min to 12 L/min.
         To summarize the statement mentioned above, the hydrogen water generator
20 can generate hydrogen water and humidified gas easily. The generated hydrogen
   water will not comprise excess minerals or magnesia, so the filter process is not
   required.
         Please refer to FIG. 22. FIG. 22 shows a schematic diagram of the hydrogen
   water generator in another embodiment of the present invention. In this embodiment,
25 the container 2000 of the hydrogen water generator 500 has a transparent side wall.
   A User can observe the interior of the container 2000 through the transparent side
   wall. Additionally, the hydrogen water generator 500 in this embodiment further has
   a light emitting device L, used to emit light to the interior of the container 2000, and
   the light will be emitted from the container 2000 to outside through the transparent
                                                46

   side wall of the container 2000.
          In this embodiment, the light emitting device L is a LED light emitting device,
   which can be used to emit different color of light. In practical application, the light
   emitting device L is not limited to the LED light emitting device. Any device which
 5 can achieve the function mentioned above is comprised in the present invention.
   Additionally, the light emitting device L is not limited to be disposed on the bottom
   of the container 2000. For example, the LED light emitting device also can be
   disposed on the non-transparent side wall of the container 2000 to achieve different
   visual effects.
10        Therefore, the hydrogen water generator can not only generate hydrogen water
   and humidified gas easily and effectively, but also provide some visual effects
   through the light emitting device.
          Additionally, in the embodiment shown in FIG. 1B, the first end 12000 of the
   gas inlet pipe 1200 is connected to the middle of the thinning pipe 1400. But in
15 practical application, the connection type can be different. According to another
   embodiment of the present invention, the middle part of the thinning pipe of the
   hydrogen water generator does not have an opening to be connected with the gas
   outlet pipe. The thinning pipe uses one end to connect with the first end of the gas
   inlet pipe. The surface of the thinning pipe also has vias and the other end of the
20 thinning pipe is closed.
          With the examples and explanations mentioned above, the features and spirits
   of the invention are hopefully well described. More importantly, the present
   invention is not limited to the embodiment described herein. Those skilled in the art
   will readily observe that numerous modifications and alterations of the device may
25 be made while retaining the teachings of the invention. Accordingly, the above
   disclosure should be construed as limited only by the metes and bounds of the
   appended claims.
                                                47

       What is claimed is:
   1.   A gas generator, comprising:
             a water tank having a first hollow portion for containing electrolyzed water;
             and
 5           an electrolysis device having an electrolysis housing disposed inside the first
             hollow portion of the water tank, the electrolysis device comprising a
             plurality of electrodes disposed in the electrolysis housing and configured to
             electrolyze the electrolyzed water to generate a gas comprising hydrogen;
             wherein the water tank further comprises a pipe configured to refill the
10           electrolyzed water into the water tank, such that the level of water for the
             electrolyzed water in the first hollow portion of the water tank is higher than
             90% of a full level of water of the water tank, and the full level of water is a
             level of water when the first hollow portion of the water tank is completely
             full with the electrolyzed water.
15 2.   The gas generator of claim 1, wherein when the electrolyzed water is refilled into
   the first hollow portion of the water tank, the level of water thereof after refilling is
   between 90% and 99.99% of the full level of water.
   3.   The gas generator of claim 1, wherein the pipe of the water tank is configured to
   output the gas comprising hydrogen.
20 4.   The gas generator of claim 1, further comprising:
             a water pump coupled to the water tank to circulate the electrolyzed water in
             the water tank.
   5.   The gas generator of claim 4, wherein the water pump comprises an inlet pipe
   and an outlet pipe, the water tank comprises an outlet opening and an inlet opening,
25 the outlet pipe of the water pump is coupled with the inlet opening of the water tank,
   and the inlet pipe of the water pump is coupled with the outlet opening of the water
   tank.
   6.   The gas generator of claim 1, further comprising a nebulized gas mixing tank
   configured to receive the gas comprising hydrogen and generate a nebulized gas to be
                                                   48

   mixed with the gas comprising hydrogen, wherein the nebulized gas is selected from a
   group consisting of water vapor, nebulized medicinal liquid, evaporated essential oil,
   and the combination thereof.
   7.   The gas generator of claim 4, further comprising:
 5          a cooling device coupled to the electrolysis device and configured to cool
            down the electrolyzed water;
            wherein, the water pump is coupled to the cooling device.
   8.   The gas generator of claim 7, further comprising a microcomputer controller
   coupled to the water pump and configured to detect the temperature of the
10 electrolyzed water and control a flow rate of the water pump according to the detected
   temperature of the electrolyzed water.
   9.   The gas generator of claim 8, wherein the microcomputer controller comprises a
   temperature sensor configured to detect the temperature of the electrolyzed water.
   10. The gas generator of claim 9, wherein the cooling device comprises a radiator and
15 a fan, the radiator comprises a box and a radiating tube, the radiating tube is disposed
   in the box, and the fan is fixed on an outer surface of the box of the radiator.
   11. The gas generator of claim 7, wherein the temperature of the electrolyzed water
   contained in the electrolysis device is between 550 C and 65"C.
                                                  49

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                       <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                       <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                    <U+2702><U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                       <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                       <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>

<removed-date>
                             <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>
<removed-apn>
                                     !"$
               !"%'                !"!
                      !"%&               !"
              !"#

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>

                               <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>
<removed-date>
                    (                        (*
                                             (*#
<removed-apn>
                               ()
                          (!                       ()#
                   (#
                   (!#                     (!!
              ($
                   (!#!              (##

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                      <U+2704><U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                      <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                       <U+2702><U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>

                 <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
!)+
           !)+
                               )!
                                       <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>
                     )
      !)

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                      <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                     <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>

<removed-date>
                  <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>
              <U+2726>          <U+2726>
<removed-apn>
                        )"#'
                        )"#'
                        )"#' )"#
                        )"#'

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+2704><U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>

                                               <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>
<removed-date>
                         %)
                   %!
                                          %                         +
              %$
                                                     +#
<removed-apn>
                                     %#                        "
                                                                             )
                              %1
                    %"
                                                               *         *!
                                                              *#"
                          !"%'
                                                                         *##
                              !"%&        1!    1#            *#)
                                                          1             *#
                                      ,-./0+12

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                      <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                       <U+2702><U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                       <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                       <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                     <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>

                                      <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
                               +##
                        +###                +%##
                                                +!##
                +!!##
              +!###
                                                       +"##
                               +)##
                          ,-.0/!+2

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                      <U+2702><U+2704><U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>

