                                             ABSTRACT
Novel processes and compositions are described which use viral capsid proteins resistant to
hydrolases to prepare virus-like particles to enclose and subsequently isolate and purify target cargo
molecules of interest including nucleic acids such as siRNA's and shRNA's, and small peptides.

     WO 2013/096866                                                            PCT/US2012/071419
                                    PROCESSES USING VLPS WITH
                              CAPSIDS RESISTANT TO HYDROLASES
                      CROSS REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
        [0001]      This application claims the priority of U.S. provisional application number
61/578,706, filed December 21, 2011, U.S. provisional application number 61/607,900, filed
March 7, 2012, and U.S. provisional application number 61/661,688, filed June 19, 2012, the
entire disclosures of which are hereby incorporated by reference.
                          INCORPORATION OF SEQUENCE LISTING
        [0002]      The entire contents of a paper copy of the "Sequence Listing" and a computer
readable form of the sequence listing on diskette, containing the file named
450061_SequenceListing_ST25.txt, which is 77 kilobytes in size and was created on December
20, 2012, are herein incorporated by reference.
                                        TECHNICAL FIELD
        [0003]      The invention relates to virus-like particles, and in particular to methods and
compositions using viral capsids as nanocontainers for producing, isolating and purifying
heterologous nucleic acids and proteins.
                              BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
        [0004]      Virus-like particles (VLPs) are particles derived in part from viruses through
the expression of certain viral structural proteins which make up the viral envelope and/or
capsid, but VLPs do not contain the viral genome and are non-infectious. VLPs have been
derived for example from the Hepatitis B virus and certain other viruses, and have been used to
study viral assembly and in vaccine development.
        [0005]      Viral capsids are composed of at least one protein, several copies of which
assemble to form the capsid. In some viruses, the viral capsid is covered by the viral envelope.
Such viral envelopes are comprised of viral glycoproteins and portions of the infected host's cell
membranes, and shield the viral capsids from large molecules that would otherwise interact with
them. The capsid is typically said to encapsidate the nucleic acids which encode the viral
                                                   1

      WO 2013/096866                                                              PCT/US2012/071419
genome and sometimes also proteins necessary for the virus' persistence in the natural
environment. For the viral genome of a virus to enter a new host, the capsid must be
disassembled. Such disassembly happens under conditions normally used by the host to degrade
its own as well as foreign components, and most often involves proteolysis. Viruses take
advantage of normal host processes such as proteolytic degradation to enable that critical part of
their cycle, i.e. capsid disassembly and genome release.
         [0006]       It is therefore unsurprising that the literature has not previously described
capsids resistant to hydrolases that act on peptide bonds. A very limited number of certain
specific peptide sequences which are part of larger proteins are known to be somewhat resistant
to certain proteases, but the vast majority of peptide sequences are not. Viruses that resist
proteolysis have been reported, but these are all enveloped viruses, in which the capsid is
shielded by the viral envelope. In such viruses the capsids are not in contact with, i.e. they are
shielded from, the proteases described. Thus the role, if any, of the proteolytical stability of the
virus capsid in such cases is unknown.
         [0007]       In large-scale manufacturing of recombinant molecules such as proteins,
ultrafiltration is often used to remove molecules smaller than the target protein in the purification
steps leading to its isolation. Purification methods also often involve precipitation, solvent
extraction, and crystallization techniques. These separation techniques are inherently simple and
low cost because, in contrast to chromatography, they are not based on surface but on bulk
interactions. However, these techniques are typically limited to applications to simple systems,
and by the need to specify a different set of conditions for each protein and expression system.
Yet each target recombinant protein presents a unique set of binding interactions, thereby making
its isolation process unique and complex. The separation efficiency for recombinant proteins
using these simple isolation processes is therefore low.
         [0008]      Nucleic acids, including siRNA and miRNA, have for the most part been
manufactured using chemical synthesis methods. These methods are generally complex and high
cost because of the large number of steps needed and the complexity of the reactions which
predispose to technical difficulties, and the cost of the manufacturing systems. In addition, the
synthetic reagents involved are costly and so economy of scale is not easily obtained by simply
increasing batch size.
                                                     2

     WO 2013/096866                                                           PCT/US2012/071419
                            BRIEF SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
        [0009]      In one aspect the present disclosure provides a virus-like particle (VLP)
comprising a capsid enclosing at least one heterologous cargo molecule and a packing sequence.
A VLP may further comprise at least one ribozyme enclosed by the capsid. The heterologous
cargo molecule may comprise an oligonucleotide, or an oligoribonucleotide. A VLP may
comprise a one or more ribozymes, and a ribozyme may be flanked by the packing sequence and
the oligoribonucleotide to form a nucleic acid construct. A VLP may comprise a plurality of the
nucleic acid constructs. In a VLP comprising an oligoribonucleotide, oligoribonucleotide may
be a short RNA selected from siRNA, shRNA, sshRNA, lshRNA and miRNA. A VLP may
comprise at least two ribozymes, wherein each ribozyme is selected to cut one end of the short
RNA. A VLP may further comprise a linker consisting of at least 1 to 100 nucleotides, the linker
comprising at least 40% A's or at least 40% U's, wherein the linker links the oligoribonucleotide
and the packing sequence, or the oligoribonucleotide and the ribozyme. Ribozymes may be
selected for example from a Hammerhead ribozyme and a Hepatitis Delta V ribozyme. A
Hammerhead ribozyme may be a Hammerhead ribozyme variant having a contiguous set of
nucleotides complementary to at least 6 contiguous nucleotides of the oligoribonucleotide.
Alternatively, the ribozyme may be a mutant Hepatitis Delta V ribozyme capable of cleaving its
connection with the oligoribonucleotide at a rate at most about 50% the rate of a wildtype
Hepatitis Delta V ribozyme. Such a mutant HDV ribozyme may have for example a nucleic acid
sequence selected from SEQ ID Nos: 10-18.
        [0010]      VLP's according to the present disclosure may comprise a capsid which
comprises a wild type viral capsid which is resistant to hydrolysis catalyzed by a peptide bond
hydrolase category EC 3.4, or a capsid protein having at least 15%, at least 16%, at least 21%, at
least 40%, at least 41%, at least 45%, at least 52%, at least 53%, at least 56%, at least 59% or at
least 86% sequence identity with the amino acid sequence of wild type Enterobacteria phage
MS2 capsid (SEQ ID NO : 3) and is resistant to hydrolysis catalyzed by a peptide bond
hydrolase category EC 3.4. The capsid may comprise a wild type Enterobacteria phage MS2
capsid protein having the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 3.
                                                  3

      WO 2013/096866                                                         PCT/US2012/071419
         [0011]     VLP's according to the present disclosure may comprise a heterologous cargo
molecule comprising a peptide or polypeptide. A VLP may further comprise an oligonucleotide
linker coupling the heterologous cargo peptide or polypeptide molecule and the viral capsid. The
oligonucleotide linker may be an oligoribonucleotide comprising a ribozyme sequence.
Alternatively, the heterologous cargo molecule may comprise a bi-molecular cargo molecule
comprising a bifunctional polynucleotide comprising a first aptamer sequence which specifically
binds a bioactive small molecule having a molecular weight of about 1,500 Da or less and a
second aptamer sequence for binding a packing sequence of the capsid. The VLP may further
comprise the bioactive small molecule bound to the first aptameric sequence. The bioactive
small molecule may comprise and herbicide or a pesticide, which may selected for example from
atrazine, acetamipridphorate, profenofos, isocarbophos and omethoateas.
         [0012]     In another aspect, the present disclosure provides a nucleic acid construct
comprising a nucleotide sequence that encodes a short RNA, a ribozyme and a packing sequence.
The short RNA may be for example an siRNA or an shRNA. The nucleic acid construct may
further comprise a linking nucleotide sequence of 4 to 100 nucleotides of which at least 40% are
A's or at least 40% are T's, wherein the linking nucleotide sequence is flanked by the packing
coding sequence and by the short RNA-coding sequence. The nucleic acid construct may further
comprise a linking nucleotide sequence of 4 to 100 nucleotides of which at least 40% are A's or
at least 40% are U's, wherein the linking nucleotide sequence is flanked by the ribozyme and the
short RNA-encoding sequence. The ribozyme sequence may be flanked by the short RNA and
the packing sequence. The present disclosure also encompasses a vector comprising any such
nucleic acid constructs, and host cells comprising such a vector, as well as host cell stably
transformed with such a vector. Host cells may be a bacterial cell, such as but not limited to an
Escherichiacoli cell, a plant cell, a mammalian cell, an insect cell, a fungal cell or a yeast cell.
A host cell may further be stably transfected with a second vector comprising a second nucleic
acid sequence encoding a viral capsid which is resistant to hydrolysis catalyzed by a peptide
bond hydrolase category EC 3.4. The second nucleic acid sequence may encode for example a
viral protein encoding a viral capsid having at least 40% sequence identity with the amino acid
sequence of wild type Enterobacteria phage MS2 capsid protein (SEQ ID NO: 3) and is resistant
to hydrolysis catalyzed by a peptide bond hydrolase category EC 3.4. A nucleic acid construct as
                                                  4

      WO 2013/096866                                                          PCT/US2012/071419
described herein may also encode a wild type Enterobacteria phage MS2 capsid protein (SEQ ID
NO: 3). The ribozyme in such a nucleic acid construct may be for example a Hammerhead
ribozyme, .a Hammerhead ribozyme variant having a contiguous set of nucleotides
complementary to at least 6 contiguous nucleotides of the short RNA, a Hepatitis Delta V
ribozyme, or a mutant Hepatitis Delta V ribozyme capable of cleaving its connection with the
short RNA at a rate at most 50% the rate of a wildtype Hepatitis Delta V ribozyme. An non
limiting but exemplary mutant HDV ribozyme has a nucleic acid sequence selected from SEQ ID
NOs: 10-18. The present disclosure also encompasses a plant or plant tissue transformed to
contain a nucleic acid construct described herein, and seed or progeny of such a plant or plant
tissue, wherein the seed or progeny comprises the nucleic acid construct.
        [0013]       In another aspect, the present disclosure provides a composition comprising:
a) a plurality of virus-like particles each comprising a viral capsid enclosing at least one
heterologous cargo molecule; and b) one or more cell lysis products present in an amount of less
than 4 grams for every 100 grams of capsid present in the composition, wherein the cell lysis
products are selected from proteins, polypeptides, peptides and any combination thereof. In the
composition, the capsid is for example resistant to hydrolysis catalyzed by a peptide bond
hydrolase category EC 3.4. The capsid may comprise a capsid protein having at least 15%, at
least 16%, at least 21%, at least 40%, at least 41%, at least 45%, at least 52%, at least 53%, at
least 56%, at least 59% or at least 86% sequence identity with the amino acid sequence of wild
type Enterobacteria phage MS2 capsid (SEQ ID NO: 3) and is resistant to hydrolysis catalyzed
by a peptide bond hydrolase category EC 3.4. The capsid may comprises a wild type
Enterobacteria phage MS2 capsid protein (SEQ ID NO: 3). In the composition, the heterologous
cargo molecule may comprise an oligonucleotide which may be an oligoribonucleotide. An
oligoribonucleotide may be selected for example from siRNA, shRNA, sshRNA, lshRNA and
miRNA. In the composition, each virus-like particle may further comprise at least one ribozyme,
wherein the ribozyme is flanked by the packing sequence and the oligoribonucleotide to form a
nucleic acid construct, and each virus-like particle may comprise a plurality of the nucleic acid
constructs. In the VLP's of such a composition, the ribozyme may be for example a
Hammerhead ribozyme, .a Hammerhead ribozyme variant having a contiguous set of nucleotides
complementary to at least 6 contiguous nucleotides of the short RNA, a Hepatitis Delta V
                                                   5

      WO 2013/096866                                                           PCT/US2012/071419
ribozyme, or a mutant Hepatitis Delta V ribozyme capable of cleaving its connection with the
short RNA at a rate at most 50% the rate of a wildtype Hepatitis Delta V ribozyme. An non
limiting but exemplary mutant HDV ribozyme has a nucleic acid sequence selected from SEQ ID
NOs: 10-18. The VLP's in such a composition may further comprise a linking nucleotide
sequence of 4 to 100 nucleotides of which at least 40% are A's or at least 40% are T's, wherein
the linking nucleotide sequence is flanked by the packing-coding sequence and by the short
RNA-coding sequence, or a linking nucleotide sequence of 4 to 100 nucleotides of which at least
40% are A's or at least 40% are U's, wherein the linking nucleotide sequence is flanked by the
ribozyme and the short RNA-encoding sequence. The ribozyme sequence may be flanked by
the short RNA and the packing sequence. The VLP's in such a composition may f comprise a
heterologous cargo molecule comprising a peptide or polypeptide. Such VLP's in a composition
may further comprise an oligonucleotide linker coupling the heterologous cargo molecule and
the viral capsid. The oligonucleotide linker may be an oligoribonucleotide comprising a
ribozyme sequence. In such a composition, the cell lysis products may be present in an amount
of less than 0.5 grams, less than 0.2 grams or less than 0.1 grams.
         [0014]       In another aspect, the present disclosure provides method for isolating and
purifying a target cargo molecule, the method comprising: (a) obtaining a whole cell lysate
comprising a plurality of virus-like particles (VLPs) each comprising a capsid enclosing at least
one target cargo molecule, wherein the capsids are resistant to hydrolysis catalyzed by a peptide
bond hydrolase category EC 3.4; (b) subjecting the VLP's to hydrolysis using a peptide bond
hydrolase category EC 3.4, for a time and under conditions sufficient for at least 60, at least 70,
at least 80, or at least 90 of every 100 individual polypeptides present in the whole cell lysate but
not enclosed by the capsids to be cleaved, while at least 60, at least 70, at least 80, or at least 90
of every 100 capsids present in the whole cell lysate before such hydrolysis remain intact
following the hydrolysis. In the method, the capsids may each comprises a viral capsid protein
having at least 15 %, at least 16%, at least 21%, at least 40%, at least 410%, at least 450%, at least
52%, at least 53%, at least 56%, at least 59% or at least 86% sequence identity with the amino
acid sequence of wild type Enterobacteria phage MS2 capsid protein (SEQ ID NO: 3) and is
resistant to hydrolysis catalyzed by a peptide bond hydrolase category EC 3.4. The capsids may
each comprise a wild type Enterobacteria phage MS2 capsid protein (SEQ ID NO: 3). In the
                                                    6

      WO 2013/096866                                                             PCT/US2012/071419
method, the heterologous cargo molecule may comprise an oligonucleotide which may be an
oligoribonucleotide, or a peptide or a polypeptide. An oligoribonucleotide may be selected for
example from siRNA, shRNA, sshRNA, lshRNA and miRNA. In the method, each virus-like
particle may further comprise a ribozyme, wherein the ribozyme is flanked by the packing
sequence and the oligoribonucleotide to form a nucleic acid construct. The method may further
comprise purification of the capsids following hydrolysis. Purification may include at least one
of a liquid-liquid extraction step, a crystallization step, a fractional precipitation step, and an
ultra filtration step. The present disclosure also encompasses a composition produced by such a
method.
          [0015]      In another aspect, the present disclosure provides a method for protecting a
target molecule from hydrolysis in a whole cell lyste following intracellular production of the
target molecule in a host cell, the method comprising: (a) selecting a viral capsid which is
resistant to hydrolysis catalyzed by a peptide bond hydrolase category EC 3.4; (b) stably
transfecting the host cell with a first vector comprising a nucleic acid sequence encoding a viral
protein forming the viral capsid, and a second vector comprising a nucleic acid sequence
comprising a ribozyme flanked by a packing sequence and an siRNA sequence; and (c)
maintaining the cells for a time and under conditions sufficient for the transformed cells to
express and assemble capsids encapsidating the ribozyme flanked by the packing sequence and
the siRNA sequence. In the process, the capsids may each comprises a viral capsid protein
having at least 15 %, at least 16%, at least 21 %, at least 40%, at least 41%, at least 45 %, at least
52%, at least 53%, at least 56%, at least 59% or at least 86% sequence identity with the amino
acid sequence of wild type Enterobacteria phage MS2 capsid protein (SEQ ID NO: 3) and is
resistant to hydrolysis catalyzed by a peptide bond hydrolase category EC 3.4.
          [0016]      In another aspect, the present disclosure provides a process for purifying
VLP's enclosing at least one heterologous cargo molecule, the process comprising: (a) obtaining
a cell lysate comprising a plurality of the VLP's; (b) contacting the cell lysate with a protease for
a time and under conditions sufficient to hydrolyze cell lysis products other than the VLP's to
form a hydrolysate; and (c) isolating the VLP's from the hydrolsyate. Step (c) may comprise (i)
performing a first precipitation with ammonium sulfate followed by a first centrifugation to
obtain a first precipitate and a first supernatant; and (ii) performing a second precipitation on the
                                                    7

      WO 2013/096866                                                             PCT/US2012/071419
first supernatant with ammonium sulfate followed by a second centrifugation to obtain a second
precipitate, wherein the second precipitate comprises at least about 70%, 80% or 90% by weight
of the VLP's. Step (c) may comprise (i) performing a first precipitation with ethanol followed
by a first centrifugation to obtain a first precipitate and a first supernatant; and (ii) performing a
second precipitation on the first supernatant with ammonium sulfate followed by a second
centrifugation to obtain a second precipitate, wherein the second precipitate comprises at least
about 70%, 80% or 90% by weight of the VLP's. Step (c) may comprise ultracentrifuging the
hydrolysate to obtain a precipitate comprising at least about 70%, 80% or 90% by weight of the
VLP's. In the process, the VLP's may each comprise a capsid which is resistant to hydrolysis
catalyzed by a peptide bond hydrolase category EC 3.4., which can comprise a capsid protein
having at least 15%, at least 16%, at least 21%, at least 40%, at least 41%, at least 450%, at least
52%, at least 53%, at least 56%, at least 59% or at least 86% sequence identity with the amino
acid sequence of wild type Enterobacteria phage MS2 capsid (SEQ ID NO: 3) and is resistant to
hydrolysis catalyzed by a peptide bond hydrolase category EC 3.4. Te VLP's may each
comprise a wild type Enterobacteria phage MS2 capsid protein (SEQ ID NO: 3). In the process,
step (b) can be performed for at least about 30 minutes at about 370 C. The process may further
comprise, before step (b), contacting the cell lysate with at least one of a nuclease, an amylase
and a lypase for at least about 30 minutes at about 370 C. In the process, the protease can be fore
example a peptide bond hydrolase category EC 3.4, which can be selected for example from
Proteinase K, Protease from Streptomyces griseus, Protease from Bacillus lichenformis, pepsin
and papain. In the process, the heterologous cargo molecule enclosed by the VLP's may
comprise an oligonucleotide which may be an oligoribonucleotide, or a peptide or a polypeptide.
An oligoribonucleotide may be selected for example from siRNA, shRNA, sshRNA, lshRNA
and miRNA. In the process, the VLP's may each further comprise a ribozyme as described
herein, flanked by a packing sequence and the oligoribonucleotide to form a nucleic acid
construct. The oligoribonucleotide and the packing sequence may be linked by a linker sequence
of at least I to 100 nucleotides, and comprising more than 40% A's, more than 40% of U's, or
more than 40% T's. The process may further comprise preparing the cell lyaste before step (a)
by centrifuging cells following expression of the VLPs in the cells; resuspending the cells; lysing
                                                     8

the cells and centrifuging the cell lysate to obtain a supernatant, wherein the
supernatant is used as the cell lysate for step (a).
        [0016A]         In another aspect, the present disclosure provides a process for
purifying VLPs enclosing at least one heterologous cargo molecule, the process
comprising: (a) obtaining a cell lysate comprising a plurality of the VLPs; (b)
contacting the cell lysate with a protease for a time and under a condition sufficient to
hydrolyze cell lysis products other than the VLPs to form a hydrolysate; and (c)
isolating the VLPs from the hydrolysate. In a preferred aspect, the VLPs consist of
Enterobacteriophage MS2 capsid proteins (SEQ ID NO.: 3).
        [001 6B]        In yet another aspect, the present disclosure provide a method
for protecting a target molecule from hydrolysis, the method comprising: (a) forming
a capsid resistant to hydrolysis catalyzed by a peptide bond hydrolase category EC
3.4; (b) stably transfecting the host cell with a vector comprising a nucleic acid
sequence encoding such capsid protein, and a vector comprising a nucleic acid
sequence encoding the target molecule; (c) maintaining the host cell for a time and
under conditions sufficient for the transformed cells to express and assemble capsids
encapsidating the target molecule; (d) purifying VLPs encapsidating the target
molecule by the process comprising purifying VLPs enclosing at least one
heterologous cargo molecule, the process comprising: (a) obtaining a cell lysate
comprising a plurality of the VLPs; (b) contacting the cell lysate with a protease for a
time and under a condition sufficient to hydrolyze cell lysis products other than the
VLPs to form a hydrolysate; and (c) isolating the VLPs from the hydrolysate. In a
preferred    aspect,  the peptide bond hydrolase category           EC 3.4    comprises
Enterobacteriophage MS2 capsid proteins (SEQ ID NO.: 3).
         [0017] In another aspect, the present disclosure provides VLP's comprising a
 capsid enclosing at least one heterologous cargo molecule and a packing sequence
 wherein the capsid comprises a capsid protein which is a variant of wild type
 Enterobacteria phage MS2 capsid (SEQ ID NO: 3). The capsid protein may be one
 which has the amino acid sequence of wild type Enterobacteria phage MS2 capsid
 (SEQ ID NO: 3) except that the A residue at position 1 is deleted, and is resistant to
 hydrolysis catalyzed by a peptide bond hydrolase category EC 3.4. The capsid protein
 may be one which has the amino acid sequence of wild type Enterobacteria phage
 MS2 capsid (SEQ ID NO:3) except that the A residue at position 1 is deleted and the
                                              9a

S residue at position 2 is deleted, and is resistant to hydrolysis catalyzed by a peptide
bond hydrolase category EC 3.4. The capsid protein may be one which has the amino
acid sequence of wild type Enterobacteria phage MS2 capsid (SEQ ID NO: 3) except
that the A residue at position 1 is deleted, the S residue at position 2 is deleted and the
N residue at position 3 is deleted, and is resistant to hydrolysis catalyzed by a peptide
bond hydrolase category EC 3.4. The capsid protein may be one which has the amino
acid sequence of wild type Enterobacteria phage MS2 capsid (SEQ ID NO: 3) except
that the Y reside at position 129 is deleted, and is resistant to hydrolysis catalyzed by
a peptide bond hydrolase category EC 3.4. The capsid protein may be one which has
the amino acid sequence of wild type Enterobacteria phage MS2 capsid (SEQ ID
NO:3) but having a single (1) amino acid deletion in the 112-117 segment and is
resistant to hydrolysis catalyzed by a peptide bond hydrolase category EC 3.4. The
capsid protein may be one which has the amino acid sequence of wild type
Enterobacteria phage MS2 capsid (SEQ ID NO:3) but having a single (1) amino acid
deletion in the 112-117 segment and is resistant to hydrolysis catalyzed by a peptide
bond hydrolase category EC 3.4. The capsid protein may be one which has the amino
acid sequence of wild type Enterobacteria phage MS2 capsid (SEQ ID NO:3) but
having a 1-2 residue insertion in the 65-83 segment and is resistant to hydrolysis
catalyzed by a peptide bond hydrolase category EC 3.4. The capsid protein may be
one which has the amino acid sequence of wild type Enterobacteria phage MS2 capsid
(SEQ ID NO:3) but having a 1-2 residue insertion in the 44-55 segment and is
resistant to hydrolysis catalyzed by a peptide bond hydrolase category EC 3.4. The
 capsid protein may be one which
                              [Text continued on page 101
                                             9b

     WO 2013/096866                                                          PCT/US2012/071419
has the amino acid sequence of wild type Enterobacteria phage MS2 capsid (SEQ ID NO:3) but
having a single (1) residue insertion in the 33-43 segment and is resistant to hydrolysis catalyzed
by a peptide bond hydrolase category EC 3.4. The capsid protein may be one which has the
amino acid sequence of wild type Enterobacteria phage MS2 capsid (SEQ ID NO:3) but having a
1-2 residue insertion in the 24-30 segment and is resistant to hydrolysis catalyzed by a peptide
bond hydrolase category EC 3.4. The capsid protein may be one which has the amino acid
sequence of wild type Enterobacteria phage MS2 capsid (SEQ ID NO :3) but having a single (1)
residue insertion in the 10-18 segment and is resistant to hydrolysis catalyzed by a peptide bond
hydrolase category EC 3.4. The capsid may comprise a capsid protein monomer sequence
concatenated with a second capsid monomer sequence which assembles into a capsid which
resistant to hydrolysis catalyzed by a peptide bond hydrolase category EC 3.4. The capsid may
comprise a capsid protein monomer sequence whose C-terminus is extended with a 0-6 residue
linker segment whose C-terminus is concatenated with a second capsid monomer sequence, all of
which assembles into a capsid which resistant to hydrolysis catalyzed by a peptide bond
hydrolase category EC 3.4. A linker segment may have a sequence such as, for example,
(Gly)x, wherein x=0-6. including -Gly-; -Gly-Gly-; and -Gly-Gly-Gly-. A linker segment may be
a Gly-Ser linker selected from -Gly-Gly-Ser-Gly-Gly-, -Gly-Gly-Ser and -Gly-Ser-Gly- The
capsid may comprise the capsid protein concatenated with a third capsid monomer sequence
which assembles into a capsid which resistant to hydrolysis catalyzed by a peptide bond
hydrolase category EC 3.4. The capsid may comprise a capsid protein wherein the C-terminus
is extended with a 0-6 residue linker segment whose C-terminus s concatenated with a third
capsid monomer sequence, all of which assembles into a capsid which resistant to hydrolysis
catalyzed by a peptide bond hydrolase category EC 3.4. The capsid may comprise a capsid
protein wherein the capsid comprises a capsid protein in which one or both linker sequences is
(Gly)x, wherein x=0-6, including -Gly-; -Gly-Gly-; and -Gly-Gly-Gly-. A linker segment may be
a Gly-Ser linker selected from -Gly-Gly-Ser-Gly-Gly-, -Gly-Gly-Ser and -Gly-Ser-Gly-.
        [0018]      Such a capsid protein assembles for example into a capsid which is resistant to
hydrolysis catalyzed by a peptide bond hydrolase category EC 3.4. For example, the capsid may
comprise a capsid protein in which one or both linker sequences is -(Gly)x-, x=1, which
assembles into a capsid which is resistant to hydrolysis catalyzed by a peptide bond hydrolase
                                                  10

     WO 2013/096866                                                          PCT/US2012/071419
category EC 3.4. The capsid may comprise a capsid protein in which one or both linker
sequences is -(Gly)x-, x=2, which assembles into a capsid which is resistant to hydrolysis
catalyzed by a peptide bond hydrolase category EC 3.4. The capsid may comprise a capsid
protein in which one or both linker sequences is -(Gly)x-, x=3, which assembles into a capsid
which is resistant to hydrolysis catalyzed by a peptide bond hydrolase category EC 3.4. The
capsid may comprise one or more coat protein sequences which is N-terminally truncated by 1-3
residues and a linker segment as described herein is lengthened by the number of residues
deleted, and which is resistant to hydrolysis catalyzed by a peptide bond hydrolase category EC
3.4. The capsid may comprise one or more coat protein sequences which is C-terminally
truncated by 1 residue, and linker segments as described herein are lengthened by the one
residue, wherein the capsid is resistant to hydrolysis catalyzed by a peptide bond hydrolase
category EC 3.4. The capsid may comprise a first coat protein sequence in a concatenated dimer
which is C-terminally truncated by 1 residue and the linker segments lengthened by the one
residue or wherein the first and/or second coat protein sequence in a concatenated trimer is C
terminally truncated by 1 residues and which is resistant to hydrolysis catalyzed by a peptide
bond hydrolase category EC 3.4. The capsid may comprise a capsid protein having N- and C
terminal truncations and which is resistant to hydrolysis catalyzed by peptide bond hydrolase
category EC 3.4.
                               REFERENCE TO COLOR FIGURES
        [0019]      The application file contains at least one photograph executed in color.
Copies of this patent application publication with color photographs will be provided by the
Office upon request and payment of the necessary fee.
                          BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
        [0020]      Figure 1 is a plot of Optical Density (OD; filled diamonds) and pH (open
squares) over time, showing propagation of wild type MS2 bacteriophage (ATCC No.15597-B1,
from American Type Culture Collection, Rockville, MD) in its E. Coli host (ATCC No.15669).
        [0021]      Figure 2 is a gel showing results of SDS-PAGE analysis of MS2
bacteriophage samples obtained following propagation in E. Coli and purified using Proteinase K
                                                  11

      WO 2013/096866                                                         PCT/US2012/071419
and ultrafiltration, showing that Proteinase K purification yields phage purified to higher than
99% (band at 14 kDa corresponds to MS2 bacteriophage coat protein).
         [0022]      Figure 3 is a gel showing results of SDS-PAGE analysis of partially purified
MS2, showing complete degradation of the phage and results obtained after 1x or 2x
ultrafiltration of the lysate (Lanes 4 and 6).
         [0023]      Figure 4 is a gel showing results of SDS-PAGE analysis of MS2 samples
purified using ultrafiltration and Proteinase K treatment.
         [0024]      Figure 5 is a gel showing results of SDS-PAGE analysis of MS2 samples
purified using Proteinase K treatment, precipitation at acidic conditions, precipitation using
ethanol at basic and acidic conditions, and ultrafiltration.
         [0025]      Figure 6 is a graph showing the UV spectrum of MS2 samples purified using
Proteinase K treatment, precipitation at acidic conditions, precipitation using ethanol at basic and
acidic conditions, and ultrafiltration.
         [0026]      Figure 7 is a chromatograph of PCR products obtained from an MS2 sample
following purification described for Figures 5 and 6, chromatographed in 1.5% agarose gel
stained with Ethidium Bromide (1.2 kbp for primers F1201_1223-R1979_2001 in Lane 1, 800 bp
for primers F1201_1223-R1979_2001 in Lane 2, and 304 bp for primers F1401_1426
R1680_1705 in Lane 3), showing consistency with an intact MS2 bacteriophage genome.
         [0027]      Figure 8 is a plot of Optical Density (OD; filled diamonds) over time,
obtained with a control sample (open diamonds) and an MS2 sample following purification
described for Figures 5 and 6 (filled squares), showing that the purified sample contained phage
that retained high infectivity.
         [0028]      Figure 9 is a gel showing results of SDS-PAGE analysis of MS2 samples
following expression of MS2 capsids encapsidating RNA coding for the coat protein attached to
a coat- specific 19-mer RNA hairpin.
         [0029]      Figure 10 is a chromatograph of PCR products from PCR interrogation of an
MS2 sample for presence or absence of a section of the MS2 capsid following purification,
chromatographed in 2% agarose gel stained with Ethidium Bromide (304 bp in Lane 1; the
leftmost Lane corresponds to 1 kb plus ladder from Life Technologies), showing consistency
with an intact MS2 coat gene.
                                                   12

      WO 2013/096866                                                         PCT/US2012/071419
         [0030]      Figure 11 is a gel showing results of SDS-PAGE analysis of MS2 samples
following simple precipitation with ethanol for purification of MS2 Virus-Like Particles (VLPs).
         [0031]      Figure 12 is a gel showing results of SDS-PAGE analysis of MS2 samples
following use of Proteinase K (PK) and simple precipitation with ethanol for purification of MS2
VLPs.
         [0032]      Figure 13 is a gel showing results of SDS-PAGE analysis of MS2 samples
following use of constitutive hydrolases (CH), fractional precipitation with ethanol, and
ultrafiltration for purification of MS2 VLPs.
         [0033]      Figure 14 is a gel showing results of SDS-PAGE analysis of MS2 samples
following use of various hydrolases, and factional precipitation with ammonium sulfate for
purification of MS2 VLPs.
         [0034]      Figure 15 is a gel showing results of PAGE analysis of RNA obtained from
RNA encapsidated in MS2 capsids.
         [0035]      Figure 16 is a gel showing results of PAGE analysis of RNA products
produced following in vitro transcriptions using Hepatitis Delta Virus (HDV) ribozyme.
         [0036]      Figure 17 is a gel showing results of PAGE analysis of siRNA products
obtained during in vitro transcriptions using long flanking Hammerhead ribozymes.
         [0037]      Figure 18 is a gel showing results of PAGE analysis of RNA products
obtained from RNA encapsidated in VLPs, following purification of the VLP's and isolation of
the RNA from the VLPs.
         [0038]      Figure 19 is a series of gels showing results of SDS-PAGE analyses of VLP's
comprising MS2 capsids, following purification and suspension of the VLPs, and exposure to
various proteases for 1 hour and 4 hours of incubation.
         [0039]      Figure 20 is an alignment of selected enterobacteria phage MS2 capsid
proteins.
         [0040]      Figure 21 is an alignment of complete leviviridae viral coat protein sequences
retrieved from the UniProt database and aligned using their BLAST multiple alignment with
default values for weighting array choice, gap penalties, etc.
         [0041]      Figure 22 is a graphic illustration of backbone superposition of 1AQ3 chain
B (leviviridae coat protein monomer) with 1QBE chain C (alloleviridae coat protein monomer).
                                                    13

      WO 2013/096866                                                          PCT/US2012/071419
        [0042]      Figure 23 is a graphic illustration of an alternative view of the backbone
superposition of 1AQ3 chain B (leviviridae coat protein monomer) with 1QBE chain C
(alloleviridae coat protein monomer) shown in Figure 22.
        [0043]      Figure 24 is a graphic illustration of another alternative view of the backbone
superposition of 1AQ3 chain B (leviviridae coat protein monomer) with 1QBE chain C
(alloleviridae coat protein monomer) shown in Figure 22.
        [0044]      Figure 25 is a graphic illustration of another alternative view of the backbone
superposition of 1AQ3 chain B (leviviridae coat protein monomer) with 1QBE chain C
(alloleviridae coat protein monomer) shown in Figure 22.
        [0045]      Figure 26 is a structural sequence alignment of 1AQ3, 2VTU and
1QBE.using jFATCAT rigid.
        [0046]      Figure 27 is an alignment of complete alloleviviridae viral coat protein
sequences retrieved from the UniProt database and aligned using their BLAST multiple
alignment with default values for weighting array choice, gap penalties, etc.
        [0047]      Figure 28 is a graphic illustration showing another 60 of the 180 monomers
forming the isosahedral levi- and alloleviviridae capsid. The backbone of each monomer of
represented by a ribbon of a different color. Backbone hydrogen bonds are represented by cyan
lines. The isosahedral three-fold axis is in the center of the figure. Monomer-monomer
contacts do not fill the central circle outlined by hydrogen bonds connecting the tips of flexible
loops 67-8 1.
        [0048]      Figure 29 is a graphic illustration showing 2 MS2 monomers (ribbons
representing backbone colored dark and pale blue) surrounded by monomers in contact in the
isosahedral capsid (ribbons representing monomer backbones in brown and navy). The
alloleviviridae Qbeta has a two residue deletion with respect to leviviridae between residues 72
& 73 (red, bottom center). The central void is immediately below this deletion site (Figure 5).
The deletion causes it to slightly expand.     The Qbeta deletion at 126 (red central left) removes
the excursion from the segment but extensive contacts between the sheets of neighboring
monomers essentially holds the monomers in place. MS2 sequence numbering is used.
        [0049]      Figure 30 is a graphic illustration of 2 MS2 monomers (ribbons representing
backbone colored dark and pale blue) surrounded by monomers in contact in the isosahedral
                                                   14

capsid (ribbons representing monomer backbones in brown and navy). The
alloleviviridae Qbeta has a one residue insertion with respect to leviviridae between
residues 12 & 13 (yellow, top left center), a flexible loop that extends from the outer
capsid surface into solvent; a two residue insertion between residues 53 & 54 (yellow,
lower left central) at the end a stand connection extending into the interior cargo; a
one-residue insertion between residues 27 & 28 is also at the end of a beta-strand
connector extending into the cpsid cargo space. None of these insertions require
movement in the monomer fold or between neighbors
         [0050] Figure 31 is a graphic illustration of 2 MS2 monomers (ribbons
representing backbone colored dark and pale blue) surrounded by monomers in
contact in the isosahedral capsid (ribbons representing monomer backbones in brown
and navy). The alloleviviridae Qbeta has a one residue insertion with respect to
leviviridae between residues 36 & 37 (yellow, center right). The loop packs against
the end of the adjacent helix but inserted residues can extend into the central space
above the flexible loop immediately below.
         [0051] Figure 32 is a graphic illustration of backbone ribbons of 3
noncovalent Enterobacteria phage MS2 noncovalent dimers packed around a
symmetry point in the assembled capsid, with all of the N-termini colored green, the
C-termini red.
                   DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
         [0052] Section headings as used in this section and the entire disclosure herein
are not intended to be limiting.
                                         A. Definitions
         [0053] As used herein, the singular forms "a," "an" and "the" include plural
referents unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. For the recitation of numeric
ranges herein, each intervening number there between with the same degree of
precision is explicitly contemplated. For example, for the range 6-9, the numbers 7
and 8 are contemplated in addition to 6 and 9, and for the range 6.0-7.0, the numbers
6.0, 6.1, 6.2, 6.3, 6.4, 6.5, 6.6, 6.7, 6.8, 6.9 and 7.0 are explicitly contemplated.
         [0053A]         Throughout the specification and claims, unless the context
requires otherwise, the word "comprise" or variations such as "comprises" or
                                                15a

"comprising", will be understood to imply the inclusion of a stated integer or group of
integers but not the exclusion of any other integer or group of integers
        [0054] The use of "or" means "and/or" unless stated otherwise. Furthermore,
the use of the term "including", as well as other forms, such as "includes" and
"included", is not limiting.
                                 [Text continued on page 16]
                                           15b

      WO 2013/096866                                                          PCT/US2012/071419
         [0055]      Unless otherwise defined herein, scientific and technical terms used in
connection with the present disclosure shall have the meanings that are commonly understood by
those of ordinary skill in the art. For example, any nomenclatures used in connection with, and
techniques of, animal and cellular anatomy, cell and tissue culture, biochemistry, molecular
biology, immunology, and microbiology described herein are those that are well known and
commonly used in the art. The meaning and scope of the terms should be clear; in the event
however of any latent ambiguity, definitions provided herein take precedent over any dictionary
or extrinsic definition. Further, unless otherwise required by context, singular terms shall
include pluralities and plural terms shall include the singular.
         [0056]      A wide variety of conventional techniques and tools in chemistry,
biochemistry, molecular biology, and immunology are employed and available for practicing the
methods and compositions described herein, are within the capabilities of a person of ordinary
skill in the art and well described in the literature. Such techniques and tools include those for
generating and purifying VLP's including those with a wild type or a recombinant capsid
together with the cargo molecule(s), and for transforming host organisms and expressing
recombinant proteins and nucleic acids as described herein. See, e.g., MOLECULAR
CLONING, A LABORATORY MANUAL 2nd ed. 1989 (Sambrook et al., Cold Spring Harbor
Laboratory Press); and CURRENT PROTOCOLS IN MOLECULAR BIOLOGY (Eds. Ausubel
et al., Greene Publ. Assoc., Wiley-Interscience, NY) 1995. The disclosures in each of these are
herein incorporated by reference.
         [0057]      As used herein, the term "cargo molecule" refers to an oligonucleotide,
polypeptide or peptide molecule, which is or may be enclosed by a capsid.
         [0058]      As used herein, the term "oligonucleotide" refers to a short polymer of at least
two, and no more than about 70 nucleotides, preferably no more than about 55 nucleotides linked
by phosphodiester bonds. An oligonucleotide may be an oligodeoxyribonucleotide (DNA) or a
oligoribonucleotide (RNA), and encompasses short RNA molecules such as but not limited to
siRNA, shRNA, sshRNA, and miRNA.
         [0059]      As used herein, the term "peptide" refers to a polymeric molecule which
minimally includes at least two amino acid monomers linked by peptide bond, and preferably has
at least about 10, and more preferably at least about 20 amino acid monomers, and no more than
                                                    16

      WO 2013/096866                                                         PCT/US2012/071419
about 60 amino acid monomers, preferably no more than about 50 amino acid monomers linked
by peptide bonds. For example, the term encompasses polymers having about 10, about 20,
about 30, about 40, about 50, or about 60 amino acid residues.
         [0060]     As used herein, the term "polypeptide" refers to a polymeric molecule
including at least one chain of amino acid monomers linked by peptide bonds, wherein the chain
includes at least about 70 amino acid residues, preferably at least about 80, more preferably at
least about 90, and still more preferably at least about 100 amino acid residues. As used herein
the term encompasses proteins, which may include one or more linked polypeptide chains, which
may or may not be further bound to cofactors or other proteins. The term "protein" as used
herein is used interchangeably with the term "polypeptide."
         [0061]     As used herein, the term "variant" with reference to a molecule is a sequence
that is substantially similar to the sequence of a native or wild type molecule. With respect to
nucleotide sequences, variants include those sequences that may vary as to one or more bases,
but because of the degeneracy of the genetic code, still encode the identical amino acid sequence
of the native protein. Variants include naturally occurring alleles, and nucleotide sequences
which are engineered using well-known techniques in molecular biology, such as for example
site-directed mutagenesis, and which encode the native protein, as well as those that encode a
polypeptide having amino acid substitutions.        Generally, nucleotide sequence variants of the
invention have at least 40%, at least 50%, at least 60%, at least 7 0% or at least 80% sequence
identity to the native (endogenous) nucleotide sequence.             The present disclosure also
encompasses nucleotide sequence variants having at least about 85% sequence identity, at least
about 90% sequence identity, at least about 85%, 86%, 87%, 88%, 89%, 90% 91%, 92%, 93%,
94%, 95%, 96%, 97%, 98%, 99%.
         [0062]     As used herein with respect to a given nucleotide sequence, the term
"conservative variant" refers to a nucleotide sequence that encodes an identical or essentially
identical amino acid sequence as that of a reference sequence. Due to the degeneracy of the
genetic code, whereby almost always more than one codon may code for each amino acid,
nucleotide sequences encoding very closely related proteins may not share a high level of
sequence identity. Moreover, different organisms have preferred codons for many amino acids,
and different organisms or even different strains of the same organism, e.g., E coli strains, can
                                                   17

     WO 2013/096866                                                         PCT/US2012/071419
have different preferred codons for the same amino acid. Thus, a first nucleotide acid sequence
which encodes essentially the same polypeptide as a second nucleotide acid sequence is
considered substantially identical to the second nucleotide sequence, even if they do not share a
minimum percentage sequence identity, or would not hybridize to one another under stringent
conditions. Additionally, it should be understood that with the limited exception of ATG, which
is usually the sole codon for methionine, any sequence can be modified to yield a functionally
identical molecule by standard techniques, and such modifications are encompassed by the
present disclosure. As described herein below, the present disclosure specifically contemplates
protein variants of a native protein, which have amino acid sequences having at least 15%, at
least 16%, at least 21%, at least 40%, at least 41%, at least 52%, at least 53%, at least 56%, at
least 59% or at least 86% sequence identity to a native nucleotide sequence.
        [0063]      Sequence identity of amino acid sequences or nucleotide sequences, within
defined regions of the molecule or across the full-length sequence, can be readily determined
using conventional tools and methods known in the art and as described herein. For example, the
degree of sequence identity of two amino acid sequences, or two nucleotide sequences, is readily
determined using alignment tools such as the NCBI Basic Local Alignment Search Tool
(BLAST) (Altschul et al., 1990), which are readily available from multiple online sources.
Algorithms for optimal sequence alignment are well known and described in the art, including
for example in Smith and Waterman, Adv. Appl. Math. 2:482 (1981); Pearson and Lipman Proc.
Natl. Acad. Sci. (U.S.A.) 85: 2444 (1988).      Algorithms for sequence analysis are also readily
available in programs such as blastp, blastn, blastx, tblastn and tblastx. For the purposes of the
present disclosure, two nucleotide sequences may be also considered "substantially identical"
when they hybridize to each other under stringent conditions. Stringent conditions including a
high hybridization temperature and low salt in hybridization buffers which permit hybridization
only between nucleic acid sequences that are highly similar. Stringent conditions are sequence
dependent and will be different in different circumstance, but typically include a temperature at
least about 60' , which is about 10' C to about 15' C lower than the thermal melting point (Tm)
for the specific sequence at a defined ionic strength and pH. Salt concentration is typically about
0.02 molar at pH 7.
                                                  18

     WO 2013/096866                                                          PCT/US2012/071419
        [0064]     The degree of sequence identity between two amino acid sequences may be
determined using the BLASTp algorithm of Karlin and Altschul (Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA
87:2264-2268, 1993).     The percentage of sequence identity is determined by comparing two
optimally aligned sequences over a comparison window, wherein the portion of the amino acid
sequence in the comparison window may comprise additions or deletions (i.e., gaps) as
compared to the reference sequence (which does not comprise additions or deletions) for optimal
alignment of the two sequences.      The percentage is calculated by determining the number of
positions at which an identical amino acid occurs in both sequences to yield the number of
matched positions, dividing the number of matched positions by the total number of positions in
the window of comparison and multiplying the result by 100 to yield the percentage of sequence
identity.
        [0065]     One of skill will recognize that polypeptides may be "substantially similar" in
that an amino acid may be substituted with a similar amino acid residue without affecting the
function of the mature protein. Polypeptide sequences which are "substantially similar" share
sequences as noted above except that residue positions, which are not identical, may have
conservative amino acid changes.          Conservative amino acid substitutions refer to the
interchangeability of residues having similar side chains. For example, a group of amino acids
having aliphatic side chains is glycine, alanine, valine, leucine, and isoleucine; a group of amino
acids having aliphatic-hydroxyl side chains is serine and threonine; a group of amino acids
having amide-containing side chains is asparagine and glutamine; a group of amino acids having
aromatic side chains is phenylalanine, tyrosine, and tryptophan; a group of amino acids having
basic side chains is lysine, arginine, and histidine; and a group of amino acids having sulfur
containing side chains is cysteine and methionine.             Preferred conservative amino acid
substitution groups include: valine-leucine-isoleucine, phenylalanine-tyrosine, lysine-arginine,
alanine-valine, and asparagine-glutamine.
        [0066]     A nucleic acid encoding a peptide, polypeptide or protein may be obtained by
screening selected cDNA or genomic libraries using a deduced amino acid sequence for a given
protein. Conventional procedures using primer extension procedures, as described for example
in Sambrook et al., can be used to detect precursors and processing intermediates.
                                                  19

      WO 2013/096866                                                           PCT/US2012/071419
Virus-Like Particles (VLP's) Composed of a Capsid enclosing a Cargo Molecule
         [0067]       The methods and compositions described herein are the result in part of the
appreciation that certain viral capsids can be prepared and/or used in novel manufacturing and
purification methods to improve commercialization procedures for nucleic acids. The methods
described herein use recombinant viral capsids which are resistant to readily available
hydrolases, to enclose heterologous cargo molecules such as nucleic acids, peptides, or
polypeptides including proteins.
         [0068]       The capsid may be a wild type capsid or a mutant capsid derived from a wild
type capsid, provided that the capsid exhibits resistance to hydrolysis catalyzed by at least one
hydrolase acting on peptide bonds when the capsids are contacted with the hydrolase. As used
interchangeably herein, the phrases "resistance to hydrolysis" and "hydrolase resistant" refer to
any capsid which, when present in a whole cell lysate also containing polypeptides which are cell
lysis products and not enclosed in the capsids, and subjected to hydrolysis using a peptide bond
hydrolase category EC 3.4 for a time and under conditions sufficient for at least 60, at least 70, at
least 80, or at least 90 of every 100 individual polypeptides present in the lysate (which are cell
lysis products and not enclosed in the capsids) to be cleaved (i.e. at least 60%, at least 70%, at
least 80%, or at least 90% of all individual unenclosed polypeptides are cleaved), yet at least 60,
at least 70, at least 80, or at least 90 of every 100 capsids present before such hydrolysis remain
intact following the hydrolysis. Hydrolysis may be conducted for a period of time and under
conditions sufficient for the average molecular weight of cell proteins remaining from the cell
line following hydrolysis is less than about two thirds, less than about one half, less than about
one third, less than about one fourth, or less than about one fifth, of the average molecular weight
of the cell proteins before the hydrolysis is conducted. Methods may further comprise purifying
the intact capsid remaining after hydrolysis, and measuring the weight of capsids and the weight
of total dry cell matter before and after hydrolysis and purification, wherein the weight of capsids
divided by the weight of total dry cell matter after hydrolysis and purification is at least twice the
weight of capsids divided by the weight of total dry cell matter measured before the hydrolysis
and purification. The weight of capsids divided by the weight of total dry cell matter after
hydrolysis and purification may be at least 10 times more than, preferably 100 times more than,
more preferably 1,000 times more than, and most preferably 10,000 times more than the weight
                                                    20

      WO 2013/096866                                                          PCT/US2012/071419
of capsids divided by the weight of total dry cell matter measured before such hydrolysis and
purification.
         [0069]     Hydrolases are enzymes that catalyze hydrolysis reactions classified under the
identity number EC 3 by the European Commission. For example, enzymes that catalyze
hydrolysis of ester bonds have identity numbers starting with EC 3.1. Enzymes that catalyze
hydrolysis of glycosidic bonds have identity numbers starting with EC 3.2. Enzymes that
catalyze hydrolysis of peptide bonds have identity numbers starting with EC 3.4. Proteases,
which are enzymes that catalyze hydrolysis of proteins, are classified using identity numbers
starting with EC 3.4, including but not limited to Proteinase K and subtilisin. For example,
Proteinase K has identity number EC 3.4.21.64. The present disclosure encompasses VLP's
which are resistant, in non-limiting example, Proteinase K, Protease from Streptomyces griseus,
Protease from Bacillus lichenformis, pepsin and papain, and methods and processes of using
such VLP's.
         [0070]     The Nomenclature Committee of the International Union of biochemistry and
Molecular Biology also recommends naming and classification of enzymes by the reactions they
catalyze. Their complete recommendations are freely and widely available, and for example can
be accessed online at http:// enzyme.expasy.org and, www.chem.qmul.ac.uk/iubmb/enzyme/,
among others. The IUBMB developed a shorthand for describing what sites each enzyme is
active against. Enzymes that indescriminately cut are referred to as broadly specific. Cleavage
patterns for the other enzymes are described as Xaa|Yaa, where |represents the cleavage site,
Xaa ={set of residues preferred by the enzyme on the N-terminal side of the cleavage}, and
Yaa={set of residues preferred by the enzyme on the C-terminal side of the cleavage}. Some
enzymes have more binding requirements than this so the description can become more
complicated. For an enzyme that catalyzes a very specific reaction, for example an enzyme that
processes prothrombin to active thrombin, then that activity is the basis of the cleavage
description. In certain instances the precise activity of an enzyme may not be clear, and in such
cases, cleavage results against standard test proteins like B-chain insulin are reported. As an
alternative to using enzymes that catalyze hydrolysis of peptide bonds which have identity
numbers starting with EC 3.4, broadly specific enzymes can be used which have Xaa|Yaa
preferences where the enzyme has reported P1 pocket binding preferences Xaa but no preference
                                                 21

     WO 2013/096866                                                          PCT/US2012/071419
for binding the Pl' pocket Yaa and conversely, where the enzyme has reported Pl' pocket
binding preferences Yaa but no preference for binding the P1 pocket Xaa.
        [0071]       The capsids can be further selected and/or prepared such that they can be
isolated and purified using simple isolation and purification procedures, as described in further
detail herein. For example, the capsids can be selected or genetically modified to have
significantly higher hydrophobicity than a surrounding matrix as described herein, so as to
selectively partition into a non-polar water-immiscible phase into which they are simply
extracted. Alternatively, a capsid may be selected or genetically modified for improved ability to
selectively crystallize from solution.
        [0072]       Use of simple and effective purification processes using the capsids is enabled
by the choice of certain wild type capsids, or modifications to the amino acid sequence of
proteins comprising the wild type capsids, such that the capsid exhibits resistance to hydrolysis
catalyzed by at least one hydrolase acting on peptide bonds as described herein above. Such
wild type capsids, such as the wild type MS2 capsid, can be used in a purification process in
which certain inexpensive enzymes such as Proteinase K or subtilisin are used for proteolysis. A
non-limiting example is the Enterobacteria phage MS2 (SEQ ID NO: 1, whole MS2 wild type
genome; SEQ ID NO: 2, MS2 wild type coat protein, DNA sequence; and SEQ ID NO: 3, MS2
wild type coat protein, amino acid sequence.
(SEQ. ID NO: 1) Whole MS2 Genome, wildtype, coat protein sequence in bold:
GGGTGGGACCCCTTTCGGGGTCCTGCTCAACTTCCTGTCGAGCTAATGCCATTTTTAA
TGTCTTTAGCGAGACGCTACCATGGCTATCGCTGTAGGTAGCCGGAATTCCATTCCT
AGGAGGTTTGACCTGTGCGAGCTTTTAGTACCCTTGATAGGGAGAACGAGACCTTCG
TCCCCTCCGTTCGCGTTTACGCGGACGGTGAGACTGAAGATAACTCATTCTCTTTAA
AATATCGTTCGAACTGGACTCCCGGTCGTTTTAACTCGACTGGGGCCAAAACGAAAC
AGTGGCACTACCCCTCTCCGTATTCACGGGGGGCGTTAAGTGTCACATCGATAGATC
AAGGTGCCTACAAGCGAAGTGGGTCATCGTGGGGTCGCCCGTACGAGGAGAAAGCC
GGTTTCGGCTTCTCCCTCGACGCACGCTCCTGCTACAGCCTCTTCCCTGTAAGCCAAA
ACTTGACTTACATCGAAGTGCCGCAGAACGTTGCGAACCGGGCGTCGACCGAAGTC
CTGCAAAAGGTCACCCAGGGTAATTTTAACCTTGGTGTTGCTTTAGCAGAGGCCAGG
TCGACAGCCTCACAACTCGCGACGCAAACCATTGCGCTCGTGAAGGCGTACACTGC
CGCTCGTCGCGGTAATTGGCGCCAGGCGCTCCGCTACCTTGCCCTAAACGAAGATCG
AAAGTTTCGATCAAAACACGTGGCCGGCAGGTGGTTGGAGTTGCAGTTCGGTTGGTT
ACCACTAATGAGTGATATCCAGGGTGCATATGAGATGCTTACGAAGGTTCACCTTCA
                                                  22

   WO 2013/096866                             PCT/US2012/071419
AGAGTTTCTTCCTATGAGAGCCGTACGTCAGGTCGGTACTAACATCAAGTTAGATGG
CCGTCTGTCGTATCCAGCTGCAAACTTCCAGACAACGTGCAACATATCGCGACGTAT
CGTGATATGGTTTTACATAAACGATGCACGTTTGGCATGGTTGTCGTCTCTAGGTATC
TTGAACCCACTAGGTATAGTGTGGGAAAAGGTGCCTTTCTCATTCGTTGTCGACTGG
CTCCTACCTGTAGGTAACATGCTCGAGGGCCTTACGGCCCCCGTGGGATGCTCCTAC
ATGTCAGGAACAGTTACTGACGTAATAACGGGTGAGTCCATCATAAGCGTTGACGCT
CCCTACGGGTGGACTGTGGAGAGACAGGGCACTGCTAAGGCCCAAATCTCAGCCAT
GCATCGAGGGGTACAATCCGTATGGCCAACAACTGGCGCGTACGTAAAGTCTCCTTT
CTCGATGGTCCATACCTTAGATGCGTTAGCATTAATCAGGCAACGGCTCTCTAGATA
GAGCCCTCAACCGGAGTTTGAAGCATGGCTTCTAACTTTACTCAGTTCGTTCTCG
TCGACAATGGCGGAACTGGCGACGTGACTGTCGCCCCAAGCAACTTCGCTAAC
GGGGTCGCTGAATGGATCAGCTCTAACTCGCGTTCACAGGCTTACAAAGTAAC
CTGTAGCGTTCGTCAGAGCTCTGCGCAGAATCGCAAATACACCATCAAAGTCG
AGGTGCCTAAAGTGGCAACCCAGACTGTTGGTGGTGTAGAGCTTCCTGTAGCC
GCATGGCGTTCGTACTTAAATATGGAACTAACCATTCCAATTTTCGCTACGAAT
TCCGACTGCGAGCTTATTGTTAAGGCAATGCAAGGTCTCCTAAAAGATGGAAA
CCCGATTCCCTCAGCAATCGCAGCAAACTCCGGCATCTACTAATAGACGCCGGC
CATTCAAACATGAGGATTACCCATGTCGAAGACAACAAAGAAGTTCAACTCTTTATG
TATTGATCTTCCTCGCGATCTTTCTCTCGAAATTTACCAATCAATTGCTTCTGTCGCT
ACTGGAAGCGGTGATCCGCACAGTGACGACTTTACAGCAATTGCTTACTTAAGGGAC
GAATTGCTCACAAAGCATCCGACCTTAGGTTCTGGTAATGACGAGGCGACCCGTCGT
ACCTTAGCTATCGCTAAGCTACGGGAGGCGAATGGTGATCGCGGTCAGATAAATAG
AGAAGGTTTCTTACATGACAAATCCTTGTCATGGGATCCGGATGTTTTACAAACCAG
CATCCGTAGCCTTATTGGCAACCTCCTCTCTGGCTACCGATCGTCGTTGTTTGGGCAA
TGCACGTTCTCCAACGGTGCTCCTATGGGGCACAAGTTGCAGGATGCAGCGCCTTAC
AAGAAGTTCGCTGAACAAGCAACCGTTACCCCCCGCGCTCTGAGAGCGGCTCTATTG
GTCCGAGACCAATGTGCGCCGTGGATCAGACACGCGGTCCGCTATAACGAGTCATA
TGAATTTAGGCTCGTTGTAGGGAACGGAGTGTTTACAGTTCCGAAGAATAATAAAAT
AGATCGGGCTGCCTGTAAGGAGCCTGATATGAATATGTACCTCCAGAAAGGGGTCG
GTGCTTTCATCAGACGCCGGCTCAAATCCGTTGGTATAGACCTGAATGATCAATCGA
TCAACCAGCGTCTGGCTCAGCAGGGCAGCGTAGATGGTTCGCTTGCGACGATAGACT
TATCGTCTGCATCCGATTCCATCTCCGATCGCCTGGTGTGGAGTTTTCTCCCACCAGA
GCTATATTCATATCTCGATCGTATCCGCTCACACTACGGAATCGTAGATGGCGAGAC
GATACGATGGGAACTATTTTCCACAATGGGAAATGGGTTCACATTTGAGCTAGAGTC
CATGATATTCTGGGCAATAGTCAAAGCGACCCAAATCCATTTTGGTAACGCCGGAAC
CATAGGCATCTACGGGGACGATATTATATGTCCCAGTGAGATTGCACCCCGTGTGCT
AGAGGCACTTGCCTACTACGGTTTTAAACCGAATCTTCGTAAAACGTTCGTGTCCGG
GCTCTTTCGCGAGAGCTGCGGCGCGCACTTTTACCGTGGTGTCGATGTCAAACCGTT
TTACATCAAGAAACCTGTTGACAATCTCTTCGCCCTGATGCTGATATTAAATCGGCT
                             23

     WO 2013/096866                                                          PCT/US2012/071419
ACGGGGTTGGGGAGTTGTCGGAGGTATGTCAGATCCACGCCTCTATAAGGTGTGGGT
ACGGCTCTCCTCCCAGGTGCCTTCGATGTTCTTCGGTGGGACGGACCTCGCTGCCGA
CTACTACGTAGTCAGCCCGCCTACGGCAGTCTCGGTATACACCAAGACTCCGTACGG
GCGGCTGCTCGCGGATACCCGTACCTCGGGTTTCCGTCTTGCTCGTATCGCTCGAGA
ACGCAAGTTCTTCAGCGAAAAGCACGACAGTGGTCGCTACATAGCGTGGTTCCATAC
TGGAGGTGAAATCACCGACAGCATGAAGTCCGCCGGCGTGCGCGTTATACGCACTT
CGGAGTGGCTAACGCCGGTTCCCACATTCCCTCAGGAGTGTGGGCCAGCGAGCTCTC
CTCGGTAGCTGACCGAGGGACCCCCGTAAACGGGGTGGGTGTGCTCGAAAGAGCAC
GGGTGCGAAAGCGGTCCGGCTCCACCGAAAGGTGGGCGGGCTTCGGCCCAGGGACC
TCCCCCTAAAGAGAGGACCCGGGATTCTCCCGATTTGGTAACTAGCTGCTTGGCTAG
TTACCACCCA
(SEQ. ID NO: 2) MS2 coat protein DNA sequence, wild type:
ATGGCTTCTAACTTTACTCAGTTCGTTCTCGTCGACAATGGCGGAACTGGCGACGTG
ACTGTCGCCCCAAGCAACTTCGCTAACGGGGTCGCTGAATGGATCAGCTCTAACTCG
CGTTCACAGGCTTACAAAGTAACCTGTAGCGTTCGTCAGAGCTCTGCGCAGAATCGC
AAATACACCATCAAAGTCGAGGTGCCTAAAGTGGCAACCCAGACTGTTGGTGGTGT
AGAGCTTCCTGTAGCCGCATGGCGTTCGTACTTAAATATGGAACTAACCATTCCAAT
TTTCGCTACGAATTCCGACTGCGAGCTTATTGTTAAGGCAATGCAAGGTCTCCTAAA
AGATGGAAACCCGATTCCCTCAGCAATCGCAGCAAACTCCGGCATCTACTAATAG
(SEQ. ID NO: 3) MS2 wild type coat protein, amino acid sequence:
MASNFTQFVLVDNGGTGDVTVAPSNFANGVAEWISSNSRSQAYKVTCSVRQSSAQNRK
YTIKVEVPKVATQTVGGVELPVAAWRSYLNMELTIPIFATNSDCELIVKAMQGLLKDGN
PIPSAIAANSGIY
        [0073]     Surprisingly, the unmodified, wild type MS2 capsid though lacking an
envelope is resistant to a variety of category EC 3.4 hydrolases, including but not limited to
Proteinase K and subtilisin, such that a highly purified composition of the capsid, which may
contain a cargo molecule, can be prepared from a whole cell lysate. Accordingly, the present
disclosure provides VLPs comprising viral capsids comprising the wild type MS2 capsid protein,
and/or capsid proteins sharing homology with wild type MS2 capsid proteins, which viral
capsids encapsidate the cargo molecule. The cargo molecule may comprise one or more
heterologous nucleic acids, peptides, polypeptides or proteins. These VLP's can then be isolated
and purified from a whole cell lysate after a hydrolysis step using a category EC 3.4 hydrolase,
                                                 24

      WO 2013/096866                                                          PCT/US2012/071419
to produce a composition of VLP's of high purity, for example at least 60%, at least 7 0%, a least
80%, or at least 85% by weight VLP's. Compositions having a purity of at least 90%, 91%,
92%, 93%, 94%, 95%, 96%, 97%, and 98% by weight of VLP's are expressly contemplated.
         [0074]      The present disclosure encompasses a composition comprising: a) a plurality
of virus-like particles each comprising a wild type viral capsid and at least one target
heterologous cargo molecule enclosed in the wild type viral capsid; and b) one or more cell lysis
products present in an amount of less than 40 grams, less than 30 grams, less than 20 grams, less
than 15 grams, less than 10 grams, and preferably less than 9, 8, 7, 6, 5, 4, 3 , more preferably
less than 2 grams, and still more preferably less than 1 gram, for every 100 grams of capsid
present in the composition, wherein the cell lysis products are selected from proteins,
polypeptides, peptides and any combination thereof. Subsequently the cargo molecules can be
readily harvested from the capsids. Accordingly, such compositions are highly desirable for all
applications where high purity and/or high production efficiency is required.
         [0075]      Hydrolase resistant capsids as described herein may be used to enclose
different types of cargo molecules to form a virus-like particle. The cargo molecule can be but is
not limited to any one or more oligonucleotide or oligoribonucleotide (DNA, RNA, LNA, PNA,
siRNA, shRNA, sshRNA, lshRNA or miRNA, or any oligonucleotide comprising any type of
non-naturally occurring nucleic acid), any peptide, polypeptide or protein. A cargo molecule
which is an oligonucleotide or oligoribonucleotide may be enclosed in a capsid with or without
the use of a linker. A capsid can be triggered for example to self-assemble from capsid protein
in the presence of nucleotide cargo, such as an oligoribonucleotide. In non-limiting example, a
capsid as described herein may enclose a target heterologous RNA strand, such as for example a
target heterologous RNA strand containing a total of between 1,800 and 2,248 ribonucleotides,
including the 19-mer pack site from Enterobacteria phage MS2, such RNA strand transcribed
from a plasmid separate from a plasmid coding for the capsid proteins, as described by Wei, Y.
et al. (2008) J. Clin. Microbiol. 46:1734-1740.
         [0076]      RNA interference (RNAi) is a phenomenon mediated by short RNA
molecules such as siRNA molecules, which can be used for selective suppression of a target gene
of interest, and has multiple applications in biotechnology and medicine. For example, short
RNA molecules can be employed to target a specific gene of interest in an organism to obtain a
                                                  25

      WO 2013/096866                                                        PCT/US2012/071419
desirable phenotype. Short RNA molecules, including siRNA, are however easily degraded by
ubiquitous enzymes called RNAses. Capsids, such as those described herein, protect
encapsidated RNA from enzymatic degradation. A capsid as described herein may however
enclose an RNA strand containing one or more ribozymes, either self-cleaving ribozymes (cis
acting), or in certain cases capable of cleaving bonds in other RNA (trans-acting). One or more
ribozymes may be included for example to specifically cut RNA sequence(s) to produce a
specifically tailored RNA molecule, such as for example but not limited to an siRNA molecule.
For example, variants of Hammerhead and Hepatitis Delta Virus ribozymes are known and can
be used to cut long RNA sequences. The present disclosure describes novel VLPs comprising a
capsid encapsidating one or more ribozymes attached to pack sequences as described above (i.e.,
RNA sequences with strong affinity to the interior wall of a capsid), and the ribozymes used to
cut short RNA sequences from packing sequences attached to the ribozymes.
         [0077]      The present disclosure thus also encompasses the novel use of ribozymes to
isolate short or small" RNA sequences such as siRNA, shRNA, sshRNA, and miRNA sequences
from the packing sequence(s) used to encapsidate them. It should be understood that, unless
expressly indicated otherwise, the term short RNA encompasses short single stranded and short
hairpin (stem loop) RNA sequences having a double stranded stem and a single-stranded loop or
hairpin. A short RNA is any RNA single strand having no more than 30 nucleotides, preferably
no more than 25 nucleotides, and more preferably no more than 22 nucleotides; or a hairpin
RNA having a stem of no more than 30 nucleotides base pairs, preferably no more than 25
nucleotide base pairs, and more preferably no more than 22 nucleotide base pairs in the stem.
         [0078]      A challenge in using a ribozyme which is highly active to isolate such short
RNA sequences from packing sequences, is that the ribozyme may works so fast as to liberate
the short RNA from the packing sequence before encapsidation of the RNA is achieved.
Additionally, it has been discovered that the three dimensional structures of short RNA such as
an siRNA, or the hairpin packing sequences, can interfere with the proper functioning of the
ribozyme. These problems can be overcome by 1) using ribozyme mutants which demonstrate a
slower rate of activity, to avoid liberation of the short RNA from the packing sequence before
encapsidation of the short RNA is achieved, and/or 2) increasing the number of nucleotides in
the ribozyme that form Watson-Crick pairs with the short RNA. Additionally, trans-acting
                                                   26

     WO 2013/096866                                                            PCT/US2012/071419
ribozymes can be used advantageously to increase the percentage of RNA encapsidated into
VLPs as short RNA, if the short RNA sequence(s) are flanked not by complete ribozymes but
rather shorter sequences that are targets of trans-acting ribozymes, also encapsidated into the
same VLP.
        [0079]      One or more short RNA sequences can also be encapsidated into a viral
capsid, either wild type or genetically modified, which has been modified to insert an external
peptide tag, to deliver a protein or drug molecule to a specific class of cell. Wild type capsids
may also be genetically modified to insert external peptide sequences acting as ligands for
certain surface protein cell receptors can be advantageously used to encapsidate short RNA
sequences aimed at inducing RNAi in specific target cells. Such compositions are much simpler,
less expensive and more reliably manufactured than current alternatives for short RNA delivery.
        [0080]      Non-limiting examples of useful VLP's which can be prepared include a
capsid enclosing an RNA strand comprising:
                      (i)             at least one packing sequence and from 1 to 100 identical or
                                      different siRNAs flanked by one single stranded (non
                                      hybridyzing) RNA spacer, where every single stranded RNA
                                      spacer has between 4 and 40 nucleotides (SEQ ID NO: 30);
                      (ii)            one (1) ribozyme and one single stranded (non-hybridizing)
                                      RNA sequence per siRNA, where every single stranded RNA
                                      sequence has between 4 and 40 nucleotides (SEQ ID NO: 28;
                                      HDV ribozymes);
                      (iii)           two (2) ribozymes per siRNA;
                      (iv)            one (1) T7 start site, one (1) ribozyme, one (1) packing site
                                      and one (1) transcription termination site; or
                      (v)             one (1) T7 start site, one (1) packing site, and one (1)
                                      transcription termination site.
                      (vi)            four (4) ribozymes per siRNA (SEQ ID NO: 29)
        [0081]      In VLP's which include one or more ribozymes, the disclosure further
contemplates VLPs containing the resulting products after the ribozymes have cut the RNA.
VLP's which include a transcription terminator can use for example the T7 transcription
                                                   27

      WO 2013/096866                                                         PCT/US2012/071419
terminator as described in Studier FW, Moffatt BA. (1986) J. Mol Biol. May5; 189(1):113-30;
and R Sousa, D Patra, EM Lafer (1992) J. Mol. Biol. 224:319-334. For example, the following
two sequences are suitable transcription terminators for T7 RNA polymerase:
CTAGCATAACCCCTTGGGGCCTCTAAACGGGTCTTG (SEQ ID NO: 4)
or
TAGCATAACCCCTTGGGGCCTCTAAACGGGTCTTGAGGGGTTTTTTG (SEQ ID NO: 5).
         [0082]       VLPs as described herein may alternatively enclose at least one target peptide,
polypeptide or protein. When the target heterologous cargo molecule is a peptide, polypeptide or
protein, an oligonucleotide linker can be used to couple the target heterologous cargo molecule
and the viral capsid. A cargo molecule which is a peptide, polypeptide or protein, preferably is
packaged in a capsid using a linker. The packaging process is promoted by the linker, consisting
of a short RNA aptamer sequence, which forms a link between the coat protein and a peptide tag
fused to the target cargo molecule. (See Fiedler, J. et al., RNA-Directed Packaging of Enzymes
within Virus-like Particles, Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. 49: 9648 -9651 (2010)). The oligonucleotide
linker may consist of DNA, RNA, LNA, PNA, and the like. The linker is for example a 50- to
100- mer having a short sequence, for example about 20 nt long, at a first end with binding
specificity for the inside of the capsid coat, and another sequence, for example about 70 nt long,
at the second, opposite end which has a binding specificity for the cargo peptide, polypeptide or
protein. Additionally, a slow ribozyme may be incorporated into a linker consisting of RNA.
For example, a slow ribozyme can be incorporated between the packing sequence (binding to the
coat protein) and the aptamer (binding to the tag of target protein). Upon activation, the
ribozyme will separate the coat protein from the target protein. Alternatively, a capsid as
described herein may enclose at least one target protein N-terminally tagged with a peptide able
to non-covalently bind to an aptamer- and capsid pack sequence-containing RNA strand, for
example an N-terminal tag and aptamer- and pack sequence-containing RNA strand as described
by Fiedler, J. et al. (2010).
         [0083]       A cargo molecule can be a bi-molecular cargo molecule, and capsids
described herein may also encapsidate a bi-molecular cargo molecule, which may or may not
include one or more more ribozymes. A bi-molecular cargo molecule may comprise an aptamer
linked to a bifunctional polynucleotide. The aptamer may have a sequence specifically selected
                                                  28

      WO 2013/096866                                                        PCT/US2012/071419
using SELEX to exhibit specific binding to a bioactive small molecule, i.e., a molecule having a
low molecular weight, preferably lower than 1,500 Da. The bifunctional polynucleotide has both
a first aptameric activity for binding the low-molecular weight bioactive cargo molecule, and a
second aptameric activity for binding a packing sequence of a capsid. The bifunctional
polynucleotide linked to the bioactive cargo molecule forms the bi-molecular cargo molecule
which can then be linked to the capsid. Such a cargo molecule can be used to bind the bioactive
small molecule, and thus load the VLP with the small molecule. The present disclosure thus also
encompasses a VLP comprising a capsid linked to such a synthetic bi-molecular cargo molecule.
Examples of low molecular weight bioactives which can be loaded into a VLP by binding to an
RNA aptamer include: atrazine (herbicide), acetamipridphorate, profenofos, isocarbophos and
omethoateas (insecticides), as described by Sett et al. (2012) Open Journal of Applied Biosensor,
1:p. 9-19.
         [0084]     Examples of low molecular weight bioactives which can be loaded into a VLP
by binding to an RNA aptamer include herbicides such as 2,4-D (2,4-Dichlorophenoxyacetic
acid), Dicamba ((3,6-dichloro-2-methoxybenzoic acid), Paraquat (N,N'-dimethyl-4,4'
bipyridinium dichloride), Oryzalin (4-(dipropylamino)-3,5-dinitrobenzenesulfonamide), DCMU
(3-(3,4-dichlorophenyl)-1,1-dimethylurea), Trifluralin (2,6-Dinitro-N,N-dipropyl-4
(trifluoromethyl)aniline), Imazapic (-methyl-2-[4-methyl-5-oxo-4-(propan-2-yl)-4,5-dihydro-1H
imidazol-2-yl]pyridine-3-carboxylic acid), Aminopyralid (4-amino-3,6-dichloropyridine-2
carboxylic acid), Clopyralid (3,6-dichloro-2-pyridinecarboxylic acid), Metolachlor ((RS)-2
Chloro-N-(2-ethyl-6-methyl-phenyl)-N-(1-methoxypropan-2-yl)acetamide),        Pendimethalin (3,4
Dimethyl-2,6-dinitro-N-pentan-3-yl-aniline), Picloram (4-Amino-3,5,6-trichloro-2
pyridinecarboxylic acid), Propanil (N-(3,4-Dichlorophenyl)propanamide), Triclopyr ([(3,5,6
Trichloro-2-pyridinyl)oxy] acetic acid), and Atrazine (2-chloro-4-(ethylamino)-6
(isopropylamino)-s-triazine), among other listed for example by Roberts et al. (1998) Metabolic
Pathways of Agrochemicals: Part 1: Herbicides and Plant Growth Regulators. Published by
Royal Society of Chemistry (Great Britain) ISBN 978-1-84755-138-2. For example, an RNA
aptamer binding Atrazine was described by Sinha et al. (2010) Nature Chemical Biology,
6:p.464-470.
                                                 29

      WO 2013/096866                                                         PCT/US2012/071419
        [0085]      RNA aptamers can also be used to bind insecticides such as, Propargite (2-(4
tert-butylphenoxy)cyclohexyl prop-2-yne-1-sulfonate), Chlorpyrifos (0,0-diethyl 0-3,5,6
trichloropyridin-2-yl phosphorothioate), Cypermethrin, Phosmet (2
Dimethoxyphosphinothioylthiomethyl)isoindoline-1,3-dione), Permethrin (3-Phenoxybenzyl
(1RS)-cis,trans-3-(2,2-dichlorovinyl)-2,2-dimethylcyclopropanecarboxylate),     Diazinon (0,0
Diethyl 0-[4-methyl-6-(propan-2-yl)pyrimidin-2-yl] phosphorothioate), Methylparathion (0,0
Dimethyl 0-(4-nitrophenyl) phosphorothioate), and Acetamiprid (N-[(6-chloro-3
pyridyl)methyl]-N'-cyano-N-methyl-acetamidine), and fungicides such as Chlorothalonil
(2,4,5,6-tetrachloroisophthalonitrile), Captan ((3aR,7aS)-2-[(trichloromethyl)sulfanyl]-3a,4,7,7a
tetrahydro-1H-isoindole-1,3(2H)-dione), Boscalid (2-chloro-N-(4'-chlorobiphenyl-2
yl)nicotinamide), Iprodione (3-(3,5-dichlorophenyl)-N-isopropyl-2,4-dioxoimidazolidine-1
carboxamide), Azoxystrobin (Methyl (2E)-2-(2- { [6-(2-cyanophenoxy)pyrimidin-4
yl]oxy}phenyl)-3-methoxyacrylate), Pyraclostrobin, (methyl 2-[1-(4-chlorophenyl)pyrazol-3
yloxymethyl]-N-methoxycarbanilate), Cyprodinil (4-cyclopropyl-6-methyl-N-phenylpyrimidin
2-amine), among other listed for example by Roberts et al. (1999) Metabolic Pathways of
Agrochemicals: Part 2: Insecticides and Fungicides. Published by Royal Society of Chemistry
(Great Britain) ISBN 978-1-84755-137-5. For example, aptamers have been described to bind
acetamiprid, phorate, profenofos, isocarbophos and omethoate, as exemplified by Sett et al.
(2012) Open Journal of Applied Biosensor, 1:p. 9-19 using DNA aptamers built in a similar
manner as RNA aptamers are built using SELEX.
        [0086]      These herbicides, insecticides or fungicides are bioactive small molecules, i.e.,
molecules having a low molecular weight, preferably lower than 1,500 Da. Due to their small
size they can permeate capsids forming VLPs of the current disclosure, as exemplified by Wu et
al. (2005) Delivery of antisense oligonucleotides to leukemia cells by RNA bacteriophage
capsids, Nanomedicine: Nanotechnology, Biology and Medicine, 1:p.67-76. These small
bioactive molecules are added to VLPs of the current disclosure which encapsidate aptamers
designed using SELEX to bind the small bioactive molecules, after such VLPs have been
formed, either before or after purification. The addition of these small bioactive molecules is
done, for example by adding them to a solution of the VLPs and incubation, for example at room
temperature for a time between 30 minutes and 10 hours. These small bioactive molecules enter
                                                  30

     WO 2013/096866                                                          PCT/US2012/071419
the VLPs by diffusion through the pores at the particle symmetry axes and are retained inside
due to their binding to the enclosed aptamers. Suitable solvents used for loading the small
bioactive molecules into the VLPs range from polar such as water and water-ethanol blends to
non-polar such as, for example, isooctane, toluene, dichloromethane, or chloroform. Using non
polar solvents for the dissolution of VLPs is done, for example, as described by Johnson et al.
(2006), Solubilization and stabilization of bacteriophage MS2 in organic solvents, Biotechnology
and bioengineering, 2007. 97(2): p. 224-34, with the help of surfactants like Aerosol OT. Use of
non-polar solvents for loading small bioactive molecules is preferred since their solubility in
polar solvents is, in most cases, poor.
        [0087]      VLPs encapsidating both siRNA and small bioactive molecules are preferred
in applications where a synergistic effect is achieved between the two bioactive ingredients, for
example in those cases where the targeted plant, insect or fungus is resistant to the small
bioactive molecule. In such cases, the siRNA is designed to target the biologic pathway that
confers the plant, insect or fungus resistance to the small bioactive molecule, as exemplified by
Sammons et al., Polynucleotide molecules for gene regulation in plants, US 2011/0296556.
        [0088]      Alternatively, the bi-functional polynucleotide may encode at least one
siRNA, shRNA, sshRNA, lshRNA or miRNA, and the cargo molecule can be a small (low
molecular weight) protein or peptide. Accordingly, a bi-molecular cargo molecule can be
capable of binding a low molecular bioactive protein or peptide. Such a bi-molecular cargo
molecule may comprise a biologically active protein or peptide, coupled to a polynucleotide
encoding at least one siRNA or shRNA or sshRNA or lshRNA of miRNA, and having a first
aptameric activity for binding the bioactive protein or peptide cargo molecule and a second
aptameric activity for binding a packing sequence of a capsid. The polynucleotide is linked to
the protein or peptide cargo molecule and is capable of linking to packing sequence of a capsid.
        [0089]      A bifunctional polynucleotide as described above may optionally include one
or more ribozyme sequences. A VLP including a bi-molecular cargo molecule including a
bifunctional polynucleotide as described above may optionally include one or more ribozymes.
The present disclosure also encompasses a VLP comprising a capsid and reaction products of the
the bi-molecular cargo molecule after at least one ribozyme has reacted with bimolecular cargo
molecule to cut the cargo molecule into constituent parts including the aptamer.
                                                  31

      WO 2013/096866                                                               PCT/US2012/071419
         [0090]      VLPs as described herein may be assembled by any available method(s)
which produces a VLP with an assembled, hydrolase resistant capsid encapsidating one or more
cargo molecule(s), and optionally any linker, packing sequence, one or more ribozymes, or tags.
For example, capsids and cargo molecules may be co-expressed in any expression system.
Recombinant DNA encoding one or more capsid proteins, one or more cargo molecule(s), and
optionally any linker, packing sequence, ribozyme(s) or tags can be readily introduced into the
host cells, e.g., bacterial cells, plant cells, yeast cells, fungal cells, and animal cells (including
insect and mammalian) by transfection with one or more expression vectors by any procedure
useful for introducing such a vector into a particular cell, and stably transfecting the cell to yield
a cell which expresses the recombinant sequence(s).
         [0091]      The host cell is preferably of eukaryotic origin, e.g., plant, mammalian, insect,
yeast or fungal sources, but non-eukaryotic host cells may also be used. Suitable expression
systems include but are not limited to microorganisms such as bacteria (e.g., E. coli,)
transformed with recombinant bacteriophage DNA, plasmid DNA or cosmid DNA expression
vectors containing the coding sequences for the VLP elements. In non-limiting example, for
VLPs using the MS2 capsid protein, expression in E. coli is a suitable expression system.
         [0092]      The present disclosure expressly contemplates plant cells which have been
transformed using a nucleic acid construct as described herein, and which expresses a capsid coat
protein, cargo molecule and a and optionally any linker, packing sequence, one or more
ribozymes, or tags. Means for transforming cells including plant cells and preparing transgenic
cells are well known in the art. Vectors, plasmids, cosmids, YACs (yeast artificial
chromosomes) and DNA segments can be used to transform cells and will as generally
recognized include promoters, enhancers, and/or polylinkers. Transgenic cells specifically
contemplated include transgenic plant cells including but not limited to cells obtained from corn,
soybean, wheat, vegetables, grains, legumes, fruit trees, and so on, or any plant which would
benefit from introduction of a VLP as described herein. Also contemplated are plants, plant
tissue obtained from cells transformed as described herein, and the seed or progeny of the plant
or plant tissue.
         [0093]      Expression of assembled VLPs can be obtained for example by constructing at
least one expression vector including sequences encoding all elements of the VLP. Sometimes
                                                      32

     WO 2013/096866                                                          PCT/US2012/071419
two vectors are used, a first which includes a sequence encoding the cargo molecule(s) and
optionally any linker, packing sequence, one or more ribozymes, or tags; and a second vector
which includes a sequence encoding the capsid protein. In an exemplary process for generating
exemplary VLPs including siRNA, two vectors may be co-expressed in the host cell for
generation of the VLP, as further detailed in the Examples. Methods and tools for constructing
such expression vectors containing the coding sequences and transcriptional and translational
control sequences are well known in the art. Vector(s) once constructed are transferred to the
host cells also using techniques well known in the art, and the cells then maintained under
culture conditions for a time sufficient for expression and assembling of the VLP's to occur, all
using conventional techniques. The present disclosure thus encompasses host cells containing
any such vectors, and cells which have been transformed by such vectors, as well as cells
containing the VLP's.
        [0094]      When the VLP's have been expressed and assembled in the host cells, they
may be isolated and purified using any method known in the art for virus purification. For
example, the cells can be lysed using conventional cell lysis techniques and agents, and the cell
lysate subjected to hydrolysis using at least one peptide bond hydrolase category EC 3.4 such as
but not limited to Proteinase K or subtilisin. Intact capsids remaining in the cell lysate following
hydrolysis can be removed and purified using conventional protein isolation techniques.
        [0095]      Purification of capsids, VLPs or proteins may also include methods generally
known in the art. For example, following capsid expression and cell lysis, the resulting lysate
can be subjected to one or more isolation or purification steps. Such steps may include for
example enzymatic lipolysis, DNA hydrolysis, and proteolysis steps. A proteolysis step may be
performed for example using a blend of endo- and exo-proteases. For example, after cell lysis
and hydrolytic disassembly of most cell components, such capsids with their cargo molecules
can be separated from surrounding matrix by extraction, for example into a suitable non-polar
water-immiscible solvent, or by crystallization from a suitable solvent. For example, hydrolysis
and/or proteolysis steps transform contaminants from the capsid that are contained in the lysate
matrix into small, water soluble molecules. Hydrophobic capsids may then be extracted into an
organic phase such as 1,3-bis(trifluoromethyl)benzene. Purification of capsids, VLPs or proteins
may include for example at least one liquid-liquid extraction step, at least one fractional
                                                  33

     WO 2013/096866                                                                PCT/US2012/071419
precipitation step, at least one ultrafiltration step, or at least one crystallization step. A liquid
liquid extraction may comprise for example use of an immiscible non-aqueous non-polar solvent,
such as but not limited to benzene, toluene, hexane, heptane, octane, chloroform,
dichloromethane, or carbon tetrachloride. Purifying may include at least one crystallization step.
Use of one or more hydrolytic steps, and especially of one or more proteolytic steps, eliminates
certain problems observed with current separation processes used for cargo molecules, which are
mainly result from the large number and varying degree of binding interactions which take place
between cargo molecules and components derived from the cell culture in which they are
produced. The capsids described herein resist hydrolytic steps such that the matrix which results
after hydrolysis includes intact capsids which safely partition any cargo molecules from the
surrounding matrix, thereby interrupting the troublesome binding interactions which interfere
with current purification processes.
        [0096]      Following purification, the capsid can be opened to obtain the cargo molecule,
which maybe a protein or polypeptide, a peptide, or a nucleic acid molecule as described herein.
Capsids can be opened using any one of several possible procedures known in the art, including
for example heating in an aqueous solution above 50 0 C; repeated freeze-thawing; incubating
with denaturing agents such as formamide; by incubating with one or more proteases; or by a
combination of any of these procedures.
        [0097]      Capsid proteins which are resistant to hydrolases and useful in the VLPs and
methods according to the present disclosure can also be variants of, or derived from the wild type
MS2 capsid protein. Capsid proteins may comprise, for example, at least one substitution,
deletion or insertion of an amino acid residue relative to the wild type MS2 capsid amino acid
sequence. Such capsid proteins may be naturally occurring variants or can be obtained by
genetically modifying the MS2 capsid protein using conventional techniques, provided that the
variant or modified capsid protein forms a non-enveloped capsid which is resistant to hydolysis
catalyzed by a peptide bond hydrolase category EC 3.4 as described herein.
        [0098]      Genetically modified MS2 capsid proteins which can assemble into capsids
which are resistant to hydrolysis as described herein can be engineered by making select
modifications in the amino acid sequence according to conventional and well-known principles
                                                     34

     WO 2013/096866                                                         PCT/US2012/071419
in physical chemistry and biochemistry to produce a protein which retains resistance to
hydrolysis as described herein and in the Examples herein below.
         [0099]     It is common knowledge for example that the shape or global fold of a
functional protein is determined by the amino acid sequence of the protein, and that the fold
defines the protein's function. The global fold is comprised of one or more folding domains.
When more than one folding domain exists in the global fold, the domains generally bind
together, loosely or tightly along a domain interface. The domain fold can be broken down into a
folding core of tightly packed, well-defined secondary structure elements which is primarily
responsible for the domain's shape and a more mobile outer layer typically comprised of turns
and loops whose conformations are influenced by interactions with the folding core as well as
interactions with nearby domains and other molecules, including solvent and other proteins. An
extensive public domain database of protein folds, the Structural Classification of Proteins
(SCOP) database (Alexey G Murzin, Curr Opin Struct Biol (1996) 6, 386-394) of solved protein
structures in the public domain is maintained online at http://scop.berkeley.edu and regularly
expanded as new solved structures enter the public domain (Protein Data Bank (F.C.Bernstein,
T.F.Koetzle, G.J.Williams, E.E.Meyer Jr., M.D.Brice, J.R.Rodgers, O.Kennard, T.Shimanouchi,
M.Tasumi, "The Protein Data Bank: A Computer-based Archival File For Macromolecular
Structures," J. of. Mol. Biol., 112 (1977): 535), http://www.rcsb.org) database. Members of a
family which are evolutionarily distant, yet have the same shape and very similar function,
commonly retain as few as 30% identical residues at topologically and/or functionally equivalent
positions. In some families, sequences of distant members have as few as 20% of their residues
unchanged with respect to each other, e.g. levi- and alloleviviridae capsid proteins. Further, the
fold and function of a protein is remarkably tolerant to change via directed or random mutation,
even of core residues (Peter 0. Olins!, S. Christopher Bauer, Sarah Braford-Goldberg, Kris
Sterbenz, Joseph 0. Polazzi, Maire H. Caparon, Barbara K. Klein, Alan M. Easton, Kumnan
Paik, Jon A. Klover, Barrett R. Thiele, and John P. McKearn (1995) J Biol Chem 270, 23754
23760; Yiqing Feng, Barbara K. Klein and Charles A. McWherter (1996), J Mol Biol 259, 524
541; Dale Rennell, Suzanne E. Bouvier, Larry W. Hardy and Anthony R. Poteetel (1991) J Mol
Biol 222, 67-87),     insertion/deletion of one or more residues (Yiqing Feng, Barbara K. Klein
and Charles A. McWherter (1996), J Mol Biol 259, 524-541), permutation of the sequence
                                                   35

     WO 2013/096866                                                           PCT/US2012/071419
(Multi-functional chimeric hematopoietic fusion proteins between sequence rearranged c-mpl
receptor agonists and other hematopoietic factors, US 6066318), concatenation via the N- or C
terminus or both (to copies of itself or other peptides or proteins) (Multi-functional chimeric
hematopoietic fusion proteins between sequence rearranged g-csf receptor agonists and other
hematopoietic factors , US20040171115; Plevka, P., Tars, K., Liljas, L. (2008) Protein Sci. 17:
173) or covalent modification, e.g., glycosylation, pegylation, SUMOylation or the addition of
peptidyl or nonpeptidyl affinity tags as long as the residues critical to maintaining the fold and/or
function are spared.
        [0100]      VLPs according to the present disclosure and as used in any of the methods
and processes, thus encompass those comprising a capsid protein having at least 15%, 16%,
21%, 40%, 41%, 52%, 53%, 56%, 59% or at least 86% sequence identity with the amino acid
sequence of wild type Enterobacteria phage MS2 capsid protein (SEQ ID NO: 3) and is resistant
to hydrolysis catalyzed by a peptide bond hydrolase category EC 3.4. Such VLPs include for
example a VLP comprising a capsid protein having at least 52% sequence identity with SEQ ID
NO: 3) as described above. Also included is a VLP comprising a capsid protein having at least
53% sequence identity to SEQ ID NO:3, which can be obtained substantially as described above
but not disregarding the FR capsid sequence, representing 53% sequence identity to wild-type
enterobacteria phage MS2 capsid protein (SEQ ID NO:3). Also included is a VLP comprising a
capsid protein having at least 56% sequence identity to SEQ ID NO:3, when it is considered that
when the structures identified as 1AQ3 (van den Worm, S.H., Stonehouse, N.J., Valegard,
K., Murray, J.B., Walton, C., Fridborg, K., Stockley, P.G., Liljas, L. (1998) Nucleic Acids
Res. 26: 1345-1351), IGAV (Tars, K., Bundule, M., Fridborg, K., Liljas, L. (1997)
J.Mol.Biol. 271: 759-773), 1FRS (Liljas, L., Fridborg, K., Valegard, K., Bundule,
M., Pumpens, P. (1994) J.Mol.Biol. 244: 279-290) and 2VTU (Plevka, P., Tars, K., Liljas, L.
(2008) Protein Sci. 17: 1731) (Protein Data Bank identifiers described above), only 56% of the
sequence positions have identical sequence and topologically equivalent positions with respect to
the backbone overlays when all three sequences are considered together. Also included is a VLP
comprising a capsid protein having at least 59% sequence identity to SEQ ID NO:3, when it is
considered that the sequence of the MS2 viral capsid protein compared to that of the GA viral
capsid protein is 59%. Also included is a VLP comprising a capsid protein having at least 86%
                                                  36

      WO 2013/096866                                                            PCT/US2012/071419
sequence identity to SEQ ID NO:3, when it is considered that the sequence of the MS2 viral
capsid protein compared to that of the FR capsid protein is 86%. VLPs according to the present
disclosure thus encompass those comprising a capsid protein having at least 150%, 16%, or 210%
sequence identity with the amino acid sequence of wild type Enterobacteria phage MS2 capsid
(SEQ ID NO:3) based on a valid structure anchored alignment and is resistant to hydrolysis
catalyzed by a peptide bond hydrolase category EC 3.4.
         [0101]      A VLP may thus comprise any of the MS2 capsid protein variants as
described herein. Genetically modified capsid proteins consistent with those described herein
can be produced for example by constructing at least one DNA plasmid encoding at least one
capsid protein having at least one amino acid substitution, deletion or insertion relative to the
amino acid sequence of the wild type MS2 capsid protein, making multiple copies of each
plasmid, transforming a cell line with the plasmids; maintaining the cells for a time and under
conditions sufficient for the transformed cells to express and assemble capsids encapsidating
nucleic acids; lysing the cells to form a cell lysate; subjecting the cell lysate to hydrolysis using
at least one peptide bond hydrolase, category EC 3.4; and removing intact capsids remaining in
the cell lysate following hydrolysis to obtain capsids having increased resistance to at least one
hydrolase relative to the wild type capsid protein. Following purification of the resulting, intact
capsids, an amino acid sequence for each capsid protein may be determined according to
methods known in the art.
         [0102]      The specialized capsids described herein can be used in research and
development and in industrial manufacturing facilities to provide improved yields, since the
purification processes used in both settings have the same matrix composition. Having such
same composition mainly depends on using the same cell line in both research and development
and manufacturing processes. However, differences in matrix composition due to using different
cell lines are greatly reduced after proteolytic steps used in both research and development and
manufacturing stages. This feature enables use of different cell lines in both stages with a
minimal manufacturing yield penalty.
                                                   37

      WO 2013/096866                                                         PCT/US2012/071419
                                           EXAMPLES
         [0103]      The following non-limiting examples are included to illustrate various aspects
of the present disclosure. It will be appreciated by those of skill in the art that the techniques
disclosed in the following examples represent techniques discovered by the Applicants to
function well in the practice of the invention, and thus can be considered to constitute preferred
modes for its practice. However, those of skill in the art should, in light of the instant disclosure,
appreciate that many changes can be made in the specific examples described, while still
obtaining like or similar results, without departing from the scope of the invention. Thus, the
examples are exemplary only and should not be construed to limit the invention in any way. To
the extent necessary to enable and describe the instant invention, all references cited are herein
incorporated by reference.
Example A: Propagation of MS2 bacteriophage
         [0104]      MS2 bacteriophage (ATCC No.15597-B 1, from American Type Culture
Collection, Rockville, MD) and its E. Coli host (ATCC No.15669) were obtained from ATCC
and propagated using the procedure described by Strauss and Sinsheimer (1963) J. Mol. Biol
7:43-54 J. Mol. Biol 7:43-54. Results are plotted in Figure 1. Optical Density (OD) at 600 nm
and pH were followed during the reaction. ODi represents OD immediately after inoculation
with host. Infection was done at 2.3 hours. Ln(OD/ODi) was plotted on the left axis (full
diamonds) and pH was plotted on the right axis (open squares). This experiment was ended 5.3
hours after inoculation with host. Lysate obtained was centrifuged at 2,000 g and filtered
through a 0.2pm membrane to eliminate remaining bacteria and bacterial debris.
Example B: Purification of MS2 bacteriophage using Proteinase K and ultrafiltration
         [0105]      Purification of MS2 bacteriophage was conducted as follows. Samples were
taken during purification and SDS PAGE analysis was run on the samples. Results obtained are
shown in Figure 2.
         [0106]      8 mL lysate obtained at end of Example A (sample in Lane 1, Figure 2) was
filtered through a 300 kDa membrane (Vivaspin 2, from Sartorius Stedim, Bohemia, NY) and the
filtrate was filtered through a 100 kDa membrane, from which 1 mL ofretentate was obtained
                                                  38

     WO 2013/096866                                                         PCT/US2012/071419
(sample in Lane 2, Figure 2). This retentate was divided in two equal parts. To one half (control)
206[tL 20mM CaCl 2 aqueous solution at pH      = 7.5 was added. To the second half (Proteinase)
0.15 mg Proteinase K (Sigma Aldrich, St. Louis, MO) dissolved in 206piL 20mM CaCl 2aqueous
solution at pH  =  7.5 and was added. Both tubes were incubated at 37'C and after 1 hour they
were placed in an ice-water bath. Samples were then taken and analyzed: control sample in Lane
3, Figure 2, and Proteinase sample in Lane 5, Figure 2. Each product was then diluted to 2 mL
with deionized (DI) water and filtered through a 100 kDa membrane. Each retentate (150 ptL)
was diluted to 2 mL with DI water and filtered again through the same membrane. Dilution and
ultrafiltration was repeated one more time for each product. Samples of each retentate were then
taken and analyzed: control sample in Lane 4, Figure 2, and Proteinase sample in Lane 6, Figure
2. Band at 14 kDa corresponds to MS2 bacteriophage's coat protein. Band at 30 kDa
corresponds to Proteinase K. Product from control experiment yields a highly impure phage.
Product from Proteinase experiment yields a product containing phage with purity higher than
99%.
Example C: Degradation of MS2 bacteriophage
         [0107]      Treatment of MS2 bacteriophage was conducted as follows. Samples were
taken during treatment and SDS PAGE analysis was run on the samples. Results obtained are
shown in Figure 3. 4 mL lysate obtained at end of Example A was partially purified by
precipitation using ammonium sulfate and extraction using trichlorofluoromethane (Freon 11) as
described by Strauss & Sinsheimer (1963) J. Mol. Biol 7:43-54. A sample of the aqueous
solution after extraction with Freon 11 was taken and analyzed (sample in Lane 1, Figure 3). To
the partially purified phage solution (130 ptL) 370 iL of 20 mMCaCl 2aqueous solution was
added. The mixture was incubated at 37'C and after 1 hour it was placed in an ice-water bath. A
sample was then taken and analyzed: sample in Lane 2, Figure 3. The incubation product was
diluted to 2 mL with deionized (DI) water and filtered through 100 kDa membrane. The
retentate (150 [tL) was diluted to 2 mL with DI water and filtered again through the same
membrane. Dilution and ultrafiltration of the retentate was repeated one more time. A sample of
the retentate was then taken and analyzed: sample in Lane 3, Figure 3. Only weak bands at
lower than 10 kDa were observed, indicating complete degradation of phage.
                                                  39

     WO 2013/096866                                                          PCT/US2012/071419
Example D: Purification of MS2 bacteriophage using ultrafiltration.
        [0108]       Purification of MS2 bacteriophage was conducted as follows. Samples were
taken during purification and SDS PAGE analysis was run on the samples. Results obtained are
shown in Figure 3. 4 mL lysate obtained at end of Example A was partially purified by
precipitation using ammonium sulfate and extraction using trichlorofluoromethane (Freon 11) as
described by Strauss & Sinsheimer (1963) J. Mol. Biol 7:43-54. The aqueous solution
containing partially purified phage was diluted to 2 mL with deionized water, filtered through a
300 kDa membrane and the filtrate was filtered through a 100 kDa membrane, from which
150[tL of retentate was obtained. The retentate was then diluted to 2 mL with deionized (DI)
water and filtered through the same 100 kDa membrane. Dilution and ultrafiltration of the
retentate (150[tL) was repeated one more time. A sample of the retentate was then taken and
analyzed: sample in Lane 4, Figure 3.370 [tL of 20 mMCaCl 2aqueous solution was added to the
retentate (1 30ptL). The mixture was incubated at 37'C and after 1 hour it was placed in an ice
water bath. A sample was then taken and analyzed: sample in Lane 5, Figure 3. The product was
then diluted to 2 mL with deionized (DI) water and filtered through a 100 kDa membrane. The
retentate (150 [tL) was diluted to 2 mL with DI water and filtered again through the same
membrane. Dilution and ultrafiltration of the retentate was repeated one more time. A sample of
the retentate was then taken and analyzed: sample in Lane 6, Figure 3. MS2's coat protein, of 14
kDa, retained by a membrane through which permeate proteins with less than 100 kDa molecular
weight, is clearly visible, indicating the presence of intact MS2 capsids. The product obtained
contained phage with purity higher than 99%.
Example E: Purification of MS2 bacteriophage using Proteinase K, and ultrafiltration.
        [0109]       Purification of MS2 bacteriophage was conducted as follows. Samples were
taken during purification and SDS PAGE analysis was run on the samples. Results obtained are
shown in Figure 4.
        [0110]       4 mL lysate obtained at end of Example A was partially purified by
precipitation using ammonium sulfate and extraction using trichlorofluoromethane (Freon 11) as
                                                  40

     WO 2013/096866                                                          PCT/US2012/071419
described by Strauss & Sinsheimer (1963) J. Mol. Biol 7:43-54. The aqueous solution
containing partially purified phage was diluted to 2 mL with deionized water, filtered through a
100 kDa membrane, from which 150ptL of retentate was obtained. The retentate was then diluted
to 2 mL with deionized (DI) water and filtered through the same 100 kDa membrane. Dilution
and ultrafiltration of the retentate (150ptL) was repeated one more time. A sample of the
retentate was then taken and analyzed: sample in Lane 1, Figure 4. 0.15 mg of Proteinase K
dissolved in 370 iL of 20 mMCaCl 2aqueous solution was added to the retentate (130ptL). The
mixture was incubated at 37'C and after 1 hour it was placed in an ice-water bath. A sample was
then taken and analyzed: sample in Lane 2, Figure 4. The product was then diluted to 2 mL with
deionized (DI) water and filtered through a 100 kDa membrane. The retentate (150 ptL) was
diluted to 2 mL with DI water and filtered again through the same membrane. Dilution and
ultrafiltration of the retentate was repeated one more time. A sample of the retentate was then
taken and analyzed: sample in Lane 3, Figure 4. The product obtained contained phage with
purity higher than 99%.
Example F: Purification of MS2 bacteriophage using Proteinase K, precipitation at acidic
conditions, precipitation using ethanol at basic and acidic conditions, and ultrafiltration.
         [0111]      Purification of MS2 bacteriophage was conducted as follows. Samples were
taken during purification and SDS PAGE analysis was run on the samples. Results obtained are
shown in Figure 5. 50 mL lysate obtained at end of Example A was partially purified by
precipitation using ammonium sulfate and extraction using trichlorofluoromethane (Freon 11) as
described by Strauss & Sinsheimer (1963) J. Mol. Biol 7:43-54. A sample of the aqueous
solution after extraction with Freon 11 was taken and analyzed (sample in Lane 1, Figure 5). To
the partially purified phage solution (1.2 mL) 0.9 mg of Proteinase K dissolved in 1.24 mL of 20
mMCaCl 2 aqueous solution was added. The mixture was incubated at 37'C and after 1 hour60
[tL of 0.2M Phenylmethanesulfonyl fluoride (PMSF) solution in ethanol was added to inactivate
Proteinase K. The mixture was then placed in an ice-water bath. A sample was taken and
analyzed: sample in Lane 2, Figure 5.0.68 mL of 0.1% phosphoric acid aqueous solution was
slowly added with vigorous agitation in an ice/water bath to bring the pH of the liquid to 4. The
liquid was kept at 0 0 C for 30 minutes and centrifuged at 16,000 g at 4'C for 30 min. The
                                                   41

      WO 2013/096866                                                         PCT/US2012/071419
supernatant was allowed to reach room temperature and 130 piL of 1%NaOH was added to bring
the pH of the liquid to 8. 0.81 mL of ethanol at room temperature was slowly added with
vigorous agitation to bring the ethanol concentration in the liquid to 20%. The liquid was kept at
room temperature for 30 min and centrifuged at 16,000 g at room temperature for 30 min. The
supernatant was placed in an ice/water bath for 15 min and 1.3 mL of 1%acetic acid was slowly
added at 00 C with vigorous agitation to bring the pH of the liquid to 4. 1.5 mL of ethanol at 00 C
was slowly added with vigorous agitation to bring the ethanol concentration in the liquid to
34%.The liquid was kept at 00 C for 30 minutes and centrifuged at 16,000 g at 4'C for 30 min.
The pellet was resuspended in 200 ptL of DI water and a 20 [tL sample was taken and analyzed:
Lane 3, Figure5. The rest (180ptL)was diluted with DI water to 2 mL and filtered through 100
kDa membrane. The retentate (150 ptL) was diluted to 2 mL with DI water and filtered again
through the same membrane. Dilution and ultrafiltration of the retentate was repeated one more
time. A sample of the retentate was then taken and analyzed by SDS PAGE: sample in Lane 4,
Figure 5. MS2's coat protein, of 14 kDa, retained by a membrane through which proteins with
less than 100 kDa molecular weight are able to permeate, is clearly visible, consistent with the
presence of intact MS2 capsids.A UV spectrum on the same retentate is shown in Figure 6,
which is consistent with results published by G. F. Rohrmann and R. G. Krueger, (1970) J.
Virol., 6(3):26 for pure MS2 phage. A Superdex 200 (GE Healthcare, Piscataway, NJ) size
exclusion chromatography was run on the same retentate using Tris-buffered saline at pH 7.4 and
150 mM NaCl. It showed 280 nm absorbance only at the void volume of the column. There was
no absorbance in the elution volume for proteins of 600 kD to 2 kD. This test is consistent with
intact phage particles. RNA was isolated from another sample of the same retentate using a
QIAamp Viral RNA Mini Kit (Qiagen, Valencia, CA) and a DNA-free kit (Life Technologies,
Grand Island, NY), and reverse transcribed using a High Capacity cDNA Reverse Transcription
Kit (Life Technologies). The presence or absence of three different sections of the MS2 genome
was then interrogated in PCR experiments. The following pairs of primers were used, each
primer named for the position of its first and last base in the MS2 genome, forward (F) and
reverse (R) respectively:F1001_1021-R2180_2201, F1201_1223-R1979_2001, F1401_1426
R1680_1705. Platinum Taq DNA Polymerase High Fidelity (Life Technologies) was used for
amplification. PCR products, chromatographed in 1.5% agarose gel stained with Ethidium
                                                  42

Bromide, as shown in Figure 9 (1.2 kbp for primers F1201 1223-R1979 2001 in Lane
1, 800 bp for primers F1201 1223-R1979 2001 in Lane 2, and 304 bp for primers
F1401 1426-R1680 1705 in Lane 3),were consistent with an intact MS2 bacteriophage
genome. An infectivity test was also run on the same retentate as follows. 5 of
retentate were used to infect 1 mL of bacterial culture as described in Example A at
the point it reached OD(600nm) = 0.22. OD(600nm) was 0.621 hour after of infection
and dropped to 0.21 after 2 additional hours, while during the same time a control
sample attained OD(600nm) of 0.82 1 hour after infection and 1.2 after 2 additional
hours, as shown in Figure 7. This test showed a highly infectious phage in the
retentate and therefore demonstrated that the purification processes used to isolate it
did not compromise its integrity. In conclusion, the product obtained contained MS2
bacteriophage with purity higher than 99%.
Example G: Purification of MS2 bacteriophage using different exogenous
proteases, and ultrafiltration.
        [0112]          Purification of MS2 bacteriophage using different exogenous
proteases was attempted substantially as described in Example E, with the exception
that proteases other than Proteinase K were used. MS2 bacteriophage was
successfully purified after proteolysis promoted by Protease from Bacillus
licheniformis (P5380, Sigma Aldrich). However, a proteolysis reaction using Pepsin
from porcine gastric mucosa (P6887, Sigma Aldrich) at pH of 1.6 was found to
significantly degrade MS2 bacteriophage. On the other hand, proteolysis reactions
using Papain from papaya latex (P3125, Sigma Aldrich) at pH 6 did not extensively
degrade MS2 bacteriophage.
Example H: Production of MS2 Capsids encapsidating RNA coding for its coat
protein attached to its specific 19-mer RNA hairpin.
        [0113]          Production of MS2 capsids was conducted as follows. Samples
were taken during the course of expression and SDS PAGE analysis was run on the
samples to monitor capsid production. Results obtained are shown in Figure 8. The
following DNA sequence, encoding MS2's coat protein and its specific RNA 19-mer
PAC site was cloned into pDEST14_A252 plasmid (Life Technologies):
                                           43

     WO 2013/096866                                                       PCT/US2012/071419
ACAAGTTTGTACAAAAAAGCAGGCTAAGAAGGAGATATACATATGGCTTCTAACTT
TACTCAGTTCGTTCTCGTCGACAATGGCGGAACTGGCGACGTGACTGTCGCCCCAAG
CAACTTCGCTAACGGGGTCGCTGAATGGATCAGCTCTAACTCGCGTTCACAGGCTTA
CAAAGTAACCTGTAGCGTTCGTCAGAGCTCTGCGCAGAATCGCAAATACACCATCA
AAGTCGAGGTGCCTAAAGTGGCAACCCAGACTGTTGGTGGTGTAGAGCTTCCTGTAG
CCGCATGGCGTTCGTACTTAAATATGGAACTAACCATTCCAATTTTCGCTACGAATT
CCGACTGCGAGCTTATTGTTAAGGCAATGCAAGGTCTCCTAAAAGATGGAAACCCG
ATTCCCTCAGCAATCGCAGCAAACTCCGGCATCTACTAATAGACGCCGGCCATTCAA
ACATGAGGATTACCCATGTACCCAGCT (SEQ ID NO: 6)
         [0114]    One Shot BL21(DE3) Chemically Competent E. coli (Life Technologies) cells
were transformed using such plasmid. BL21(DE3) containing the plasmid were grown in 750
mL of LB medium containing ampicillin at 37'C, to OD(600nm) equal to 0.8. A pre-induction
sample was then taken and analyzed: sample in Lane 1, Figure 8. Isopropyl P-D-1
thiogalactopyranoside (Sigma-Aldrich) was then added to a final concentration of 1 mM. Four
hours post-induction cells were harvested by centrifugation at 3,000g and 4'C for 40 min. A
sample was then taken and analyzed: sample in Lane 2, Figure 8.
Example I: Purification and characterization of MS2 Capsids encapsidating RNA coding
for its coat protein attached to its specific 19-mer RNA hairpin.
         [0115]    Purification of MS2 capsids was conducted as follows. Samples were taken
during purification and SDS PAGE analysis was run on the samples. Results obtained are shown
in Figure 8. A fraction of the pellet from Example H equivalent to 115 mL of culture was
resuspended in 20 mM Tris-HCl, pH 7.5, containing 10 mM MgCl2 and sonicated to lyse cells.
Cell debris was removed by centrifugation at 16,000 g. The cell lysate obtained was partially
purified by precipitation using ammonium sulfate and extraction using trichlorofluoromethane
(Freon 11) as described by Strauss & Sinsheimer (1963) J. Mol. Biol 7:43-54. To the partially
purified MS2 capsid solution (1.05 mL) 0.3 mg of Proteinase K dissolved in 1.05 mL of 20 mM
CaCl2 aqueous solution was added. The mixture was incubated at 37'C and after 2.5 hours it
was placed in an ice-water bath. A sample was then taken and analyzed: sample in Lane 3,
                                                 44

      WO 2013/096866                                                        PCT/US2012/071419
Figure 8. Fifteen minutes afterwards, 0.14 mL of 1% phosphoric acid aqueous solution was
slowly added with vigorous agitation in an ice/water bath to bring the pH of the liquid to 4.1.
The liquid was kept at 00 C for 30 minutes and centrifuged at 16,000 g at 4'C for 20 min. To the
supernatant, kept at 00 C, 100 piL of 1% NaOH was added to bring the pH of the liquid to 7.9. 0.5
mL of ethanol at 00 C was then slowly added with vigorous agitation to bring the ethanol
concentration in the liquid to 20%. The liquid was kept at 0 0 C for 30 minutes and centrifuged at
16,000 g at 4'C for 20 min. After adding 1% acetic acid to adjust the pH of the solution to 7, the
supernatant was filtered through a Vivaspin 2 (Sartorius) 300 kDa membrane and the filtrate was
filtered through a 100 kDa membrane, from which 150ptL of retentate was obtained. The
retentate was then diluted to 2 mL with phosphate buffered saline and filtered through the same
100 kDa membrane. Dilution and ultrafiltration of the retentate (150ptL) was repeated four more
times. A sample of the retentate was then taken and analyzed by SDS PAGE: sample in Lane 4,
Figure 8.MS2's coat protein, of 14 kDa, retained by a membrane through which proteins with
less than 100 kDa molecular weight are able to permeate, is clearly visible, consistent with the
presence of intact MS2 capsids. RNA was isolated from another sample of the same retentate
using a QIAamp Viral RNA Mini Kit (Qiagen, Valencia, CA) and a DNA-free kit (Life
Technologies, Grand Island, NY), and reverse transcribed using a High Capacity cDNA Reverse
Transcription Kit (Life Technologies). The presence or absence of a section of the MS2 capsid
was then interrogated in PCR experiments. The following pair of primers was used, each primer
named for the position of its first and last base in the MS2 genome, forward (F) and reverse (R)
respectively: F1401_1426-R1680_1705. Platinum Taq DNA Polymerase High Fidelity (Life
Technologies) was used for amplification. The PCR product, chromatographed in 2% agarose
gel stained with Ethidium Bromide, as shown in Figure 10 (304 bp in Lane 1; the leftmost Lane
corresponds to 1 kb plus ladder from Life Technologies), was consistent with an intact MS2 coat
gene. In conclusion, the product obtained contained MS2 capsids with purity higher than 99%.
Example J: Simple precipitation with ethanol for purification of MS2 Virus-Like Particles
(VLPs).
         [0116]     Purification of MS2 VLPs was conducted as follows. Samples were taken
during purification and SDS PAGE analysis was run on the samples. Results obtained are shown
                                                   45

     WO 2013/096866                                                          PCT/US2012/071419
in Figure 11. One sixth of the pellet obtained from an experiment identical to Example H was
resuspended in 20 mM Tris-HCl, pH 7.5, containing 10 mMMgCl 2 and sonicated to lyse cells.
Cell debris was removed by centrifugation at 16,000 g. The cell lysate obtained was partially
purified by precipitation using ammonium sulfate and extraction using trichlorofluoromethane
(Freon 11) as described by Strauss & Sinsheimer (1963) J. Mol. Biol 7:43-54. A sample was
taken and analyzed: sample in Lane 1, Figure 11. A strong band at about 14 kDa was found,
consistent with the coat protein of MS2 phage. Other bands - impurities - mostly of higher
molecular weight, represent about 27% of the sample weight. To the partially purified MS2 VLP
solution (1.35 mL) 1.36 mL of 20 mM CaCl2 aqueous solution was added and placed in an ice
water bath. Fifteen minutes afterwards, 50 [tL of 10% acetic acid aqueous solution was added to
bring the pH of the liquid to 4.1. Then, at the same temperature and with vigorous agitation,
1.44 mL of ethanol was slowly added. The liquid was kept at 00 C for 30 minutes and
centrifuged at 16,000 g at 4'C for 20 min. The pellet was suspended in 2 mL of an aqueous
buffer consisting of 20 mM Tris-HCl and 10 mMMgCl 2adjusted to pH 7.5. A sample was taken
and analyzed by SDS PAGE: sample in Lane 2, Figure 11. Impurities in this sample represented
about 24% of the sample weight. The diluted sample was filtered through a Vivaspin 2
(Sartorius) 100 kDa membrane from which 200ptL of retentate was obtained. The retentate was
then diluted to 2 mL with the same buffer and filtered through the same 100 kDa membrane.
Dilution and ultrafiltration of the retentate (200ptL) was repeated four more times. A sample of
the retentate was then taken and analyzed by SDS PAGE: sample in Lane 3, Figure 11.
Impurities in this sample represented about 9.7% of the sample weight. In conclusion, the
product obtained contained MS2 VLPs with purity higher than 90%.
Example K: Use of Proteinase K (PK) and simple precipitation with ethanol for
purification of MS2 VLPs.
        [0117]      Purification of MS2 VLPs was conducted as follows. Samples were taken
during purification and SDS PAGE analysis was run on the samples. Results obtained are shown
in Figure 12. One sixth of the pellet obtained from an experiment identical to Example H was
resuspended in 20 mM Tris-HCl, pH 7.5, containing 10 mM MgCl 2 and sonicated to lyse cells.
Cell debris was removed by centrifugation at 16,000 g. The cell lysate obtained was partially
                                                   46

     WO 2013/096866                                                          PCT/US2012/071419
purified by precipitation using ammonium sulfate and extraction using trichlorofluoromethane
(Freon 11) as described by Strauss & Sinsheimer (1963) J. Mol. Biol 7:43-54. A sample was
taken and analyzed: sample in Lane 1, Figure 12. A strong band at about 14 kDa was found,
consistent with the coat protein of MS2 phage. Other bands - impurities - mostly of higher
molecular weight represent about 26% of the sample weight. To the partially purified MS2 VLP
solution (1.35 mL) 0.6 mg of Proteinase K dissolved in 1.36 mL of 20 mM CaCl 2 aqueous
solution was added. The mixture was incubated at 37'C and after 2.5 hours placed in an ice
water bath. A sample was taken and analyzed by SDS PAGE: sample in Lane 2, Figure 12.
Impurities in this sample represented about 14% of the sample weight. Fifteen minutes
afterwards, about 50 ptL of 10% acetic acid aqueous solution was added in an ice/water bath to
bring the pH of the liquid to 4.1. Then, at the same temperature and with vigorous agitation,
1.54 mL of ethanol was slowly added. The liquid was kept at 00 C for 30 minutes and
centrifuged at 16,000 g at 4'C for 20 min. The pellet was suspended in 2 mL of an aqueous
buffer consisting of 20 mM Tris-HCl and 10 mM MgCl 2 adjusted to pH 7.5. A sample was taken
and analyzed by SDS PAGE: sample in Lane 3, Figure 12. Impurities in this sample represented
about 10% of the sample weight. The diluted sample was filtered through a Vivaspin 2
(Sartorius) 100 kDa membrane from which 200ptL of retentate was obtained. The retentate was
then diluted to 2 mL with the same buffer and filtered through the same 100 kDa membrane.
Dilution and ultrafiltration of the retentate (200ptL) was repeated four more times. A sample of
the retentate was then taken and analyzed by SDS PAGE: sample in Lane 4, Figure 12.
Impurities in this sample represented about 5.l1% of the sample weight. In conclusion, the
product obtained contained MS2 VLPs with purity of about 95%.
Example L: Use of constitutive hydrolases (CH), fractional precipitation with ethanol, and
ultrafiltration for purification of MS2 VLPs.
        [0118]      Purification of MS2 VLPs was conducted as follows. Samples were taken
during purification and SDS PAGE analysis was run on the samples. Results obtained are shown
in Figure 13. One sixth of the pellet obtained from an experiment identical to Example H was
resuspended in 20 mM Tris-HCl, pH 7.5, containing 10 mM MgCl 2 and sonicated to lyse cells.
Cell debris was removed by centrifugation at 16,000 g. The cell lysate obtained was partially
                                                   47

     WO 2013/096866                                                        PCT/US2012/071419
purified by precipitation using ammonium sulfate and extraction using trichlorofluoromethane
(Freon 11) as described by Strauss & Sinsheimer (1963) J. Mol. Biol 7:43-54. To the partially
purified MS2 VLP solution (1.35 mL) 1.36 mL of 20 mM CaCl 2 aqueous solution was added.
The mixture was incubated at 37'C during 2.5 hours (to allow constitutive hydrolases to act) and
afterwards was placed in an ice-water bath. A sample was taken and analyzed by SDS PAGE:
sample in Lane 1, Figure 13. Impurities in this sample represented about 12% of the sample
weight. Fifteen minutes afterwards, about 120 [tL of 1% sodium hydroxide aqueous solution
was added in an ice/water bath to bring the pH of the liquid to 7.86. Then, at the same
temperature and with vigorous agitation, 0.81 mL of ethanol was slowly added. The liquid was
kept at 00 C for 30 minutes and centrifuged at 16,000 g at 4'C for 20 min. About 100 [iL of 10%
acetic acid aqueous solution was slowly added to the supernatant with vigorous agitation in an
ice/water bath to bring the pH of the liquid to 4.01. Then, at the same temperature and with
vigorous agitation, 1.3 mL of ethanol was slowly added. The liquid was kept at 00 C for 30
minutes and centrifuged at 16,000 g at 4'C for 20 min. The pellet was suspended in 2 mL of an
aqueous buffer consisting of 20 mM Tris-HCl and 10 mM MgCl 2 adjusted to pH 7.5. The
diluted sample was filtered through a Vivaspin 2 (Sartorius) 100 kDa membrane from which
200[tL of retentate was obtained. The retentate was then diluted to 2 mL with the same buffer
and filtered through the same 100 kDa membrane. Dilution and ultrafiltration of the retentate
(200[tL) was repeated four more times. A sample of the retentate was then taken and analyzed
by SDS PAGE: sample in Lane 3, Figure 13. Impurities in this sample represented about 4.7%
of the sample weight. In conclusion, the product obtained contained MS2 VLPs with purity
higher than about 95%.
Example M: Use of Proteinase K (PK), fractional precipitation with ethanol, and
ultrafiltration for purification of MS2 VLPs.
         [0119]     Purification of MS2 VLPs was conducted as follows. Samples were taken
during purification and SDS PAGE analysis was run on the samples. Results obtained are shown
in Figure 13. One sixth of the pellet obtained from an experiment identical to Example H was
resuspended in 20 mM Tris-HCl, pH 7.5, containing 10 mM MgCl 2 and sonicated to lyse cells.
Cell debris was removed by centrifugation at 16,000 g. The cell lysate obtained was partially
                                                  48

      WO 2013/096866                                                         PCT/US2012/071419
purified by precipitation using ammonium sulfate and extraction using trichlorofluoromethane
(Freon 11) as described by Strauss & Sinsheimer (1963) J. Mol. Biol 7:43-54. To the partially
purified MS2 VLP solution (1.35 mL) 0.3mg of Proteinase K dissolved in 1.36 mL of 20 mM
CaCl 2 aqueous solution was added. The mixture was incubated at 37'C during 2.5 hours and
afterwards was placed in an ice-water bath. A sample was taken and analyzed by SDS PAGE:
sample in Lane 2, Figure 13. Impurities in this sample represented about 8.1 % of the sample
weight. Fifteen minutes afterwards, about 120 [tL of 1% sodium hydroxide aqueous solution
was added in an ice/water bath to bring the pH of the liquid to 7.86. Then, at the same
temperature and with vigorous agitation, 0.81 mL of ethanol was slowly added. The liquid was
kept at 0 0 C for 30 minutes and centrifuged at 16,000 g at 4'C for 20 min. About 100 [iL of 10%
acetic acid aqueous solution was added to the supernatant in an ice/water bath to bring the pH of
the liquid to 4.01. Then, at the same temperature and with vigorous agitation, 1.3 mL of ethanol
was slowly added. The liquid was kept at 00 C for 30 minutes and centrifuged at 16,000 g at 4'C
for 20 min. The pellet was suspended in 2 mL of an aqueous buffer consisting of 20 mM Tris
HCl and 10 mM MgCl 2 adjusted to pH 7.5. The diluted sample was filtered through a Vivaspin
2 (Sartorius) 100 kDa membrane from which 200piL of retentate was obtained. The retentate
was then diluted to 2 mL with the same buffer and filtered through the same 100 kDa membrane.
Dilution and ultrafiltration of the retentate (200ptL) was repeated four more times. A sample of
the retentate was then taken and analyzed by SDS PAGE: sample in Lane 4, Figure 13.
Impurities in this sample represented about 0.9% of the sample weight. In conclusion, the
product obtained contained MS2 VLPs with purity higher than about 99%.
Example N: Use of various hydrolases, and factional precipitation with ammonium sulfate
for purification of MS2 VLPs.
        [0120]       Purification of MS2 VLPs was conducted as follows. Samples were taken
during purification and SDS PAGE analysis was run on the samples. Results obtained are shown
in Figure 14. One sixth of the pellet obtained from an experiment identical to Example H was
resuspended in 20 mM Tris-HCl, pH 7.5, containing 10 mM MgCl2 and sonicated to lyse cells.
Cell debris was removed by centrifugation at 16,000 g. A sample of the supernatant was taken
and analyzed by SDS PAGE: sample in Lane 1, Figure 14. Impurities in this sample represented
                                                   49

      WO 2013/096866                                                         PCT/US2012/071419
about 70% of the sample weight. Four other identical fractions of the pellet obtained from such
experiment identical to Example H were processed in the same manner.
         [0121]      The five centrifuged cell lysates obtained, each 3.7 mL in volume, were
further processed in five different manners, as follows. The first centrifuged cell lysate was
placed in an ice-water bath for 15 minutes and 0.1 grams of ammonium sulfate was added. The
mixture was vortexed until complete dissolution of ammonium sulfate was achieved. The liquid
was kept at 00 C for 2 hours and centrifuged at 16,000 g at 4'C for 30 min. 0.4 grams of
ammonium sulfate was added to the supernatant and vortexed until complete dissolution of
ammonium sulfate was achieved. The liquid was kept at 00 C for 2 hours and centrifuged at
16,000 g at 4'C for 30 min. The purified MS2 VLPs pellet was suspended in 0.2 mL of an
aqueous buffer consisting of 20 mM Tris-HCl and 10 mM MgCl2 adjusted to pH 7.5. The
second centrifuged cell lysate was incubated at 37'C for five hours, placed in an ice-water bath
for the same amount of time as the first centrifuged cell lysate and subsequently processed in
identical manner as the first centrifuged cell lysate. 0.15 mg of Proteinase K (Sigma Aldrich, St.
Louis, MO) was added to the third centrifuged cell lysate. It was incubated then at 37'C for five
hours, placed in an ice-water bath for the same amount of time as the first centrifuged cell lysate
and subsequently processed in identical manner as the first centrifuged cell lysate. The fourth
centrifuged cell lysate was incubated at 37'C for two hours. 0.15 mg of PK was then added. It
was incubated at 37'C for an additional three hours, placed in an ice-water bath for the same
amount of time as the first centrifuged cell lysate and subsequently processed in identical manner
as the first centrifuged cell lysate.
         [0122]      500 units of Benzonase@ Nuclease(Sigma Aldrich, St. Louis, MO) and 35
units of Lipase from Candida rugosa(SigmaAldrich, St. Louis, MO) was added to the fifth
centrifuged cell lysate and incubated at 37'C for one hour. 15 units of a-Amylase from
Bacillussp. (Sigma Aldrich, St. Louis, MO) was then added and incubated at 37'C for one
additional hour. 0.15 mg of PK was then added. The mixture was incubated at 37'C for an
additional three hours, placed in an ice-water bath for the same amount of time as the first
centrifuged cell lysate and subsequently processed in identical manner as the first centrifuged
cell lysate.
                                                   50

      WO 2013/096866                                                         PCT/US2012/071419
        [0123]      A sample was taken of the second centrifuged cell lysate after its 5 hours
incubation and analyzed by SDS PAGE: sample in Lane 2, Figure 14.A sample was taken of the
third centrifuged cell lysate after its 5 hours incubation and analyzed by SDS PAGE: sample in
Lane 3, Figure 14. A sample was taken of the fourth centrifuged cell lysate after its 5 hours
incubation and analyzed by SDS PAGE: sample in Lane 4, Figure 14.A sample was taken of the
fifth centrifuged cell lysate after its 5 hours incubation and analyzed by SDS PAGE: sample in
Lane 5, Figure 14.
        [0124]      A sample was taken of the purified MS2 VLPs suspension for the first
centrifuged cell lysate and analyzed by SDS PAGE: sample in Lane 6, Figure 14. The product
obtained contained MS2 VLPs with purity of about 88%.Protein concentration (Pierce@ BCA
Protein Assay Kit, Thermo Fisher Scientific, Rockford, IL) of this sample was 18.5 mg/mL.
Optical density measured in a 1 cm cell at 260 nm (OD-260nm) of a 200:1 dilution of this
sample was 0.553 and OD-280nm was 0.303. These measurements are consistent with RNA
yield of about 9 mg per liter of culture.
        [0125]      A sample was taken of the purified MS2 VLPs suspension for the second
centrifuged cell lysate and analyzed by SDS PAGE: sample in Lane 7, Figure 14. The product
obtained contained MS2 VLPs with purity of about 75%. Protein concentration of this sample
was 25.4 mg/mL. Optical density measured in a 1 cm cell at 260 nm (OD-260nm) of a 200:1
dilution of this sample was 0.784 and OD-280nm was 0.453. These measurements are consistent
with RNA yield of about 11 mg per liter of culture.
        [0126]      A sample was taken of the purified MS2 VLPs suspension for the third
centrifuged cell lysate and analyzed by SDS PAGE: sample in Lane 8, Figure 14. The product
obtained contained MS2 VLPs with purity of about 94.3%. Protein concentration of this sample
was 21.0 mg/mL. Optical density measured in a 1 cm cell at 260 nm (OD-260nm) of a 200:1
dilution of this sample was 0.632 and OD-280nm was 0.321. These measurements are consistent
with RNA yield of about 10 mg per liter of culture.
        [0127]      A sample was taken of the purified MS2 VLPs suspension for the fourth
centrifuged cell lysate and analyzed by SDS PAGE: sample in Lane 9, Figure 14. The product
obtained contained MS2 VLPs with purity of about 95.6%. Protein concentration of this sample
was 19.4 mg/mL. Optical density measured in a 1 cm cell at 260 nm (OD-260nm) of a 200:1
                                                    51

     WO 2013/096866                                                      PCT/US2012/071419
dilution of this sample was 0.666 and OD-280nm was 0.353. These measurements are consistent
with RNA yield of about 11 mg per liter of culture.
        [0128]      A sample was taken of the purified MS2 VLPs suspension for the fifth
centrifuged cell lysate and analyzed by SDS PAGE: sample in Lane 10, Figure 14. The product
obtained contained MS2 VLPs with purity of about 96%.Protein concentration of this sample
was 19.8 mg/mL. Optical density measured in a 1 cm cell at 260 nm (OD-260nm) of a 200:1
dilution of this sample was 0.661 and OD-280nm was 0.354. These measurements are consistent
with RNA yield of about 11 mg per liter of culture.
Example 0: Production of MS2 Capsids encapsidating shRNA targeting Green Fluorescent
Protein (GFP) and HDV ribozyme attached to MS2 19-mer RNA hairpin.
        [0129]      Production of MS2 capsids is conducted as follows. The following DNA
sequence Sequence A (SEQ ID NO: 7), encoding MS2's coat protein is cloned into pDEST14
(Life Technologies) plasmid:
ACAAGTTTGTACAAAAAAGCAGGCTAAGAAGGAGATATACATATGGCTTCTAACTT
TACTCAGTTCGTTCTCGTCGACAATGGCGGAACTGGCGACGTGACTGTCGCCCCAAG
CAACTTCGCTAACGGGGTCGCTGAATGGATCAGCTCTAACTCGCGTTCACAGGCTTA
CAAAGTAACCTGTAGCGTTCGTCAGAGCTCTGCGCAGAATCGCAAATACACCATCA
AAGTCGAGGTGCCTAAAGTGGCAACCCAGACTGTTGGTGGTGTAGAGCTTCCTGTAG
CCGCATGGCGTTCGTACTTAAATATGGAACTAACCATTCCAATTTTCGCTACGAATT
CCGACTGCGAGCTTATTGTTAAGGCAATGCAAGGTCTCCTAAAAGATGGAAACCCG
ATTCCCTCAGCAATCGCAGCAAACTCCGGCATCTACTAATAG                             Sequence A (SEQ ID
NO: 7)
        [0130]      The following DNA sequence, Sequence B (SEQ ID NO: 8) was cloned into
plasmid pACYC 184. A transcription terminator was also cloned at the 3' end of Sequence B
(SEQ ID NO: 8)(not shown). Sequence B (SEQ ID NO: 8) encodes, shRNA hairpin, Hepatitis
Delta Virus (HDV) ribozyme designed to cleave the 3' end of the siRNA hairpin, and MS2's
specific RNA 19-mer, was cloned into plasmid pACYC 184:
Sequence T7-Rz6
                                                52

     WO 2013/096866                                                     PCT/US2012/071419
GGATCCTAATACGACTCACTATAGGCAAGCTGACCCTGAAGTTCTCAAGAGGAACTT
CAGGGTCAGCTTGCCAAGGCCGGCATGGTCCCAGCCTCCTCGCTGGCGCCGGCTGG
GCAACATTCGTGGCGAATGGGACCACGCTTCAAACATGAGGATTACCCATGTCGAA
GCGACCATGG (SEQ ID NO: 8).
        [0131]     One Shot BL21(DE3) Chemically Competent E. coli (Life Technologies) cells
were transformed with the 2 plasmids one containing Sequence A (SEQ ID NO: 104) and
Sequence B (SEQ ID NO: 105) selecting for chloramphenicol and ampicillin resistant
transformants. For capsid production these transformants were grown at 37o in 32 mL LB
medium containing both ampicillin and chloramphenicol. When the culture density reached OD
(600 nm)=O.8, isopropyl -D-1-thiogalactopyranoside (Sigma-Aldrich) was then added to a final
concentration of 1 mM. Cells were harvested 4 hours post-induction by centrifugation at 3,000 g
and 4'C for 40 min. RNA was extracted from purified VLPs as described in example Z, and
analyzed as described in Example AA. A band of the same molecular weight as expected for the
encoded shRNA, as observed in lane shRNA in Figure 16, was observed.
Example P: Production of MS2 Capsids using a transcript coding for siGFP flanked on its
5' end by a long Hammerhead ribozyme, and its 3' end by an HDV ribozyme attached
toMS2 19-mer RNA hairpin and a second HDV ribozyme.
        [0132]     Production of MS2 capsids is conducted as follows. The following DNA
sequence Sequence A (SEQ ID NO: 7), encoding MS2's coat protein is cloned into pDEST14
(Life Technologies) plasmid:
ACAAGTTTGTACAAAAAAGCAGGCTAAGAAGGAGATATACATATGGCTTCTAACTT
TACTCAGTTCGTTCTCGTCGACAATGGCGGAACTGGCGACGTGACTGTCGCCCCAAG
CAACTTCGCTAACGGGGTCGCTGAATGGATCAGCTCTAACTCGCGTTCACAGGCTTA
CAAAGTAACCTGTAGCGTTCGTCAGAGCTCTGCGCAGAATCGCAAATACACCATCA
AAGTCGAGGTGCCTAAAGTGGCAACCCAGACTGTTGGTGGTGTAGAGCTTCCTGTAG
CCGCATGGCGTTCGTACTTAAATATGGAACTAACCATTCCAATTTTCGCTACGAATT
CCGACTGCGAGCTTATTGTTAAGGCAATGCAAGGTCTCCTAAAAGATGGAAACCCG
                                               53

      WO 2013/096866                                                     PCT/US2012/071419
ATTCCCTCAGCAATCGCAGCAAACTCCGGCATCTACTAATAG                             Sequence A (SEQ ID
NO: 7)
        [0133]     The following DNA sequence, Sequence C (SEQ ID NO: 9) is cloned into
plasmid pACYC 184. A transcription terminator is also cloned at the 3' end of Sequence C (SEQ
ID NO: 9)(not shown). Sequence C (SEQ ID NO: 9) encodes T7 promoter, Hammerhead
ribozyme designed to cleave the 5' end of a siRNA hairpin, siRNA hairpin, Hepatitis Delta Virus
(HDV) ribozyme designed to cleave the 3' end of the siRNA hairpin, and MS2's specific RNA
19-mer, and another HDV ribozyme is cloned into plasmid pACYC 184:
Sequence T7-Rzl2
GGATCCTAATACGACTCACTATAGGGAGATAAATAAATAAATTTGAATGAACTTCA
GGGTCAGCTTGCTGATGAGGCGCTTCGGCGCCGAAACACCCAGTGGTGTCCAAGCT
GACCCTGAAGTTCATTCAAGAGATGAACTTCAGGGTCAGCTTGTCGGCCGGCATGGT
CCCAGCCTCCTCGCTGGCGCCGGCTGGGCAACATTCGTGGCGAATGGGACCACGCTT
CAAACATGAGGATTACCCATGTCGAAGCGAATTTATTTATTTAATTATTATTATTATT
ATTGGCCGGCATGGTCCCAGCCTCCTCGCTGGCGCCGGCTGGGCAACACCTTCGGGT
GGCGAATGGGACCAAAAAAAAATAATAATAATAATAATCCATGG                                (SEQ ID NO: 9)
        [0134]     One Shot BL21(DE3) Chemically Competent E. coli (Life Technologies) cells
are transformed with the 2 plasmids one containing Sequence A (SEQ ID NO: 104) and
Sequence C (SEQ ID NO: 106) selecting for chloramphenicol and ampicillin resistant
transformants. For capsid production these transformants are grown at 37o in 32 mL LB
medium containing both ampicillin and chloramphenicol. When the culture density reaches OD
(600 nm)=0.8, isopropyl P-D-1-thiogalactopyranoside (Sigma-Aldrich) is then added to a final
concentration of 1 mM. Cells are harvested 4 hours post-induction by centrifugation at 3,000 g
and 4'C for 40 min..
                                               54

     WO 2013/096866                                                        PCT/US2012/071419
Example   Q: Production of MS2     Capsids using transcripts coding for shRNA and slow
HDV ribozymes attached to MS2 19-mer RNA hairpin.
        [0135]     Several experiments producing MS2 capsids, each encapsidating different
cargoes are conducted as described in Example 0. However, instead of the HDV ribozyme
sequence included in Sequence B (SEQ ID NO: 8), a mutant cleaving the 3' end of the siRNA
with a slower reaction rate constant is used in each experiment. The following sequences,
containing slower HDV ribozymes, are used instead of Sequence B, for each experiment:
Sequence G76U:
TAATACGACTCACTATAGCAAGCTGACCCTGAAGTTCATCAAGAGTGAACTTCAGGG
TCAGCTTGTCGGCCGGCATGGTCCCAGCCTCCTCGCTGGCGCCGGCTGGGCAACATT
CGTGGCTAATGGGACCATATATATATACATGAGGATTACCCATGTCCATGG                                    (SEQ ID
NO: 10)
Sequence G40U:
TAATACGACTCACTATAGCAAGCTGACCCTGAAGTTCATCAAGAGTGAACTTCAGGG
TCAGCTTGTCGGCCGGCATGGTCCCAGCCTCCTCGCTGGCGCCGGCTGGTCAACATT
CGTGGCGAATGGGACCATATATATATACATGAGGATTACCCATGTCCATGG                                    (SEQ ID
NO: 11)
Sequence A16G:
TAATACGACTCACTATAGCAAGCTGACCCTGAAGTTCATCAAGAGTGAACTTCAGGG
TCAGCTTGTCGGCCGGCATGGTCCCGGCCTCCTCGCTGGCGCCGGCTGGGCAACATT
CGTGGCGAATGGGACCATATATATATACATGAGGATTACCCATGTCCATGG                                    (SEQ ID
NO: 12)
Sequence G39U:
TAATACGACTCACTATAGCAAGCTGACCCTGAAGTTCATCAAGAGTGAACTTCAGGG
TCAGCTTGTCGGCCGGCATGGTCCCAGCCTCCTCGCTGGCGCCGGCTGTGCAACATT
                                                 55

    WO 2013/096866                           PCT/US2012/071419
CGTGGCGAATGGGACCATATATATATACATGAGGATTACCCATGTCCATGG      (SEQ ID
NO: 13)
Sequence A78G:
TAATACGACTCACTATAGCAAGCTGACCCTGAAGTTCATCAAGAGTGAACTTCAGGG
TCAGCTTGTCGGCCGGCATGGTCCCAGCCTCCTCGCTGGCGCCGGCTGGGCAACATT
CGTGGCGAGTGGGACCATATATATATACATGAGGATTACCCATGTCCATGG      (SEQ ID
NO: 14)
Sequence C21U:
TAATACGACTCACTATAGCAAGCTGACCCTGAAGTTCATCAAGAGTGAACTTCAGGG
TCAGCTTGTCGGCCGGCATGGTCCCAGCCTTCTCGCTGGCGCCGGCTGGGCAACATT
CGTGGCGAATGGGACCATATATATATACATGAGGATTACCCATGTCCATGG      (SEQ ID
NO: 15)
Sequence G25A:
TAATACGACTCACTATAGCAAGCTGACCCTGAAGTTCATCAAGAGTGAACTTCAGGG
TCAGCTTGTCGGCCGGCATGGTCCCAGCCTCCTCACTGGCGCCGGCTGGGCAACATT
CGTGGCGAATGGGACCATATATATATACATGAGGATTACCCATGTCCATGG      (SEQ ID
NO: 16)
Sequence A78U:
TAATACGACTCACTATAGCAAGCTGACCCTGAAGTTCATCAAGAGTGAACTTCAGGG
TCAGCTTGTCGGCCGGCATGGTCCCAGCCTCCTCGCTGGCGCCGGCTGGGCAACATT
CGTGGCGATTGGGACCATATATATATACATGAGGATTACCCATGTCCATGG      (SEQ ID
NO: 17)
Sequence G74C:
                             56

     WO 2013/096866                                                      PCT/US2012/071419
TAATACGACTCACTATAGCAAGCTGACCCTGAAGTTCATCAAGAGTGAACTTCAGGG
TCAGCTTGTCGGCCGGCATGGTCCCAGCCTCCTCGCTGGCGCCGGCTGGGCAACATT
CGTGCCGAATGGGACCATATATATATACATGAGGATTACCCATGTCCATGG                                  (SEQ ID
NO: 18)
Example R: Production of MS2 Capsids using a transcript coding for shGFP flanked on its
5' end by one long Hammerhead ribozyme, and its 3' end by another long Hammerhead
ribozyme attached to MS2 19-mer RNA hairpin and an HDV ribozyme.
        [0136]    Production of MS2 capsids is conducted as follows. The following DNA
sequence, Sequence A (SEQ ID NO: 7), encoding MS2's coat protein is cloned into pDEST14
(Life Technologies) plasmid:
ACAAGTTTGTACAAAAAAGCAGGCTAAGAAGGAGATATACATATGGCTTCTAACTT
TACTCAGTTCGTTCTCGTCGACAATGGCGGAACTGGCGACGTGACTGTCGCCCCAAG
CAACTTCGCTAACGGGGTCGCTGAATGGATCAGCTCTAACTCGCGTTCACAGGCTTA
CAAAGTAACCTGTAGCGTTCGTCAGAGCTCTGCGCAGAATCGCAAATACACCATCA
AAGTCGAGGTGCCTAAAGTGGCAACCCAGACTGTTGGTGGTGTAGAGCTTCCTGTAG
CCGCATGGCGTTCGTACTTAAATATGGAACTAACCATTCCAATTTTCGCTACGAATT
CCGACTGCGAGCTTATTGTTAAGGCAATGCAAGGTCTCCTAAAAGATGGAAACCCG
ATTCCCTCAGCAATCGCAGCAAACTCCGGCATCTACTAATAG
        [0137]    The following DNA sequence, Sequence D (SEQ ID NO: 19) is cloned into
plasmid pACYC 184. A transcription terminator is also cloned at the 3' end of Sequence D (SEQ
ID NO: 19)(not shown). Sequence D (SEQ ID NO: 19) encodes T7 promoter, Hammerhead
ribozyme designed to cleave the 5' end of a siRNA hairpin, siRNA hairpin, Hammerhead
ribozyme designed to cleave the 3' end of the siRNA hairpin, MS2's specific RNA 19-mer and
an HDV ribozyme:
Sequence T7-Rzl5:
GGATCCTAATACGACTCACTATAGGGAGACGTTCACGTTGAATGAACTTCAGGGTCA
GCTTGCTGATGAGGCGCTTCGGCGCCGAAACACCCAGTGGTGTCCAAGCTGACCCTG
                                                57

      WO 2013/096866                                                        PCT/US2012/071419
AAGTTCATTCAAGAGATGAACTTCAGGGTCAGCTTGTCACCGGATGTGCTCTCCGGT
CTGATGAGTCCGTGAGGACGAAACAAGCTGACCCTGAAGTTCATCCGTGAACGACG
CTTCAAACATGAGGATTACCCATGTCGAAGCGAATATATATATATAGGCCGGCATGG
TCCCAGCCTCCTCGCTGGCGCCGGCTGGGCAACACCTTCGGGTGGCGAATGGGACC
AAAAAAATATATATATATACCATGG                  (SEQ ID NO: 19)
        [0138]     One Shot BL21(DE3) Chemically Competent E. coli (Life Technologies) cells
are transformed with the 2 plasmids one containing Sequence A (SEQ ID NO: 7) and the
Sequence D (SEQ ID NO: 19) selecting for chloramphenicol and ampicillin resistant
transformants. For capsid production these transformants are grown at 370 in 750 mL LB
medium containing both ampicillin and chloramphenicol. When the culture density reaches OD
(600 nm)=0.8, isopropyl -D-1-thiogalactopyranoside (Sigma-Aldrich) is then added to a final
concentration of 1 mM. Cells are harvested 4 hours post-induction by centrifugation at 3,000 g
and 4'C for 40 min. A sample is taken prior to induction and at the time of harvest for analysis.
Example S: Production of MS2 Capsids using transcripts coding for shRNA and long
Hammerhead ribozymes attached to MS2 19-mer RNA hairpin
        [0139]     Several experiments producing MS2 capsids, each encapsidating different
cargoes, are conducted as described in Example 0. However, instead of the HDV ribozyme
sequence included in Sequence B (SEQ ID NO: 8), a long Hammerhead ribozyme sequence
hybridizing the 3' end of the siRNA, and designed to cleave it is used in each experiment. The
following sequences, containing long Hammerhead ribozymes are used instead of Sequence B
(SEQ ID NO: 8), for each experiment:
Sequence 1OMNT (doesn't cut well):
TAATACGACTCACTATAGCAAGCTGACCCTGAAGTTCATCAAGAGTGAACTTCAGGG
TCAGCTTGTCACCGGATGTGCTCTCCGGTCTGATGAGTCCGTGAGGACGAAACAAGC
TGACCATATATATATACATGAGGATTACCCATGTCCATGG (SEQ ID NO: 20)
Sequence 15MNT (doesn't cut well):
                                               58

     WO 2013/096866                                                        PCT/US2012/071419
TAATACGACTCACTATAGCAAGCTGACCCTGAAGTTCATCAAGAGTGAACTTCAGGG
TCAGCTTGTCACCGGATGTGCTCTCCGGTCTGATGAGTCCGTGAGGACGAAACAAGC
TGACCCTGAAATATATATATACATGAGGATTACCCATGTCCATGG                                 (SEQ ID NO: 21)
Sequence 20MNT (cuts well):
TAATACGACTCACTATAGCAAGCTGACCCTGAAGTTCATCAAGAGTGAACTTCAGGG
TCAGCTTGTCACCGGATGTGCTCTCCGGTCTGATGAGTCCGTGAGGACGAAACAAGC
TGACCCTGAAGTTCAATATATATATACATGAGGATTACCCATGTCCATGG                                   (SEQ ID
NO: 22)
Sequence 22MNT (cuts well):
TAATACGACTCACTATAGCAAGCTGACCCTGAAGTTCATCAAGAGTGAACTTCAGGG
TCAGCTTGTCACCGGATGTGCTCTCCGGTCTGATGAGTCCGTGAGGACGAAACAAGC
TGACCCTGAAGTTCACTATATATATATACATGAGGATTACCCATGT CCATGG (SEQ ID
NO: 23)
Sequence 25MNT (cuts well):
TAATACGACTCACTATAGCAAGCTGACCCTGAAGTTCATCAAGAGTGAACTTCAGGG
TCAGCTTGTCACCGGATGTGCTCTCCGGTCTGATGAGTCCGTGAGGACGAAACAAGC
TGACCCTGAAGTTCACTCTTATATATATATACATGAGGATTACCCATGT CCATGG
(SEQ ID NO: 24)
Sequence 27MNT (cuts well):
TAATACGACTCACTATAGCAAGCTGACCCTGAAGTTCATCAAGAGTGAACTTCAGGG
TCAGCTTGTCACCGGATGTGCTCTCCGGTCTGATGAGTCCGTGAGGACGAAACAAGC
TGACCCTGAAGTTCACTCTTGAATATATATATACATGAGGATTACCCATGTCCATGG
(SEQ ID NO: 25)
        [0140]    Experimental data set forth in the Examples supports the conclusion that RNA
strands which cut well according to the present disclosure are those which include a
                                                59

     WO 2013/096866                                                           PCT/US2012/071419
Hammerhead ribozyme sequence for which proper folding of the ribozyme sequence is
thermodynamically favored over the folding of the shRNA ("hairpin") section of the whole
strand. Thermodynamic parameters for each of the above sequences were calculated to
determine which sequences cut well and which do not.
ExampleT: Production of MS2 Capsids using a transcript coding for siRNA flanked by a
long Hammerhead ribozyme at its 5' end, and trans-acting HDV ribozyme at its 3' end
attached to MS2 19-mer RNA hairpin.
        [0141]       Production of MS2 capsids is conducted as follows. The following DNA
sequence (Sequence A; SEQ ID NO: 7), encoding MS2's coat protein is cloned into pDEST14
(Life Technologies) plasmid:
ACAAGTTTGTACAAAAAAGCAGGCTAAGAAGGAGATATACATATGGCTTCTAACTT
TACTCAGTTCGTTCTCGTCGACAATGGCGGAACTGGCGACGTGACTGTCGCCCCAAG
CAACTTCGCTAACGGGGTCGCTGAATGGATCAGCTCTAACTCGCGTTCACAGGCTTA
CAAAGTAACCTGTAGCGTTCGTCAGAGCTCTGCGCAGAATCGCAAATACACCATCA
AAGTCGAGGTGCCTAAAGTGGCAACCCAGACTGTTGGTGGTGTAGAGCTTCCTGTAG
CCGCATGGCGTTCGTACTTAAATATGGAACTAACCATTCCAATTTTCGCTACGAATT
CCGACTGCGAGCTTATTGTTAAGGCAATGCAAGGTCTCCTAAAAGATGGAAACCCG
ATTCCCTCAGCAATCGCAGCAAACTCCGGCATCTACTAATAG                                 (SEQ ID NO: 7)
        [0142]       The following DNA sequence, Sequence E (SEQ ID NO: 26) is cloned into
plasmid pACYC 184. A transcription terminator was also cloned at the 3' end of Sequence E
(SEQ ID NO: 26)(not shown). Sequence E (SEQ ID NO: 26) encodes BamHI restriction site, T7
promoter and start sequence, HDV ribozyme designed to cleave in trans mode the 3' end of the siRNA
against Enhanced Green Fluorescent Protein (siEGPF), ATAT spacer, long Hammerhead ribozyme
designed to cleave the 5' end of the siEGFP hairpin, siEGFP hairpin, complementary sequence to
the HDV ribozyme cleaving in trans mode the 3' end of the siEGFP hairpin, MS2's specific
RNA 19-mer, and Pac restriction site.:
                                                 60

      WO 2013/096866                                                      PCT/US2012/071419
GGATCCTAATACGACTCACTATAGGGATCTCCCAGCCTCCTCGCTGGCGCCGGCTGG
GCAACATTCGTGGCGAATGGGGGATCATATCTTGATGAACTTCAGGGTCAGCTTGCT
GATGAGGCGCTTCGGCGCCGAAACACCGTGTCCAAGCTGACCCTGAAGTTCATCAA
GAATGAACTTCAGGGTCAGCTTGTCGGCCGGCATGCATTCAAACATGAGGATTACCC
ATGTCGAAGTTAATTAA (SEQ ID NO: 26)
        [0143]     BamHI and HindIII site are added at the 5' and 3' end respectively to facilitate
cloning into pACYC 184 (not shown).
        [0144]     One Shot BL21(DE3) Chemically Competent E. coli (Life Technologies) cells
are transformed with the 2 plasmids one containing Sequence A (SEQ ID NO: 104) and
Sequence E (SEQ ID NO: 26) selecting for chloramphenicol and ampicillin resistant
transformants. For capsid production these transformants are grown at 370 in 750 mL LB
medium containing both ampicillin and chloramphenicol. When the culture density reaches OD
(600 nm)=0.8, isopropyl P-D-1-thiogalactopyranoside (Sigma-Aldrich) is then added to a final
concentration of 1 mM. Cells are harvested 4 hours post-induction by centrifugation at 3,000 g
and 4'C for 40 min. A sample is taken prior to induction and at the time of harvest for analysis.
Example U: Production of MS2 Capsids using a transcript coding for 3 different siRNAs
targeting GFP flanked by long Hammerhead ribozymes attached to MS2 19-mer RNA
hairpin.
        [0145]     Production of MS2 capsids is conducted as follows. The following DNA
sequence (Sequence A; SEQ ID NO: 7), encoding MS2's coat protein is cloned into pDEST14
(Life Technologies) plasmid:
ACAAGTTTGTACAAAAAAGCAGGCTAAGAAGGAGATATACATATGGCTTCTAACTT
TACTCAGTTCGTTCTCGTCGACAATGGCGGAACTGGCGACGTGACTGTCGCCCCAAG
CAACTTCGCTAACGGGGTCGCTGAATGGATCAGCTCTAACTCGCGTTCACAGGCTTA
CAAAGTAACCTGTAGCGTTCGTCAGAGCTCTGCGCAGAATCGCAAATACACCATCA
AAGTCGAGGTGCCTAAAGTGGCAACCCAGACTGTTGGTGGTGTAGAGCTTCCTGTAG
CCGCATGGCGTTCGTACTTAAATATGGAACTAACCATTCCAATTTTCGCTACGAATT
                                               61

     WO 2013/096866                                                          PCT/US2012/071419
CCGACTGCGAGCTTATTGTTAAGGCAATGCAAGGTCTCCTAAAAGATGGAAACCCG
ATTCCCTCAGCAATCGCAGCAAACTCCGGCATCTACTAATAG                                 (SEQ ID NO: 7)
        [0146]     The following DNA sequence, Sequence F (SEQ ID NO: 27) is cloned into
plasmid pACYC 184. A transcription terminator was also cloned at the 3' end of Sequence F
(SEQ ID NO: 27)(not shown). Sequence F (SEQ ID NO: 27) encodes T7 promoter and start
sequence, 3 Hammerhead ribozymes designed to cleave the 5' ends of the siRNAs against Enhanced
Green Fluorescent Protein (siEGPF), 3 different siEGFP hairpins, 3 long Hammerhead ribozymes
designed to cleave the 3' ends of the siEGFP hairpins, MS2's specific RNA 19-mer:
GGATCCTAATACGACTCACTATAGGGAGACTTGATGAACTTCAGGGTCAGCTTGCTG
ATGAGGCGCTTCGGCGCCGAAACACCCAGTGGTGTCCAAGCTGACCCTGAAGTTCA
TCAAGAATGAACTTCAGGGTCAGCTTGTCACCGGATGTGCTCTCCGGTCTGATGAGT
CCGTGAGGACGAAACAAGCTGACCCTGAAGTTCATTATATCTTGGCAGATGAACTTC
AGGGTCAGCTGATGAGACTCTTCGGAGTCGAAACACCCAGTGGTGTCCTGACCCTGA
AGTTCATCTGCCAAGAGCAGATGAACTTCAGGGTCAGTCACCGGATGTGCTCTCCGG
TCTGATGAGTCCGTGAGGACGAAACTGACCCTGAAGTTCATCTGCTATATCTTGTGG
TGCAGATGAACTTCAGGGCTGATGAGGCTCTTCGGAGCCGAAACACCCAGTGGTGT
CCCCTGAAGTTCATCTGCACCACAAGATGGTGCAGATGAACTTCAGGGTCACCGGAT
GTGCTCTCCGGTCTGATGAGTCCGTGAGGACGAAACCCTGAAGTTCATCTGCACCAT
ACGCCGGCCATTCAAACATGAGGATTACCCATGTCGAAGTTAATTAA                                    (SEQ ID NO:
27)
        [0147]     One Shot BL21(DE3) Chemically Competent E. coli (Life Technologies) cells
are transformed with the 2 plasmids one containing Sequence A (SEQ ID NO: 7) and the other
Sequence F (SEQ ID NO: 27) selecting for chloramphenicol and ampicillin resistant
transformants. For capsid production these transformants are grown at 370 in 750 mL LB
medium containing both ampicillin and chloramphenicol. When the culture density reaches OD
(600 nm)=0.8, isopropyl P-D-1-thiogalactopyranoside (Sigma-Aldrich) is then added to a final
concentration of 1 mM. Cells are harvested 4 hours post-induction by centrifugation at 3,000 g
and 4'C for 40 min. A sample is taken prior to induction and at the time of harvest for analysis.
                                                  62

     WO 2013/096866                                                             PCT/US2012/071419
Example V: Production of MS2 Capsids using a transcript coding for 3 different siRNAs
targeting GFP flanked by spacers located at their 5' ends and HDV ribozymes at their 3'
ends, attached to MS2 19-mer RNA hairpin.
         [0148]      Production of MS2 capsids is conducted as follows. The following DNA
sequence (Sequence A; SEQ ID NO: 7), encoding MS2's coat protein is cloned into pDEST14
(Life Technologies) plasmid:
ACAAGTTTGTACAAAAAAGCAGGCTAAGAAGGAGATATACATATGGCTTCTAACTT
TACTCAGTTCGTTCTCGTCGACAATGGCGGAACTGGCGACGTGACTGTCGCCCCAAG
CAACTTCGCTAACGGGGTCGCTGAATGGATCAGCTCTAACTCGCGTTCACAGGCTTA
CAAAGTAACCTGTAGCGTTCGTCAGAGCTCTGCGCAGAATCGCAAATACACCATCA
AAGTCGAGGTGCCTAAAGTGGCAACCCAGACTGTTGGTGGTGTAGAGCTTCCTGTAG
CCGCATGGCGTTCGTACTTAAATATGGAACTAACCATTCCAATTTTCGCTACGAATT
CCGACTGCGAGCTTATTGTTAAGGCAATGCAAGGTCTCCTAAAAGATGGAAACCCG
ATTCCCTCAGCAATCGCAGCAAACTCCGGCATCTACTAATAG                                    (SEQ ID NO 7)
         [0149]      The following DNA sequence, Sequence G (SEQ ID NO: 28) is cloned into
plasmid pACYC 184. A transcription terminator was also cloned at the 3' end of Sequence G
(SEQ ID NO: 28) (not shown). Sequence G (SEQ ID NO: 28) encodes BamHI restriction site, T7
promoter and start sequence, 3 spacers at the 5' ends of the siRNAs against Enhanced Green Fluorescent
Protein (siEGPF), 3 different siEGFP hairpins, 3 HDV ribozymes designed to cleave the 3' ends of
the siEGFP hairpins, MS2's specific RNA 19-mer, and Pac restriction site.:
GGATCCTAATACGACTCACTATAGGGAGAATATATATACAAGCTGACCCTGAAGTTC
ATCAAGAATGAACTTCAGGGTCAGCTTGTCGGCCGGCATGGTCCCAGCCTCCTCGCT
GGCGCCGGCTGGGCAACATTCGTGGCGAATGGGACCAATTAATTACTGACCCTGAA
GTTCATCTGCCAAGAGCAGATGAACTTCAGGGTCAGTCGGCCGGCATGGTCCCAGC
CTCCTCGCTGGCGCCGGCTGGGCAACATTCGTGGCGAATGGGACCAATAATAATCCC
TGAAGTTCATCTGCACCACAAGATGGTGCAGATGAACTTCAGGGTCGGCCGGCATG
GTCCCAGCCTCCTCGCTGGCGCCGGCTGGGCAACATTCGTGGCGAATGGGACCCATT
CAAACATGAGGATTACCCATGTCGAAGTTAATTAA                               (SEQ ID NO: 28)
                                                     63

      WO 2013/096866                                                          PCT/US2012/071419
        [0150]     One Shot BL21(DE3) Chemically Competent E. coli (Life Technologies) cells
are transformed with the 2 plasmids one containing Sequence A (SEQ ID NO: 7)and Sequence G
(SEQ ID NO: 28) selecting for chloramphenicol and ampicillin resistant transformants. For
capsid production these transformants are grown at 370 in 750 mL LB medium containing both
ampicillin and chloramphenicol. When the culture density reaches OD (600 nm)=0.8, isopropyl
P-D-1-thiogalactopyranoside (Sigma-Aldrich) is then added to a final concentration of 1 mM.
Cells are harvested 4 hours post-induction by centrifugation at 3,000 g and 4'C for 40 min. A
sample is taken prior to induction and at the time of harvest for analysis.
Example W: Production of MS2 Capsids using a transcript coding for the two strands of
an siRNA targeting GFP each flanked by a long Hammerhead ribozyme located at their 3'
ends and HDV ribozymes at their 5' ends, attached to MS2 19-mer RNA hairpin.
        [0151]     Production of MS2 capsids is conducted as follows. The following DNA
sequence (Sequence A; SEQ ID NO: 7), encoding MS2's coat protein is cloned into pDEST14
(Life Technologies) plasmid:
ACAAGTTTGTACAAAAAAGCAGGCTAAGAAGGAGATATACATATGGCTTCTAACTT
TACTCAGTTCGTTCTCGTCGACAATGGCGGAACTGGCGACGTGACTGTCGCCCCAAG
CAACTTCGCTAACGGGGTCGCTGAATGGATCAGCTCTAACTCGCGTTCACAGGCTTA
CAAAGTAACCTGTAGCGTTCGTCAGAGCTCTGCGCAGAATCGCAAATACACCATCA
AAGTCGAGGTGCCTAAAGTGGCAACCCAGACTGTTGGTGGTGTAGAGCTTCCTGTAG
CCGCATGGCGTTCGTACTTAAATATGGAACTAACCATTCCAATTTTCGCTACGAATT
CCGACTGCGAGCTTATTGTTAAGGCAATGCAAGGTCTCCTAAAAGATGGAAACCCG
ATTCCCTCAGCAATCGCAGCAAACTCCGGCATCTACTAATAG                                  (SEQ ID NO: 7)
        [0152]     The following DNA sequence, Sequence H (SEQ ID NO: 29) was cloned into
plasmid pACYC 184. A transcription terminator was also cloned at the 3' end of sequence H
(not shown).
        Sequence T7-Rz8
                                                 64

     WO 2013/096866                                                     PCT/US2012/071419
GGATCCTAATACGACTCACTATAGGGAGAATGAACTTCAGGGTCAGCTTGCTGATGA
GGCGCTTCGGCGCCGAAACACCGTGTCCAAGCTGACCCTGAAGTTCATGGCCGGCA
TGGTCCCAGCCTCCTCGCTGGCGCCGGCTGGGCAACATTCGTGGCGAATGGGACCAT
TAGCCAAGCTGACCCTGAAGTTCATCTGATGAGACTCCGAATTCGGAGTCGAAACAC
GGTAACCGTGTCATGAACTTCAGGGTCAGCTTGGCGGCCGGCATGGTCCCAGCCTCC
TCGCTGGCGCCGGCTGGGCAACATTCGTGGCGAATGGGACCCATTCAAACATGAGG
ATTACCCATGTCGAAGCCATGG (SEQ ID NO: 29)
        [0153]     One Shot BL21(DE3) Chemically Competent E. coli (Life Technologies) cells
were transformed with the 2 plasmids one containing Sequence A (SEQ ID NO: 104) and
Sequence H (SEQ ID NO: 126) selecting for chloramphenicol and ampicillin resistant
transformants. For capsid production these transformants were grown at 37o in 750 mL LB
medium containing both ampicillin and chloramphenicol. When the culture density reaches OD
(600 nm)=O.8, isopropyl P-D-1-thiogalactopyranoside (Sigma-Aldrich) was then added to a final
concentration of 1 mM. Cells were harvested 4 hours post-induction by centrifugation at 3,000 g
and 4'C for 40 min..
Example X: Production of MS2 Capsids using a transcript coding for 2 different siRNAs
targeting Green Fluorescent Protein (GFP) flanked by spacers located at their 3' ends and
5' ends, attached to MS2 19-mer RNA hairpin.
        [0154]     Production of MS2 capsids is conducted as follows. The following DNA
sequence (Sequence A; SEQ ID NO: 7), encoding MS2's coat protein was cloned into pDEST14
(Life Technologies) plasmid:
ACAAGTTTGTACAAAAAAGCAGGCTAAGAAGGAGATATACATATGGCTTCTAACTT
TACTCAGTTCGTTCTCGTCGACAATGGCGGAACTGGCGACGTGACTGTCGCCCCAAG
CAACTTCGCTAACGGGGTCGCTGAATGGATCAGCTCTAACTCGCGTTCACAGGCTTA
CAAAGTAACCTGTAGCGTTCGTCAGAGCTCTGCGCAGAATCGCAAATACACCATCA
AAGTCGAGGTGCCTAAAGTGGCAACCCAGACTGTTGGTGGTGTAGAGCTTCCTGTAG
CCGCATGGCGTTCGTACTTAAATATGGAACTAACCATTCCAATTTTCGCTACGAATT
                                               65

      WO 2013/096866                                                            PCT/US2012/071419
CCGACTGCGAGCTTATTGTTAAGGCAATGCAAGGTCTCCTAAAAGATGGAAACCCG
ATTCCCTCAGCAATCGCAGCAAACTCCGGCATCTACTAATAG                                   (SEQ ID NO: 7)
        [0155]      The following DNA sequence, Sequence I (SEQ ID NO: 30) was cloned into
plasmid pACYC 184. A transcription terminator was also cloned at the 3' end of Sequence I
(SEQ ID NO: 30)(not shown). Sequence I (SEQ ID NO: 30) coded for T7 promoter and start
sequence, 3 spacers separating the ends of the siRNAs against Green Fluorescent Protein (siGPF), 2
different siGFP hairpins, MS2's specific RNA 19-mer:
GGATCCTAATACGACTCACTATAGGGAGAAATAATAATCAAGCTGACCCTGAA
GTTCATCAAGAATGAACTTCAGGGTCAGCTTGTCAATAATAATCCGCTACCCCG
ACCACATGAACAAGATTCATGTGGTCGGGGTAGCGGTCAATAATAATACGCTT
CAAACATGAGGATTACCCATGTCGAAGCGACCATGG (SEQ ID NO: 30)
        [0156]      One Shot BL21(DE3) Chemically Competent E. coli (Life Technologies) cells
are transformed with the 2 plasmids one containing Sequence A (SEQ ID NO: 7) and Sequence I
(SEQ ID NO: 30) selecting for chloramphenicol and ampicillin resistant transformants. For
capsid production these transformants are grown at 370 in 750 mL LB medium containing both
ampicillin and chloramphenicol. When the culture density reaches OD (600 nm)=0.8, isopropyl
P-D-1-thiogalactopyranoside (Sigma-Aldrich) is then added to a final concentration of 1 mM.
Cells are harvested 4 hours post-induction by centrifugation at 3,000 g and 4'C for 40 min. A
sample is taken prior to induction and at the time of harvest for analysis.
Example Y: Purification of MS2 VLPs obtained in Examples 0 through X.
        [0157]      MS2 capsids obtained in Examples 0 through X are purified using procedures
outlined in Example N.
Example Z: Isolation of RNA encapsidated in MS2 capsids obtained in Example N
        [0158]      RNA encapsidated in MS2 capsids purified as described in Example N was
extracted from each experiment using TRIzol@ reagent according to the protocol supplied by the
manufacturer (Life Technologies, Grand Island, NY). RNA obtained was denatured by heating
                                                   66

      WO 2013/096866                                                          PCT/US2012/071419
for 5 min at 95'C in formamide and analyzed by electrophoresis in 17.6cmx38cmx0.04cm
(W,L,T) gels composed of 8% polyacrylamide, 8 molar urea, 1.08% Tris base, 0.55% Boric acid,
and 0.093% EDTA. The running buffer had the same concentrations of Tris base, Boric acid and
EDTA as the gel. Power was delivered at about 40W. Gels were stained using a 0.025%
solution of Stains-All dye (Sigma-Aldrich, St. Louis, MO) in an aqueous mixture containing
25% formamide, 19% isopropanol and 15 mM Tris at pH 8. Results obtained are shown in
Figure 15. Lane numbers for RNA electrophoresis in Figure 15 refer to the same lane numbers
for protein electrophoresis in Figure 14. A single RNA band can be observed in each lane,
consistent with high purity RNA recovered in each case.
Example AA: HDV Ribozyme produced shRNA during in-vitro transcriptions.
         [0159]      Construct T7-Rz2 was used for in-vitro transcriptions. This construct was
cloned into pACYC184 plasmid (New England Biolabs). One Shot BL21(DE3) Chemically
Competent E. coli (Life Technologies) cells were transformed using this plasmid. BL21(DE3)
containing the plasmid were grown in LB medium containing ampicillin at 37 0 C, to OD(600nm)
equal to 0.8. Plasmids were isolated using QlAprep@ Spin Miniprep Kit (Qiagen) following
manufacturer's instructions. NcoI (New England Biolabs) was used to cut isolated plasmids at
the restrictions sites introduced into this construct. After digestion, templates were purified by
electrophoresis on 1.5% agarose gels and isolated using PureLinkTM Quick Gel Extraction Kit
(Life Technologies) following manufacturer's instructions. Reverse transcriptions were done
using MAXIscript@ T7 Kit following manufacturer's instructions. RNA products were
electrophoresed in Novex@ denaturing15 % polyacrylamide TBE-Urea gels (Life Technologies)
run at 70'C. RNA bands were visualized using ethidium bromide (Sigma-Aldrich). Gel imaging
was done using Image Lab 4.0.1 software (Bio-Rad).
         [0160]      Template T7-Rz2 encodes T7 promoter, shRNA hairpin, HDV ribozyme
designed to cleave the 3' end of the shRNA hairpin, ATATATATAT spacer, and NcoI restriction
site as follows:
         TAATACGACTCACTATAGGCTTGTGATGCTTCAGCCAAATCAAGAGTTTGGCT
GAAGCATCACAAGCGGCCGGCATGGTCCCAGCCTCCTCGCTGGCGCCGGCTGGGCA
                                                   67

     WO 2013/096866                                                           PCT/US2012/071419
ACATTCGTGGCGAATGGGACCATATATATATACATGAGGATTACCCATGTCCATGG
(SEQ ID NO: 31)
        [0161]      The results show that the HDV ribozyme cut. The top band was the uncut
transcript and the two lower bands were the expected cut pieces of RNA.
        [0162]      The gel in Figure 16 shows a set of RNA markers in the leftmost lane, a 49
nucleotide shRNA marker in the following lane, in-vitro transcription and cutting of T7-Rz2
construct run for 1 hour at 37'C in the third lane and in-vitro transcription and cutting of T7-Rz2
construct run for 1 hour at 37'C and incubated one additional hour at 42'C in the fourth,
rightmost lane.
        [0163]      The slowest of the three most intense bands had a higher intensity at 37 than
at 37/42. In addition, the two faster bands had higher intensity at 37/42 than at 37. The lowest
molecular weight band in the last lane run slightly slower than the 49 nt shRNA standard, as
expected for the resulting 51 nucleotide shRNA in T7Rz2. In summary, the results as shown in
Figures 16 are consistent with the hypothesis that HDV ribozyme cut in T7-Rz2.
Example BB: Long flanking Hammerhead Ribozymes cut to a significantly higher extent
during in-vitro transcriptions than short flanking Hammerhead Ribozymes
        [0164]      Constructs T7-Rzl and T7-Rz4 were used for in-vitro transcriptions. T7-Rzl
comprises common ribozymes, i.e., with stems hybridizing the siRNA being cut of less than 6
pairs of hybridizing nucleotides. T7-Rz4 comprises flanking rybozymes with long-length stems
that hybridize the siRNA being cut, i.e. stems with more than 6 pairs of hybridizing nucleotides.
        [0165]      Construct T7-Rzl encoded T7 promoter, Hammerhead (HH) ribozyme
designed to cleave the 5' end of a siRNA hairpin with 5 nucleotides complementary to siRNA,
siRNA hairpin, HH ribozyme designed to cleave the 3' end of the siRNA hairpin with 5
nucleotides complementary to siRNA, and NcoI restriction site:
TAATACGACTCACTATAGGCTCGAGCAAGCCTGATGAGGCGCTTCGGCGCCGAAAC
ACCGTGTCGCTTGTGATGCTTCAGCCAAATCAAGAGTTTGGCTGAAGCATCACAAGC
TCACCGGATGTGCTCTCCGGTCTGATGAGTCCGTGAGGACGAAAGCTTGCCATGG
(SEQ ID NO: 32)
                                                  68

      WO 2013/096866                                                        PCT/US2012/071419
         [0166]     Construct T7-Rz4 encoded ansiRNA flanked by a HH ribozyme designed to
cut its 5' end having 12 nucleotides hybridizing to the siRNA and a HH ribozyme designed to
cut its 3' end having 23 nucleotides hybridizing to the siRNA:
TAATACGACTCACTATAGGGAGAACGCCGGCCATTCAAATAGTAAATAATAGAGGG
TCAGCTTGCTGATGAGGCGCTTCGGCGCCGAAACACCGTGTCCAAGCTGACCCTGAA
GTTCATCAAGAGTGAACTTCAGGGTCAGCTTGTCACCGGATGTGCTCTCCGGTCTGA
TGAGTCCGTGAGGACGAAACAAGCTGACCCTGAAGTTCACTACGCCGGCCATTCAA
ACATGAGGATTACCCATGTCCATGG (SEQ ID NO: 33)
         [0167]     In-vitro transcription experiments and analyses were run with these constructs
in a similar manner to those in Example Y. As shown in Figure 17, results obtained with
construct T7-Rz1 were consistent with a hypothesis that ribozymes cut to a very low extent.
Results obtained with construct T7-Rz4 shown in Figure 17 were consistent with a hypothesis
that ribozymes cut to a significant extent.
Example CC: Production of MS2 Capsids using a transcript coding for shRNA against
EGFP flanked by a long Hammerhead ribozyme at its 5' end and another long
Hammerhead ribozyme attached to MS2 19-mer RNA hairpin at its 3 end..
         [0168]     Production of MS2 capsids was conducted as follows. The following DNA
sequence (Sequence A; SEQ ID NO: 7), encoding MS2's coat protein was cloned into pDEST14
(Life Technologies) plasmid:
ACAAGTTTGTACAAAAAAGCAGGCTAAGAAGGAGATATACATATGGCTTCTAACTT
TACTCAGTTCGTTCTCGTCGACAATGGCGGAACTGGCGACGTGACTGTCGCCCCAAG
CAACTTCGCTAACGGGGTCGCTGAATGGATCAGCTCTAACTCGCGTTCACAGGCTTA
CAAAGTAACCTGTAGCGTTCGTCAGAGCTCTGCGCAGAATCGCAAATACACCATCA
AAGTCGAGGTGCCTAAAGTGGCAACCCAGACTGTTGGTGGTGTAGAGCTTCCTGTAG
CCGCATGGCGTTCGTACTTAAATATGGAACTAACCATTCCAATTTTCGCTACGAATT
CCGACTGCGAGCTTATTGTTAAGGCAATGCAAGGTCTCCTAAAAGATGGAAACCCG
ATTCCCTCAGCAATCGCAGCAAACTCCGGCATCTACTAATAG                               (SEQ ID NO 7)
                                                  69

     WO 2013/096866                                                        PCT/US2012/071419
        [0169]      The following DNA sequence (construct T7-Rz4) was cloned into plasmid
pACYC 184. A transcription terminator was also cloned at the 3' end of construct T7-Rz4 (not
shown).
TAATACGACTCACTATAGGGAGAACGCCGGCCATTCAAATAGTAAATAATAGAGGG
TCAGCTTGCTGATGAGGCGCTTCGGCGCCGAAACACCGTGTCCAAGCTGACCCTGAA
GTTCATCAAGAGTGAACTTCAGGGTCAGCTTGTCACCGGATGTGCTCTCCGGTCTGA
TGAGTCCGTGAGGACGAAACAAGCTGACCCTGAAGTTCACTACGCCGGCCATTCAA
ACATGAGGATTACCCATGTCCATGG (SEQ ID NO: 33)
        [0170]      One Shot BL21(DE3) Chemically Competent E. coli (Life Technologies) cells
were transformed with the 2 plasmids one containing Sequence A (SEQ ID NO: 7) and construct
T7-Rz4 (SEQ ID NO: 33) selecting for chloramphenicol and ampicillin resistant transformants.
For capsid production these transformants were grown at 370 in 750 mL LB medium containing
both ampicillin and chloramphenicol. When the culture density reached OD (600 nm)=0.8,
isopropyl -D-1-thiogalactopyranoside (Sigma-Aldrich) was then added to a final concentration
of 1 mM. Cells were harvested 4 hours post-induction by centrifugation at 3,000 g and 4'C for
40 min. A sample was taken prior to induction and at the time of harvest for analysis.
Example DD: Purification of Virus Like Particles obtained in Example CC.
        [0171]      Purification of Virus Like Particles produced in Example CC. was conducted
as in Example N.
Example EE: Isolation of RNA in Virus Like Particles obtained in Example DD
        [0172]      RNA encapsidated in Virus Like Particles purified as described in Example
DD were extracted using TRIzol@ reagent according to the protocol supplied by the
manufacturer (Life Technologies, Grand Island, NY). RNA obtained was denatured by heating
for 5 min at 95'C in formamide and analyzed by electrophoresis in Novex@ denaturingl15%
polyacrylamide TBE-Urea gels (Life Technologies) run at 70'C. RNA bands were visualized
using 0.5 [tg of Ethidium Bromide (Sigma-Aldrich, St. Louis, MO) per mL of aqueous solution.
Results obtained are shown in lane 3, Figure 18. Lane 1 shows a set of molecular standards.
Lane 2 shows a chemically synthesized shRNA 49 nucleotides long.
                                                 70

     WO 2013/096866                                                          PCT/US2012/071419
Example FF: Virus Like Particles comprising MS2 Capsids obtained in Example DD are
resistant to Proteinase K from Engyodontium album, licheniformis, Pepsin from porcine
gastric mucosa, and Papain from papaya latex.
         [0173]     Virus Like Particles comprising MS2 Capsids obtained from 250 mL of
culture and purified as described in Example DD were suspended in 400 iL 20mM CaCl 2
aqueous solution at pH    = 7.5.
         [0174]     A 66 ptL aliquote of this suspension was diluted to 0.25 mL with 20mM CaCl 2
aqueous solution at pH    = 7.5 and incubated at 37 0 C. Samples were taken for protein
concentration (Pierce@ BCA Protein Assay Kit, Thermo Fisher Scientific, Rockford, IL) and
SDS PAGE analyses after 1 hour, and 4 hours of incubation. Protein concentration in these 2
samples was 3086, and 4656 mg/L respectively. SDS PAGE analyses are shown in Figure 19,
Lanes IB, and 6 respectively. The same amount of protein was loaded in each lane (4 pig). This
set of experiments was used as a negative control.
         [0175]     2 [tg Protease from Streptomyces griseus (Sigma Aldrich, St. Louis, MO) was
diluted to 0.25 mL with 20mM CaCl 2 aqueous solution at pH = 7.5 and incubated at 37 0 C.
Samples were taken for protein concentration and SDS PAGE analyses after 1 hour, and 4 hours
of incubation. Protein concentration in these 2 samples was 361, and 324 mg/L respectively.
SDS PAGE analyses are shown in Figure 19, Lanes 1, and 7 respectively. The same amount of
protein was loaded in each lane (4 [tg). This set of experiments was used as another negative
control.
         [0176]     2 [tg of Protease from Streptomyces griseus was added to another 66 piL
aliquote of the Virus Like Particles comprising MS2 Capsids suspension, diluted to 0.25 mL with
20mM CaCl 2 aqueous solution at pH      = 7.5 and incubated at 37 0 C. Samples were taken for
protein concentration and SDS PAGE analyses after 1 hour, and 4 hours of incubation. Protein
concentration in these 2 samples was 2940, and 3012 mg/L respectively. SDS PAGE analyses
are shown in Figure 19, Lanes 2, and 8 respectively. The same amount of protein was loaded in
each lane (4 [tg). This set of experiments was used to test the proteolytic stability towards
Protease from Streptomyces griseus of MS2 capsids forming the Virus Like Particles. Less than
10% degradation was observed.
                                                   71

      WO 2013/096866                                                           PCT/US2012/071419
         [0177]     Another 66 ptL aliquote of the Virus Like Particles comprising MS2 Capsids
suspension, diluted to 0.25 mL with 20mM CaCl 2 aqueous solution at pH        = 7.5 was subjected to
three cycles of heating to 95'C for 10 minutes and cooling on wet ice for 10 min to achieve the
disassembly of the Virus Like Particles. 2 [tg of Protease from Streptomyces griseus was then
added to this suspension and was incubated at 37'C. Samples were taken for protein
concentration and SDS PAGE analyses after 1 hour, and 4 hours of incubation. Protein
concentration in these 2 samples was 2601, and 3033 mg/L respectively. SDS PAGE analyses
are shown in Figure 19, Lanes 3, and 9 respectively. The same amount of protein was loaded in
each lane (4 ptg). Disassembled particles were degraded to a significant extent by Protease from
Streptomyces griseus. This set of experiments was used as a positive control.
         [0178]     2 [tg of Protease from Streptomyces griseus dissolved in 0.002 mL of 20mM
CaCl 2 aqueous solution at pH   =  7.5 was added to 0.248 mL of bacterial cell lysate obtained from
41 mL of cell culture from example CC and incubated at 37'C. Samples were taken for protein
concentration and SDS PAGE analyses after 1 hour, and 4 hours of incubation. Protein
concentration in these 2 samples was 3192, and 4837 mg/L respectively. SDS PAGE analyses
are shown in Figure 19, Lanes 4, and 10 respectively. The last lane of Figure 19, labeled L,
shows untreated bacterial cell lysate. The same amount of protein was loaded in each lane (4
ptg). More than 90% of proteins other than MS2 capsid protein were degraded by Protease from
Streptomyces griseus. This set of experiments was used as another positive control.
         [0179]     This set of five experiments demonstrate that MS2 capsids forming the Virus
Like Particles of this disclosure are resistant to proteolysis by Protease from Streptomyces
griseus.
         [0180]     2 [tg Protease from Bacillus licheniformis (Sigma Aldrich, St. Louis, MO) was
diluted to 0.25 mL with 10 mM Na acetate and 5 mM Ca acetate aqueous solution at pH         = 7.5
and incubated at 37'C. Samples were taken for protein concentration and SDS PAGE analyses
after 1 hour, and 4 hours of incubation. Protein concentration in these 2 samples was 976, and
1003 mg/L respectively. SDS PAGE analyses are shown in Figure 19, Lanes 2B, and 7B
respectively. The same amount of protein was loaded in each lane (4 pig). This set of
experiments was used as another negative control.
                                                   72

      WO 2013/096866                                                          PCT/US2012/071419
         [0181]      2 ig of Protease from Bacillus licheniformis was added to another 66 piL
aliquote of the Virus Like Particles comprising MS2 Capsids suspension, diluted to 0.25 mL with
10 mM Na acetate and 5 mM Ca acetate aqueous solution at pH         = 7.5 and incubated at 37'C.
Samples were taken for protein concentration and SDS PAGE analyses after 1 hour, and 4 hours
of incubation. Protein concentration in these 2 samples was 3144, and 3727 mg/L respectively.
SDS PAGE analyses are shown in Figure 19, Lanes 3B, and 8B respectively. The same amount
of protein was loaded in each lane (4 ptg). This set of experiments was used to test the
proteolytic stability towards Protease from Bacillus licheniformis of MS2 capsids forming the
Virus Like Particles. Less than 10% degradation was observed.
         [0182]      Another 66 ptL aliquote of the Virus Like Particles comprising MS2 Capsids
suspension, diluted to 0.25 mL with 10 mM Na acetate and 5 mM Ca acetate aqueous solution at
pH  =  7.5 was subjected to three cycles of heating to 95'C for 10 minutes and cooling on wet ice
for 10 min to achieve the disassembly of the Virus Like Particles. 2 [ig of Protease from Bacillus
licheniformis was then added to this suspension and was incubated at 37'C. Samples were taken
for protein concentration and SDS PAGE analyses after 1 hour, and 4 hours of incubation.
Protein concentration in these 2 samples was 1769, and 1785 mg/L respectively. SDS PAGE
analyses are shown in Figure 19, Lanes 4B, and 9B respectively. The same amount of protein
was loaded in each lane (4 ptg). Disassembled particles were degraded by Protease from
Bacillus licheniformis. This set of experiments was used as a positive control.
         [0183]      2 [tg of Protease from Bacillus licheniformis dissolved in 0.002 mL of 10 mM
Na acetate and 5 mM Ca acetate aqueous solution at pH = 7.5 was added to 0.248 mL of
bacterial cell lysate obtained from 41 mL of cell culture from example CC and incubated at
37'C. Samples were taken for protein concentration and SDS PAGE analyses after 1 hour, and 4
hours of incubation. Protein concentration in these 2 samples was 3696, and 4078 mg/L
respectively. SDS PAGE analyses are shown in Figure 19, Lanes 6B, and 1OB respectively. The
last lane of Figure 19, labeled L, shows untreated bacterial cell lysate. The same amount of
protein was loaded in each lane (4 [tg). More than 90% of proteins other than MS2 capsid
protein were degraded by Protease from Bacillus licheniformis. This set of experiments was
used as another positive control.
                                                  73

      WO 2013/096866                                                          PCT/US2012/071419
         [0184]     This set of four experiments demonstrated that MS2 capsids forming the Virus
Like Particles of this disclosure are resistant to proteolysis by Protease from Bacillus
licheniformis.
         [0185]     Three additional sets of equivalent experiments demonstrated that MS2
capsids forming the Virus Like Particles of this disclosure are resistant to proteolysis by any of
the following three proteases: Proteinase K from Engyodontium album, Pepsin from porcine
gastric mucosa (CAS Number 9001-75-6), and Papain from papaya latex (CAS Number 9001
73-4) (Sigma-Aldrich, St. Louis, MO). Each protease was used according the manufacturer's
instructions. Proteinase K was used at pH     = 7.5, Pepsin was used at pH  = 1.6, and Papain was
used at pH = 6.6.
Example GG: Capsid coat protein variants
         [0186]     The MS2 viral capsid protein (SEQ.ID No. 3) has a single folding domain and
belongs to fold family d.85.1 (RNA bacteriophage capsid protein) of superfamily d.85, which
includes leviviridae and alloleviviridae capsid proteins. Each capsid monomer in this family is
made up of a 6-stranded beta sheet followed by the two helices (sometimes described as a long
helix with a kink). 180 monomers assemble noncovalently to form an icosahedral (roughly
spherical) viral capsid with a continuous beta-sheet layer facing the capsid interior and the alpha
helices on the capsid exterior. X-ray crystal structures have been solved and placed in the public
domain for the enterobacteriophage MS2, GA (UniProt sequence identifier P07234) and FR
(UniProt sequence identifier P03614) viral capsids and the capsid of MS2 formed from an MS2
dimer in which one C-terminus of one MS2 has been fused to the N-terminus of another, all
d.85.1 family leviviridae coat proteins. The Protein Data Bank identifiers for these structures are
1AQ3 (SEQ ID NO: 34), IGAV (SEQ ID NO: 35), 1FRS (SEQ ID NO: 36) and 2VTU (SEQ ID
NO: 37), respectively, and alignment of these is shown Figure 20. In this an all alignments
described herein, the residue numbering is sequential residue numbering, for example SEQ ID 3
starting with 0 for the lead Met (M) residue which is removed by the cell, as used for most PDB
structures.
         [0187]     The sequences of MS2 viral capsid protein vs the GA and FR viral capsid
proteins are 59% and 87% identical respectively. Only 56% of the sequence positions have
                                                   74

     WO 2013/096866                                                            PCT/US2012/071419
identical sequence and topologically equivalent positions with respect to the backbone overlays
when all three sequences are considered together. The rms deviation of the backbone
conformations of MS2 viral capsid protein vs the GA and FR viral capsid monomers are under
1A. The backbone rms deviation of 1AQ3 monomer A vs 1 GAV monomer 0 is 0.89 Angstroms.
The backbone rms deviation of 1AQ3 monomer A vs 1FRS monomer A is 0.37 Angstroms.
Comparisons were made using the freeware utility jFATCAT rigid (Prlic, et al, Bioinformatics
26,2983-2985 (2010); www.rcsb.org/pdb/workbench/workbench.do;
www.rcsb.org/pdb/workbench/workbench.do), a tool familiar to practitioners of structure study
protein available at the RCSB Protein Data Bank site in their standard workbench of protein
structure tools. The overall fold of these proteins is identical. There are no insertions or deletions.
Each protein in the crystallographic asymmetric unit is independently refined. Different,
compositionally identical proteins within an asymmetric unit generally backbone rms deviations
of 1 Angstrom or greater although topologically equivalent Calipha atoms of the core tend to
differ by less, about 0.45 Anstroms (Cyrus Chothia & Arthur M Lesk (1986) EMBO J 5, 823
826). For example, 1AQ3 monomer A and 1AQ3 monomer B have rms deviation of 1.72A
(jFATCAT rigid) primarily because of conformational differences in the Lys66-Trp82 region.
         [0188]      If sufficient members of a fold family have been identified, a clear picture of
conserved residues, topologically equivalent residue positions within the sequences which
seldom or never mutate within the family, emerges. Nonconserved positions can be expected to
mutate from one sequence to another without disturbing the family fold, perhaps in conjunction
with the concerted mutation of spatial neighbor(s) in the fold particularly if the sidechain packs
against the sidechain(s) of the spatial neighbors. Conserved residues can be critical for fold
stability, function or processing of the protein, for example proteolytic digestion.    Some can be
coincidentally conserved. GenBank (Dennis A. Benson, Ilene Karsch-Mizrachi, David J.
Lipman, James Ostell, and David L. Wheeler (2005) Nucleic Acids Res 33, D34-D38) currently
holds 353 leviviridae coat protein sequences.      The alignment table shown in Figure 21 shows
the multiple alignment of 40 complete leviviridae coat protein sequences retrieved from the
global protein sequence database UniProt (Universal Protein Resource, (The UniProt
Consortium, Reorganizing the protein space at the Universal Protein Resource (UniProt) Nucleic
Acids Res. 40: D71-D75 (2012)), http://www.uniprot.org) (See Table 1 below) and aligned with
                                                   75

     WO 2013/096866                                                          PCT/US2012/071419
BLAST (threshold=10, Auto weighting array selection, no filtering, gaps allowed). All
sequences except efl08465 were taken from UniProt. efl08465 came from GenBank
(www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/genbank). In the alignment table, asterisk (*) indicates conserved
residues, x is calculated to be substitutable based on sidechain solvent accessibility, hydrogen
bonding requirements and backbone conformational constraints. Fifty-seven (57) residues in the
sequences of these family members are conserved, or 45% of the sequences are identical to on
another. Some of these sequences have an additional residue following the C-terminal Tyr129
residue of SEQ ID NO: 3, others have 1-2 residues removed from the N-terminus with respect to
SEQ ID NO: 3. There are no insertions or deletions within the fold.
Table 1: List of 40 complete leviviridae coat protein sequences retrieved from the global protein
sequence database UniProt
        Accession       Entry Name                     Organism                       Identifier
        G4WZUO          G4WZUOBPMS2116                 enterobacteria phage ms2       329852
        DOU1D6          DOU1D6_BPMS2116                enterobacteria phage ms2       12022
        COM2U4          COM2U4_BPMS2116enterobacteria phage ms2            12022 gene ms2g2
        COM2S8          COM2S8_BPMS2116 enterobacteria phage ms2           12022 gene ms2g2
        COM212          COM212_BPMS2116 enterobacteria phage ms2           12022 gene ms2g2
        COM1M2          COM1M2_BPMS2116 enterobacteria phage ms2 12022 gene ms2g2
        COM2L4          COM2L4_BPMS2116 enterobacteria phage ms2            12022 gene ms2g2
        COM220          COM220_BPMS2116 enterobacteria phage ms2 12022 gene ms2g2
        Q2VOS8          Q2V0S8_BPBO1116 enterobacteria phage bol           12014
        COM216          COM216_BPMS2116 enterobacteria phage ms2 12022 gene ms2g2
        COM1Y0          COM1YOBPMS2116 enterobacteria phage ms2 12022 gene ms2g2
        DOU1E4          DOU1E4_BPMS2116 enterobacteria phage ms2 12022 gene ms2g2
        COM309          COM309_BPMS2116 enterobacteria phage ms2 12022 gene ms2g2
        COM325          COM325_BPMS2116 enterobacteria phage ms2 12022 gene ms2g2
        Q9T1C7          Q9T1C7_BPMS2116 enterobacteria phage ms12 110679
        COM2Zl          COM2Z1_BPMS2116 enterobacteria phage ms2            12022 gene ms2g2
        COM1N8          COM1N8_BPMS2116 enterobacteria phage ms2 12022 gene ms2g2
        J9QBW2          J9QBW2_BPMS2116 enterobacteria phage ms2 12022 gene ms2g2
        C8XPC9          C8XPC9_BPMS2113 enterobacteria phage ms2 329852
                                                  76

    WO 2013/096866                                                 PCT/US2012/071419
      COM2Y4       COM2Y4_BPMS2115 enterobacteria phage ms2 12022 gene ms2g2
      P69171       COA T_BPZR1 15   enterobacteria phage zr   332942
      P69170       COAT_BPR17116     enterobacteria phage r17 12026
      P03612       COATBPMS2       enterobacteria phage ms2 329852
      COM1L4       COM1L4_BPMS2116 enterobacteria phage ms2       12022 gene ms2g2
      C8XPD7       C8XPD7_BPMS2116 enterobacteria phage ms2 329852 gene cp
      Q2VOT1       Q2VOT1_BPZR116    enterobacteria phage zr   332942
      Q9MCD7       Q9MCD7_BPJP5115 enterobacteria phagejp50l 12020
      P03611       COA T_BPF2115   enterobacteria phage f2    12016
      P34700       COATBPJP3115     enterobacteriaphagejp34    12019
      Q2VOU0       Q2VOUOBPBZ1115 enterobacteria phagejp500 332939
      Q2VOT7       Q2VOT7_BPBZ1115 enterobacteria phage sd      332940
      Q9MBL2       Q9MBL2_BPKU1115 enterobacteria phage kul       12021
      P07234       COATBPGA1 15      enterobacteria phage ga   12018
      C8YJG7       C8YJG7_BPBZ1115 enterobacteria phage bzl3 329853
      C8YJH1       C8YJH1_BPBZ1115 enterobacteria phage bzl3 329853
      C8YJH5       C8YJH5_BPBZ 1115 enterobacteria phage bzl3 329853
      Q2VOT4       Q2VOT4_BPTH 1115 enterobacteria phage th1     12029
      Q2VOU3       Q2VOU3_BPBZ 1116 enterobacteria phage tl2 332938
      P03614       COAT_BPFR1 16    enterobacteria phage fr   12017
      efl08465                        enterobacteria phage r17 329852
SEQ ID NO:   34 1AQ3  Enterobacteria phage MS2 coat protein T59S
ASNFTQFVLVDNGGTGDVTVAPSNFANGVAEWISSNSRSQAYKVTCSVRQSSAQNRKYSI
KVEVPKVATQTVGGVELPVAAWRSYLNMELTIPIFATNSDCELIVKAMQGLLKDGNPIPS
AIAANSGIY
SEQ ID NO:   35 1GAV   Enterobacteria phage GA coat protein A59T G79V
ATLRSFVLVDNGGTGNVTVVPVSNANGVAEWLSNNSRSQAYRVTASYRASGADKRKYTIK
LEVPKIVTQVVNGVELPGSAWKAYASIDLTIPIFAATDDVTVISKSLAGLFKVGNPIAEA
ISSQSGFYA
                                         77

    WO 2013/096866                                         PCT/US2012/071419
SEQ ID NO:   36 1FRS    Enterobacteria phage FR coat protei
>spIPO3614|COAT_BPFR     Coat protein OS=Enterobacteria phage fr PE=1 SV=4
ASNFEEFVLVDNGGTGDVKVAPSNFANGVAEWISSNSRSQAYKVTCSVRQSSANNRKYTV
KVEVPKVATQVQGGVELPVAAWRSYMNMELTIPVFATNDDCALIVKALQGTFKTGNPIAT
AIAANSGIY
SEQ ID NO:   37 2VTU Enterobacteria phage MS2 coat protein covalent
dimer
spIPO3612|COAT_BPMS2 Coat protein OS=Enterobacteria phage MS2 PE=1
SV=2
ASNFTQFVLVDNGGTGDVTVAPSNFANGVAEWISSNSRSQAYKVTCSVRQSSAQNRKYTI
KVEVPKVATQTVGGVELPVAAWRSYLNMELTIPIFATNSDCELIVKAMQGLLKDGNPIPS
AIAANSGIYANFTQFVLVDNGGTGDVTVAPSNFANGVAEWISSNSRSQAYKVTCSVRQSS
AQNRKYTIKVEVPKVATQTVGGVELPVAAWRSYLNMELTIPIFATNSDCELIVKAMQGLL
KDGNPIPSAIAANSGIY
SEQ ID NO:   38   (SEQ ID NO: 38) G4WZUO G4WZUOBPMS2116 enterobacteria
phage ms2   329852
>spIPO3612|COAT_BPMS2 Coat protein OS=Enterobacteria phage MS2 PE=1
SV=2
MASNFTQFVLVDNGGTGDVTVAPSNFANGVAEWISSNSRSQAYKVTCSVRQSSAQNRKYT
IKVEVPKVATQTVGGVELPVAAWRSYLNLELTIPIFATNSDCELIVKAMQGLLKDGNPIP
SAIAANSGIY
SEQ ID NO:   39
D0U1D6      D0U1D6_BPMS2116    enterobacteria phage ms2   12022
>trIDOU1D6|DOU1D6_BPMS2 Coat protein OS=Enterobacterio phage MS2 PE=4
SV=1
MASNFTQFVLVDNGGTGDVTVAPSNFANGVAEWISSNSRSQAYKVTCSVRQSSAQNRKYTIKVEVPKVAT
QTVGGVELPVAAWRSYLNLELTIPIFATNSDCELIVKAMQGLLKDGNPIPSAIAANSGIY
SEQ ID NO:   40
COM2U4      COM2U4_BPMS2116    enterobacteria phage ms2   12022    gene
ms2g2
>tr|COM2U4|COM2U4_BPMS2 Coat protein OS=Enterobacterio phage MS2
GN=MS2g2 PE=4 SV=1
MASNFTQFVLVDNGGTGDVTVAPSNFANGVAEWISSNSRSQAYKVTCSVRQSSAQNRKYTIKVELPKVAT
QTVGGVELPVAAWRSYLNMELTIPIFATNSDCELIVKAMQGLLKDGNPIPSAIAANSGIY
SEQ ID NO:   41
                                       78

    WO 2013/096866                                     PCT/US2012/071419
COM2S8      COM2S8_BPMS2116 enterobacteria phage ms2   12022   gene
ms2g2
>trICOM2S8ICOM2S8_BPMS2 Coat protein OS=Enterobacterio phage MS2
GN=MS2g2 PE=4 SV=1
MASNFTQFVLVDNGGTGDVTVAPSNFANGVAEWISSNSRSQAYKVTCSVRQSSAQNRKYTIKVEVPKVAT
QTVGGVELPVAAWRSYLNVELTIPIFATNSDCELIVKAMQGLLKDGNPIPSAIAANSGIY
SEQ ID NO:   42
COM212      COM212_BPMS2116 enterobacteria phage ms2   12022   gene
ms2g2
trICOM212|COM212_BPMS2 Coat protein OS=Enterobacterio phage MS2
GN=MS2g2 PE=4 SV=1
MASNFTQFVLVDNGGTGDVTVAPSNFANGVAEWISSNSRSQAYKVTCSVRQSSAQNRKYTIKVEVPKVAT
QTVGGVELPVAAWRSYLNMELTIPIFATNPDCELIVKAMQGLLKDGNPIPSAIAANSGIY
                                    79

    WO 2013/096866                                     PCT/US2012/071419
SEQ ID NO:   43
COM1M2      COM1M2_BPMS2116 enterobacteria phage ms2   12022   gene
ms2g2
>tr|COM1M2|COM1M2_BPMS2 Coat protein OS=Enterobacterio phage MS2
GN=MS2g2 PE=4 SV=1
MASNFTQFVLVDNGGTGDVAVAPSNFANGVAEWISSNSRSQAYKVTCSVRQSSAQNRKYTIKVEVPKVAT
QTVGGVELPVAAWRSYLNMELTIPIFATNSDCELIVKAMQGLLKDGNPIPSAIAANSGIY
SEQ ID NO:   44
COM2L4      COM2L4_BPMS2116 enterobacteria phage ms2   12022   gene
ms2g2
>tr|C0M2L4IC0M2L4_BPMS2 Coat protein OS=Enterobacterio phage MS2
GN=MS2g2 PE=4 SV=1
MASNFTQFVLVDNGGTGDVTVAPSNFANGVAEWISSNSRSQAYKVTCSVXQSSAQNRKYTIKVEVPKVAT
QTVGGVELPVAAWRSYLNMELTIPIFATNSDCELIVKAMQGLLKDGNPIPSAIAANSGIY
SEQ ID NO:   45
COM220      COM220_BPMS2116 enterobacteria phage ms2   12022   gene
ms2g2
>trICOM220ICOM220_BPMS2 Coat protein OS=Enterobacterio phage MS2
GN=MS2g2 PE=4 SV=1
MASNFTXFVLVDNGGTGDVTVAPSNFANGVAEWISSNSRSQAYKVTCSVRQSSAQNRKYTIKVEVPKVAT
QTVGGVELPVAAWRSYLNMELTIPIFATNSDCELIVKAMQGLLKDGNPIPSAIAANSGIY
SEQ ID NO:   46
Q2VOS8      Q2VOS8_BPBO1116 enterobacteria phage bol   12014
>trIQ2VOS8|Q2VOS8_BPBO1 Coat protein OS=Enterobacteria phage B01 PE=4
SV=1
MASNFTQFVLVDNGGTGDVTVAPSNFANGVAEWISSNSRSQAYKVTCSVRQSSAQNRKYTIKVEVPKVAT
QTVGGVELPVAAWRSYLNMELTIPIFATNSDCELIVKAMQGPLKDGNPIPSAIAANSGIY
SEQ ID NO:   47
COM216      COM216_BPMS2116 enterobacteria phage ms2   12022   gene
ms2g2
>trICOM216|COM216_BPMS2 Coat protein OS=Enterobacterio phage MS2
GN=MS2g2 PE=4 SV=1
MASNFTQFVLVDNDGTGDVTVAPSNFANGVAEWISSNSRSQAYKVTCSVRQSSAQNRKYTIKVEVPKVAT
QTVGGVELPVAAWRSYLNMELTIPIFATNSDCELIVKAMQGLLKDGNPIPSAIAANSGIY
SEQ ID NO:   48
COM1YO      COM1YOBPMS2116  enterobacteria phage ms2   12022   gene
ms2g2
                                    80

    WO 2013/096866                                     PCT/US2012/071419
>trICOM1Y0ICOM1YOBPMS2 Coat protein OS=Enterobacterio phage MS2
GN=MS2g2 PE=4 SV=1
MASNFTQFVLVDNGGTGXVTVAPSNFANGVAEWISSNSRSQAYKVTCSVRQSSAQNRKYTIKVEVPKVAT
QTVGGVELPVAAWRSYLNMELTIPIFATNSDCELIVKAMQGLLKDGNPIPSAIAANSGIY
SEQ ID NO:    49
DOU1E4      DOU1E4_BPMS2116 enterobacteria phage ms2   12022   gene
ms2g2
>trIDOU1E4IDOU1E4_BPMS2 Coat protein OS=Enterobacterio phage MS2 PE=4
SV=1
MASNFTQFVLVDNGGTGDVTVAPSNFANGVAEWISSNSRSQAYKVTCSVRQSSAQNRKYTIKVEVPKVAT
QTVGGVELPVAAWRSYLNLELTIPIFATNPDCELIVKAMQGLLKDGNPIPSAIAANSGIY
SEQ ID NO:    50
COM309      COM309_BPMS2116 enterobacteria phage ms2   12022   gene
ms2g2
>trICOM309ICOM309_BPMS2 Coat protein OS=Enterobacterio phage MS2
GN=MS2g2 PE=4 SV=1
MASNFTQFVLVDNGGTGDVTVAPSNFANGVAEWISSNSRSQAYKVTCSVRQSSAQNRKYTIKVEVPKVAT
QTVGGVELPVAAWRSYLNMELTIPIFATNSDCELIVKAMQGLLKDGNPISSAIAANSGIY
SEQ ID NO:    51
COM325      COM325_BPMS2116 enterobacteria phage ms2   12022   gene
ms2g2
>trICOM325ICOM325_BPMS2 Coat protein OS=Enterobacterio phage MS2
GN=MS2g2 PE=4 SV=1
MASNFTQFVLVDNGGTGDVTVAPSNFANGVAEWISSNSRSQAYKVTCSVRQSSAQNRKYTIKVEVPKVAT
QTVGGVELPVAAWRSYLNVELTIPIFATNSDCEXIVKAMQGLLKDGNPIPSAIAANSGIY
                                    81

    WO 2013/096866                                     PCT/US2012/071419
SEQ ID NO:   52
Q9T1C7      Q9T1C7_BPMS2116 enterobacteria phage ms12  110679
>trIQ9T1C7|Q9T1C7_BPMS2 Coat protein OS=Enterobacteria phage M12 PE=4
SV=1
MASNFTQFVLVDNGGTGDVTVXPSNFANGVAEWISSNSRSQAYKVTCSVRQSSAQNRKYTIKVEVPKVAT
QTVGGVELPVAAWRSYLNMELTIPIFATNSDCALIVKAMQGLLKDGNPIPSAIAANSGIY
SEQ ID NO:   53
COM2Z1      COM2Z1_BPMS2116 enterobacteria phage ms2   12022   gene
ms2g2
>trICOM2Z1|COM2Z1_BPMS2 Coat protein OS=Enterobacterio phage MS2
GN=MS2g2 PE=4 SV=1
MASNFTQFVLVDNGGTGDVTVAPSNFANGVAEWISSNSRSQAYKVTCSVRQSSAQNRKYTIKVEVPKVAT
QTVGGVELPVAAWRSYLNVELTIPIFATNSDCELIVKAMQGLLKDGNPIPSAIAANSGIX
SEQ ID NO:   54
COM1N8      COM1N8_BPMS2116 enterobacteria phage ms2   12022   gene
ms2g2
>trICOM2Z1|COM2Z1_BPMS2 Coat protein OS=Enterobacterio phage MS2
GN=MS2g2 PE=4 SV=1
MASNFTQFVLVDNGGTGDVTVAPSNFANGVAEWISSNSRSQAYKVTCSVRQSSAQNRKYTIKVEVPKVAT
QTVGGVELPVAAWRSYLNVELTIPIFATNSDCELIVKAMQGLLKDGNPIPSAIAANSGIX
SEQ ID NO:   55
J9QBW2      J9QBW2_BPMS2116 enterobacteria phage ms2   12022   gene
ms2g2
>trIJ9QBW2|J9QBW2_BPMS2 Capsid protein OS=Enterobacterio phage MS2
PE=4 SV=1
MASNFTQFVLVDNGGTGDVTVAPSNFANGVAEWISSNSRSQAYKVTCSVRQSSAQNRKYTIKVEVPKVAT
QTVGGVQLPVAAWRSYLNMELTIPIFATNDDCALIVKAMQGLLKDGNPIPSAIAANSGIY
                                    82

    WO 2013/096866                                     PCT/US2012/071419
SEQ ID NO:   56
C8XPC9      C8XPC9_BPMS2113 enterobacteria phage ms2   329852
>trIC8XPC9IC8XPC9_BPMS2 Coat protein OS=Enterobacteria phage MS2 PE=4
SV=1
MASNFTQFVLVDNGGTGDVTVAPSNFANGVAEWISSNSRSQAYKVTCSVRQSSAQNRKYTIKVEVPKVAT
QTVGGVQLPVAAWRSYLNMELTIPIFATNDDCALIVKAMQGLLKDGNPIPSAIAANSGIY
SEQ ID NO:   57
COM2Y4      COM2Y4_BPMS2115 enterobacteria phage ms2   12022   gene
ms2g2
>tr|COM2Y4ICOM2Y4_BPMS2 Coat protein (Fragment) OS=Enterobacterio
phage MS2 GN=MS2g2 PE=4 SV=1
NFTQFVLVDNGGTGDVTVAPSNFANGVAEWISSNSRSQAYKVTCSVRQSSAQNRKYTIKVEVPKVATQTV
GGVELPVAAWRSYLNVELTIPIFATNSDCELIVKAMQGLLKDGNPIPSAIAANSGIY
SEQ ID NO:   58
P69171      COATBPZR115     enterobacteria phage zr    332942
>spIP69171|COATBPZR Coat protein OS=Enterobacteria phage ZR PE=1 SV=1
ASNFTQFVLVNDGGTGNVTVAPSNFANGVAEWISSNSRSQAYKVTCSVRQSSAQNRKYTIKVEVPKVATQ
TVGGVELPVAAWRSYLNMELTIPIFATNSDCELIVKAMQGLLKDGNPIPSAIAANSGIY
SEQ ID NO:   59
P69170      COATBPR17116    enterobacteria phage r17   12026
>spIP69170|COATBPR17 Coat protein OS=Enterobacteria phage R17 PE=1
SV=1
ASNFTQFVLVNDGGTGNVTVAPSNFANGVAEWISSNSRSQAYKVTCSVRQSSAQNRKYTIKVEVPKVATQ
TVGGVELPVAAWRSYLNMELTIPIFATNSDCELIVKAMQGLLKDGNPIPSAIAANSGIY
SEQ ID NO:   60
P03612      COAT BPMS2      enterobacteria phage ms2   329852
>spIP03612|COATBPMS2 Coat protein OS=Enterobacteria phage MS2 PE=1
SV=2
MASNFTQFVLVDNGGTGDVTVAPSNFANGVAEWISSNSRSQAYKVTCSVRQSSAQNRKYTIKVEVPKVAT
QTVGGVELPVAAWRSYLNMELTIPIFATNSDCELIVKAMQGLLKDGNPIPSAIAANSGIY
                                    83

    WO 2013/096866                                     PCT/US2012/071419
SEQ ID NO:   61
COM1L4      COM1L4_BPMS2116 enterobacteria phage ms2   12022   gene
ms2g2
>tr|COM1L4ICOM1L4_BPMS2 Coat protein OS=Enterobacterio phage MS2
GN=MS2g2 PE=2 SV=1
MASNFTQFVLVDNGGTGDVTVAPSNFANGVAEWISSNSRSQAYKVTCSVRQSSAQNRKYTIKVEVPKVAT
QTVGGVELPVAAWRSYLNMELTIPIFATNSDCELIVKAMQGLLKDGNPIPSAIAANSGIY
SEQ ID NO:   62
C8XPD7      C8XPD7_BPMS2116 enterobacteria phage ms2   329852 gene cp
>trIC8XPD7IC8XPD7_BPMS2 Coat protein OS=Enterobacteria phage MS2 GN=cp
PE=4 SV=1
MASNFTQFVLVDNGGTGDVTVAPSNFANGVAEWISSNSRSQAYKVTCSVRQSSAQNRKYTIKVEVPKVAT
QTVGGVELPVAAWRSYLNMELTIPIFATNSDCELIVKAMQGLLKDGNPIPSAIAANSGIY
SEQ ID NO:   63
Q2VOT1      Q2VOT1 BPZR116  enterobacteria phage zr    332942
>trIQ2VOT1IQ2VOT1_BPZR Coat protein OS=Enterobacteria phage ZR PE=4
SV=1
MASNFTQFVLVDNGGTGDVTVAPSNFANGVAEWISSNSRSQAYKVTCSVRQSSAQNRKYTIKVEVPKVAT
QTVGGVELPVAAWRSYLNMELTIPIFATNSDCELIVKAMQGLLKDGNPIPSAIAANSGIY
SEQ ID NO:   64
Q9MCD7      Q9MCD7_BPJP5115 enterobacteria phage jp501 12020
>trIQ9MCD7IQ9MCD7_BPJP5 Coat protein OS=Enterobacteria phage JP501
PE=4 SV=1
MASNFTEFVLVDNGETGNVTVAPSNFANGVAEWISSDSRSQAYKVTCSVRQSSAQNRKYTIKVAVPKVAT
QTVGGVELPVAAWRSYLNMELTIPIFATNSDCALIVKAMQGLLKDGNPIPSAIAANSGIY
SEQ ID NO:     65
P03611      COATBPF2115     enterobacteria phage f2    12016
>spIP03611|COATBPF2 Coat protein OS=Enterobacteria phage f2 PE=1 SV=1
ASNFTQFVLVNDGGTGNVTVAPSNFANGVAEWISSNSRSQAYKVTCSVRQSSAQNRKYTIKVEVPKVATQ
TVGGVELPVAAWRSYLNLELTIPIFATNSDCELIVKAMQGLLKDGNPIPSAIAANSGIY
                                    84

    WO 2013/096866                                     PCT/US2012/071419
SEQ ID NO:   66
P34700      COATBPJP3115    enterobacteria phage jp34  12019
>spIP34700|COATBPJP3 Coat protein OS=Enterobacteria phage JP34 PE=3
SV=2
MATLRSFVLVDNGGTGDVTVVPVSNANGVAEWLSNNSRSQAYRVTASYRASGADKRKYTIKLEVPKIVTQ
VVNGVELPVSAWKAYASIDLTIPIFAATDDVTVISKSLAGLFKVGNPIADAISSQSGFYA
SEQ ID NO:   67
Q2VOU0      Q2VOU0_BPBZ1115 enterobacteria phage jp500 332939
>trIQ2VOU0IQ2VOUOBPBZ1 Coat protein OS=Enterobacteria phage JP500
PE=4 SV=1
MATLRSFVLVDNGGTGDVTVVPVSNANGVAEWLSNNSRSQAYRVTASYPASGADKRKYTIKLEVPKIVTQ
VVNGVELPVSAWKAYASIDLTIPIFAATDDVTVISKSLAGLFKVGNPIADAISSQSGFYA
SEQ ID NO:   68
Q2VOT7      Q2VOT7_BPBZ1115 enterobacteria phage sd    332940
>trIQ2VOT7IQ2VOT7_BPBZ1 Coat protein OS=Enterobacteria phage SD PE=4
SV=1
MATLRSFVLVDNGGTGNVTVVPVSNANGVAEWLSNNSRSQAYRVTASYPASGADKRKYTIKLEVPKIVTQ
VVNGVELPISAWKAYASIDLTIPIFAATDDVTTISKSLAGLFKVGNPIADAISSQSGFYA
SEQ ID NO:   69
Q9MBL2      Q9MBL2_BPKU1115 enterobacteria phage kul   12021
>trIQ9MBL2|Q9MBL2_BPKU1 Coat protein OS=Enterobacteria phage KUl PE=4
SV=1
MATLRSFVLVDNGGTGNVTVVPVSNANGVAEWLSNNSRSQAYRVTASYRASGADKRKYTIKLEVPKIVTQ
SVNGVELPVSAWKAFASIDLTIPIFAATDDVTLISKSLAGLFKIGNPVADAISSQSGFYA
SEQ ID NO:   70
P07234      COATBPGA115     enterobacteria phage ga    12018
>spIP07234|COATBPGA Coat protein OS=Enterobacteria phage GA PE=1 SV=3
MATLRSFVLVDNGGTGNVTVVPVSNANGVAEWLSNNSRSQAYRVTASYRASGADKRKYAIKLEVPKIVTQ
VVNGVELPGSAWKAYASIDLTIPIFAATDDVTVISKSLAGLFKVGNPIAEAISSQSGFYA
                                    85

    WO 2013/096866                                    PCT/US2012/071419
SEQ ID NO:    71
C8YJG7      C8YJG7_BPBZ1115 enterobacteria phage bzl3 329853
>trIC8YJG7IC8YJG7_BPBZ1 Capsid protein OS=Enterobacteria phage BZ13
PE=4 SV=1
MATLRSFVLVDNGGTGNVTVVPVSNANGVAEWLSNNSRSQAYRVTASYRASGADKRKYTIKLEVPKIVTQ
VVNGVELPVSAWKAYASIDLTIPIFAATDDVTVISKSLAGLFKVGNPIAEAISSQSGFYA
SEQ ID NO:    72
C8YJH1      C8YJH1_BPBZ1115 enterobacteria phage bzl3 329853
>trIC8YJH1IC8YJH1_BPBZ1 Capsid protein OS=Enterobacteria phage BZ13
PE=4 SV=1
MATLRSFVLVDNGGTGNVTVVPVSNANGVAEWLSNNSRSQAYRVTASYPASGADKRKYTIKLEVPKIVTQ
TVNGVELPVSAWKAYASIDLTIPIFAATDDVTLISKSLAGLFKIGNPVADAISSQSGFYA
SEQ ID NO:    73
C8YJH5      C8YJH5_BPBZ1115 enterobacteria phage bzl3 329853
>trIC8YJH5IC8YJH5_BPBZ1 Capsid protein OS=Enterobacteria phage BZ13
PE=4 SV=1
MATLRSFVLVDNGGTGNVTVVPVSNANGVAEWLSNNSRSQAYRVTASYPASGADKRKYTIKLEVPKIVTQ
VVNGVELPVSAWKAYASIDLTIPIFAATDDVTVISKSLAGLFKVGDPIADAISSQSGFYA
SEQ ID NO:    74
Q2VOT4      Q2VOT4_BPTH1115 enterobacteria phage th1  12029
>trIQ2VOT4IQ2VOT4_BPTH1 Coat protein OS=Enterobacteria phage TH1 PE=4
SV=1
MATLRSFVLVDNGGTGNVTVVPVSNANGVAEWLSNNSRSQAYRVTASYPASGADKRKYTIKLEVPKIVTQ
VVNGVELPVSAWKAYASIDLTIPIFAATDDVTVISKSLAGLFKVGNPIADAISSQSGFYA
SEQ ID NO:    75
Q2VOU3      Q2VOU3_BPBZ1116 enterobacteria phage t12  332938
>trIQ2VOU3IQ2VOU3_BPBZ1 Coat protein OS=Enterobacteria phage TL2 PE=4
SV=1
MATLRSFVLVDNGGTGNVTVVPVSNANGVAEWLSNNSRSQAYRVTASYPASGADKRKYTIKLEVPKIVTQ
VVNGVELPVSAWKAYASIDLTIPIFAATDDVTVISKSLAGLFKVGNPIADAISSQSGFYA
                                    86

    WO 2013/096866                                     PCT/US2012/071419
SEQ ID NO:   76
P03614      COATBPFR116     enterobacteria phage fr    12017
>spIPO3614|COATBPFR Coat protein OS=Enterobacteria phage fr PE=1 SV=4
MASNFEEFVLVDNGGTGDVKVAPSNFANGVAEWISSNSRSQAYKVTCSVRQSSANNRKYTVKVEVPKVAT
QVQGGVELPVAAWRSYMNMELTIPVFATNDDCALIVKALQGTFKTGNPIATAIAANSGIY
SEQ ID NO:   77
ef108465                    enterobacteria phage r17   329852
gil1324246161gblABO33465.1| coat protein [Enterobacteria phage MS2]
MASNFTQFVLVDNGGTGDVTVAPSNFANGVAEWISSNSRSQAYKVTCSVRQSSAQNRKYTIKVEVPKVAT
QTVGGVELPVAAWRSYLNMELTIPIFATNSDCELIVKAMQGLLKDGNPIPSAIAANSGIY
SEQ ID NO:   78 1QBE
>spIPO3615|COAT_BPQBE Coat protein OS=Enterobacteria phage Qbeta PE=1
SV=2
AKLETVTLGNIGKDGKQTLVLNPRGVNPTNGVASLSQAGAVPALEKRVTVSVSQPSRNRKN
YKVQVKIQNPTACTANGSCDPSVTRQAYADVTFSFTQYSTDEERAFVRTELAALLASPLLI
      [0189]     DAIDQLNPAY
                                    87

      WO 2013/096866                                                             PCT/US2012/071419
Further, amino acid residues are distinguished by the identity of their sidechains. They share a
common backbone and a common set of allowed backbone conformations (Kleywegt & Jones,
Structure 4 1395-1400 (1996)), with two exceptions. Glycines can stably fold into backbone
conformations disallowed to other amino acids because its sidechain consists of a single
hydrogen atom. The proline sidechain is cyclized into a stiff ring which is covalently bound to
its backbone nitrogen through elimination of its amide hydrogen, constraining proline to a small
subset of backbone conformations with respect to the other amino acids and eliminating its
ability to be a hydrogen bond donor.
         [0190]      The domain fold and domain association for assembly into capsids (for
example of the amino sequence of SEQ ID NO: 3 is stabilized by the backbone hydrogen
bonding patterns that define its secondary structural units, hydrogen bonds between sidechain
and backbone atoms that stabilize local structure or bind neighboring secondary structure units
(e.g. helices, strands, coil, loops, turns and flexible termini) together, hydrogen bonds between
the atoms of different sidechains that stabilize local structure or bind neighboring secondary
structure units (e.g. helices, strands, coil, loops, turns and flexible termini) together and the close
packing of hydrophobic sidechain atoms that serves to both energetically stabilize the fold
through van der Waals interactions and to prevent solvent penetration into the fold which might
lead to destabilization and local unfolding. The sidechains of the remaining residues do not
participate in domain fold maintenance or in domain-domain interactions. So long as their
backbone conformations do not have special requirements satisfied only by Gly or cis-Pro in
order to participate in the domain fold, these residues can be mutated, singly or as a group,
without substantially affecting the final domain fold or the overall topology of its surface, and
can be identified as a class unequivocally by surface accessibility calculations performed on
known structures (See, e.g., Fraczkiewicz & Braun, JMB; Meth Enzym; J Comp Chem 19, 319
(1998)), followed by hydrogen bond analysis of known structures, all conventional techniques in
the study of protein structure and function.
         [0191]      Using two MS2 capsid structures from the Protein Data Bank for examination,
1AQ3 of an isosahedral capsid containing RNA & 2VTU of a stable octahedral capsid formed by
2 MS2 capsid protein monomers fused C-terminus to N-terminus to form a single chain protein 2
domain protein, 17 residues (Alal, Ser2, Thr5, Gln6, Ala21, Ala53, Val67, Thr69, Thr71, Val72,
                                                     88

      WO 2013/096866                                                            PCT/US2012/071419
Val75, Ser99, Glul02, Lys1 13, Aspi 14, Glyl 15, Tyr129) were identified which have highly
solvated sidechain positions (Fraczkiewicz & Braun server http://curie.utmb.edu/getarea with
 1.4A solvent probe, no gradient, 2 area/energy per residue); do not participate in hydrogen bonds
with other parts of the capsid (hydrogen bonds calculated in the widely used freeware software
visualization package Chimera (ERIC F. PETTERSEN, THOMAS D. GODDARD, CONRAD
C. HUANG, GREGORY S. COUCH, DANIEL M. GREENBLATT, ELAINE C. MENG,
THOMAS E. FERRIN (2004 J Comp Chem 25, 1605-1612) with hydrogen bond criteria relaxed
by 0.5A and 30 deg); and which backbone conformations allowed by all amino acid residues
except proline. When the subset of these 17 residues is compared to the structural alignment of
the enterobacteria phage MS2, wherein GA and FR capsid sequences and residues which have
mutated in the enterobacteria phage GA or FR capsid sequences are disregarded, leaving 6
positions remaining which are putatively susceptible to mutation without effecting the structure
or function of the monomers or their ability to assemble into stable capsids. This represents 52%
sequence identity to wild-type enterobacteria phage MS2 capsid protein (SEQ ID NO:3).
         [0192]      The insertion and/or deletion of residues within secondary structure elements
(helices, strands, turns with defining hydrogen bonding patterns and structured loops, e.g. omega
loops) cause those elements to lose their defining hydrogen bonding or hydrophobic packing
patterns or force a change in their hydrogen bonding or hydrophobic packing patterns which can
alter stability, shape and/or function from the original protein sequence. This can disrupt
packing and effect the global stability of a fold. On the other hand, unstructured loops, random
coils and N- & C-termini which have surface exposure but do not provide critical stabilization to
the rest of the protein fold (frequently via the packing of sidechains against structured elements
or the shielding of interacting faces of adjacent structured elements from solvent or in the case of
capsids, cargo) are excellent candidates for (1) residue deletion if significant repositioning of the
joined structured elements is not required,(2) insertion of amino acid residues if the addition of
residues will not significantly alter the relative disposition of structured elements in the fold or
screen surface exposed residues from satisfying their hydrogen bonding capacity with hydrogen
bond donors or acceptors in the protein's environment or (3) the incorporation of naturally
occurring amino acid mutation(s) or mutation(s) to nonnative residues which can be covalently
linked to useful moieties, e.g. fluorophores, phosphorescent groups, polyethylene glycols,
                                                    89

     WO 2013/096866                                                           PCT/US2012/071419
affinity tags, reporter groups, etc. Of course, such insertions, deletions and mutations can occur
within a single suitable element concurrently or in any combination and their incorporation may
give rise to a protein with improved characteristics. A straightforward way to distinguish
optimal spots for insertion and/or deletions is to scan the multiple alignments of closely related
sequences for insertions and/or deletions. Aside from N- and C-terminal additions and deletions,
the known leviviridae coat protein sequences do not have insertion or deletions with respect to
each other. This does not mean insertion and/or deletions cannot occur. One simply must
examine more distant members of the structure/function or fold family.
         [0193]      The simplest multiple alignment algorithms are usually available to the
general public at the public domain sequence and structure data bases. These algorithms can
correctly align sequences that share a very low %identity if the sequence space is populated by a
continuous spectrum of sequences from a high % identity, for example 90%, to a low %identity,
for example 20%. These algorithms tend to fail to correctly align clusters of sequences with the
same fold when those cluster share a low %identity; however, such clusters can be successfully
and unequivocally aligned if the x-ray crystal structure of one or more members of each cluster
has been solved and well refined. By optimally superimposing backbone atoms of the
secondary structure elements of the structures of proteins closely related by fold but distantly
related by sequence, a one-to-one correspondence between their sequences is clearly defined and
the high %identity clusters successfully generated by straightforward sequence alignment
protocols can be anchored to the pairwise alignment resulting from the backbone superposition
and a correct global sequence alignment for the fold family generated resulting in a topologically
meaningful alignment of the fold family members (Arthur M Lesk, Michael Levitt, Cyrus
Chothia (1986), Prot Eng 1, 77-78). By examining the global sequence alignment, a
comprehensive picture of where the fold will tolerate insertion and/or deletion without
compromising its form or function can be viewed.
         [0194]      The alloleviviridae coat proteins belong to the same fold family as the
leviviridae coat proteins (fold family d.85. 1) and also assemble into isosahedral capsids
comprised of 180 monomers. The multiple alignments of the sequences of alloleviviridae coat
proteins deposited in UniProt are shown in the alignment table in Figure 27. Sixty percent (60
%) of the alloleviviridae coat protein sequence is conserved. The coat proteins of levi- and
                                                   90

      WO 2013/096866                                                           PCT/US2012/071419
alloleviviridae are both about 130 amino acid residues long but because the percent of identical
residues is low, about 20%, multiple sequence alignment algorithms typically fail to correctly
alignment the allolevi- against the leviviridae sequences. A simple way to recognize this is to
reverse the sequences and then use the same protocol to align the reversed sequences. The
multiple alignments of the sequences and reversed sequences will not agree. This difficulty can
be circumvented by examining representative structures. An x-ray crystal structure of a capsid
of allolevividae Qbeta (PDB-ID:l QBE) (SEQ ID NO: 78. see below) has been deposited in the
public domain database, RCSB Protein Data Bank (http://www.rcsb.org). The independently
refined monomers of 1QBE were fit to the independently refined monomers of 1AQ3 by
minimizing the rms deviation between {Calpha } atoms using the jFATCAT comparison tool at
the RCSB Protein Data Bank. The rms deviation is in the range 2.33-2.76 Angstroms depending
upon which of the independently refined monomers is compared, primarily due to differences in
the backbone disposition of N-terminal residues 1-3 and segments 8-18, 26-28, 50-55 and 67-76
(numbering references the topologically equivalent residues in the MS2 structure 1AQ3) which
connect secondary structure elements, as shown in Figures 22-25 and described in the
accompanying figure descriptions. The backbone rms deviation measured byjFATCAT for
independently refined monomers in 1AQ3 is 1.72A due to conformational differences in the
same regions. The topological alignment is shown in the table, secondary structure assignment
by hydrogen bonding pattern (DSSP, W Wolfgang Kabsch & Christian Sander (1983),
Biopolymers 22, 2577-2636) is indicated for 1AQ3 and segments that show the greatest
deviation either because the refined backbone conformations are substantially different are
because the segments were too mobile to be localized in electron density during refinement are
provided in lower case. Regions which show backbone flexibility in the crystal environment are
also excellent candidates for insertion/and or deletion as if the interactions between these
residues and the rest of the fold was important for fold stabilization, their electron density would
be localized. Appending the same information for 2VTU provides further insight into segments
best adapted to accommodate change. These comparisons are captured symbolically in Figure
26 which shows alignment of 1AQ3 vs 2VTU vs 1QBE.
                                                  91

      WO 2013/096866                                                           PCT/US2012/071419
         [0195]      Examination of the 1AQ3 and 1QBE monomers provides the following
insights, as further illustrated by reference to Figures 28-31 and their respective descriptions. All
residue numbers are given with respect to the monomers in 1AQ3.
         [0196]      This also means that the fold of SEQ ID #3 Enterobacteria phage MS2 coat
protein is preserved down to 210%identity vs the sequence of 1QBE Enterobacteria phage coat
protein Qbeta and 16% identity with respect to the conserved residues for all of the
alloleviviridae coat protein sequences referenced here. Only one of the highly solvated sidechain
positions calculated earlier, sidechains which do not participate in hydrogen bonds with other
parts of the capsid and whose backbone conformations are allowed by all amino acid residues
except proline, remains conserved, Y129 (in SEQ NO 3 numbering). Its backbone position and
sidechain packing is substantially changed in the octahedral Enterobacteria phage MS2 capsid
structure formed by the fused MS2 dimer (2VTU). Taking this last change into account brings
the threshold amino acid sequence percent identity to 15%. See the alignment tables in Figure
26 and Figure 27 (1AQ3 vs 2VTU vs 1QBE, & allolevi multiple sequence alignment tables for
clarification). All percent similarities in this paragraph are valid only in the context of structure
anchored alignments.
         [0197]      N-terminal residues 1-3 can satisfy their hydrogen bonding potential with the
C-terminal residue 129 and water and vice versa; therefore, it should be possible to delete some
or all of these residues and form stable VLPs with the truncated proteins. Figure 32 shows
backbone ribbon diagrams of 3 noncovalent Enterobacteria phage MS2 noncovalent dimers
packed around a symmetry point in the assembled capsid. All of the N-termini are colored
green, the C-termini red. The proximity of the termini mean that that the sequences of the
monomers can be fused into a single chain to form a covalent dimer, either as done for 2VTU by
appending one monomer after the other, i.e., creating a single protein chain that consists of
(monomer residues 1-129 - monomer residues 1-129) or by adding additional linking residues
between the monomer sequences (monomer 1-129 - linker residues - monomer 1-129) as long as
the relative chain directions (from N- to C-terminus) allow a continuous peptide chain to be
formed from the concatenated monomers. A monomer-monomer concatenation without the
addition of linker residues was solved (PDB-ID:2VTU). In 2VTU each noncovalent dimer has
been engineered into a single protein; however, since the Calpha's of residues 2 & 129 are
                                                    92

      WO 2013/096866                                                          PCT/US2012/071419
around 6 Angstroms apart, barely close enough to join with a linking segment without disturbing
the fold (The Calpha-Calpha distance is constrained to about 3.8 Angstroms because of the
resonance forms of the peptide unit.) and in some monomers their backbones hydrogen bond
with each other. The beta-sheet side of each dimer (covalent or noncovalent) forms the interior
wall of the capsid. The geometry of a beta sheet can be defined by the curvature of the sheet
(Cyrus Chothia, Jiri Novotny, Robert Bruccoleri, Martin Karplus (1985) J Mol Biol 186, 651
663). The tight coupling in 2VTU constrains the beta sheet to a lower curvature giving rise to an
octahedral rather than an isosahedral capsid. The incorporation of a linker between monomers
of 0-6 residues would provide enough flexibility to allow the covalent dimer to relax into the
same required for an isosahedral capsid, with physical properties likely to be more closely
related to the isosahedral noncovalent capsid structure. Generally, the linker will be 1-6
residues, However, for example, the covalent dimer of 2VTU actually has Ser2 deleted in the
second copy. In such cases, the linker length can be 0.
         [0198]     Residues chosen for the linker should have small sidechains to avoid steric
strain which can be caused by a large number of atoms packing into a relatively small volume.
Strain can also be minimized by avoiding the choice of amino acid residues with smaller
backbone conformational space, for example Pro. Avoiding strain can translate into a protein
which folds more quickly or more efficiently. Bulkier and charged sidechains, particularly in the
middle section of longer loops tend to be binding targets for proteases. Gly-containing linkers
are preferred.
         [0199]     From Figure 32 it is also clear that the C-terminus of one monomer can be
linked to the N-terminus of a monomer participating in the neighboring noncovalent dimer and a
stable isosahedral capsid could still form as long as the linker was of appropriate length and
flexibility and did not contain a potential cleavage site accessible by proteases in the capsid
environment.      In fact, three monomers could be linked with appropriate linkers and still form
this section of capsid. Because the tan, gray and medium blue monomers of Figure 32, are also
the asymmetric unit of the capsid. Three monomers concatenated end to end with appropriate
linking segments should also be able to form a stable isosahedral capsid.
         [0200]     N-terminal residues 1-3 can satisfy their hydrogen bonding potential with the
C-terminal residue 129 and water and vice versa; therefore, it should be possible to delete some
                                                  93

      WO 2013/096866                                                            PCT/US2012/071419
or all of these residues and form stable VLPs with the truncated proteins or alternatively with the
corresponding potential linker lengths extended by the number of deletions in concatenated
proteins.
         [0201]      Accordingly, the present disclosure encompasses VLPs comprising a capsid
comprising a capsid protein which is a variant of wild type Enterobacteria phage MS2 capsid
(SEQ ID NO :3) and is resistant to hydrolysis catalyzed by a peptide bond hydrolase category EC
3.4. For example, a VLP may comprise a capsid protein with the amino acid sequence of wild
type Enterobacteria phage MS2 capsid (SEQ ID NO :3) except that the A residue at position 1 is
deleted. A VLP may comprise a capsid protein with the amino acid sequence of wild type
Enterobacteria phage MS2 capsid (SEQ ID NO :3) except that the A residue at position 1 is
deleted and the S residue at position 2 is deleted. A VLP may comprise a capsid protein with the
amino acid sequence of wild type Enterobacteria phage MS2 capsid (SEQ ID NO :3) except that
that the A residue at position 1 is deleted, the S residue at position 2 is deleted and the N residue
at position 3 is deleted. A VLP may comprise a capsid protein with the amino acid sequence of
wild type Enterobacteria phage MS2 capsid (SEQ ID NO :3) except that the Y reside at position
129 is deleted. A VLP may comprise a capsid protein with the amino acid sequence of wild type
Enterobacteria phage MS2 capsid (SEQ ID NO :3) but having a single (1) amino acid deletion in
the 112-117 segment. A VLP may comprise a capsid protein with the amino acid sequence of
wild type Enterobacteria phage MS2 capsid (SEQ ID NO :3) but having a single (1) amino acid
deletion in the 112-117 segment. A VLP may comprise a capsid protein with the amino acid
sequence of wild type Enterobacteria phage MS2 capsid (SEQ ID NO :3) but having a 1-2
residue insertion in the 65-83 segment and is resistant to hydrolysis catalyzed by a peptide bond
hydrolase category EC 3.4. A VLP may comprise a capsid protein with the amino acid sequence
of wild type Enterobacteria phage MS2 capsid (SEQ ID NO :3) but NO:3) having a 1-2 residue
insertion in the 44-55 segment. A VLP may comprise a capsid protein with the amino acid
sequence of wild type Enterobacteria phage MS2 capsid (SEQ ID NO :3) but having a single (1)
residue insertion in the 33-43 segment and is resistant to hydrolysis catalyzed by a peptide bond
hydrolase category EC 3.4. A VLP may comprise a capsid protein with the amino acid sequence
of wild type Enterobacteria phage MS2 capsid (SEQ ID NO :3) but having a 1-2 residue
insertion in the 24-30 segment. A VLP may comprise a capsid protein with the amino acid
                                                   94

     WO 2013/096866                                                            PCT/US2012/071419
sequence of wild type Enterobacteria phage MS2 capsid (SEQ ID NO :3) but having a single (1)
residue insertion in the 10-18 segment. A VLP may comprise a capsid protein monomer
sequence concatenated with a second capsid monomer sequence which assembles into a capsid
which resistant to hydrolysis catalyzed by a peptide bond hydrolase category EC 3.4. A VLP
may comprise a capsid protein monomer sequence whose C-terminus is extended with a 0-6
residue linker segment whose C-terminus is concatenated with a second capsid monomer
sequence, all of which which assembles into a capsid which resistant to hydrolysis catalyzed by a
peptide bond hydrolase category EC 3.4. Suitable linker sequences include but are not limited to
-(Gly)x-, where x is 0-6, or a Gly-Ser linker such as but not limited to -Gly-Gly-Ser-Gly-Gly-,
Gly-Gly-Ser and -Gly-Ser-Gly- . A VLP may further comprise a capsid protein monomer
sequence concatenated with a third capsid monomer sequence which assembles into a capsid
which resistant to hydrolysis catalyzed by a peptide bond hydrolase category EC 3.4. Again, in
the capsid protein, the C-terminus can be extended with a 0-6 residue linker segment whose C
terminus is concatenated with a third capsid monomer sequence, all of which which assembles
into a capsid which resistant to hydrolysis catalyzed by a peptide bond hydrolase category EC
3.4. One or both linker sequences can be selected from -(Gly)x-, where x=0-6, or a Gly-Ser
linker selected from -Gly-Gly-Ser-Gly-Gly-, -Gly-Gly-Ser and -Gly-Ser-Gly-. For example, in
one or both linker sequences, the linker is -(Gly)x-, and x is 1, 2 or 3. A VLP may comprise one
or more coat protein sequences which are N-terminally truncated by 1-3 residues, wherein a
linker sequence is lengthened by the number of residues deleted, wherein the linker sequence is
(Gly)x-, wherein x=0-6. For example, a VLP may comprise one or more coat protein sequences
which is C-terminally truncated by 1 residue and then a linker sequence is lengthened by the 1
residue, wherein the linker sequence is -(Gly)x-, wherein x=0-6. A VLP may comprise two coat
protein sequences, wherein the first coat protein sequence in a concatenated dimer is C
terminally truncated by 1 residue and a linker sequence is lengthened by the one residue or
wherein the first and/or second coat protein sequence in the concatenated trimer is C-terminally
truncated by 1 residues, wherein the linker sequence is -(Gly)x-, wherein x=0-6.
         [0202]       All patents and publications cited herein are herein incorporated by reference
in their entireties, including those listed below.
                                                   95

      WO 2013/096866                                                            PCT/US2012/071419
                                                REFERENCES
         1.     Shenton, W. et al. (2001) Synthesis of Nanophase Iron Oxide in Lumazine
Synthase Capsids. AngewandteChemie. 113:456-459
         2.     W6rsd6erfer, B. et al. (2011) Directed Evolution of a Protein Container. Science.
331:589-592
         3.     Webb, E. C. (1992). Enzyme nomenclature 1992: Recommendations of the
Nomenclature Committee of the International Union of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology on
the nomenclature and classification of enzymes. Published for the International Union of
Biochemistry and Molecular Biology by Academic Press (San Diego). ISBN 0-12-227164-5
         4.     Li, H. et al. (1991) Fat fractal and multifractals for protein and enzyme surfaces.
Int. J. Biol. Macromol. 13:210-216
         5.     Varadwaj, P. (2005) Surface Roughness Index, a novel approach to compare
protein surfaces. Proceedings of International Conference on Intelligent Sensing and
Information Processing. 474-478
         6.     Burster, T. et al. (2007) Design of protease-resistant myelin basic protein-derived
peptides by cleavage site directed amino acid substitutions. Biochemical Pharmacology.
74:1514-1523
         7.     Matlin, K. S. et al. (1982) Pathway of Vesicular Stomatitis Virus Entry Leading to
Infection. J. Mol. Biol. 156:609-631
         8.     Petruzziello, R. et al. (1996) Pathway of rubella virus infectious entry into Vero
cells. J. of General Virology 77:303-308
         9.     Agbottah, E. et al. (2005) Antiviral Activity of CYC202 in HIV-1-infected Cells.
J. Biol. Chem. 280:3029-3042
         10.    Walker, S.C. et al. (2000) Proteolytic inactivation of simian-Il rotavirus: a pilot
study. Veterinary microbiology. 74:195-206
         11.    Clark, S.M. et al. (1981) Trypsin Enhancement of Rotavirus Infectivity:
Mechanism of Enhancement. Journal of Virology. 39:816-822
         12.    Schmid, F.X. et al. (1998) Selecting proteins with improved stability by a phage
based method. Nature Biotechnology. 16:955-960
                                                   96

     WO 2013/096866                                                         PCT/US2012/071419
        13.    Gailus, V. et al. (1994) The adsorption protein of bacteriophage fd and its
neighbour minor coat protein build a structural entity. Eur. J. Biochem. 222:927-931
        14.    Schwind, P. et al. (1992) Subtilisin removes the surface layer of the phage fd coat.
Eur. J. Biochem. 210:431-436
        15.    Pickett, G. G. et al. (1993) Encapsidation of heterologous RNAs by
bacteriophage MS2 coat protein. Nucleic Acids Research. 19:4621-4626
        16.    Wilson, T. M. A. et al. (1995) RNA Packaging System. U.S. Patent 5,443,969
        17.    Fiedler, J. et al. (2010) RNA-Directed Packaging of Enzymes within Virus-like
Particles. Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. 49: 9648 -9651
        18.    Fischlechner, M. et al. (2007) Viruses as Building Blocks for Materials and
Devices. Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. 46:3184-3193
        19.    Jegerlehner, A. et al. (2007) TLR9 Signaling in B Cells Determines Class Switch
Recombination to IgG2a. J. Immunol. 178:2415-2420
        20.    Bachmann et al. US 2003/0099668 Al. Packaging of Immunostimulatory
Substances into Virus-like Particles: Methods of Preparation and Use.
        21.    Nelson, A. L. et al. (2010) Development trends for human monoclonal antibody
therapeutics. Nature Reviews - Drug Discovery. 9:767-774
        22.    Walton, S. P. et al. (2010) Designing highly active siRNAs for therapeutic
applications. FEBS Journal. 277:4806-4813
        23.    Haussecker, D. (2008) The Business of RNAi Therapeutics. Human Gene
Therapy. 19:451-462
        24.    Low, D. et al. (2007) Future of antibody purification. Journal of Chromatography
B. 848:48-63
        25.    Gottschalk, U. (2008) Bioseparation in Antibody Manufacturing: The Good, The
Bad and The Ugly. Biotechnol. Prog. 24:496-503
        26.    Mazzola, P. G. et al. (2008) Liquid-liquid extraction of biomolecules: an
overview and update of the main techniques. J. Chem. Technol. Biotechnol. 83:143-157
        27.    Przybycien, T. M. et al. (2004) Alternative bioseparation operations: life beyond
packed-bed chromatography. Current Opinion in Biotechnology. 15:469-478
                                                 97

     WO 2013/096866                                                          PCT/US2012/071419
        28.     Kelley, B. (2007) Very Large Scale Monoclonal Antibody Purification: The Case
for Conventional Unit Operations. Biotechnol. Prog. 23:995-1008
        29.     Micura, R. (2002) Small Interfering RNAs and Their Chemical Synthesis.
Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. 41:2265-2269
        30.     Pattenden, L. K. et al. (2005) Towards the preparative and large-scale precision
manufacture of virus-like particles. TRENDS in Biotechnology. 23:523-529
        31.     Simon, L. D. et al. (1983) Stabilization of proteins by a bacteriophage T4 gene
cloned in Escherichia coli. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA. 80:2059-2062
        32.     Vogels, G. et al. (1992) Combination of enzymatic and/or thermal pretreatment
with mechanical cell disintegration. Chemical Engineering Science. 47:123-131
        33.     Xie, J. et al. (2006) A chemical toolkit for proteins -an  expanded genetic code.
Nature Reviews. Molecular Cell Biology. 7:775-782
        34.     Lesur, A. et al. (2010) Accelerated tryptic digestion for the analysis of
biopharmaceutical monoclonal antibodies in plasma by liquid chromatography withtandem mass
spectrometric detection. Journal of Chromatography A. 1217:57-64
        35.     Aysuso-Tejedor, S. et al. (2010) Underexposed polar residues and protein
stabilization. Protein Engineering, Design & Selection. 24:1-7
        36.     Carr, P. A. et al. (2009) Genome Engineering. Nature Biotechnology. 27:115 1
1162
        37.     Draghi, J. A. et al. (2010) Mutational robustness can facilitate adaptation.
Nature. 463:353-355
        38.     Sanjuin, R. et al. (2010) Viral Mutation Rates. Journal of Virology. 84:9733
9748
        39.     Van Loo, B. et al. (2004) Directed Evolution of Epoxide Hydrolase from A.
radiobactertoward Higher Enantioselectivity by Error-Prone PCR and DNA Shuffling.
Chemistry & Biology. 11:981-990
        40.     Song, H. et al. (2006) Reactions in Droplets in Microfluidic Channels. Angew.
Chem. Int. Ed. 45:7336-7356
        41.     Marsh, E. N. et al. (2009) Fluorine-a new element in the design of membrane
active peptides. Molecular BioSystems. 5:1143-1147
                                                 98

     WO 2013/096866                                                             PCT/US2012/071419
        42.       Cellitti, S. E. et al. (2008) In vivo Incorporation of Unnatural Amino Acids to
Probe Structure, Dynamics, and Ligand Binding in a Large Protein by Nuclear Magnetic
Resonance Spectroscopy. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 130:9268-9281
        43.       Brustad, E. et al. (2008) A Genetically Encoded Boronate-Containing Amino
Acid. Angew. Chem. 120:8344-8347
        44.       Toropova, K. et al. (2008) The Three-dimensional Structure of Genomic RNA
in Bacteriophage MS2: Implications for Assembly. J. Mol. Biol. 375:824-836
        45.       Legendre, D. et al. (2005) Production in Saccharomyces cerevisiaeof MS2
virus-like particles packaging functional heterologous mRNAs. Journal of Biotechnology.
117:183-194
        46.       Valegard, K. et al. (1990) The three-dimensional structure of the bacterial virus
MS2. Nature. 345:36-41
        47.       Kamtekar, S. et al. (1993) Protein Design by Binary Patterning of Polar and
Nonpolar Amino Acids. Science. 262:1680-1685
        48.       Hammill, J. T. et al. (2007) Preparation of site-specifically labeled fluorinated
proteins for  19 F-NMR     structural characterization. Nature Protocols. 2:2601-2607
        49.       Young et al. (2010) An Enhanced System for Unnatural Amino Acid
Mutagenesis in E. coli. J. Mol. Biol. 395:361-374
        50.       Reis, P. et al. (2009) Lipases at interfaces: A review. Advances in Colloid and
Interface Science. 147:237-250
        51.       Jung, S. et al. (2004) Limited Hydrolysis of Soy Proteins with Endo- and
Exoproteases. JAOCS 81:953-960
        52.       Miyaura, N. et al. (1995) Palladium-Catalyzed Cross-Coupling Reactions of
Organoboron Compounds. Chem. Rev. 95:2457-2483
        53.       Peabody, D. S. et al. (2008) Immunogenic Display of Diverse Peptides on Virus
like Particles of RNA Phage MS2. J. Mol. Biol. 380:252-263
        54.       Cheng, Y. et al. (2006) Preparation of His-Tagged Armored RNA Phage
Particles as a Control for Real-Time Reverse Transcription-PCR Detection of Severe Acute
Respiratory Syndrome Coronavirus. Journal of Clinical Microbiology. 44:3557-3561
                                                      99

     WO 2013/096866                                                        PCT/US2012/071419
        55.     Stockley, P. G. et al. (2007) A Simple, RNA-Mediated Allosteric Switch
Controls the Pathway to Formation of a T=3 Viral Capsid. J. Mol. Biol. 369:541-552
        56.     Kastelein, R. A. et al. (1982) Lysis gene expression of RNA phage MS2 depends
on a frameshift during translation of the overlapping coat protein gene. Nature. 295:35-41
        57.     Wimmer, E. et al. (2009) Synthetic viruses: a new opportunity to understand and
prevent viral disease. Nature biotechnology. 27:1163-1172
        58.     Wei, Y. et al. (2008) RNase-Resistant Virus-Like Particles Containing Long
Chimeric RNA Sequences Produced by Two-Plasmid Coexpression System. J. Clin. Microbiol.
46:1734-1740
        59.     Chang, J.R., A. Poliakov, P.E. Prevelige, J.A. Mobley and T. Dokland,
Incorporation of scaffolding protein gpO in bacteriophages P2 and P4. Virology, 2008. 370(2): p.
352-61.
        60.     Ochoa, W.F., A. Chatterji, T. Lin and J.E. Johnson, Generation and structural
analysis of reactive empty particlesderivedfrom an icosahedralvirus. Chemistry & biology,
2006. 13(7): p. 771-8.
        61.     Maruyama, I.N., H. Maruyama and S. Brenner, )foo: A ) phage vectorfor the
expression offoreign proteins. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA, 1994. 91: p. 8273-8277.
        62.     Chomczynski, P. and N. Sacchi, The single-step method of RNA isolation by acid
guanidinium thiocyanate-phenol-chloroformextraction: twenty-something years on. Nature
protocols, 2006. 1(2): p. 581-5.
        63.     Cheng, Y., J. Niu, Y. Zhang, J. Huang and   Q. Li, PreparationofHis-tagged
armoredRNA phage particlesas a controlforreal-time reverse transcription-PCRdetection of
severe acute respiratorysyndrome coronavirus.Journal of clinical microbiology, 2006. 44(10):
p. 3557-61.
        64.     Wan, Y., S. Vasan, R. Ghosh, G. Hale and Z. Cui, Separationof monoclonal
antibody alemtuzumab monomer and dimers using ultrafiltration.Biotechnology and
bioengineering, 2005. 90(4): p. 422-432.
        65.     Askonas, B.A., The use of organic solvents at low temperaturefor the separation
of enzymes. Application to aqueous rabbit muscle extract. Biochemical Journal, 1951. 48: p. 42
48.
                                                 100

     WO 2013/096866                                                        PCT/US2012/071419
        66.    Mazzola, P.G., A.M. Lopes, F.A. Hasmann, A.F. Jozala, T.C.V. Penna, P.O.
Magalhaes, C.O. Rangel-Yagui and A. Pessoa Jr, Liquid-liquid extraction of biomolecules: an
overview and update of the main techniques. Journal of Chemical Technology & Biotechnology,
2008. 83(2): p. 143-157.
        67.    Przybycien, T.M., N.S. Pujar and L.M. Steele, Alternative bioseparation
operations:life beyond packed-bed chromatography. Current opinion in biotechnology, 2004.
15(5): p. 469-78.
        68.    Low, D., R. O'Leary and N.S. Pujar, Future of antibody purification.Journal of
chromatography. B, Analytical technologies in the biomedical and life sciences, 2007. 848(1): p.
48-63.
        69.    Adrian R. Ferr6-D'Amar6 and William G. Scott, Small Self-cleaving Ribozymes,
Cold Spring Harb Perspect Biol 2010;2:a003574 originally published online September 15,
2010.
        70.    Adrian R. Ferr6-D'Amar6 and Jennifer A. Doudna, Use of cis- and trans
ribozymes to remove 5' and 3'heterogeneities from milligrams of in vitro transcribed RNA,
Nucleic Acids Research, 1996, Vol. 24, No. 5, 977-978.
        71.    Jae H. Lee, Jeffrey A. Engler, James F. Collawn and Bryan A. Moore, Receptor
mediated uptake of peptides that bind the human transferrin receptor, Eur. J. Biochem. 268,
2004+2012 (2001).
        72.    Mark E. Davis, Jonathan E. Zuckerman, Chung Hang J. Choil, David Seligson,
Anthony Tolcher, Christopher A. Alabi, Yun Yen, Jeremy D. Heidel & Antoni Ribas, Evidence
of RNAi in humans from systemically administered siRNA via targeted nanoparticles, Nature
464, 1067-1070 (15 April 2010).
        73.    Jeremy S. Paige, Karen Y. Wu, Samie R. Jaffrey, RNA Mimics of Green
Fluorescent Protein, Science 333, 642 (2011).
        74.    Sarah Everts, New Sensor For Cell Metabolites, Chemical & Engineering News,
90(11), March 12, 2012.
                                                101

                                             102
Claims
1. A nucleic acid construct comprising a nucleotide sequence that encodes a short RNA
    (shRNA), a ribozyme, and a packing sequence.
2. A nucleic acid construct according to claim 1, wherein the ribozyme is flanked on one
    side by the shRNA and on the other side by the packing sequence.
3. A vector comprising the nucleic acid construct of claim 1.
4. A host cell comprising the vector according to claim 3.
5. A nucleic acid construct according to claim 1, wherein the ribozyme is a Hammerhead
    ribozyme or a Hepatitis Delta V (HDV) ribozyme.
6. A nucleic acid construct according to claim 5, wherein the ribozyme is a Hammerhead
    ribozyme variant having a contiguous set of nucleotides complementary to at least 6
    contiguous nucleotides of the shRNA.
7. A nucleic acid construct according to claim 5, wherein the ribozyme is a mutant HDV
    ribozyme capable of cleaving its connection with the shRNA at a rate at most 50% the
    rate of wildtype HDV ribozyme, or a mutant HDV ribozyme having a nucleic acid
    sequence selected from SEQ ID NOs: 10-17.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
                                                   450061_Sequenc eLi s t i ng_ST25. t x t
<removed-date>
                                                   SEQUENCE LI STI NG
              <110>     APSE, LLC
                        ARHANCET, J uan Pedr o Humber t o
                        ARHANCET, J uan P.
                        DELANEY, Ki mber l y
                        HALL, Kat hl een B.
                        SUMMERS, Neena
              <120>     PROCESSES USI NG VLPS WI TH CAPSI DS RESI STANT TO HYDROLASES
              <130>     066803- 450061
<removed-apn>
              <150>     US 61/ 578, 706
              <151>     2011- 12- 21
              <150>     US 61/ 607, 900
              <151>     2012- 03- 07
              <150>     US 61/ 661, 688
              <151>     2012- 06- 19
              <160>     78
              <170>     Pat ent I n v er s i on 3. 5
              <210>     1
              <211>     3569
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Ent er obac t er i a phage MS2
              <400> 1
              gggt gggac c c c t t t c gggg t c c t gc t c aa c t t c c t gt c g agc t aat gc c at t t t t aat g     60
              t c t t t agc ga gac gc t ac c a t ggc t at c gc t gt aggt agc c ggaat t c c a t t c c t aggag        120
              gt t t gac c t g t gc gagc t t t t agt ac c c t t gat agggaga ac gagac c t t c gt c c c c t c c       180
              gt t c gc gt t t ac gc ggac gg t gagac t gaa gat aac t c at t c t c t t t aaa at at c gt t c g        240
              aac t ggac t c c c ggt c gt t t t aac t c gac t ggggc c aaaa c gaaac agt g gc ac t ac c c c           300
              t c t c c gt at t c ac ggggggc gt t aagt gt c ac at c gat ag at c aaggt gc c t ac aagc ga             360
              agt gggt c at c gt ggggt c g c c c gt ac gag gagaaagc c g gt t t c ggc t t c t c c c t c gac          420
              gc ac gc t c c t gc t ac agc c t c t t c c c t gt a agc c aaaac t t gac t t ac at c gaagt gc c g      480
              c agaac gt t g c gaac c gggc gt c gac c gaa gt c c t gc aaa aggt c ac c c a gggt aat t t t            540
              aac c t t ggt g t t gc t t t agc agaggc c agg t c gac agc c t c ac aac t c gc gac gc aaac c           600
              at t gc gc t c g t gaaggc gt a c ac t gc c gc t c gt c gc ggt a at t ggc gc c a ggc gc t c c gc       660
              t ac c t t gc c c t aaac gaaga t c gaaagt t t c gat c aaaac ac gt ggc c gg c aggt ggt t g             720
              gagt t gc agt t c ggt t ggt t ac c ac t aat g agt gat at c c agggt gc at a t gagat gc t t             780
              ac gaaggt t c ac c t t c aaga gt t t c t t c c t at gagagc c g t ac gt c aggt c ggt ac t aac          840
              at c aagt t ag at ggc c gt c t gt c gt at c c a gc t gc aaac t t c c agac aac gt gc aac at a          900
              t c gc gac gt a t c gt gat at g gt t t t ac at a aac gat gc ac gt t t ggc at g gt t gt c gt c t       960
              c t aggt at c t t gaac c c ac t aggt at agt g t gggaaaagg t gc c t t t c t c at t c gt t gt c        1020
              gac t ggc t c c t ac c t gt agg t aac at gc t c gagggc c t t a c ggc c c c c gt gggat gc t c c       1080
                                                                      Page 1

                                                450061_Sequenc eLi s t i ng_ST25. t x t
<removed-date>
              t ac at gt c ag gaac agt t ac t gac gt aat a ac gggt gagt c c at c at aag c gt t gac gc t              1140
              c c c t ac gggt ggac t gt gga gagac agggc ac t gc t aagg c c c aaat c t c agc c at gc at               1200
              c gaggggt ac aat c c gt at g gc c aac aac t ggc gc gt ac g t aaagt c t c c t t t c t c gat g           1260
              gt c c at ac c t t agat gc gt t agc at t aat c aggc aac ggc t c t c t agat a gagc c c t c aa           1320
              c c ggagt t t g aagc at ggc t t c t aac t t t a c t c agt t c gt t c t c gt c gac aat ggc ggaa         1380
              c t ggc gac gt gac t gt c gc c c c aagc aac t t c gc t aac gg ggt c gc t gaa t ggat c agc t            1440
              c t aac t c gc g t t c ac aggc t t ac aaagt aa c c t gt agc gt t c gt c agagc t c t gc gc aga          1500
<removed-apn>
              at c gc aaat a c ac c at c aaa gt c gaggt gc c t aaagt ggc aac c c agac t gt t ggt ggt g               1560
              t agagc t t c c t gt agc c gc a t ggc gt t c gt ac t t aaat at ggaac t aac c at t c c aat t t          1620
              t c gc t ac gaa t t c c gac t gc gagc t t at t g t t aaggc aat gc aaggt c t c c t aaaagat g            1680
              gaaac c c gat t c c c t c agc a at c gc agc aa ac t c c ggc at c t ac t aat ag ac gc c ggc c a         1740
              t t c aaac at g aggat t ac c c at gt c gaaga c aac aaagaa gt t c aac t c t t t at gt at t g            1800
              at c t t c c t c g c gat c t t t c t c t c gaaat t t ac c aat c aat t gc t t c t gt c gc t ac t ggaa   1860
              gc ggt gat c c gc ac agt gac gac t t t ac ag c aat t gc t t a c t t aagggac gaat t gc t c a            1920
              c aaagc at c c gac c t t aggt t c t ggt aat g ac gaggc gac c c gt c gt ac c t t agc t at c g           1980
              c t aagc t ac g ggaggc gaat ggt gat c gc g gt c agat aaa t agagaaggt t t c t t ac at g                 2040
              ac aaat c c t t gt c at gggat c c ggat gt t t t ac aaac c ag c at c c gt agc c t t at t ggc a          2100
              ac c t c c t c t c t ggc t ac c ga t c gt c gt t gt t t gggc aat g c ac gt t c t c c aac ggt gc t c    2160
              c t at ggggc a c aagt t gc ag gat gc agc gc c t t ac aagaa gt t c gc t gaa c aagc aac c g              2220
              t t ac c c c c c g c gc t c t gaga gc ggc t c t at t ggt c c gaga c c aat gt gc g c c gt ggat c a      2280
              gac ac gc ggt c c gc t at aac gagt c at at g aat t t aggc t c gt t gt aggg aac ggagt gt                2340
              t t ac agt t c c gaagaat aat aaaat agat c gggc t gc c t g t aaggagc c t gat at gaat a                  2400
              t gt ac c t c c a gaaaggggt c ggt gc t t t c a t c agac gc c g gc t c aaat c c gt t ggt at ag          2460
              ac c t gaat ga t c aat c gat c aac c agc gt c t ggc t c agc a gggc agc gt a gat ggt t c gc             2520
              t t gc gac gat agac t t at c g t c t gc at c c g at t c c at c t c c gat c gc c t g gt gt ggagt t      2580
              t t c t c c c ac c agagc t at at t c at at c t c g at c gt at c c g c t c ac ac t ac ggaat c gt ag     2640
              at ggc gagac gat ac gat gg gaac t at t t t c c ac aat ggg aaat gggt t c ac at t t gagc                 2700
              t agagt c c at gat at t c t gg gc aat agt c a aagc gac c c a aat c c at t t t ggt aac gc c g           2760
              gaac c at agg c at c t ac ggg gac gat at t a t at gt c c c ag t gagat t gc a c c c c gt gt gc          2820
              t agaggc ac t t gc c t ac t ac ggt t t t aaac c gaat c t t c g t aaaac gt t c gt gt c c gggc           2880
              t c t t t c gc ga gagc t gc ggc gc gc ac t t t t ac c gt ggt gt c gat gt c aaa c c gt t t t ac a       2940
              t c aagaaac c t gt t gac aat c t c t t c gc c c t gat gc t gat at t aaat c gg c t ac ggggt t           3000
              ggggagt t gt c ggaggt at g t c agat c c ac gc c t c t at aa ggt gt gggt a c ggc t c t c c t            3060
              c c c aggt gc c t t c gat gt t c t t c ggt ggga c ggac c t c gc t gc c gac t ac t ac gt agt c a        3120
                                                                       Page 2

                                                   450061_Sequenc eLi s t i ng_ST25. t x t
<removed-date>
              gc c c gc c t ac ggc agt c t c g gt at ac ac c a agac t c c gt a c gggc ggc t g c t c gc ggat a     3180
              c c c gt ac c t c gggt t t c c gt c t t gc t c gt a t c gc t c gaga ac gc aagt t c t t c agc gaaa   3240
              agc ac gac ag t ggt c gc t ac at agc gt ggt t c c at ac t gg aggt gaaat c ac c gac agc a            3300
              t gaagt c c gc c ggc gt gc gc gt t at ac gc a c t t c ggagt g gc t aac gc c g gt t c c c ac at      3360
              t c c c t c agga gt gt gggc c a gc gagc t c t c c t c ggt agc t gac c gaggga c c c c c gt aaa       3420
              c ggggt gggt gt gc t c gaaa gagc ac gggt gc gaaagc gg t c c ggc t c c a c c gaaaggt g               3480
              ggc gggc t t c ggc c c aggga c c t c c c c c t a aagagaggac c c gggat t c t c c c gat t t gg        3540
<removed-apn>
              t aac t agc t g c t t ggc t agt t ac c ac c c a                                                     3569
              <210>     2
              <211>     396
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Ent er obac t er i a phage MS2
              <400> 2
              at ggc t t c t a ac t t t ac t c a gt t c gt t c t c gt c gac aat g gc ggaac t gg c gac gt gac t      60
              gt c gc c c c aa gc aac t t c gc t aac ggggt c gc t gaat gga t c agc t c t aa c t c gc gt t c a      120
              c aggc t t ac a aagt aac c t g t agc gt t c gt c agagc t c t g c gc agaat c g c aaat ac ac c         180
              at c aaagt c g aggt gc c t aa agt ggc aac c c agac t gt t g gt ggt gt aga gc t t c c t gt a          240
              gc c gc at ggc gt t c gt ac t t aaat at ggaa c t aac c at t c c aat t t t c gc t ac gaat t c c       300
              gac t gc gagc t t at t gt t aa ggc aat gc aa ggt c t c c t aa aagat ggaaa c c c gat t c c c          360
              t c agc aat c g c agc aaac t c c ggc at c t ac t aat ag                                              396
              <210>     3
              <211>     130
              <212>     PRT
              <213>     Ent er obac t er i a phage MS2
              <400>     3
              Met Al a Ser As n Phe Thr Gl n Phe Val Leu Val As p As n Gl y Gl y Thr
              1                 5                    10                     15
              Gl y As p Val Thr Val Al a Pr o Ser As n Phe Al a As n Gl y Val Al a Gl u
                            20                    25                      30
              Tr p I l e Ser Ser As n Ser Ar g Ser Gl n Al a Ty r Ly s Val Thr Cy s Ser
                         35                    40                      45
              Val Ar g Gl n Ser Ser Al a Gl n As n Ar g Ly s Ty r Thr I l e Ly s Val Gl u
                  50                     55                       60
              Val Pr o Ly s Val Al a Thr Gl n Thr Val Gl y Gl y Val Gl u Leu Pr o Val
              65                     70                    75                     80
              Al a Al a Tr p Ar g Ser Ty r Leu As n Met Gl u Leu Thr I l e Pr o I l e Phe
                                  85                    90                      95
                                                                     Page 3

                                                    450061_Sequenc eLi s t i ng_ST25. t x t
<removed-date>
              Al a Thr As n Ser As p Cy s Gl u Leu I l e Val Ly s Al a Met Gl n Gl y Leu
                            100                    105                     110
              Leu Ly s As p Gl y As n Pr o I l e Pr o Ser Al a I l e Al a Al a As n Ser Gl y
                       115                       120                      125
              I l e Ty r
                    130
<removed-apn>
              <210>        4
              <211>        36
              <212>        DNA
              <213>        Bac t er i ophage T7
              <400> 4
              c t agc at aac c c c t t ggggc c t c t aaac gg gt c t t g                                          36
              <210>        5
              <211>        47
              <212>        DNA
              <213>        Bac t er i ophage T7
              <400> 5
              t agc at aac c c c t t ggggc c t c t aaac ggg t c t t gagggg t t t t t t g                         47
              <210>        6
              <211>        480
              <212>        DNA
              <213>        Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>        SYNETHESI ZED
              <400> 6
              ac aagt t t gt ac aaaaaagc aggc t aagaa ggagat at ac at at ggc t t c t aac t t t ac t              60
              c agt t c gt t c t c gt c gac aa t ggc ggaac t ggc gac gt ga c t gt c gc c c c aagc aac t t c     120
              gc t aac gggg t c gc t gaat g gat c agc t c t aac t c gc gt t c ac aggc t t a c aaagt aac c       180
              t gt agc gt t c gt c agagc t c t gc gc agaat c gc aaat ac a c c at c aaagt c gaggt gc c t         240
              aaagt ggc aa c c c agac t gt t ggt ggt gt a gagc t t c c t g t agc c gc at g gc gt t c gt ac      300
              t t aaat at gg aac t aac c at t c c aat t t t c gc t ac gaat t c c gac t gc ga gc t t at t gt t   360
              aaggc aat gc aaggt c t c c t aaaagat gga aac c c gat t c c c t c agc aat c gc agc aaac            420
              t c c ggc at c t ac t aat agac gc c ggc c at t c aaac at gag gat t ac c c at gt ac c c agc t      480
              <210>        7
              <211>        438
              <212>        DNA
              <213>        Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>        SYNTHESI ZED
              <400> 7
              ac aagt t t gt ac aaaaaagc aggc t aagaa ggagat at ac at at ggc t t c t aac t t t ac t              60
                                                                    Page 4

                                                   450061_Sequenc eLi s t i ng_ST25. t x t
<removed-date>
              c agt t c gt t c t c gt c gac aa t ggc ggaac t ggc gac gt ga c t gt c gc c c c aagc aac t t c     120
              gc t aac gggg t c gc t gaat g gat c agc t c t aac t c gc gt t c ac aggc t t a c aaagt aac c       180
              t gt agc gt t c gt c agagc t c t gc gc agaat c gc aaat ac a c c at c aaagt c gaggt gc c t         240
              aaagt ggc aa c c c agac t gt t ggt ggt gt a gagc t t c c t g t agc c gc at g gc gt t c gt ac      300
              t t aaat at gg aac t aac c at t c c aat t t t c gc t ac gaat t c c gac t gc ga gc t t at t gt t   360
              aaggc aat gc aaggt c t c c t aaaagat gga aac c c gat t c c c t c agc aat c gc agc aaac            420
              t c c ggc at c t ac t aat ag                                                                      438
<removed-apn>
              <210>     8
              <211>     179
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>     SYNTHESI ZED
              <400> 8
              ggat c c t aat ac gac t c ac t at aggc aagc t gac c c t gaa gt t c t c aaga ggaac t t c ag         60
              ggt c agc t t g c c aaggc c gg c at ggt c c c a gc c t c c t c gc t ggc gc c ggc t gggc aac at    120
              t c gt ggc gaa t gggac c ac g c t t c aaac at gaggat t ac c c at gt c gaag c gac c at gg          179
              <210>     9
              <211>     385
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>     SYNTHESI ZED
              <400> 9
              ggat c c t aat ac gac t c ac t at agggagat aaat aaat aa at t t gaat ga ac t t c agggt              60
              c agc t t gc t g at gaggc gc t t c ggc gc c ga aac ac c c agt ggt gt c c aag c t gac c c t ga     120
              agt t c at t c a agagat gaac t t c agggt c a gc t t gt c ggc c ggc at ggt c c c agc c t c c t     180
              c gc t ggc gc c ggc t gggc aa c at t c gt ggc gaat gggac c ac gc t t c aaa c at gaggat t          240
              ac c c at gt c g aagc gaat t t at t t at t t aa t t at t at t at t at t at t ggc c ggc at ggt c   300
              c c agc c t c c t c gc t ggc gc c ggc t gggc aa c ac c t t c ggg t ggc gaat gg gac c aaaaaa       360
              aaat aat aat aat aat aat c c at gg                                                                385
              <210>     10
              <211>     165
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>     SYNTHESI ZED
              <400> 10
              t aat ac gac t c ac t at agc a agc t gac c c t gaagt t c at c aagagt gaac t t c agggt c a          60
              gc t t gt c ggc c ggc at ggt c c c agc c t c c t c gc t ggc gc c ggc t gggc aa c at t c gt ggc    120
                                                                    Page 5

                                               450061_Sequenc eLi s t i ng_ST25. t x t
<removed-date>
              t aat gggac c at at at at at ac at gaggat t ac c c at gt c c at gg                                165
              <210>     11
              <211>     165
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>     SYNTHESI ZED
              <400> 11
              t aat ac gac t c ac t at agc a agc t gac c c t gaagt t c at c aagagt gaac t t c agggt c a          60
<removed-apn>
              gc t t gt c ggc c ggc at ggt c c c agc c t c c t c gc t ggc gc c ggc t ggt c aa c at t c gt ggc   120
              gaat gggac c at at at at at ac at gaggat t ac c c at gt c c at gg                                 165
              <210>     12
              <211>     165
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>     SYNTHESI ZED
              <400> 12
              t aat ac gac t c ac t at agc a agc t gac c c t gaagt t c at c aagagt gaac t t c agggt c a          60
              gc t t gt c ggc c ggc at ggt c c c ggc c t c c t c gc t ggc gc c ggc t gggc aa c at t c gt ggc    120
              gaat gggac c at at at at at ac at gaggat t ac c c at gt c c at gg                                 165
              <210>     13
              <211>     165
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>     SYNTHESI ZED
              <400> 13
              t aat ac gac t c ac t at agc a agc t gac c c t gaagt t c at c aagagt gaac t t c agggt c a          60
              gc t t gt c ggc c ggc at ggt c c c agc c t c c t c gc t ggc gc c ggc t gt gc aa c at t c gt ggc   120
              gaat gggac c at at at at at ac at gaggat t ac c c at gt c c at gg                                 165
              <210>     14
              <211>     165
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>     SYNTHESI ZED
              <400> 14
              t aat ac gac t c ac t at agc a agc t gac c c t gaagt t c at c aagagt gaac t t c agggt c a          60
              gc t t gt c ggc c ggc at ggt c c c agc c t c c t c gc t ggc gc c ggc t gggc aa c at t c gt ggc    120
              gagt gggac c at at at at at ac at gaggat t ac c c at gt c c at gg                                 165
              <210>     15
                                                                    Page 6

                                                 450061_Sequenc eLi s t i ng_ST25. t x t
<removed-date>
              <211>     165
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>     SYNTHESI ZED
              <400> 15
              t aat ac gac t c ac t at agc a agc t gac c c t gaagt t c at c aagagt gaac t t c agggt c a          60
              gc t t gt c ggc c ggc at ggt c c c agc c t t c t c gc t ggc gc c ggc t gggc aa c at t c gt ggc    120
              gaat gggac c at at at at at ac at gaggat t ac c c at gt c c at gg                                 165
<removed-apn>
              <210>     16
              <211>     165
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>     SYNTHESI ZED
              <400> 16
              t aat ac gac t c ac t at agc a agc t gac c c t gaagt t c at c aagagt gaac t t c agggt c a          60
              gc t t gt c ggc c ggc at ggt c c c agc c t c c t c ac t ggc gc c ggc t gggc aa c at t c gt ggc    120
              gaat gggac c at at at at at ac at gaggat t ac c c at gt c c at gg                                 165
              <210>     17
              <211>     165
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>     SYNTHESI ZED
              <400> 17
              t aat ac gac t c ac t at agc a agc t gac c c t gaagt t c at c aagagt gaac t t c agggt c a          60
              gc t t gt c ggc c ggc at ggt c c c agc c t c c t c gc t ggc gc c ggc t gggc aa c at t c gt ggc    120
              gat t gggac c at at at at at ac at gaggat t ac c c at gt c c at gg                                165
              <210>     18
              <211>     165
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>     SYNTHESI ZED
              <400> 18
              t aat ac gac t c ac t at agc a agc t gac c c t gaagt t c at c aagagt gaac t t c agggt c a          60
              gc t t gt c ggc c ggc at ggt c c c agc c t c c t c gc t ggc gc c ggc t gggc aa c at t c gt gc c   120
              gaat gggac c at at at at at ac at gaggat t ac c c at gt c c at gg                                 165
              <210>     19
              <211>     365
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
                                                                    Page 7

                                                 450061_Sequenc eLi s t i ng_ST25. t x t
<removed-date>
              <220>
              <223>     SYNTHESI ZED
              <400> 19
              ggat c c t aat ac gac t c ac t at agggagac gt t c ac gt t g aat gaac t t c agggt c agc t          60
              t gc t gat gag gc gc t t c ggc gc c gaaac ac c c agt ggt gt c c aagc t gac c c t gaagt t c       120
              at t c aagaga t gaac t t c ag ggt c agc t t g t c ac c ggat g t gc t c t c c gg t c t gat gagt   180
              c c gt gaggac gaaac aagc t gac c c t gaag t t c at c c gt g aac gac gc t t c aaac at gag         240
              gat t ac c c at gt c gaagc ga at at at at at at aggc c ggc at ggt c c c ag c c t c c t c gc t    300
<removed-apn>
              ggc gc c ggc t gggc aac ac c t t c gggt ggc gaat gggac c aaaaaaat at at at at at ac              360
              c at gg                                                                                          365
              <210>     20
              <211>     154
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>     SYNTHESI ZED
              <400> 20
              t aat ac gac t c ac t at agc a agc t gac c c t gaagt t c at c aagagt gaac t t c agggt c a         60
              gc t t gt c ac c ggat gt gc t c t c c ggt c t ga t gagt c c gt g aggac gaaac aagc t gac c a      120
              t at at at at a c at gaggat t ac c c at gt c c at gg                                             154
              <210>     21
              <211>     159
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>     SYNTHESI ZED
              <400> 21
              t aat ac gac t c ac t at agc a agc t gac c c t gaagt t c at c aagagt gaac t t c agggt c a         60
              gc t t gt c ac c ggat gt gc t c t c c ggt c t ga t gagt c c gt g aggac gaaac aagc t gac c c      120
              t gaaat at at at at ac at ga ggat t ac c c a t gt c c at gg                                      159
              <210>     22
              <211>     164
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>     SYNTHESI ZED
              <400> 22
              t aat ac gac t c ac t at agc a agc t gac c c t gaagt t c at c aagagt gaac t t c agggt c a         60
              gc t t gt c ac c ggat gt gc t c t c c ggt c t ga t gagt c c gt g aggac gaaac aagc t gac c c      120
              t gaagt t c aa t at at at at a c at gaggat t ac c c at gt c c at gg                              164
              <210>     23
                                                                     Page 8

                                                 450061_Sequenc eLi s t i ng_ST25. t x t
<removed-date>
              <211>     166
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>     SYNTHESI ZED
              <400> 23
              t aat ac gac t c ac t at agc a agc t gac c c t gaagt t c at c aagagt gaac t t c agggt c a        60
              gc t t gt c ac c ggat gt gc t c t c c ggt c t ga t gagt c c gt g aggac gaaac aagc t gac c c     120
              t gaagt t c ac t at at at at a t ac at gagga t t ac c c at gt c c at gg                         166
<removed-apn>
              <210>     24
              <211>     169
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>     SYNTHESI ZED
              <400> 24
              t aat ac gac t c ac t at agc a agc t gac c c t gaagt t c at c aagagt gaac t t c agggt c a        60
              gc t t gt c ac c ggat gt gc t c t c c ggt c t ga t gagt c c gt g aggac gaaac aagc t gac c c     120
              t gaagt t c ac t c t t at at at at at ac at ga ggat t ac c c a t gt c c at gg                   169
              <210>     25
              <211>     171
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>     SYNTHESI ZED
              <400> 25
              t aat ac gac t c ac t at agc a agc t gac c c t gaagt t c at c aagagt gaac t t c agggt c a        60
              gc t t gt c ac c ggat gt gc t c t c c ggt c t ga t gagt c c gt g aggac gaaac aagc t gac c c     120
              t gaagt t c ac t c t t gaat at at at at ac at gaggat t ac c c at gt c c at g g                  171
              <210>     26
              <211>     244
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>     SYNTHESI ZED
              <400> 26
              ggat c c t aat ac gac t c ac t at agggat c t c c c agc c t c c t c gc t ggc gc c ggc t gggc a    60
              ac at t c gt gg c gaat ggggg at c at at c t t gat gaac t t c agggt c agc t t gc t gat gag       120
              gc gc t t c ggc gc c gaaac ac c gt gt c c aag c t gac c c t ga agt t c at c aa gaat gaac t t    180
              c agggt c agc t t gt c ggc c g gc at gc at t c aaac at gagg at t ac c c at g t c gaagt t aa     240
              t t aa                                                                                          244
              <210>     27
                                                                    Page 9

                                                 450061_Sequenc eLi s t i ng_ST25. t x t
<removed-date>
              <211>     615
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>     SYNTHESI ZED
              <400> 27
              ggat c c t aat ac gac t c ac t at agggagac t t gat gaac t t c agggt c ag c t t gc t gat g         60
              aggc gc t t c g gc gc c gaaac ac c c agt ggt gt c c aagc t g ac c c t gaagt t c at c aagaa       120
              t gaac t t c ag ggt c agc t t g t c ac c ggat g t gc t c t c c gg t c t gat gagt c c gt gaggac   180
<removed-apn>
              gaaac aagc t gac c c t gaag t t c at t at at c t t ggc agat gaac t t c agg gt c agc t gat        240
              gagac t c t t c ggagt c gaaa c ac c c agt gg t gt c c t gac c c t gaagt t c a t c t gc c aaga    300
              gc agat gaac t t c agggt c a gt c ac c ggat gt gc t c t c c g gt c t gat gag t c c gt gagga      360
              c gaaac t gac c c t gaagt t c at c t gc t at a t c t t gt ggt g c agat gaac t t c agggc t ga     420
              t gaggc t c t t c ggagc c gaa ac ac c c agt g gt gt c c c c t g aagt t c at c t gc ac c ac aag   480
              at ggt gc aga t gaac t t c ag ggt c ac c gga t gt gc t c t c c ggt c t gat ga gt c c gt gagg     540
              ac gaaac c c t gaagt t c at c t gc ac c at ac gc c ggc c at t c aaac at gag gat t ac c c at      600
              gt c gaagt t a at t aa                                                                           615
              <210>     28
              <211>     431
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>     SYNTHESI ZED
              <400> 28
              ggat c c t aat ac gac t c ac t at agggagaa t at at at ac a agc t gac c c t gaagt t c at c         60
              aagaat gaac t t c agggt c a gc t t gt c ggc c ggc at ggt c c c agc c t c c t c gc t ggc gc c     120
              ggc t gggc aa c at t c gt ggc gaat gggac c aat t aat t ac t gac c c t gaa gt t c at c t gc       180
              c aagagc aga t gaac t t c ag ggt c agt c gg c c ggc at ggt c c c agc c t c c t c gc t ggc gc     240
              c ggc t gggc a ac at t c gt gg c gaat gggac c aat aat aat c c c t gaagt t c at c t gc ac c       300
              ac aagat ggt gc agat gaac t t c agggt c g gc c ggc at gg t c c c agc c t c c t c gc t ggc g      360
              c c ggc t gggc aac at t c gt g gc gaat ggga c c c at t c aaa c at gaggat t ac c c at gt c g      420
              aagt t aat t a a                                                                                 431
              <210>     29
              <211>     362
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>     SYNTHESI ZED
              <400> 29
              ggat c c t aat ac gac t c ac t at agggagaa t gaac t t c ag ggt c agc t t g c t gat gaggc          60
                                                                   Page 10

                                                 450061_Sequenc eLi s t i ng_ST25. t x t
<removed-date>
              gc t t c ggc gc c gaaac ac c g t gt c c aagc t gac c c t gaag t t c at ggc c g gc at ggt c c c      120
              agc c t c c t c g c t ggc gc c gg c t gggc aac a t t c gt ggc ga at gggac c at t agc c aagc t       180
              gac c c t gaag t t c at c t gat gagac t c c ga at t c ggagt c gaaac ac ggt aac c gt gt c a          240
              t gaac t t c ag ggt c agc t t g gc ggc c ggc a t ggt c c c agc c t c c t c gc t g gc gc c ggc t g   300
              ggc aac at t c gt ggc gaat g ggac c c at t c aaac at gagg at t ac c c at g t c gaagc c at           360
              gg                                                                                                  362
<removed-apn>
              <210>     30
              <211>     196
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>     SYNTHESI ZED
              <400> 30
              ggat c c t aat ac gac t c ac t at agggagaa at aat aat c a agc t gac c c t gaagt t c at c             60
              aagaat gaac t t c agggt c a gc t t gt c aat aat aat c c gc t ac c c c gac c ac at gaac aa           120
              gat t c at gt g gt c ggggt ag c ggt c aat aa t aat ac gc t t c aaac at gag gat t ac c c at          180
              gt c gaagc ga c c at gg                                                                             196
              <210>     31
              <211>     165
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>     SYNTHESI ZED
              <400> 31
              t aat ac gac t c ac t at aggc t t gt gat gc t t c agc c aaat c aagagt t t g gc t gaagc at            60
              c ac aagc ggc c ggc at ggt c c c agc c t c c t c gc t ggc gc c ggc t gggc aa c at t c gt ggc        120
              gaat gggac c at at at at at ac at gaggat t ac c c at gt c c at gg                                   165
              <210>     32
              <211>     168
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>     SYNTHESI ZED
              <400> 32
              t aat ac gac t c ac t at aggc t c gagc aagc c t gat gaggc gc t t c ggc gc c gaaac ac c g             60
              t gt c gc t t gt gat gc t t c ag c c aaat c aag agt t t ggc t g aagc at c ac a agc t c ac c gg      120
              at gt gc t c t c c ggt c t gat g agt c c gt gag gac gaaagc t t gc c at gg                           168
              <210>     33
              <211>     251
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
                                                                    Page 11

                                                 450061_Sequenc eLi s t i ng_ST25. t x t
<removed-date>
              <220>
              <223>     SYNTHESI ZED
              <400> 33
              t aat ac gac t c ac t at aggg agaac gc c gg c c at t c aaat agt aaat aat agagggt c ag             60
              c t t gc t gat g aggc gc t t c g gc gc c gaaac ac c gt gt c c a agc t gac c c t gaagt t c at c   120
              aagagt gaac t t c agggt c a gc t t gt c ac c ggat gt gc t c t c c ggt c t ga t gagt c c gt g     180
              aggac gaaac aagc t gac c c t gaagt t c ac t ac gc c ggc c at t c aaac at gaggat t ac c           240
              c at gt c c at g g                                                                               251
<removed-apn>
              <210>     34
              <211>     129
              <212>     PRT
              <213>     Ent er obac t er i a phage MS2
              <400>     34
              Al a Ser As n Phe Thr Gl n Phe Val Leu Val As p As n Gl y Gl y Thr Gl y
              1                 5                    10                      15
              As p Val Thr Val Al a Pr o Ser As n Phe Al a As n Gl y Val Al a Gl u Tr p
                           20                     25                     30
              I l e Ser Ser As n Ser Ar g Ser Gl n Al a Ty r Ly s Val Thr Cy s Ser Val
                        35                    40                      45
              Ar g Gl n Ser Ser Al a Gl n As n Ar g Ly s Ty r Ser I l e Ly s Val Gl u Val
                   50                     55                      60
              Pr o Ly s Val Al a Thr Gl n Thr Val Gl y Gl y Val Gl u Leu Pr o Val Al a
              65                     70                     75                    80
              Al a Tr p Ar g Ser Ty r Leu As n Met Gl u Leu Thr I l e Pr o I l e Phe Al a
                                 85                     90                       95
              Thr As n Ser As p Cy s Gl u Leu I l e Val Ly s Al a Met Gl n Gl y Leu Leu
                           100                      105                    110
              Ly s As p Gl y As n Pr o I l e Pr o Ser Al a I l e Al a Al a As n Ser Gl y I l e
                        115                       120                      125
              Ty r
              <210>     35
              <211>     129
              <212>     PRT
              <213>     Ent er obac t er i a phage GA
              <400>     35
              Al a Thr Leu Ar g Ser Phe Val Leu Val As p As n Gl y Gl y Thr Gl y As n
              1                 5                   10                      15
                                                                   Page 12

                                            450061_Sequenc eLi s t i ng_ST25. t x t
<removed-date>
              Val Thr Val Val Pr o Val Ser As n Al a As n Gl y Val Al a Gl u Tr p Leu
                          20                    25                      30
              Ser As n As n Ser Ar g Ser Gl n Al a Ty r Ar g Val Thr Al a Ser Ty r Ar g
                       35                     40                     45
              Al a Ser Gl y Al a As p Ly s Ar g Ly s Ty r Thr I l e Ly s Leu Gl u Val Pr o
                   50                      55                       60
<removed-apn>
              Ly s I l e Val Thr Gl n Val Val As n Gl y Val Gl u Leu Pr o Gl y Ser Al a
              65                      70                    75                     80
              Tr p Ly s Al a Ty r Al a Ser I l e As p Leu Thr I l e Pr o I l e Phe Al a Al a
                                  85                      90                       95
              Thr As p As p Val Thr Val I l e Ser Ly s Ser Leu Al a Gl y Leu Phe Ly s
                            100                   105                    110
              Val Gl y As n Pr o I l e Al a Gl u Al a I l e Ser Ser Gl n Ser Gl y Phe Ty r
                       115                       120                     125
              Al a
              <210>   36
              <211>   129
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ent er obac t er i a phage FR
              <400>   36
              Al a Ser As n Phe Gl u Gl u Phe Val Leu Val As p As n Gl y Gl y Thr Gl y
              1                 5                     10                      15
              As p Val Ly s Val Al a Pr o Ser As n Phe Al a As n Gl y Val Al a Gl u Tr p
                            20                     25                     30
              I l e Ser Ser As n Ser Ar g Ser Gl n Al a Ty r Ly s Val Thr Cy s Ser Val
                        35                    40                      45
              Ar g Gl n Ser Ser Al a As n As n Ar g Ly s Ty r Thr Val Ly s Val Gl u Val
                   50                     55                      60
              Pr o Ly s Val Al a Thr Gl n Val Gl n Gl y Gl y Val Gl u Leu Pr o Val Al a
              65                     70                      75                    80
              Al a Tr p Ar g Ser Ty r Met As n Met Gl u Leu Thr I l e Pr o Val Phe Al a
                                 85                     90                     95
              Thr As n As p As p Cy s Al a Leu I l e Val Ly s Al a Leu Gl n Gl y Thr Phe
                            100                      105                    110
                                                           Page 13

                                             450061_Sequenc eLi s t i ng_ST25. t x t
<removed-date>
              Ly s Thr Gl y As n Pr o I l e Al a Thr Al a I l e Al a Al a As n Ser Gl y I l e
                       115                       120                      125
              Ty r
              <210>   37
              <211>   257
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ent er obac t er i a phage MS2
<removed-apn>
              <400>   37
              Al a Ser As n Phe Thr Gl n Phe Val Leu Val As p As n Gl y Gl y Thr Gl y
              1                 5                    10                      15
              As p Val Thr Val Al a Pr o Ser As n Phe Al a As n Gl y Val Al a Gl u Tr p
                           20                     25                     30
              I l e Ser Ser As n Ser Ar g Ser Gl n Al a Ty r Ly s Val Thr Cy s Ser Val
                        35                    40                      45
              Ar g Gl n Ser Ser Al a Gl n As n Ar g Ly s Ty r Thr I l e Ly s Val Gl u Val
                   50                     55                      60
              Pr o Ly s Val Al a Thr Gl n Thr Val Gl y Gl y Val Gl u Leu Pr o Val Al a
              65                     70                     75                    80
              Al a Tr p Ar g Ser Ty r Leu As n Met Gl u Leu Thr I l e Pr o I l e Phe Al a
                                 85                     90                       95
              Thr As n Ser As p Cy s Gl u Leu I l e Val Ly s Al a Met Gl n Gl y Leu Leu
                           100                      105                    110
              Ly s As p Gl y As n Pr o I l e Pr o Ser Al a I l e Al a Al a As n Ser Gl y I l e
                        115                       120                      125
              Ty r Al a As n Phe Thr Gl n Phe Val Leu Val As p As n Gl y Gl y Thr Gl y
                   130                    135                  140
              As p Val Thr Val Al a Pr o Ser As n Phe Al a As n Gl y Val Al a Gl u Tr p
              145                   150                    155                     160
              I l e Ser Ser As n Ser Ar g Ser Gl n Al a Ty r Ly s Val Thr Cy s Ser Val
                                 165                    170                    175
              Ar g Gl n Ser Ser Al a Gl n As n Ar g Ly s Ty r Thr I l e Ly s Val Gl u Val
                            180                     185                      190
              Pr o Ly s Val Al a Thr Gl n Thr Val Gl y Gl y Val Gl u Leu Pr o Val Al a
                        195                   200                    205
              Al a Tr p Ar g Ser Ty r Leu As n Met Gl u Leu Thr I l e Pr o I l e Phe Al a
                                                         Page 14

                                                 450061_Sequenc eLi s t i ng_ST25. t x t
<removed-date>
                     210                        215                      220
              Thr As n Ser As p Cy s Gl u Leu I l e Val Ly s Al a Met Gl n Gl y Leu Leu
              225                    230                     235                    240
              Ly s As p Gl y As n Pr o I l e Pr o Ser Al a I l e Al a Al a As n Ser Gl y I l e
                                  245                      250                      255
              Ty r
<removed-apn>
              <210>        38
              <211>        130
              <212>        PRT
              <213>        Ent er obac t er i a phage MS2
              <400>        38
              Met Al a Ser As n Phe Thr Gl n Phe Val Leu Val As p As n Gl y Gl y Thr
              1                 5                    10                     15
              Gl y As p Val Thr Val Al a Pr o Ser As n Phe Al a As n Gl y Val Al a Gl u
                            20                    25                      30
              Tr p I l e Ser Ser As n Ser Ar g Ser Gl n Al a Ty r Ly s Val Thr Cy s Ser
                         35                    40                      45
              Val Ar g Gl n Ser Ser Al a Gl n As n Ar g Ly s Ty r Thr I l e Ly s Val Gl u
                  50                     55                       60
              Val Pr o Ly s Val Al a Thr Gl n Thr Val Gl y Gl y Val Gl u Leu Pr o Val
              65                     70                    75                     80
              Al a Al a Tr p Ar g Ser Ty r Leu As n Leu Gl u Leu Thr I l e Pr o I l e Phe
                                  85                    90                      95
              Al a Thr As n Ser As p Cy s Gl u Leu I l e Val Ly s Al a Met Gl n Gl y Leu
                            100                    105                     110
              Leu Ly s As p Gl y As n Pr o I l e Pr o Ser Al a I l e Al a Al a As n Ser Gl y
                       115                       120                      125
              I l e Ty r
                    130
              <210>        39
              <211>        120
              <212>        PRT
              <213>        Ent er obac t er i a phage MS2
              <400>        39
              Met Al a Ser As n Phe Thr Gl n Phe Val Leu Val As p As n Gl y Gl y Thr
              1                 5                    10                     15
                                                                Page 15

                                             450061_Sequenc eLi s t i ng_ST25. t x t
<removed-date>
              Gl y As p Val Thr Val Al a Pr o Ser As n Phe Al a As n Gl y Val Al a Gl u
                            20                    25                      30
              Tr p I l e Ser Ser As n Ser Ar g Ser Gl n Al a Ty r Ly s Val Thr Cy s Ser
                         35                    40                      45
              Val Ar g Gl n Ser Ser Al a Gl n As n Ar g Ly s Ty r Thr I l e Ly s Val Gl u
                  50                     55                       60
<removed-apn>
              Val Pr o Ly s Val Al a Thr Gl n Thr Val Gl y Gl y Val Gl u Leu Pr o Val
              65                     70                    75                     80
              Al a Al a Tr p Ar g Ser Ty r Leu As n Leu Gl u Leu Thr I l e Pr o I l e Phe
                                  85                    90                      95
              Al a Thr As n Ser As p Cy s Gl u Leu I l e Val Ly s Al a Met Gl n Gl y Leu
                            100                    105                     110
              Leu Ly s As p Gl y As n Pr o I l e Pr o
                       115                       120
              <210>   40
              <211>   130
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ent er obac t er i a phage MS2
              <400>   40
              Met Al a Ser As n Phe Thr Gl n Phe Val Leu Val As p As n Gl y Gl y Thr
              1                 5                    10                     15
              Gl y As p Val Thr Val Al a Pr o Ser As n Phe Al a As n Gl y Val Al a Gl u
                            20                    25                      30
              Tr p I l e Ser Ser As n Ser Ar g Ser Gl n Al a Ty r Ly s Val Thr Cy s Ser
                         35                    40                      45
              Val Ar g Gl n Ser Ser Al a Gl n As n Ar g Ly s Ty r Thr I l e Ly s Val Gl u
                  50                     55                       60
              Leu Pr o Ly s Val Al a Thr Gl n Thr Val Gl y Gl y Val Gl u Leu Pr o Val
              65                     70                    75                     80
              Al a Al a Tr p Ar g Ser Ty r Leu As n Met Gl u Leu Thr I l e Pr o I l e Phe
                                  85                    90                      95
              Al a Thr As n Ser As p Cy s Gl u Leu I l e Val Ly s Al a Met Gl n Gl y Leu
                            100                    105                     110
              Leu Ly s As p Gl y As n Pr o I l e Pr o Ser Al a I l e Al a Al a As n Ser Gl y
                       115                       120                      125
                                                            Page 16

                                                 450061_Sequenc eLi s t i ng_ST25. t x t
<removed-date>
              I l e Ty r
                    130
              <210>        41
              <211>        130
              <212>        PRT
              <213>        Ent er obac t er i a phage MS2
              <400>        41
              Met Al a Ser As n Phe Thr Gl n Phe Val Leu Val As p As n Gl y Gl y Thr
              1                 5                    10                     15
<removed-apn>
              Gl y As p Val Thr Val Al a Pr o Ser As n Phe Al a As n Gl y Val Al a Gl u
                            20                    25                      30
              Tr p I l e Ser Ser As n Ser Ar g Ser Gl n Al a Ty r Ly s Val Thr Cy s Ser
                         35                    40                      45
              Val Ar g Gl n Ser Ser Al a Gl n As n Ar g Ly s Ty r Thr I l e Ly s Val Gl u
                  50                     55                       60
              Val Pr o Ly s Val Al a Thr Gl n Thr Val Gl y Gl y Val Gl u Leu Pr o Val
              65                     70                    75                     80
              Al a Al a Tr p Ar g Ser Ty r Leu As n Val Gl u Leu Thr I l e Pr o I l e Phe
                                  85                    90                      95
              Al a Thr As n Ser As p Cy s Gl u Leu I l e Val Ly s Al a Met Gl n Gl y Leu
                            100                    105                     110
              Leu Ly s As p Gl y As n Pr o I l e Pr o Ser Al a I l e Al a Al a As n Ser Gl y
                       115                       120                      125
              I l e Ty r
                    130
              <210>        42
              <211>        130
              <212>        PRT
              <213>        Ent er obac t er i a phage MS2
              <400>        42
              Met Al a Ser As n Phe Thr Gl n Phe Val Leu Val As p As n Gl y Gl y Thr
              1                 5                    10                     15
              Gl y As p Val Thr Val Al a Pr o Ser As n Phe Al a As n Gl y Val Al a Gl u
                            20                    25                      30
              Tr p I l e Ser Ser As n Ser Ar g Ser Gl n Al a Ty r Ly s Val Thr Cy s Ser
                         35                    40                      45
              Val Ar g Gl n Ser Ser Al a Gl n As n Ar g Ly s Ty r Thr I l e Ly s Val Gl u
                  50                     55                       60
                                                         Page 17

                                                 450061_Sequenc eLi s t i ng_ST25. t x t
<removed-date>
              Val Pr o Ly s Val Al a Thr Gl n Thr Val Gl y Gl y Val Gl u Leu Pr o Val
              65                     70                    75                     80
              Al a Al a Tr p Ar g Ser Ty r Leu As n Met Gl u Leu Thr I l e Pr o I l e Phe
                                  85                    90                      95
              Al a Thr As n Pr o As p Cy s Gl u Leu I l e Val Ly s Al a Met Gl n Gl y Leu
                            100                     105                     110
<removed-apn>
              Leu Ly s As p Gl y As n Pr o I l e Pr o Ser Al a I l e Al a Al a As n Ser Gl y
                       115                       120                      125
              I l e Ty r
                    130
              <210>        43
              <211>        130
              <212>        PRT
              <213>        Ent er obac t er i a phage MS2
              <400>        43
              Met Al a Ser As n Phe Thr Gl n Phe Val Leu Val As p As n Gl y Gl y Thr
              1                 5                    10                     15
              Gl y As p Val Al a Val Al a Pr o Ser As n Phe Al a As n Gl y Val Al a Gl u
                            20                     25                      30
              Tr p I l e Ser Ser As n Ser Ar g Ser Gl n Al a Ty r Ly s Val Thr Cy s Ser
                         35                    40                      45
              Val Ar g Gl n Ser Ser Al a Gl n As n Ar g Ly s Ty r Thr I l e Ly s Val Gl u
                  50                     55                       60
              Val Pr o Ly s Val Al a Thr Gl n Thr Val Gl y Gl y Val Gl u Leu Pr o Val
              65                     70                    75                     80
              Al a Al a Tr p Ar g Ser Ty r Leu As n Met Gl u Leu Thr I l e Pr o I l e Phe
                                  85                    90                      95
              Al a Thr As n Ser As p Cy s Gl u Leu I l e Val Ly s Al a Met Gl n Gl y Leu
                            100                    105                     110
              Leu Ly s As p Gl y As n Pr o I l e Pr o Ser Al a I l e Al a Al a As n Ser Gl y
                       115                       120                      125
              I l e Ty r
                    130
              <210>        44
              <211>        130
              <212>        PRT
                                                                Page 18

                                                   450061_Sequenc eLi s t i ng_ST25. t x t
<removed-date>
              <213>        Ent er obac t er i a phage MS2
              <220>
              <221>        mi s c _f eat ur e
              <222>        ( 50) . . ( 50)
              <223>        Xaa c an be any nat ur al l y oc c ur r i ng ami no ac i d
              <400>        44
              Met Al a Ser As n Phe Thr Gl n Phe Val Leu Val As p As n Gl y Gl y Thr
              1                 5                    10                     15
<removed-apn>
              Gl y As p Val Thr Val Al a Pr o Ser As n Phe Al a As n Gl y Val Al a Gl u
                            20                    25                      30
              Tr p I l e Ser Ser As n Ser Ar g Ser Gl n Al a Ty r Ly s Val Thr Cy s Ser
                         35                    40                      45
              Val Xaa Gl n Ser Ser Al a Gl n As n Ar g Ly s Ty r Thr I l e Ly s Val Gl u
                  50                    55                       60
              Val Pr o Ly s Val Al a Thr Gl n Thr Val Gl y Gl y Val Gl u Leu Pr o Val
              65                     70                    75                     80
              Al a Al a Tr p Ar g Ser Ty r Leu As n Met Gl u Leu Thr I l e Pr o I l e Phe
                                  85                    90                      95
              Al a Thr As n Ser As p Cy s Gl u Leu I l e Val Ly s Al a Met Gl n Gl y Leu
                            100                    105                     110
              Leu Ly s As p Gl y As n Pr o I l e Pr o Ser Al a I l e Al a Al a As n Ser Gl y
                       115                       120                      125
              I l e Ty r
                    130
              <210>        45
              <211>        130
              <212>        PRT
              <213>        Ent er obac t er i a phage MS2
              <220>
              <221>        mi s c _f eat ur e
              <222>        ( 7) . . ( 7)
              <223>        Xaa c an be any nat ur al l y oc c ur r i ng ami no ac i d
              <400>        45
              Met Al a Ser As n Phe Thr Xaa Phe Val Leu Val As p As n Gl y Gl y Thr
              1                 5                   10                     15
              Gl y As p Val Thr Val Al a Pr o Ser As n Phe Al a As n Gl y Val Al a Gl u
                            20                    25                      30
              Tr p I l e Ser Ser As n Ser Ar g Ser Gl n Al a Ty r Ly s Val Thr Cy s Ser
                                                         Page 19

                                                 450061_Sequenc eLi s t i ng_ST25. t x t
<removed-date>
                            35                      40                       45
              Val Ar g Gl n Ser Ser Al a Gl n As n Ar g Ly s Ty r Thr I l e Ly s Val Gl u
                  50                     55                       60
              Val Pr o Ly s Val Al a Thr Gl n Thr Val Gl y Gl y Val Gl u Leu Pr o Val
              65                     70                    75                     80
              Al a Al a Tr p Ar g Ser Ty r Leu As n Met Gl u Leu Thr I l e Pr o I l e Phe
                                  85                    90                      95
<removed-apn>
              Al a Thr As n Ser As p Cy s Gl u Leu I l e Val Ly s Al a Met Gl n Gl y Leu
                            100                    105                     110
              Leu Ly s As p Gl y As n Pr o I l e Pr o Ser Al a I l e Al a Al a As n Ser Gl y
                       115                       120                      125
              I l e Ty r
                    130
              <210>        46
              <211>        130
              <212>        PRT
              <213>        Ent er obac t er i a phage BO1
              <400>        46
              Met Al a Ser As n Phe Thr Gl n Phe Val Leu Val As p As n Gl y Gl y Thr
              1                 5                    10                     15
              Gl y As p Val Thr Val Al a Pr o Ser As n Phe Al a As n Gl y Val Al a Gl u
                            20                    25                      30
              Tr p I l e Ser Ser As n Ser Ar g Ser Gl n Al a Ty r Ly s Val Thr Cy s Ser
                         35                    40                      45
              Val Ar g Gl n Ser Ser Al a Gl n As n Ar g Ly s Ty r Thr I l e Ly s Val Gl u
                  50                     55                       60
              Val Pr o Ly s Val Al a Thr Gl n Thr Val Gl y Gl y Val Gl u Leu Pr o Val
              65                     70                    75                     80
              Al a Al a Tr p Ar g Ser Ty r Leu As n Met Gl u Leu Thr I l e Pr o I l e Phe
                                  85                    90                      95
              Al a Thr As n Ser As p Cy s Gl u Leu I l e Val Ly s Al a Met Gl n Gl y Pr o
                            100                    105                     110
              Leu Ly s As p Gl y As n Pr o I l e Pr o Ser Al a I l e Al a Al a As n Ser Gl y
                       115                       120                      125
              I l e Ty r
                    130
                                                                Page 20

                                                 450061_Sequenc eLi s t i ng_ST25. t x t
<removed-date>
              <210>        47
              <211>        130
              <212>        PRT
              <213>        Ent er obac t er i a phage MS2
              <400>        47
              Met Al a Ser As n Phe Thr Gl n Phe Val Leu Val As p As n As p Gl y Thr
              1                 5                    10                     15
<removed-apn>
              Gl y As p Val Thr Val Al a Pr o Ser As n Phe Al a As n Gl y Val Al a Gl u
                            20                    25                      30
              Tr p I l e Ser Ser As n Ser Ar g Ser Gl n Al a Ty r Ly s Val Thr Cy s Ser
                         35                    40                      45
              Val Ar g Gl n Ser Ser Al a Gl n As n Ar g Ly s Ty r Thr I l e Ly s Val Gl u
                  50                     55                       60
              Val Pr o Ly s Val Al a Thr Gl n Thr Val Gl y Gl y Val Gl u Leu Pr o Val
              65                     70                    75                     80
              Al a Al a Tr p Ar g Ser Ty r Leu As n Met Gl u Leu Thr I l e Pr o I l e Phe
                                  85                    90                      95
              Al a Thr As n Ser As p Cy s Gl u Leu I l e Val Ly s Al a Met Gl n Gl y Leu
                            100                    105                     110
              Leu Ly s As p Gl y As n Pr o I l e Pr o Ser Al a I l e Al a Al a As n Ser Gl y
                       115                       120                      125
              I l e Ty r
                    130
              <210>        48
              <211>        130
              <212>        PRT
              <213>        Ent er obac t er i a phage MS2
              <220>
              <221>        mi s c _f eat ur e
              <222>        ( 18) . . ( 18)
              <223>        Xaa c an be any nat ur al l y oc c ur r i ng ami no ac i d
              <400>        48
              Met Al a Ser As n Phe Thr Gl n Phe Val Leu Val As p As n Gl y Gl y Thr
              1                 5                    10                     15
              Gl y Xaa Val Thr Val Al a Pr o Ser As n Phe Al a As n Gl y Val Al a Gl u
                           20                    25                      30
              Tr p I l e Ser Ser As n Ser Ar g Ser Gl n Al a Ty r Ly s Val Thr Cy s Ser
                         35                    40                      45
                                                         Page 21

                                                 450061_Sequenc eLi s t i ng_ST25. t x t
<removed-date>
              Val Ar g Gl n Ser Ser Al a Gl n As n Ar g Ly s Ty r Thr I l e Ly s Val Gl u
                  50                     55                       60
              Val Pr o Ly s Val Al a Thr Gl n Thr Val Gl y Gl y Val Gl u Leu Pr o Val
              65                     70                    75                     80
              Al a Al a Tr p Ar g Ser Ty r Leu As n Met Gl u Leu Thr I l e Pr o I l e Phe
                                  85                    90                      95
<removed-apn>
              Al a Thr As n Ser As p Cy s Gl u Leu I l e Val Ly s Al a Met Gl n Gl y Leu
                            100                    105                     110
              Leu Ly s As p Gl y As n Pr o I l e Pr o Ser Al a I l e Al a Al a As n Ser Gl y
                       115                       120                      125
              I l e Ty r
                    130
              <210>        49
              <211>        130
              <212>        PRT
              <213>        Ent er obac t er i a phage MS2
              <400>        49
              Met Al a Ser As n Phe Thr Gl n Phe Val Leu Val As p As n Gl y Gl y Thr
              1                 5                    10                     15
              Gl y As p Val Thr Val Al a Pr o Ser As n Phe Al a As n Gl y Val Al a Gl u
                            20                    25                      30
              Tr p I l e Ser Ser As n Ser Ar g Ser Gl n Al a Ty r Ly s Val Thr Cy s Ser
                         35                    40                      45
              Val Ar g Gl n Ser Ser Al a Gl n As n Ar g Ly s Ty r Thr I l e Ly s Val Gl u
                  50                     55                       60
              Val Pr o Ly s Val Al a Thr Gl n Thr Val Gl y Gl y Val Gl u Leu Pr o Val
              65                     70                    75                     80
              Al a Al a Tr p Ar g Ser Ty r Leu As n Leu Gl u Leu Thr I l e Pr o I l e Phe
                                  85                    90                      95
              Al a Thr As n Pr o As p Cy s Gl u Leu I l e Val Ly s Al a Met Gl n Gl y Leu
                            100                     105                     110
              Leu Ly s As p Gl y As n Pr o I l e Pr o Ser Al a I l e Al a Al a As n Ser Gl y
                       115                       120                      125
              I l e Ty r
                    130
                                                                Page 22

                                                 450061_Sequenc eLi s t i ng_ST25. t x t
<removed-date>
              <210>        50
              <211>        130
              <212>        PRT
              <213>        Ent er obac t er i a phage MS2
              <400>        50
              Met Al a Ser As n Phe Thr Gl n Phe Val Leu Val As p As n Gl y Gl y Thr
              1                 5                    10                     15
              Gl y As p Val Thr Val Al a Pr o Ser As n Phe Al a As n Gl y Val Al a Gl u
<removed-apn>
                            20                    25                      30
              Tr p I l e Ser Ser As n Ser Ar g Ser Gl n Al a Ty r Ly s Val Thr Cy s Ser
                         35                    40                      45
              Val Ar g Gl n Ser Ser Al a Gl n As n Ar g Ly s Ty r Thr I l e Ly s Val Gl u
                  50                     55                       60
              Val Pr o Ly s Val Al a Thr Gl n Thr Val Gl y Gl y Val Gl u Leu Pr o Val
              65                     70                    75                     80
              Al a Al a Tr p Ar g Ser Ty r Leu As n Met Gl u Leu Thr I l e Pr o I l e Phe
                                  85                    90                      95
              Al a Thr As n Ser As p Cy s Gl u Leu I l e Val Ly s Al a Met Gl n Gl y Leu
                            100                    105                     110
              Leu Ly s As p Gl y As n Pr o I l e Ser Ser Al a I l e Al a Al a As n Ser Gl y
                       115                       120                     125
              I l e Ty r
                    130
              <210>        51
              <211>        130
              <212>        PRT
              <213>        Ent er obac t er i a phage MS2
              <220>
              <221>        mi s c _f eat ur e
              <222>        ( 104) . . ( 104)
              <223>        Xaa c an be any nat ur al l y oc c ur r i ng ami no ac i d
              <400>        51
              Met Al a Ser As n Phe Thr Gl n Phe Val Leu Val As p As n Gl y Gl y Thr
              1                 5                    10                     15
              Gl y As p Val Thr Val Al a Pr o Ser As n Phe Al a As n Gl y Val Al a Gl u
                            20                    25                      30
              Tr p I l e Ser Ser As n Ser Ar g Ser Gl n Al a Ty r Ly s Val Thr Cy s Ser
                         35                    40                      45
                                                                 Page 23

                                                 450061_Sequenc eLi s t i ng_ST25. t x t
<removed-date>
              Val Ar g Gl n Ser Ser Al a Gl n As n Ar g Ly s Ty r Thr I l e Ly s Val Gl u
                  50                     55                       60
              Val Pr o Ly s Val Al a Thr Gl n Thr Val Gl y Gl y Val Gl u Leu Pr o Val
              65                     70                    75                     80
              Al a Al a Tr p Ar g Ser Ty r Leu As n Val Gl u Leu Thr I l e Pr o I l e Phe
                                  85                    90                      95
<removed-apn>
              Al a Thr As n Ser As p Cy s Gl u Xaa I l e Val Ly s Al a Met Gl n Gl y Leu
                            100                    105                     110
              Leu Ly s As p Gl y As n Pr o I l e Pr o Ser Al a I l e Al a Al a As n Ser Gl y
                       115                       120                      125
              I l e Ty r
                    130
              <210>        52
              <211>        130
              <212>        PRT
              <213>        Ent er obac t er i a phage MS12
              <220>
              <221>        mi s c _f eat ur e
              <222>        ( 22) . . ( 22)
              <223>        Xaa c an be any nat ur al l y oc c ur r i ng ami no ac i d
              <400>        52
              Met Al a Ser As n Phe Thr Gl n Phe Val Leu Val As p As n Gl y Gl y Thr
              1                 5                    10                     15
              Gl y As p Val Thr Val Xaa Pr o Ser As n Phe Al a As n Gl y Val Al a Gl u
                            20                   25                      30
              Tr p I l e Ser Ser As n Ser Ar g Ser Gl n Al a Ty r Ly s Val Thr Cy s Ser
                         35                    40                      45
              Val Ar g Gl n Ser Ser Al a Gl n As n Ar g Ly s Ty r Thr I l e Ly s Val Gl u
                  50                     55                       60
              Val Pr o Ly s Val Al a Thr Gl n Thr Val Gl y Gl y Val Gl u Leu Pr o Val
              65                     70                    75                     80
              Al a Al a Tr p Ar g Ser Ty r Leu As n Met Gl u Leu Thr I l e Pr o I l e Phe
                                  85                    90                      95
              Al a Thr As n Ser As p Cy s Al a Leu I l e Val Ly s Al a Met Gl n Gl y Leu
                            100                    105                     110
              Leu Ly s As p Gl y As n Pr o I l e Pr o Ser Al a I l e Al a Al a As n Ser Gl y
                       115                       120                      125
                                                           Page 24

                                                 450061_Sequenc eLi s t i ng_ST25. t x t
<removed-date>
              I l e Ty r
                    130
              <210>        53
              <211>        130
              <212>        PRT
              <213>        Ent er obac t er i a phage MS2
              <220>
<removed-apn>
              <221>        mi s c _f eat ur e
              <222>        ( 130) . . ( 130)
              <223>        Xaa c an be any nat ur al l y oc c ur r i ng ami no ac i d
              <400>        53
              Met Al a Ser As n Phe Thr Gl n Phe Val Leu Val As p As n Gl y Gl y Thr
              1                 5                    10                     15
              Gl y As p Val Thr Val Al a Pr o Ser As n Phe Al a As n Gl y Val Al a Gl u
                            20                    25                      30
              Tr p I l e Ser Ser As n Ser Ar g Ser Gl n Al a Ty r Ly s Val Thr Cy s Ser
                         35                    40                      45
              Val Ar g Gl n Ser Ser Al a Gl n As n Ar g Ly s Ty r Thr I l e Ly s Val Gl u
                  50                     55                       60
              Val Pr o Ly s Val Al a Thr Gl n Thr Val Gl y Gl y Val Gl u Leu Pr o Val
              65                     70                    75                     80
              Al a Al a Tr p Ar g Ser Ty r Leu As n Val Gl u Leu Thr I l e Pr o I l e Phe
                                  85                    90                      95
              Al a Thr As n Ser As p Cy s Gl u Leu I l e Val Ly s Al a Met Gl n Gl y Leu
                            100                    105                     110
              Leu Ly s As p Gl y As n Pr o I l e Pr o Ser Al a I l e Al a Al a As n Ser Gl y
                       115                       120                      125
              I l e Xaa
                    130
              <210>        54
              <211>        130
              <212>        PRT
              <213>        Ent er obac t er i a phage MS2
              <220>
              <221>        mi s c _f eat ur e
              <222>        ( 130) . . ( 130)
              <223>        Xaa c an be any nat ur al l y oc c ur r i ng ami no ac i d
              <400>        54
                                                                 Page 25

                                         450061_Sequenc eLi s t i ng_ST25. t x t
<removed-date>
              Met Al a Ser As n Phe Thr Gl n Phe Val Leu Val As p As n Gl y Gl y Thr
              1                 5                    10                          15
              Gl y As p Val Thr Val Al a Pr o Ser As n Phe Al a As n Gl y Val Al a Gl u
                            20                    25                      30
              Tr p I l e Ser Ser As n Ser Ar g Ser Gl n Al a Ty r Ly s Val Thr Cy s Ser
                         35                    40                      45
              Val Ar g Gl n Ser Ser Al a Gl n As n Ar g Ly s Ty r Thr I l e Ly s Val Gl u
<removed-apn>
                  50                     55                       60
              Val Pr o Ly s Val Al a Thr Gl n Thr Val Gl y Gl y Val Gl u Leu Pr o Val
              65                     70                    75                     80
              Al a Al a Tr p Ar g Ser Ty r Leu As n Val Gl u Leu Thr I l e Pr o I l e Phe
                                  85                    90                      95
              Al a Thr As n Ser As p Cy s Gl u Leu I l e Val Ly s Al a Met Gl n Gl y Leu
                            100                    105                     110
              Leu Ly s As p Gl y As n Pr o I l e Pr o Ser Al a I l e Al a Al a As n Ser Gl y
                       115                       120                      125
              I l e Xaa
                    130
              <210>       55
              <211>       130
              <212>       PRT
              <213>       Ent er obac t er i a phage MS2
              <400>       55
              Met Al a Ser As n Phe Thr Gl n Phe Val Leu Val As p As n Gl y Gl y Thr
              1                 5                    10                     15
              Gl y As p Val Thr Val Al a Pr o Ser As n Phe Al a As n Gl y Val Al a Gl u
                            20                    25                      30
              Tr p I l e Ser Ser As n Ser Ar g Ser Gl n Al a Ty r Ly s Val Thr Cy s Ser
                         35                    40                      45
              Val Ar g Gl n Ser Ser Al a Gl n As n Ar g Ly s Ty r Thr I l e Ly s Val Gl u
                  50                     55                       60
              Val Pr o Ly s Val Al a Thr Gl n Thr Val Gl y Gl y Val Gl n Leu Pr o Val
              65                     70                    75                     80
              Al a Al a Tr p Ar g Ser Ty r Leu As n Met Gl u Leu Thr I l e Pr o I l e Phe
                                  85                    90                      95
              Al a Thr As n As p As p Cy s Al a Leu I l e Val Ly s Al a Met Gl n Gl y Leu
                                                           Page 26

                                                 450061_Sequenc eLi s t i ng_ST25. t x t
<removed-date>
                                 100                    105                       110
              Leu Ly s As p Gl y As n Pr o I l e Pr o Ser Al a I l e Al a Al a As n Ser Gl y
                       115                       120                      125
              I l e Ty r
                    130
              <210>        56
              <211>        130
<removed-apn>
              <212>        PRT
              <213>        Ent er obac t er i a phage MS2
              <400>        56
              Met Al a Ser As n Phe Thr Gl n Phe Val Leu Val As p As n Gl y Gl y Thr
              1                 5                    10                     15
              Gl y As p Val Thr Val Al a Pr o Ser As n Phe Al a As n Gl y Val Al a Gl u
                            20                    25                      30
              Tr p I l e Ser Ser As n Ser Ar g Ser Gl n Al a Ty r Ly s Val Thr Cy s Ser
                         35                    40                      45
              Val Ar g Gl n Ser Ser Al a Gl n As n Ar g Ly s Ty r Thr I l e Ly s Val Gl u
                  50                     55                       60
              Val Pr o Ly s Val Al a Thr Gl n Thr Val Gl y Gl y Val Gl n Leu Pr o Val
              65                     70                    75                     80
              Al a Al a Tr p Ar g Ser Ty r Leu As n Met Gl u Leu Thr I l e Pr o I l e Phe
                                  85                    90                      95
              Al a Thr As n As p As p Cy s Al a Leu I l e Val Ly s Al a Met Gl n Gl y Leu
                            100                     105                     110
              Leu Ly s As p Gl y As n Pr o I l e Pr o Ser Al a I l e Al a Al a As n Ser Gl y
                       115                       120                      125
              I l e Ty r
                    130
              <210>        57
              <211>        127
              <212>        PRT
              <213>        Ent er obac t er i a phage MS2
              <400>        57
              As n Phe Thr Gl n Phe Val Leu Val As p As n Gl y Gl y Thr Gl y As p Val
              1                 5                    10                      15
              Thr Val Al a Pr o Ser As n Phe Al a As n Gl y Val Al a Gl u Tr p I l e Ser
                           20                     25                      30
                                                                Page 27

                                             450061_Sequenc eLi s t i ng_ST25. t x t
<removed-date>
              Ser As n Ser Ar g Ser Gl n Al a Ty r Ly s Val Thr Cy s Ser Val Ar g Gl n
                       35                     40                     45
              Ser Ser Al a Gl n As n Ar g Ly s Ty r Thr I l e Ly s Val Gl u Val Pr o Ly s
                  50                      55                       60
              Val Al a Thr Gl n Thr Val Gl y Gl y Val Gl u Leu Pr o Val Al a Al a Tr p
              65                    70                     75                     80
<removed-apn>
              Ar g Ser Ty r Leu As n Val Gl u Leu Thr I l e Pr o I l e Phe Al a Thr As n
                                85                    90                        95
              Ser As p Cy s Gl u Leu I l e Val Ly s Al a Met Gl n Gl y Leu Leu Ly s As p
                            100                     105                    110
              Gl y As n Pr o I l e Pr o Ser Al a I l e Al a Al a As n Ser Gl y I l e Ty r
                        115                      120                      125
              <210>   58
              <211>   129
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ent er obac t er i a phage ZR
              <400>   58
              Al a Ser As n Phe Thr Gl n Phe Val Leu Val As n As p Gl y Gl y Thr Gl y
              1                 5                    10                      15
              As n Val Thr Val Al a Pr o Ser As n Phe Al a As n Gl y Val Al a Gl u Tr p
                           20                     25                     30
              I l e Ser Ser As n Ser Ar g Ser Gl n Al a Ty r Ly s Val Thr Cy s Ser Val
                        35                    40                      45
              Ar g Gl n Ser Ser Al a Gl n As n Ar g Ly s Ty r Thr I l e Ly s Val Gl u Val
                   50                     55                      60
              Pr o Ly s Val Al a Thr Gl n Thr Val Gl y Gl y Val Gl u Leu Pr o Val Al a
              65                     70                     75                    80
              Al a Tr p Ar g Ser Ty r Leu As n Met Gl u Leu Thr I l e Pr o I l e Phe Al a
                                 85                     90                       95
              Thr As n Ser As p Cy s Gl u Leu I l e Val Ly s Al a Met Gl n Gl y Leu Leu
                           100                      105                    110
              Ly s As p Gl y As n Pr o I l e Pr o Ser Al a I l e Al a Al a As n Ser Gl y I l e
                        115                       120                      125
              Ty r
                                                            Page 28

                                              450061_Sequenc eLi s t i ng_ST25. t x t
<removed-date>
              <210>   59
              <211>   129
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ent er obac t er i a phage R17
              <400>   59
              Al a Ser As n Phe Thr Gl n Phe Val Leu Val As n As p Gl y Gl y Thr Gl y
              1                 5                    10                      15
              As n Val Thr Val Al a Pr o Ser As n Phe Al a As n Gl y Val Al a Gl u Tr p
                           20                     25                     30
<removed-apn>
              I l e Ser Ser As n Ser Ar g Ser Gl n Al a Ty r Ly s Val Thr Cy s Ser Val
                        35                    40                      45
              Ar g Gl n Ser Ser Al a Gl n As n Ar g Ly s Ty r Thr I l e Ly s Val Gl u Val
                   50                     55                      60
              Pr o Ly s Val Al a Thr Gl n Thr Val Gl y Gl y Val Gl u Leu Pr o Val Al a
              65                     70                     75                    80
              Al a Tr p Ar g Ser Ty r Leu As n Met Gl u Leu Thr I l e Pr o I l e Phe Al a
                                 85                     90                       95
              Thr As n Ser As p Cy s Gl u Leu I l e Val Ly s Al a Met Gl n Gl y Leu Leu
                           100                      105                    110
              Ly s As p Gl y As n Pr o I l e Pr o Ser Al a I l e Al a Al a As n Ser Gl y I l e
                        115                       120                      125
              Ty r
              <210>   60
              <211>   130
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ent er obac t er i a phage MS2
              <400>   60
              Met Al a Ser As n Phe Thr Gl n Phe Val Leu Val As p As n Gl y Gl y Thr
              1                 5                    10                     15
              Gl y As p Val Thr Val Al a Pr o Ser As n Phe Al a As n Gl y Val Al a Gl u
                            20                    25                      30
              Tr p I l e Ser Ser As n Ser Ar g Ser Gl n Al a Ty r Ly s Val Thr Cy s Ser
                         35                    40                      45
              Val Ar g Gl n Ser Ser Al a Gl n As n Ar g Ly s Ty r Thr I l e Ly s Val Gl u
                  50                     55                       60
              Val Pr o Ly s Val Al a Thr Gl n Thr Val Gl y Gl y Val Gl u Leu Pr o Val
              65                     70                    75                     80
                                                       Page 29

                                                 450061_Sequenc eLi s t i ng_ST25. t x t
<removed-date>
              Al a Al a Tr p Ar g Ser Ty r Leu As n Met Gl u Leu Thr I l e Pr o I l e Phe
                                  85                    90                      95
              Al a Thr As n Ser As p Cy s Gl u Leu I l e Val Ly s Al a Met Gl n Gl y Leu
                            100                    105                     110
              Leu Ly s As p Gl y As n Pr o I l e Pr o Ser Al a I l e Al a Al a As n Ser Gl y
                       115                       120                      125
<removed-apn>
              I l e Ty r
                    130
              <210>        61
              <211>        130
              <212>        PRT
              <213>        Ent er obac t er i a phage MS2
              <400>        61
              Met Al a Ser As n Phe Thr Gl n Phe Val Leu Val As p As n Gl y Gl y Thr
              1                 5                    10                     15
              Gl y As p Val Thr Val Al a Pr o Ser As n Phe Al a As n Gl y Val Al a Gl u
                            20                    25                      30
              Tr p I l e Ser Ser As n Ser Ar g Ser Gl n Al a Ty r Ly s Val Thr Cy s Ser
                         35                    40                      45
              Val Ar g Gl n Ser Ser Al a Gl n As n Ar g Ly s Ty r Thr I l e Ly s Val Gl u
                  50                     55                       60
              Val Pr o Ly s Val Al a Thr Gl n Thr Val Gl y Gl y Val Gl u Leu Pr o Val
              65                     70                    75                     80
              Al a Al a Tr p Ar g Ser Ty r Leu As n Met Gl u Leu Thr I l e Pr o I l e Phe
                                  85                    90                      95
              Al a Thr As n Ser As p Cy s Gl u Leu I l e Val Ly s Al a Met Gl n Gl y Leu
                            100                    105                     110
              Leu Ly s As p Gl y As n Pr o I l e Pr o Ser Al a I l e Al a Al a As n Ser Gl y
                       115                       120                      125
              I l e Ty r
                    130
              <210>        62
              <211>        130
              <212>        PRT
              <213>        Ent er obac t er i a phage MS2
              <400>        62
                                                                Page 30

                                         450061_Sequenc eLi s t i ng_ST25. t x t
<removed-date>
              Met Al a Ser As n Phe Thr Gl n Phe Val Leu Val As p As n Gl y Gl y Thr
              1                 5                    10                          15
              Gl y As p Val Thr Val Al a Pr o Ser As n Phe Al a As n Gl y Val Al a Gl u
                            20                    25                      30
              Tr p I l e Ser Ser As n Ser Ar g Ser Gl n Al a Ty r Ly s Val Thr Cy s Ser
                         35                    40                      45
              Val Ar g Gl n Ser Ser Al a Gl n As n Ar g Ly s Ty r Thr I l e Ly s Val Gl u
<removed-apn>
                  50                     55                       60
              Val Pr o Ly s Val Al a Thr Gl n Thr Val Gl y Gl y Val Gl u Leu Pr o Val
              65                     70                    75                     80
              Al a Al a Tr p Ar g Ser Ty r Leu As n Met Gl u Leu Thr I l e Pr o I l e Phe
                                  85                    90                      95
              Al a Thr As n Ser As p Cy s Gl u Leu I l e Val Ly s Al a Met Gl n Gl y Leu
                            100                    105                     110
              Leu Ly s As p Gl y As n Pr o I l e Pr o Ser Al a I l e Al a Al a As n Ser Gl y
                       115                       120                      125
              I l e Ty r
                    130
              <210>        63
              <211>        130
              <212>        PRT
              <213>        Ent er obac t er i a phage ZR
              <400>        63
              Met Al a Ser As n Phe Thr Gl n Phe Val Leu Val As p As n Gl y Gl y Thr
              1                 5                    10                     15
              Gl y As p Val Thr Val Al a Pr o Ser As n Phe Al a As n Gl y Val Al a Gl u
                            20                    25                      30
              Tr p I l e Ser Ser As n Ser Ar g Ser Gl n Al a Ty r Ly s Val Thr Cy s Ser
                         35                    40                      45
              Val Ar g Gl n Ser Ser Al a Gl n As n Ar g Ly s Ty r Thr I l e Ly s Val Gl u
                  50                     55                       60
              Val Pr o Ly s Val Al a Thr Gl n Thr Val Gl y Gl y Val Gl u Leu Pr o Val
              65                     70                    75                     80
              Al a Al a Tr p Ar g Ser Ty r Leu As n Met Gl u Leu Thr I l e Pr o I l e Phe
                                  85                    90                      95
              Al a Thr As n Ser As p Cy s Gl u Leu I l e Val Ly s Al a Met Gl n Gl y Leu
                                                          Page 31

                                                 450061_Sequenc eLi s t i ng_ST25. t x t
<removed-date>
                                 100                    105                       110
              Leu Ly s As p Gl y As n Pr o I l e Pr o Ser Al a I l e Al a Al a As n Ser Gl y
                       115                       120                      125
              I l e Ty r
                    130
              <210>        64
              <211>        130
<removed-apn>
              <212>        PRT
              <213>        Ent er obac t er i a phage J P501
              <400>        64
              Met Al a Ser As n Phe Thr Gl u Phe Val Leu Val As p As n Gl y Gl u Thr
              1                 5                    10                     15
              Gl y As n Val Thr Val Al a Pr o Ser As n Phe Al a As n Gl y Val Al a Gl u
                            20                    25                      30
              Tr p I l e Ser Ser As p Ser Ar g Ser Gl n Al a Ty r Ly s Val Thr Cy s Ser
                         35                    40                      45
              Val Ar g Gl n Ser Ser Al a Gl n As n Ar g Ly s Ty r Thr I l e Ly s Val Al a
                  50                     55                       60
              Val Pr o Ly s Val Al a Thr Gl n Thr Val Gl y Gl y Val Gl u Leu Pr o Val
              65                     70                    75                     80
              Al a Al a Tr p Ar g Ser Ty r Leu As n Met Gl u Leu Thr I l e Pr o I l e Phe
                                  85                    90                      95
              Al a Thr As n Ser As p Cy s Al a Leu I l e Val Ly s Al a Met Gl n Gl y Leu
                            100                    105                     110
              Leu Ly s As p Gl y As n Pr o I l e Pr o Ser Al a I l e Al a Al a As n Ser Gl y
                       115                       120                      125
              I l e Ty r
                    130
              <210>        65
              <211>        129
              <212>        PRT
              <213>        Ent er obac t er i a phage F2
              <400>        65
              Al a Ser As n Phe Thr Gl n Phe Val Leu Val As n As p Gl y Gl y Thr Gl y
              1                 5                    10                      15
              As n Val Thr Val Al a Pr o Ser As n Phe Al a As n Gl y Val Al a Gl u Tr p
                           20                     25                     30
                                                                Page 32

                                             450061_Sequenc eLi s t i ng_ST25. t x t
<removed-date>
              I l e Ser Ser As n Ser Ar g Ser Gl n Al a Ty r Ly s Val Thr Cy s Ser Val
                        35                    40                      45
              Ar g Gl n Ser Ser Al a Gl n As n Ar g Ly s Ty r Thr I l e Ly s Val Gl u Val
                   50                     55                      60
              Pr o Ly s Val Al a Thr Gl n Thr Val Gl y Gl y Val Gl u Leu Pr o Val Al a
              65                     70                     75                    80
<removed-apn>
              Al a Tr p Ar g Ser Ty r Leu As n Leu Gl u Leu Thr I l e Pr o I l e Phe Al a
                                 85                     90                       95
              Thr As n Ser As p Cy s Gl u Leu I l e Val Ly s Al a Met Gl n Gl y Leu Leu
                           100                      105                    110
              Ly s As p Gl y As n Pr o I l e Pr o Ser Al a I l e Al a Al a As n Ser Gl y I l e
                        115                       120                      125
              Ty r
              <210>   66
              <211>   130
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ent er obac t er i a phage J P34
              <400>   66
              Met Al a Thr Leu Ar g Ser Phe Val Leu Val As p As n Gl y Gl y Thr Gl y
              1                5                    10                      15
              As p Val Thr Val Val Pr o Val Ser As n Al a As n Gl y Val Al a Gl u Tr p
                           20                   25                      30
              Leu Ser As n As n Ser Ar g Ser Gl n Al a Ty r Ar g Val Thr Al a Ser Ty r
                      35                     40                      45
              Ar g Al a Ser Gl y Al a As p Ly s Ar g Ly s Ty r Thr I l e Ly s Leu Gl u Val
                   50                      55                      60
              Pr o Ly s I l e Val Thr Gl n Val Val As n Gl y Val Gl u Leu Pr o Val Ser
              65                      70                     75                    80
              Al a Tr p Ly s Al a Ty r Al a Ser I l e As p Leu Thr I l e Pr o I l e Phe Al a
                                  85                       90                       95
              Al a Thr As p As p Val Thr Val I l e Ser Ly s Ser Leu Al a Gl y Leu Phe
                            100                    105                   110
              Ly s Val Gl y As n Pr o I l e Al a As p Al a I l e Ser Ser Gl n Ser Gl y Phe
                       115                       120                     125
                                                            Page 33

                                                450061_Sequenc eLi s t i ng_ST25. t x t
<removed-date>
              Ty r Al a
                   130
              <210>       67
              <211>       130
              <212>       PRT
              <213>       Ent er obac t er i a phage J P500
              <400>       67
              Met Al a Thr Leu Ar g Ser Phe Val Leu Val As p As n Gl y Gl y Thr Gl y
              1                5                    10                      15
<removed-apn>
              As p Val Thr Val Val Pr o Val Ser As n Al a As n Gl y Val Al a Gl u Tr p
                           20                   25                      30
              Leu Ser As n As n Ser Ar g Ser Gl n Al a Ty r Ar g Val Thr Al a Ser Ty r
                      35                     40                      45
              Ar g Al a Ser Gl y Al a As p Ly s Ar g Ly s Ty r Thr I l e Ly s Leu Gl u Val
                   50                      55                      60
              Pr o Ly s I l e Val Thr Gl n Val Val As n Gl y Val Gl u Leu Pr o Val Ser
              65                      70                     75                    80
              Al a Tr p Ly s Al a Ty r Al a Ser I l e As p Leu Thr I l e Pr o I l e Phe Al a
                                  85                       90                       95
              Al a Thr As p As p Val Thr Val I l e Ser Ly s Ser Leu Al a Gl y Leu Phe
                            100                    105                   110
              Ly s Val Gl y As n Pr o I l e Al a As p Al a I l e Ser Ser Gl n Ser Gl y Phe
                       115                       120                     125
              Ty r Al a
                   130
              <210>       68
              <211>       130
              <212>       PRT
              <213>       Ent er obac t er i a phage SD
              <400>       68
              Met Al a Thr Leu Ar g Ser Phe Val Leu Val As p As n Gl y Gl y Thr Gl y
              1                5                    10                      15
              As n Val Thr Val Val Pr o Val Ser As n Al a As n Gl y Val Al a Gl u Tr p
                           20                   25                      30
              Leu Ser As n As n Ser Ar g Ser Gl n Al a Ty r Ar g Val Thr Al a Ser Ty r
                      35                     40                      45
              Ar g Al a Ser Gl y Al a As p Ly s Ar g Ly s Ty r Thr I l e Ly s Leu Gl u Val
                   50                      55                      60
                                                           Page 34

                                                450061_Sequenc eLi s t i ng_ST25. t x t
<removed-date>
              Pr o Ly s I l e Val Thr Gl n Val Val As n Gl y Val Gl u Leu Pr o I l e Ser
              65                      70                     75                      80
              Al a Tr p Ly s Al a Ty r Al a Ser I l e As p Leu Thr I l e Pr o I l e Phe Al a
                                  85                       90                       95
              Al a Thr As p As p Val Thr Thr I l e Ser Ly s Ser Leu Al a Gl y Leu Phe
                            100                    105                   110
<removed-apn>
              Ly s Val Gl y As n Pr o I l e Al a As p Al a I l e Ser Ser Gl n Ser Gl y Phe
                       115                       120                     125
              Ty r Al a
                   130
              <210>       69
              <211>       130
              <212>       PRT
              <213>       Ent er obac t er i a phage KU1
              <400>       69
              Met Al a Thr Leu Ar g Ser Phe Val Leu Val As p As n Gl y Gl y Thr Gl y
              1                5                    10                      15
              As n Val Thr Val Val Pr o Val Ser As n Al a As n Gl y Val Al a Gl u Tr p
                           20                   25                      30
              Leu Ser As n As n Ser Ar g Ser Gl n Al a Ty r Ar g Val Thr Al a Ser Ty r
                      35                     40                      45
              Ar g Al a Ser Gl y Al a As p Ly s Ar g Ly s Ty r Thr I l e Ly s Leu Gl u Val
                   50                      55                      60
              Pr o Ly s I l e Val Thr Gl n Ser Val As n Gl y Val Gl u Leu Pr o Val Ser
              65                      70                     75                    80
              Al a Tr p Ly s Al a Phe Al a Ser I l e As p Leu Thr I l e Pr o I l e Phe Al a
                                  85                      90                       95
              Al a Thr As p As p Val Thr Leu I l e Ser Ly s Ser Leu Al a Gl y Leu Phe
                            100                    105                   110
              Ly s I l e Gl y As n Pr o Val Al a As p Al a I l e Ser Ser Gl n Ser Gl y Phe
                         115                     120                     125
              Ty r Al a
                   130
              <210>       70
              <211>       130
              <212>       PRT
                                                               Page 35

                                                  450061_Sequenc eLi s t i ng_ST25. t x t
<removed-date>
              <213>       Ent er obac t er i a phage GA
              <400>       70
              Met Al a Thr Leu Ar g Ser Phe Val Leu Val As p As n Gl y Gl y Thr Gl y
              1                5                    10                      15
              As n Val Thr Val Val Pr o Val Ser As n Al a As n Gl y Val Al a Gl u Tr p
                           20                   25                      30
              Leu Ser As n As n Ser Ar g Ser Gl n Al a Ty r Ar g Val Thr Al a Ser Ty r
<removed-apn>
                      35                     40                      45
              Ar g Al a Ser Gl y Al a As p Ly s Ar g Ly s Ty r Al a I l e Ly s Leu Gl u Val
                   50                      55                       60
              Pr o Ly s I l e Val Thr Gl n Val Val As n Gl y Val Gl u Leu Pr o Gl y Ser
              65                      70                     75                     80
              Al a Tr p Ly s Al a Ty r Al a Ser I l e As p Leu Thr I l e Pr o I l e Phe Al a
                                  85                       90                       95
              Al a Thr As p As p Val Thr Val I l e Ser Ly s Ser Leu Al a Gl y Leu Phe
                            100                    105                   110
              Ly s Val Gl y As n Pr o I l e Al a Gl u Al a I l e Ser Ser Gl n Ser Gl y Phe
                       115                       120                     125
              Ty r Al a
                   130
              <210>       71
              <211>       130
              <212>       PRT
              <213>       Ent er obac t er i a phage BZ13
              <400>       71
              Met Al a Thr Leu Ar g Ser Phe Val Leu Val As p As n Gl y Gl y Thr Gl y
              1                5                    10                      15
              As n Val Thr Val Val Pr o Val Ser As n Al a As n Gl y Val Al a Gl u Tr p
                           20                   25                      30
              Leu Ser As n As n Ser Ar g Ser Gl n Al a Ty r Ar g Val Thr Al a Ser Ty r
                      35                     40                      45
              Ar g Al a Ser Gl y Al a As p Ly s Ar g Ly s Ty r Thr I l e Ly s Leu Gl u Val
                   50                      55                      60
              Pr o Ly s I l e Val Thr Gl n Val Val As n Gl y Val Gl u Leu Pr o Val Ser
              65                      70                     75                    80
              Al a Tr p Ly s Al a Ty r Al a Ser I l e As p Leu Thr I l e Pr o I l e Phe Al a
                                                            Page 36

                                               450061_Sequenc eLi s t i ng_ST25. t x t
<removed-date>
                                     85                   90                           95
              Al a Thr As p As p Val Thr Val I l e Ser Ly s Ser Leu Al a Gl y Leu Phe
                            100                    105                   110
              Ly s Val Gl y As n Pr o I l e Al a Gl u Al a I l e Ser Ser Gl n Ser Gl y Phe
                       115                       120                     125
              Ty r Al a
                   130
<removed-apn>
              <210>       72
              <211>       130
              <212>       PRT
              <213>       Ent er obac t er i a phage BZ13
              <400>       72
              Met Al a Thr Leu Ar g Ser Phe Val Leu Val As p As n Gl y Gl y Thr Gl y
              1                5                    10                      15
              As n Val Thr Val Val Pr o Val Ser As n Al a As n Gl y Val Al a Gl u Tr p
                           20                   25                      30
              Leu Ser As n As n Ser Ar g Ser Gl n Al a Ty r Ar g Val Thr Al a Ser Ty r
                      35                     40                      45
              Ar g Al a Ser Gl y Al a As p Ly s Ar g Ly s Ty r Thr I l e Ly s Leu Gl u Val
                   50                      55                      60
              Pr o Ly s I l e Val Thr Gl n Thr Val As n Gl y Val Gl u Leu Pr o Val Ser
              65                      70                     75                    80
              Al a Tr p Ly s Al a Ty r Al a Ser I l e As p Leu Thr I l e Pr o I l e Phe Al a
                                  85                       90                       95
              Al a Thr As p As p Val Thr Leu I l e Ser Ly s Ser Leu Al a Gl y Leu Phe
                            100                    105                   110
              Ly s I l e Gl y As n Pr o Val Al a As p Al a I l e Ser Ser Gl n Ser Gl y Phe
                         115                     120                     125
              Ty r Al a
                   130
              <210>       73
              <211>       130
              <212>       PRT
              <213>       Ent er obac t er i a phage BZ13
              <400>       73
              Met Al a Thr Leu Ar g Ser Phe Val Leu Val As p As n Gl y Gl y Thr Gl y
              1                5                    10                      15
                                                              Page 37

                                                450061_Sequenc eLi s t i ng_ST25. t x t
<removed-date>
              As n Val Thr Val Val Pr o Val Ser As n Al a As n Gl y Val Al a Gl u Tr p
                           20                   25                      30
              Leu Ser As n As n Ser Ar g Ser Gl n Al a Ty r Ar g Val Thr Al a Ser Ty r
                      35                     40                      45
              Ar g Al a Ser Gl y Al a As p Ly s Ar g Ly s Ty r Thr I l e Ly s Leu Gl u Val
                   50                      55                      60
<removed-apn>
              Pr o Ly s I l e Val Thr Gl n Val Val As n Gl y Val Gl u Leu Pr o Val Ser
              65                      70                     75                    80
              Al a Tr p Ly s Al a Ty r Al a Ser I l e As p Leu Thr I l e Pr o I l e Phe Al a
                                  85                       90                       95
              Al a Thr As p As p Val Thr Val I l e Ser Ly s Ser Leu Al a Gl y Leu Phe
                            100                    105                   110
              Ly s Val Gl y As p Pr o I l e Al a As p Al a I l e Ser Ser Gl n Ser Gl y Phe
                       115                       120                     125
              Ty r Al a
                   130
              <210>       74
              <211>       130
              <212>       PRT
              <213>       Ent er obac t er i a phage TH1
              <400>       74
              Met Al a Thr Leu Ar g Ser Phe Val Leu Val As p As n Gl y Gl y Thr Gl y
              1                5                    10                      15
              As n Val Thr Val Val Pr o Val Ser As n Al a As n Gl y Val Al a Gl u Tr p
                           20                   25                      30
              Leu Ser As n As n Ser Ar g Ser Gl n Al a Ty r Ar g Val Thr Al a Ser Ty r
                      35                     40                      45
              Ar g Al a Ser Gl y Al a As p Ly s Ar g Ly s Ty r Thr I l e Ly s Leu Gl u Val
                   50                      55                      60
              Pr o Ly s I l e Val Thr Gl n Val Val As n Gl y Val Gl u Leu Pr o Val Ser
              65                      70                     75                    80
              Al a Tr p Ly s Al a Ty r Al a Ser I l e As p Leu Thr I l e Pr o I l e Phe Al a
                                  85                       90                       95
              Al a Thr As p As p Val Thr Val I l e Ser Ly s Ser Leu Al a Gl y Leu Phe
                            100                    105                   110
                                                               Page 38

                                             450061_Sequenc eLi s t i ng_ST25. t x t
<removed-date>
              Ly s Val Gl y As n Pr o I l e Al a As p Al a I l e Ser Ser Gl n Ser Gl y Phe
                       115                       120                     125
              Ty r Al a
                   130
              <210>       75
              <211>       130
              <212>       PRT
              <213>       Ent er obac t er i a phage T12
<removed-apn>
              <400>       75
              Met Al a Thr Leu Ar g Ser Phe Val Leu Val As p As n Gl y Gl y Thr Gl y
              1                5                    10                      15
              As n Val Thr Val Val Pr o Val Ser As n Al a As n Gl y Val Al a Gl u Tr p
                           20                   25                      30
              Leu Ser As n As n Ser Ar g Ser Gl n Al a Ty r Ar g Val Thr Al a Ser Ty r
                      35                     40                      45
              Ar g Al a Ser Gl y Al a As p Ly s Ar g Ly s Ty r Thr I l e Ly s Leu Gl u Val
                   50                      55                      60
              Pr o Ly s I l e Val Thr Gl n Val Val As n Gl y Val Gl u Leu Pr o Val Ser
              65                      70                     75                    80
              Al a Tr p Ly s Al a Ty r Al a Ser I l e As p Leu Thr I l e Pr o I l e Phe Al a
                                  85                       90                       95
              Al a Thr As p As p Val Thr Val I l e Ser Ly s Ser Leu Al a Gl y Leu Phe
                            100                    105                   110
              Ly s Val Gl y As n Pr o I l e Al a As p Al a I l e Ser Ser Gl n Ser Gl y Phe
                       115                       120                     125
              Ty r Al a
                   130
              <210>       76
              <211>       130
              <212>       PRT
              <213>       Ent er obac t er i a phage FR
              <400>       76
              Met Al a Ser As n Phe Gl u Gl u Phe Val Leu Val As p As n Gl y Gl y Thr
              1                 5                     10                     15
              Gl y As p Val Ly s Val Al a Pr o Ser As n Phe Al a As n Gl y Val Al a Gl u
                            20                     25                      30
              Tr p I l e Ser Ser As n Ser Ar g Ser Gl n Al a Ty r Ly s Val Thr Cy s Ser
                         35                    40                      45
                                                         Page 39

                                                 450061_Sequenc eLi s t i ng_ST25. t x t
<removed-date>
              Val Ar g Gl n Ser Ser Al a As n As n Ar g Ly s Ty r Thr Val Ly s Val Gl u
                  50                     55                       60
              Val Pr o Ly s Val Al a Thr Gl n Val Gl n Gl y Gl y Val Gl u Leu Pr o Val
              65                     70                     75                     80
              Al a Al a Tr p Ar g Ser Ty r Met As n Met Gl u Leu Thr I l e Pr o Val Phe
                                  85                    90                      95
<removed-apn>
              Al a Thr As n As p As p Cy s Al a Leu I l e Val Ly s Al a Leu Gl n Gl y Thr
                            100                     105                     110
              Phe Ly s Thr Gl y As n Pr o I l e Al a Thr Al a I l e Al a Al a As n Ser Gl y
                       115                      120                      125
              I l e Ty r
                    130
              <210>        77
              <211>        130
              <212>        PRT
              <213>        Ent er obac t er i a phage R17
              <400>        77
              Met Al a Ser As n Phe Thr Gl n Phe Val Leu Val As p As n Gl y Gl y Thr
              1                 5                    10                     15
              Gl y As p Val Thr Val Al a Pr o Ser As n Phe Al a As n Gl y Val Al a Gl u
                            20                    25                      30
              Tr p I l e Ser Ser As n Ser Ar g Ser Gl n Al a Ty r Ly s Val Thr Cy s Ser
                         35                    40                      45
              Val Ar g Gl n Ser Ser Al a Gl n As n Ar g Ly s Ty r Thr I l e Ly s Val Gl u
                  50                     55                       60
              Val Pr o Ly s Val Al a Thr Gl n Thr Val Gl y Gl y Val Gl u Leu Pr o Val
              65                     70                    75                     80
              Al a Al a Tr p Ar g Ser Ty r Leu As n Met Gl u Leu Thr I l e Pr o I l e Phe
                                  85                    90                      95
              Al a Thr As n Ser As p Cy s Gl u Leu I l e Val Ly s Al a Met Gl n Gl y Leu
                            100                    105                     110
              Leu Ly s As p Gl y As n Pr o I l e Pr o Ser Al a I l e Al a Al a As n Ser Gl y
                       115                       120                      125
              I l e Ty r
                    130
                                                                Page 40

                                             450061_Sequenc eLi s t i ng_ST25. t x t
<removed-date>
              <210>    78
              <211>    132
              <212>    PRT
              <213>    Ent er obac t er i a phage Qbet a
              <400>    78
              Al a Ly s Leu Gl u Thr Val Thr Leu Gl y As n I l e Gl y Ly s As p Gl y Ly s
              1                  5                    10                        15
              Gl n Thr Leu Val Leu As n Pr o Ar g Gl y Val As n Pr o Thr As n Gl y Val
<removed-apn>
                           20                     25                     30
              Al a Ser Leu Ser Gl n Al a Gl y Al a Val Pr o Al a Leu Gl u Ly s Ar g Val
                       35                     40                     45
              Thr Val Ser Val Ser Gl n Pr o Ser Ar g As n Ar g Ly s As n Ty r Ly s Val
                  50                   55                      60
              Gl n Val Ly s I l e Gl n As n Pr o Thr Al a Cy s Thr Al a As n Gl y Ser Cy s
              65                       70                      75                     80
              As p Pr o Ser Val Thr Ar g Gl n Al a Ty r Al a As p Val Thr Phe Ser Phe
                                85                      90                    95
              Thr Gl n Ty r Ser Thr As p Gl u Gl u Ar g Al a Phe Val Ar g Thr Gl u Leu
                            100                    105                    110
              Al a Al a Leu Leu Al a Ser Pr o Leu Leu I l e As p Al a I l e As p Gl n Leu
                        115                   120                     125
              As n Pr o Al a Ty r
                   130
                                                            Page 41

