Abstract
Technology for improving the selection, transfer, and storage of user equipment (UE) radio
capability information is disclosed. A cellular mobile network can be configured to identify
radio-access-technology (RAT)-specific radio-capability information relating to RATs
supported in the cellular mobile network and communicate the RAT-specific radio-capability
information to a UE. The UE can use the RAT-specific radio-capability information to help
determine which UE radio capability information to send to the network. In addition, the UE
may store a list of supported frequency bands and/or supported frequency-band
combinations (LOSB) indexed by network operators and use the list to help determine which
UE radio capability information to send to the network. A network node may also selectively
remove unnecessary information from UE radio capability information before storing the UE
radio capability information at a mobility management entity (MME).

   WO 2015/138079                                                                PCT/US2015/015620
             IMPROVED METHOD FOR THE TRANSFER OF RADIO CAPABILITY
                                            INFORMATION
 5                                          BACKGROUND
      [00011         In mobile networks that conform to third generation partnership project
     (3GPP) standards, a user equipment (UE) device that aims to connect to a network is
     typically configured to provide the network with information relating to the UE's radio
10   capabilities. The LIE may, for example, indicate which frequency bands and frequency
     band combinations for carrier aggregation (CA) the UE supports. The UE may also
     indicate for each supported band whether half-duplex or frill duplex transmission is
     supported. The UE may also include other information relating to band combinations or
     specific modes, such as information relating to handover between different band/mode
15   combiatUIonjIs ai d 'iaidove io o the!r[adio access technologies (-A k -s).
      [00021         The evolved universal terrestrial radio access network (E-UTRAN)
     standard has been designed to be very flexible with regard to the frequency bands and
     bandwidth with which it can be deployed. Consequently, the number of frequency bands
     and frequency band combinations supported by a UE can be very high. Currently, there
20   are around 40 single-frequency bands and about 140 frequcncy-band combinations for
     CA that have been standardized worldwide. Since the E-JTRAN is being deployed in
     wireless networks across the globe, it is likely that many more bands and band
     combinations will be standardized in the future. This poses a problem because mobility
     management entities (MME), which are a core network nodes in evolved packet core
25   networks that are associated with the E-UT RAN, are currently configured to store only up
     to 510 octets of radio capability information about a UE that connects to the network. If a
     UE vendor targets to support world-wide roaming and the UE is expected to provide the
     LE's complete radio capability information, the amount of radio capability information
     the UE is configured to send can easily occupy more than the 510 octets of space that the
30   MME has allotted for the UE's radio capability information. As a consequence, some of
     the radio capability information provided by the UE will not be taken into account by the
                                                  1

   WO 2015/138079                                                              PCT/U1S2015/015620
     network, and certain features may not work even if they are supported both by the UE and
     by the network.
                            BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
 5
     [0003]          Features and advantages of the disclosure will be apparent from the
     detailed description which follows, taken in conjunction with the accompanying
     drawings, which together illustrate, by way of example, features of the disclosure; and,
     wherein:
10   [00041          FIG. 1 illustrates the a 1E-capability transfer procedure that is used to
     retrieve radio capability information from a U E in accordance with an example;
     [0051           FIG. 2 illustrates a UE-triggered senice request procedure in an E
     UTRAN in accordance with an example;
     [00061          FIG. 3 illustrates an example of a sequence of operations that circuitry in
15   at network node in a cellular mobile network can be configured to perform;
     [00071          FIG. 4 illustrates an example of a sequence of operations that circuitry at a
     UE can be configured to perform;
     [0008]          FIG. 5 illustrates an example of a sequence of operations that circuitry at a
     LE can be configured to perform;
20   [0009]          FIG. 6 illustrates an example of a scquencc of operations that circuitry at a
     network node in a cellular mobile network can be configured to perform;
     [00101          FIG. 7 illustrates a functional block diagram of a wireless communication
     device in accordance with some embodiments.
     [00111          Reference will now be made to the exemplary embodiments illustrated and
25   specific language will be used herein to describe the same. It will nevertheless be
     understood that no limitation of the scope of is thereby intended.
                                      DETAILED DESCRIPTION
30   [0012j          Before some embodiments are disclosed and described, it is to be
     understood that the claimed subject matter is not limited to the particular structures,
     process operations, or materials disclosed herein, but is extended to equivalents thereof as
                                                  2

   WO 2015/138079                                                               PCT/U1S2015/015620
     would be recognized by those ordinarily skilled in the relevant arts. It should also be
     understood that terminology employed herein is used for the purpose of describing
     particular examples only and is not intended to be limiting. The same reference numerals
     in different drawings represent the same element. Numbers provided in flow charts and
 5   processes are provided for clarity in illustrating operations and do not necessarily indicate
     a p articular order or sequence.
      [00131          An initial overview of technology embod iments is provided below and
     then specific technology embodiments are described in further detail later. This initial
     summary is intended to aid readers in understanding the techno logy more quickly but is
10   not intended to identify key features or essential features of the tecriology nor is it
     intended to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.
      [00141          FIG. 1 illustrates the current LE-capability transfer procedure 100 that is
     used to retrieve radio capability information from a UE. In operation 106, the E-UT RAN
      104 sends a UE capability enquiry to the UE 102. Radio capability information related to
15   various radio access technologies (RATs) may be requested, such as information relating
     to E-LITRA, global system for mobile communications (GSM) enhanced data rates for
     GSM evolution (EDG E) radio access network (RAN) for circuit-switched (CS) domain
     (GERAN-CS),       global system for mobile communications (GSM) enhanced data rates for
     GSM evolution (EDGE) radio access network (RAN) for packet-switched (PS) domain
20   (GERAN-PS), UTRA, and code division multiple access one times radio transmission
     technology(cdma2000-1xRTT) network types. In operation 108, the TE responds by
     sending UE radio capability information to the E-LITRAN 104. Under the current 3GPP
     standard, the UE is expected to provide all of its radio capability information related to a
     RAT for which information is requested.
25    100151          FIG. 2 illustrates a UE-triggered service request procedure in an E
     UTRAN. A UE 202 can request service from an cNB 204.The cNB 204 can keep radio
     capability information received about the UE 202 (e.g., through the procedure illustrated
     in FIG. 1) stored in the cNB's own memory as long as the LIE 202 is connected to the
     eNB 204. The eNB 204 also sends the radio capability information to an M ME 206 in an
30   S I-A P message (e.g., UE Capability Info Indication); the M ME 206 can be configured to
     continue to store the radio capability information about the TE 202 even after the UE's
     connection to the eNB 204 is released.
                                                   3

   WO 2015/138079                                                              PCT/U1S2015/015620
     [00161           The next time the UE 202 initiates a service request procedure to establish
     a connection with the network, the MME 206 can provide the eNB 204 with the UE's
     radio capability information in an SI-AP message (Initial Context Setup Request) as
     shown in operation 4. This procedure obviates the need for the cNB 204 to retrieve radio
 5   capability information from the UE 202 every time the UE 202 requests service from the
     eNB.
     [00171           There are several problems with the current approach that is used to
     request, provide, and store UE radio capability information. First, if the UE sends radio
     capability information indicating support for a certain frequency band or feature in any
10   octet later than octet 510, this additional radio capability information may not be stored
     by the M M E. As a result, the MM E will not provide the additional radio capability
     information to the eNB when the UE subsequently requests service from the cNB (e.g.,
     when the UE changes from an evolved packet system (EPS) mobility management
     (EMM) EMM-IDLE mode to an EMM-CONNECTED mode). Without the additional
15   radio capability inFormation, some features, such as handover to other Frequency bands,
     may not work.
     [0018]           Furthermore, the current storage limit at the M ME of 510 octets of radio
     capability information for each UE applies to the sum of all radio capability information
     about all 3GPP RATs supported by the UE, not just to the radio capability information
20   that relates to E-UTRAN. Thus, even if the radio capability information relating to E
     UTRAN requires less than 510 octets, the MME may not be able to store radio capability
     information relating to other RATs like GERAN, UTRAN, and unlicensed RATs such as
     IEEE 802.11 and Bluetooth. Consequently, inter-RAT handover or inter-RAT idle mode
     mobility to the other RATs may not work.
25   100191           Another problem with the approach used by the current standard is that it
     requires a LIE to provide all of the UJE's radio capability information even though typical
     mobile networks only deploy a few frequency bands and only support a few carrier
     aggregation CA combinations and/or modes. In addition, a RAN for a mobile network,
     such as an E-UTRAN, may only support some features. In certain cases, the question of
30   whether a UE supports a specific feature for a certain band may depend on whether the
     band at the RAN uses a time-division duplex (TDD) mode or a frequency-division duplex
                                                   4

   WO 2015/138079                                                              PCT/U1S2015/015620
     (FDD) mode; support for the specific feature may also depend on the mode of a target
     band to which handover or redirection is intended.
      [00201         At best, the communication of a U E's capabilities, irrespective of the
     capabilities of a RAN, can result in inefficiency when unnecessary radio capability
 5   information is stored at an M M E, excessive communication and battery usage at the UE,
     and additional strain on the mobile network. At worst, the M M E can store unnecessary
     radio capability information in the 510 octets allotted for the LIE and neglect to store
     helpful information that is contained in later octets that may not be stored when the UE's
     capability information is greater than 5 10 octets.
10    [00211         One temporary remedy might be to raise the limit of510 octets per UJE at
     the M M E in the next 3GP P standard. However, 3GPP is defining new frequency bands
     and CA combinations at a very fast rate. As a result, a new limit might be quickly
     outgrown by the amount of radio capability information that will be available for a UE.
     Furthermore, raising the memory limit would not address the problem of inefficiency.
15   Since the amount of radio capability information that is available is growing Faster than
     the amount of radio capability information that is actually useful for any specific network,
     the percentage of storage space that is occupied by useful radio capability information
     could actually decrease as the storage limit increases.
      [00221         Alternatively, the MME could be configured to store all radio capability
20   information transferred by the UE without any limit at all. However, this would likely
     exacerbate the inefficiency issue. Furthermore, network vendors and operators would be
     unlikely to accept a standard without a limit of some kind, since they would likely be
     required to absorb the costs of using additional memory. An MME can serve several
     million subscribers, so storing 1000 additional octets of information for each subscriber's
25   UE would require equipping the MM E with several additional gigabytes of memory. As a
     result, network vendors and operators would likely implement proprietary limits, leading
     to less predictable performance and/or interoperability for UEs that are used in different
     network environments.
      [00231         Another non-standardized approach involves configuring a UE to
30   determine which bands are app licable to a geographical region where the UE is located.
     Up to release 10 of the 3GPP specifications, the number of frequency bands that can be
     signaled in the radio capability information about the UT RAN from the UE to a network
                                                 5

   WO 2015/138079                                                                 PCT/U1S2015/015620
     is restricted to 16. To work around this restriction, a UE that supports more than 16 bands
     can be configured to determine, based on the geographical region (e.g., Europe, Asia,
     North or South America, Africa, Australia) in which the UE is situated, which bands are
     most likely to be used by networks in the UE's area. The UE can then send radio
 5   capability information relating to only those bands. This solution can be helpful in regions
     where no more than 16 bands are generally supported. In regions where more than 16
     bands are supported, the UE may have programmed lists indexed by operator. These lists
     can include known (or potentially available) bands for each operator. However, these lists
     can rapidly become outdated.
10    [00241          There is, therefore, a need for a better solution to the problems that
     currently affect the transmittal and storage of radio capability information. Two novel
     solutions (method 1 and method 2) that are described in this application involve reducing
     the radio capability information before it is transmitted from the UE, while another
     solution (method 3) involves reducing the radio capability information after it has been
15   received by the network.
                                                Method 1
      [00251          In method 1, a mobile network can provide a UE with additional
     information that allows the UE to exclude irrelevant radio capability information from the
     LIE capability information message that the UE sends to the mobile network (e.g., as
20   illustrated in FIG. 1). The additional information that the mobile network provides to the
     UE may be specific for a certain RAT and can include, but is not limited to, one or more
     of: the frequency bands supported in the mobile network; the maximum number of
     carriers that can be aggregated in the mobile network, possibly listed separately for
     downlink (DL) and uplink (UL); the modes supported on the mobile network (e.g., time
25   division duplexing (TDD) and frequency-division duplexing (FDD)); and a 3GPP release
     version up to which the UE should provide radio capability information (e.g., Rel. 8, 9,
      10, 11, 12, 13, etc.). The mobile network can be configured to provide the additional
     information via dedicated signaling (e.g., in the UE Capability Enquiry Message shown in
     FIG. 1). The mobile network can also be configured to provide the additional information
30   via a system information broadcast. Alternatively, the mobile network can also be
     configured to provide the additional information via a combination of dedicated signaling
     and a system information broadcast.
                                                   6

   WO 2015/138079                                                              PCT/U1S2015/015620
     [00261            Method I can be implemented in many different ways. The following
     example is one illustrative way in which method I can be implemented, but is not
     intended to limit the scope of the technology nor to identify essential aspects of the
     technology.
 5   [0027j           According to 3GPP TS 36.331, subclause 6.2.2, a UE capability enquiry
     message contains a ue-CapabilityRequest parameter defined as a "list of the RATs for
     which the UE is requested to transfer the UE radio access capabilities i.e. E-UTRA,
     UTRA, GERAN-CS, GERAN-PS, CDMA2000."
     [0028]            In one example, an eN B can be configured to add one or more optional
10   parameters to the UE capability enquiry message (e.g., as illustrated in FIG. 1). A first
     optional parameter can indicate the frequency bands supported by the mobile network. A
     UE that receives the first optional parameter in the LE capability enquiry message can
     elect not to send UE radio capability information that regards unsupported frequency
     bands to the network. A frequency band can be considered "supported by the network" if
15   the requency band is supported anywhere in the network, not just iF it is supported by the
     cNB and its neighboring cells.
     [00291           The information related to the frequency bands supported by the mobile
     network can be made available to the eNB via administration or via signaling if the
     mobile network is a self-organizing network (SON). In some embodiments, the first
20   optional parameter can indicate the frequency bands supported by equivalent public land
     mobile networks (PLfNs). Equivalent PLMNs are considered equivalent to each other
     for the purposes of PLMN selection, cell selection/reselection, and handover.
     [00301            In some embodiments, the first optional parameter can be encoded as an
     explicit list of numbers of the supported frequency bands. Alternatively, the first optional
25   parameter can be encoded as a bitmap. In one example, the bitmap can be 256 bits long.
     Each bit position can correspond to a certain frequency band. If desired, the bitmap can
     also have a flexible length so that the UE will not be required to encode the last bits if
     they do not include any bit that is set to 1. Such a flexible-length bitmap can be extended
     in the future if additional bands are defined by 3GPP. Alternatively, the mobile network
30   can be configured to use either encoding format for the first optional parameter depending
     on which format would use fewer bits.
                                                  7

   WO 2015/138079                                                             PCT/U1S2015/015620
      [0031 j         A second optional parameter can comprise information used to indicate (1)
     the maximum number of downlink (D L) carriers the mobile network can support for
     carrier aggregation; (2) a maximum number of up link carriers the mobile network can
     support for carrier aggregation; and (3) support of carrier aggregation bandwidth classes
 5   (e.g., A, B, C), particularly for UL. With the information indicated by the information that
     comprises the second parameter, a UE may be able to avoid sending radio capability
     information regarding multiple timing advance (MTA) support. In one example, the
     mobile network may indicate a value ranging from 1 to 8 (or more) for the DL, where the
     value represents the maximum number of carriers that can be aggregated relative to what
10   the mobile network supports. A value of two, for example, can indicate that the UE does
     not need to send any radio capability information relating to band combinations used for
     aggregation of more than two carriers.
      [00321          The second optional parameter can alternatively comprise information that
     can be used to indicate maximum numbers of DL carriers and UL carriers for intra-band
15   and inter-band combinations separately. The second optional parameter can also comprise
     information that can be used to indicate a maximum number of DL carriers and a
     maximum number of UL carriers if DL and U L carrier aggregation is simultaneously
     supported.
      [00331          The second optional parameter can also comprise information that can be
20   used to indicate whether there is support for transmission modes TM9 and TM10. A LE
     that receives this information can avoid sending radio capability information that regards
     special multiple-input multiple-output (MIO) and coordinated multipoint (coMP)
     settings for T M9 or TM 10 if TM9 or TM 10 are not supported. The second optional
     parameter can also comprise information that can be used to indicate whether UL MIMO
25   is supported. A UE that receives this information can avoid sending radio capability
     information that regards LL MIMO if UL MIMO is not supported.
      [00341          A third optional parameter can comprise information used to indicate
     whether the mobile network (or its equivalent PLMNs) supports multiple modes (e.g.,
     duplexing modes FDD or TDD). A UE that receives this information can avoid sending
30   radio capability information that regards a mode that is not supported.
      [00351          A fourth optional parameter can comprise information used to indicate a
     3GPP release version x. A UE that receives this information can be configured to send
                                                 8

   WO 2015/138079                                                              PCT/U1S2015/015620
     radio capability information regarding release version x and any previous release
     versions. In this way, even if the UE is compliant with later release versions of 3GPP, the
     UE need not send radio capability information regarding those later release versions if
     they are not supported by the network.
 5   [0036j           While the parameters discussed above may be included in a UE capability
     enquiry message (e.g., as illustrated in FIG. I), the information that can be inc luded in
     these parameters can also be broadcasted as an enhancement to an existing system
     information broadcast (SIB) message or another message. Furthermore, the same
     information can also be provided by the mobile network via other radio interfaces (e.g.,
10   the UTRAN radio interface) if the lFE needs to provide its E-UTRAN radio capability in
     preparation for an inter-RAT handover from a UT RAN to an E-UTRAN.
     [00371           FIG. 3 depicts an illustrative example of a sequence of operations that
     circuitry (e.g., one or more processors) at a network node in a mobile network can be
     configured to perform. The term "network node" refers to an active electronic device that
15   is attached to a network and is capable of sending, receiving, and/or Forwarding
     information over a communications channel (e.g., an evolved node B (CNB), a mobility
     management entity (M M E), or a policy charging and rules function (PCR F) node). As in
     3 10, circuitry at the network node may be configured to identify radio-access-technology
     (RAT)-specific radio-capability information relating to RATs supported in the cellular
20   mobile network (c.g., an E-UTRAN). In some embodiments, the RAT-specific radio
     capability information may comprise information regarding a plurality of supported
     frequency bands supported in the cellular mobile network. In some embodiments, the
     RAT-specific radio-capability information may also comprise information regarding a
     maximum number of carriers for UL or DL that can be aggregated in the cellular mobile
25   network. A dditionally, the RAT-specific radio-capability information may comprise
     information regarding a plurality of modes supported by the in the cellular mobile
     network (e.g., a time-division dup lex (T DD) mode or a frequency-division duplex (FDD)
     mode). The RAT-specific radio -capability information may also comprise information
     regarding a 3GPP release version up to which the UE is to provide radio capability
30   information.
     [00381           As in 320, circuitry at the network node may be configured to
     communicate the RAT-specific radio-capability information to a UE. In some
                                                   9

   WO 2015/138079                                                              PCT/U1S2015/015620
     embodiments, the RAT-specific radio-capability information may be broadcast as system
     information to the UE. In addition, the circuitry may be configured to: receive a request to
     establish a radio resource control (RRC) connection from the UE at an evolved node B
     (cNB) in the cellular mobile network; receive a request to set up user plane bearers for the
 5   UE from a mobility management entity (MM E) in the cellular mobile network; and
     communicate the RAT-specific radio-capability information in a UE-capability-enquiry
     message to the LIE if the request received from the MME does not include LIE radio
     capability information. The request can include UE radio capability information. As in
     330, circuitry at the network node may be configured to receive UE radio capability
10   information from the LIE comprising information that is selected (e.g., by the UE) based
     on the RAT-specific radio capability information.
      [00391          FIG. 4 depicts an illustrative example of a sequence of operations that
     circuitry (e.g., one or more processors) at a UE can be configured to perform. As in 410,
     the circuitry at the UE can be configured to receive RAT-specific radio-capability
15   information relating to RATs supported in a cellular mobile network (e.g., an E-UTRAN).
     In some embodiments, the RAT-specific radio-capability information may comprise
     information regarding a plurality of supported frequency bands supported in the cellular
     mobile network. In some embodiments, the RAT-specific radio-capability information
     may also comprise information regarding a maximum number of carriers for UL or DL
20   that can be aggregated in the cellular mobile network. Additionally, the RAT-specific
     radio-capability information may comprise information regarding a plurality of modes
     supported by the in the cellular mobile network (e.g., a time-division duplex (TDD) mode
     or a frequency-division duplex (FDD) mode). The RAT-specific radio-capability
     information may also comprise information regarding a 3GPP release version up to which
25   the UE is to provide radio capability information. The RAT-specific radio-capability
     information can also be received in a UE-capability-enquiry message or in a system
     information broadcast.
      [00401          As in 420, the circuitry at the UE can be configured to identify LE
     capability information at the UE that is relevant according to the RAT-specific radio
30   capability information. In general, U E capability information that regards capabilities that
     are supported by the cellular mobile network can be considered relevant. As in 430, the
                                                   10

   WO 2015/138079                                                               PCT/U1S2015/015620
     circuitry at the U E can be configured to send the relevant UE capability information from
     the UE to the cellular mobile network.
                                                 Method 2
      [00411          In method 2, a UE can adaptively select a set of frequency bands for which
 5   to transmit radio capability information based on the U E's history in a wireless network.
     For example, the UE may have programmed lists of supported frequency bands and/or
     frequency-band combinations indexed by operator. Alternatively, the UE may begin with
     empty lists or lists that comprise an operator-independent set of bands and/or band
     combinations that are commonly supported. When the UE receives a request to provide
10   the UE's radio capability information, the UE can add one or more additional bands
     and/or band combinations to the list and include it when radio capability information is
     sent to the requesting mobile network (or other mobile networks associated with the same
     operator). If any bands and/or band combinations that are on the list are not assigned by
     the network for a long period of time, those bands and/or band combinations can be
15   removed [roni the list that corresponds to the operator. In this way, the UE can adaptively
     learn not to send irrelevant radio capability information to mobile networks.
      [0042]          FIG. 5 depicts an illustrative example of a sequence of operations that
     circuitry (e.g., one or more processors) at a UE can be configured to perform. As in 510,
     the circuitry can be configured to store a list of supported frequency bands and/or
20   supported frequency-band combinations (LOSB). In some embodiments, the circuitry can
     also be configured to store a set of LOSBs. One or more LOSBs in the set of LOSBs can
     correspond to one or more of: an operator, a country, a geographical region, or a
     continent.
      [00431          As in 520, the circuitry can be configured to receive a request to provide
25   radio-capability information to the cellular mobile network. As in 530, the circuitry can
     also be configured to add a first frequency band supported by the UE to the LOSB. As in
     540, the circuitry can also be configured to send the radio-capability information to the
     cellular mobile network. The radio-capability information may be based on the LOSB
     (e.g., comprise information regarding capabilities included in the LOSB). As in 550, the
30   circuitry can also be configured to monitor whether the first frequency band is assigned
     by an cNB in the cellular mobile network during a specified time period. As in 560, the
     circuitry can also be configured to remove the first frequency band from the LOSB if the
                                                   11

   WO 2015/138079                                                              PCT/U1S2015/015620
     first frequency band is not assigned during the specified period of time. In some
     embodiments, the LOSB can include an operator-independent set of frequency bands and
     frequency-band combinations before any frequency bands are added to or deleted from
     the LOSB.
 5                                               Method 3
     [0044]            In method 3, a network node (e.g., an eNB or an MM E) can receive radio
     capability information regarding a UE and store only the portions of the UJE radio
     capability information that are relevant to capabilities supported in the network (e.g., by
     any nodes in the network). In other words, the network node filters or prunes the U E radio
10   capability information until only relevant information remains. If the network node is a
     serving eN B and is forwarding the UE radio capability information to a target eNB during
     a hand over, the target cNB may support more bands and/or band combinations than the
     serving eNB. As a result, in some embodiments, the eNB can be configured to store
     portions of the UE radio capability information that are relevant to capabilities supported
15   by neighboring nodes.
     [00451           In one non-limiting example, a network node applying method 3 may be
     configured to work in one of two pruning modes. In both pruning mode I and pruning
     mode 2, the network node can be configured to remove any UE radio capability
     information that the network node can decode, but that is related to a capability not
20   supported by the mobile network. In pruning mode 1, the network node can also be
     configured to remove any LE radio capability information that the network node cannot
     decode (e.g., because it was added in a later protocol version not supported by the
     network node). In pruning mode 2, by contrast, the network node can also be configured
     to not remove any LIE radio capability information that the network node cannot decode.
25   Mode 2 can be used in situations where different nodes in the mobile network have
     different capabilities (e.g., when the mobile network is being updated and different nodes
     are supporting different protocol versions).
     [00461           FIG. 6 depicts an illustrative example of a sequence of operations that
     circuitry (e.g., one or more processors) at a network node in a cellular mobile network can
30   be configured to perform. As in 610, the circuitry can be configured to obtain UE
     capability information pertaining to a TE. In some embodiments, the network node may
     be an eNB or an M ME. In embodiments where the network node is an eN B, for example,
                                                   12

   WO 2015/138079                                                             PCT/U1S2015/015620
     the UE-capability information may be received via transmission from the UE or via a
     connection to an MM E on which the UE-capability information is stored. As in 620, the
     circuitry can be configured to identify segments of information in the UE-capability
     information that the network node can decode that relate to capabilities not supported by
 5   the cellular mobile network in which the network node is located. As in 630, the circuitry
     can be configured to remove from the UE-capability information the segments of
     information that the network node can decode that relate to radio capabilities not
     supported by the cellular mobile network. As in 640, the circuitry can be configured to
     store the UE-capability information in a mobility management entity (M M E) located in
10   the cellular mobile network. In some embodiments, the circuitry can be configured to
     identify and remove segments of information in the UE-capability information that the
     network node cannot decode.
      [0047]         FIG. 7 provides an example illustration of the wireless device, such as a
     user equipment (LIE), a mobile station (MS), a mobile wireless device, a mobile
15   communication device, a tablet, a handset, or other type of wireless device. The wireless
     device can include one or more antennas configured to communicate with a node, macro
     node, low power node (LPN), or, transmission station, such as a base station (BS), an
     evolved Node B (eNB), a baseband unit (BBU), a remote radio head (RRH), a remote
     radio equipment (RRE), a relay station (RS), a radio equipment (RE), or other type of
20   wireless wide area network (WWAN) access point. The wireless device can be
     configured to communicate using at least one wireless communication standard including
     3GPP LTE, WiMAX, High Speed Packet Access (HSPA), Bluetooth, and WiFi. The
     wireless device can communicate using separate antennas for each wireless
     communication standard or shared antennas for multiple wireless communication
25   standards. The wireless device can communicate in a wireless local area network
     (WLAN), a wireless personal area network (WPAN), and/or a WWAN.
      [0048]         FIG. 7 also provides an illustration of a microphone and one or more
     speakers that can be used for audio input and output from the wireless device. The display
     screen may be a liquid crystal display (LCD) screen, or other type of display screen such
30   as an organic light emitting diode (OLED) display. The display screen can be configured
     as a touch screen. The touch screen may use capacitive, resistive, or another type of touch
     screen technology. An application processor and a graphics processor can be coupled to
                                                 13

   WO 2015/138079                                                               PCT/U1S2015/015620
     internal memory to provide processing and display capabilities. A non-volatile memory
     port can also be used to provide data input/output options to a user. The non-volatile
     memory port may also be used to expand the memory capabilities of the wireless device.
     A keyboard may be integrated with the wireless device or tirelessly connected to the
 5   wireless device to provide additional user input. A virtual keyboard may also be provided
     using the touch screen.
     [00491           Various tecimniques, or certain aspects or portions thereof, may take the
     form of program code (i.e., instructions) embodied in tangible media, such as floppy
     diskettes, CD-ROMs, hard drives, non-transitory computer readable storage medium, or
10   any other machine-readable storage medium wherein, when the program code is loaded
     into and executed by a machine, such as a computer, the machine becomes an apparatus
     for practicing the various tecimiques. Circuitry can include hardware, firmware, program
     code, executable code, computer instructions, and/or software. A non-transitory computer
     readable storage medium can be a computer readable storage medium that does not
15   include signal. In the case of program code execution on programmable computers, the
     computing device may include a processor, a storage medium readable by the processor
     (including volatile and non-volatile memory and/or storage elements), at least one input
     device, and at least one output device. The volatile and non-volatile memory and/or
     storage elements may be a RAM, EPROM, flash drive, optical drive, magnetic hard drive,
20   solid state drive, or other medium for storing electronic data. The node and wireless
     device may also include a transceiver module, a counter module, a processing module,
     and/or a clock module or timer module. One or more programs that may implement or
     utilize the various techniques described herein may use an application programming
     interface (API), reusable controls, and the like. Such programs may be implemented in a
25   high level procedural or object oriented programming language to communicate with a
     computer system. However, the program(s) may be implemented in assembly or machine
     language, if desired. In any case, the language may be a compiled or interpreted language,
     and combined with hardware implementations.
     [0050]           It should be understood that many of the functional units described in this
30   specification have been labeled as modules, in order to more particularly emphasize their
     implementation independence. For example, a module may be implemented as a
     hardware circuit comprising custom VLSI circuits or gate arrays, off-the-shelf
                                                  14

   WO 2015/138079                                                               PCT/U1S2015/015620
     semiconductors such as logic chips, transistors, or other discrete components. A module
     may also be implemented in programmable hardware devices such as field programmable
     gate arrays, programmable array logic, programmable logic devices or the like.
      [00511         Modules may also be implemented in software for execution by various
 5   types of processors. An identified module of executable code may, for instance, comprise
     one or more physical or logical blocks of computer instructions, which may, for instance,
     be organized as an object, procedure, or function. Nevertheless, the executables of an
     identified module need not be physically located together, but may comprise disparate
     instructions stored in different locations which, when joined logically together, comprise
10   the module and achieve the stated purpose for the module.
      [00521         Indeed, a module of executable code may be a single instruction, or many
     instructions, and may even be distributed over several different code segments, among
     different programs, and across several memory devices. Similarly, operational data may
     be identified and illustrated herein within modules, and may be embodied in any suitable
15    forn and organized within any suitable type of data structure. The operational data may
     be collected as a single data set, or may be distributed over different locations including
     over different storage devices, and may exist, at least partially, merely as electronic
     signals on a system or network. The modules may be passive or active, including agents
     operable to perform desired functions.
20    [0053]         Reference throughout this specification to "an example" means that a
     particular feature, structure, or characteristic described in connection with the example is
     included in at least one embodiment. Thus, appearances of the phrases "in an example" in
     various places throughout this specification are not necessarily all referring to the same
     embodiment.
25    100541         As used herein, a plurality of items, structural elements, compositional
     elements, and/or materials may be presented in a common list for convenience. However,
     these lists should be construed as though each member of the list is individually identified
     as a separate and unique member. Thus, no individual member of such list should be
     construed as a de facto equivalent of any other member of the same list solely based on
30   their presentation in a common group without indications to the contrary. In addition,
     various embodiments and examples may be referred to herein along with alternatives for
     the various components thereof. It is understood that such embodiments, examples, and
                                                  15

   WO 2015/138079                                                             PCT/U1S2015/015620
     alternatives are not to be construed as defacto equivalents of one another, but are to be
     considered as separate and autonomous.
     [0055]          Furthermore, the described features, structures, or characteristics may be
     combined in any suitable manner in one or more embodiments. In the following
 5   description, numerous specific details are provided, such as examples of layouts,
     distances, network examples, etc., to provide a thorough understanding of some
     embodiments. One skilled in the relevant art will recognize, however, that the claimed
     subject matter can be practiced without one or more of the specific details, or with other
     methods, components, layouts, etc. In other instances, well-known structures, materials,
10   or operations are not shown or described in detail to avoid obscuring aspects of the
     claimed subject matter.
     [00561          While the forgoing examples are illustrative of the principles of the present
     claimed subject matter in one or more particular applications, it will be apparent to those
     of ordinary skill in the art that numerous modifications in form, usage and details of
15   implementation can be made without the exercise of inventive faculty, and without
     departing from the principles and concepts of the claimed subject matter. Accordingly, it
     is not intended that the claimed subject matter be limited, except as by the claims set forth
     below.
                                                16

                                                  Claims
     1. An apparatus of a user equipment (UE) operable to communicate radio access capability
          information, the apparatus comprising:
                  memory; and
                  one or more processors configured to:
                  decode, at the UE, a UE capability enquiry message received from a network
          node in an evolved universal terrestrial radio access network (E-UTRAN), wherein the
          UE capability enquiry message includes a list of frequency bands that are supported in
          the E-UTRAN;
                  determine, at the UE, a set of frequency band combinations and frequency bands
          that are supported at the UE, wherein the set of frequency band combinations and
          frequency bands are limited to the list of frequency bands that are supported in the E
          UTRAN; and
                  encode, at the UE, a UE capability information message for transmission to the
          network node, wherein the UE capability information message includes the set of
          frequency band combinations and frequency bands that are supported at the UE and the
          E-UTRAN.
     2. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising a transceiver configured to:
                  receive the UE capability enquiry message from the network node; and
                  transmit the UE capability information message to the network node.
     3. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the frequency band combinations that are included in
          the UE capability information message are carrier aggregation (CA) band combinations.
     4. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the frequency band combinations that are included in
          the UE capability information message are non-carrier aggregation (CA) band
          combinations.
                                                    17
3610932vl

P64416AU-D
     5. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the one or more processors are further configured to
          decode the UE capability enquiry message received from the network node via a radio
          resource control (RCC) signaling message.
     6. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the list of frequency bands in the UE capability
          enquiry message includes up to 16 frequency bands that are supported in the E-UTRAN.
     7. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the one or more processors are further configured to
          decode the UE capability enquiry message received from the network node when the UE
          is in a connected mode.
     8. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the UE includes an antenna, a touch sensitive display
          screen, a speaker, a microphone, a graphics processor, an application processor, an
          internal memory, or a non-volatile memory port.
     9. An apparatus of a network node in a cellular mobile network that is operable to determine
          radio access capability information associated with a user equipment (UE), the apparatus
          comprising:
                   memory; and
                   one or more processors configured to:
                   identify, at the network node, a list of frequency bands that are supported in the
          cellular mobile network;
                   encode, at the network node, a UE capability enquiry message for transmission to
          the UE, wherein the UE capability enquiry message includes the list of frequency bands
          that are supported in the cellular mobile network; and
                   decode, at the network node, a UE capability information message received from
          the UE, wherein the UE capability information message includes a set of frequency band
          combinations and frequency bands that are supported at the UE and the cellular mobile
          network, wherein the set of frequency band combinations and frequency bands are
          limited to the list of frequency bands that are supported in the cellular mobile network.
                                                     18
3610932vl

P64416AU-D
     10. The apparatus of claim 9, wherein the frequency band combinations that are included in
          the UE capability information message are carrier aggregation (CA) band combinations.
     11. The apparatus of claim 9, wherein the frequency band combinations that are included in
          the UE capability information message are non-carrier aggregation (CA) band
          combinations.
     12. The apparatus of claim 9, wherein the one or more processors are further configured to
          encode the UE capability enquiry message for transmission to the UE via a radio resource
          control (RCC) signaling message.
     13. The apparatus of claim 9, wherein the cellular mobile network that includes the network
          node is an evolved universal terrestrial radio access network (E-UTRAN).
     14. The apparatus of claim 9, wherein the list of frequency bands in the UE capability
          enquiry message includes up to 16 frequency bands that are supported in the cellular
          mobile network.
     15. The apparatus of claim 9, wherein the one or more processors are further configured to
          encode the UE capability enquiry message for transmission to the UE when the UE is in a
          connected mode.
     16. At least one machine readable storage medium having instructions embodied thereon for
          communicating radio access capability information from a user equipment (UE), the
          instructions when executed by one or more processors causes the UE to perform the
          following:
                  decoding, at the UE, a UE capability enquiry message received from a network
          node in an evolved universal terrestrial radio access network (E-UTRAN), wherein the
                                                    19
3610932vl

P64416AU-D
          UE capability enquiry message includes a list of frequency bands that are supported in
          the E-UTRAN;
                   determining, at the UE, a set of frequency band combinations and frequency
          bands that are supported at the UE, wherein the set of frequency band combinations and
          frequency bands are limited to the list of frequency bands that are supported in the E
          UTRAN; and
                   encoding, at the UE, a UE capability information message for transmission to the
          network node, wherein the UE capability information message includes the set of
          frequency band combinations and frequency bands that are supported at the UE and the
          E-UTRAN.
     17. The at least one machine readable storage medium of claim 16, wherein the frequency
          band combinations that are included in the UE capability information message are carrier
          aggregation (CA) band combinations.
     18. The at least one machine readable storage medium of claim 16, wherein the frequency
          band combinations that are included in the UE capability information message are non
          carrier aggregation (CA) band combinations.
     19. The at least one machine readable storage medium of claim 16, further comprising
          instructions which when executed by the one or more processor causes the UE to perform
          the following: decoding the UE capability enquiry message received from the network
          node via a radio resource control (RCC) signaling message.
     20. The at least one machine readable storage medium of claim 16, wherein the list of
          frequency bands in the UE capability enquiry message includes up to 16 frequency bands
          that are supported in the E-UTRAN.
     21. The at least one machine readable storage medium of claim 16, further comprising
          instructions which when executed by the one or more processor causes the UE to perform
                                                     20
3610932vl

P64416AU-D
          the following: decoding the UE capability enquiry message received from the network
          node when the UE is in a connected mode.
                                                 21
3610932vl

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
