Title: Temperature Compensated Gas Tank for Fire Extinguishers
Field: Fire Fighting Equipment
Abstract:
A fire extinguisher gas tank tank that incorporates warming systems to counteract the cooling
caused by discharge of the fire extinguisher. By keeping the temperature closer to constant
the carbon dioxide pressure is also kept nearly constant and the fire extinguisher performance
remains optimal during use. The gas may be carbon dioxide, or any other suitable gas or
fluid mixture.

3
Title: Temperature Compensated Gas Tank for Fire Extinguishers
Field: Fire Fighting Equipment
Background:
[0001] The present invention relates to fire extinguishing sprinklers, and in particular to fire
extinguishers that use high pressure compressed fluid such as carbon dioxide as the fire
extinguishing gas.
[0002] When a high pressure fire extinguisher is discharged, the release of gas causes the
remaining gas in the storage tank to rapidly drop in pressure and hence temperature.
[0003] The drop in temperature results in a significant drop in the pressure of the remaining
gas, such that the fire extinguisher loses effectiveness when only half of the stored gas has
been discharged. The pressure loss serves to reduce the range of the extinguisher and to
reduce the effectiveness of a given size of extinguisher tank.
[0004] The remaining stored gas is not available for high pressure discharge until it has had
time to warm up to a usable temperature. This warming period is unwelcome during the
extinguishing of a fire. In handheld and other simple extinguishers the warming may take
many minutes.
[0005] The approach taken with this present invention is to use a heating system to maintain
the temperature or prevent the gas from becoming cold enough to lose the functional
pressure.

[0006] The heating system may be of any suitable type, though preferred systems are solid
state electrical resistance heaters or heat pumps because of the reliability, simplicity,
robustness and easily controlled behavior of such systems.
[0007] This temperature compensation will allow much smaller and lighter gas tanks to be
used for any given amount of short term fire extinguishing ability. Use of smaller and lighter
tanks has many advantages especially in vehicles or when people are required to carry said
extinguishers.
[0008] The electrical heating may be powered by mains electricity in the event of
permanently installed fire extinguishing systems, but battery systems are required both for
portable fire extinguishers and for any system where electrical power may be interrupted in
the event of a fire.
[0009] Initiating and controlling of the heating operation may be via a two-stage process. The
process is initiated by the same controls as used to activate the extinguisher spray. Once
active, the system uses temperature feedback to ensure that the gas tank is maintained at the
optimum temperature without overheating.
[0010] This invention can be produced in a range of sizes depending on the size of the rooms
or interior spaces that the system will be installed within.
[0011] This invention can also be produced with a range of different heating systems to
match the requirements of the specific application.

Summary:
[0012] The temperature compensated gas tank for fire extinguishers, comprising container of
pressurized gas, which can be directed through a nozzle or a plurality of nozzles by a flow
control device. The flow of gas is used to extinguish fires.
[0013] Said container is fitted with a heating device to maintain the temperature even when
gas is being released from the tank.
[0014] As the gas is released through said nozzles, the expanding gas rapidly drops in
temperature so that the temperature of the remaining gas in the container drops to a point well
below the starting temperature.
[0015] This drop in temperature results in a drop in pressure thus reducing the effectiveness
of the fire extinguisher.
[0016] It is therefore an object of the present invention to provide a temperature compensated
gas tank for fire extinguishers in which there is a container of pressurized gas.
[0017] It is also an object of the present invention to provide a temperature compensated gas
tank for fire extinguishers in which there is a heating device to maintain the temperature of
the container of gas during use.
[0018] It is also an object of the present invention to provide a temperature compensated gas
tank for fire extinguishers in which the heating device is an electrical resistance heater.

[0019] It is also an object of the present invention to provide a temperature compensated gas
tank for fire extinguishers in which the heating device is an electrical heat pump.
[0020] It is also an object of the present invention to provide a temperature compensated gas
tank for fire extinguishers in which the heating device is an electrical heat pump consisting of
peltier effect modules.
[0021] It is also an object of the present invention to provide a temperature compensated gas
tank for fire extinguishers in which the heating device is powered by a battery or battery pack
that is mounted on the fire extinguisher.
[0022] It is also an object of the present invention to provide a temperature compensated gas
tank for fire extinguishers in which the heating device is any other suitable type of portable
heater.
[0023] It is also an object of the present invention to provide a temperature compensated gas
tank for fire extinguishers in which the system may be mounted in a room or interior space to
provide fire extinguishing services throughout the interior space.
[0024] It is also an object of the present invention to provide a temperature compensated gas
tank for fire extinguishers in which the heating device will begin operation when a the fire
extinguisher is activated.
[0025] It is also an object of the present invention to provide a temperature compensated gas
tank for fire extinguishers in which the heating device will use a feedback control loop to
maintain the gas container at a suitable temperature during the operation of the extinguisher.
[0026] Other objects and features of the present invention will become apparent from the
following detailed description taken in connection with the accompanying drawings which
disclose one of the embodiments of the invention. It is to be understood, however, that the

drawings are designed for the purposes of illustration only, and are not intended as a
definition of the limits and scope of the invention.
[0027] In the drawings, wherein similar reference numerals denote similar elements
throughout the several views:
[0028] FIG. 1 is a pictorial view of the temperature compensated gas tank for fire
extinguishers using electrical resistance heating.
[0029] FIG. 2 is a pictorial view of the temperature compensated gas tank for fire
extinguishers using peltier effect heat pump heating.
[0030] FIG. 3 is a cross-sectional view of the temperature compensated gas tank for fire
extinguishers using electrical resistance heating.
[0031] FIG. 4 is a cross-sectional view of the temperature compensated gas tank for fire
extinguishers using peltier effect heat pump heating.
[0032] FIG. 5 is a graph showing the temperature changes over time for a temperature
compensated gas tank for fire extinguishers compared to the non-compensated version.
[0033] Referring to the drawings, there is shown a system comprising a pressurized container
of gas 5, disposed adjacent and coupled to a gas flow modulating component 3, and wherein a
nozzle 6 is coupled to said gas flow modulating component for directing the escaping gas in
such a way as to extinguish a fire.
[0034] The pressurized container 5 is coupled to a set of heating units 2 located so that they
are able to heat the container 5.
[0035] Heating units 2 are supplied power by a battery pack 1 via a control unit.

Description of Embodiments:
[0036] In one embodiment the heaters 2 are operated whenever the gas flow modulator 3 is
activated. The heaters 2 compensate for the temperature drop experienced as the pressure in
the gas tank 5 drops, to ensure that the tank temperature does not fall below a desirable level.
[0037] In a preferred embodiment, the heaters 2 are modulated via a temperature sensing
system to control the temperature of the gas tank 5.
[0038] In an alternative embodiment, the heaters 2 will begin heating the tank as the fire
extinguisher is being readied for use, so that the heaters 2 and tank walls 5 are pre-heated in
anticipation of the upcoming fluid pressure and temperature drop.
[0039] In one embodiment of the invention, the heaters will be electrical resistance heaters 2
that will produce heat when energized with electrical energy supplied from the batteries 1.
[0040] In an alternative embodiment of the invention, the heaters will be heat pumps 4 that
will pump heat from the ambient environment into the gas tank 5. By using a heat pump the
total amount of heat introduced into the gas tank 5 will be greater than that produced by
electrical resistance heaters using the same amount of electrical energy. The heat pumps can
be solid state Peltier effect heat pumps, or any other suitable sort of heat pump.
[0041] In a preferred embodiment of the invention, the temperature of the gas tank 5 will be
controlled using a closed loop feedback control system to maintain a target temperature
during use. The target temperature will be chosen to produce the best combination of gas
pressure while not being hazardous to the user in any way.

[0042] In an alternative embodiment of the invention, the temperature of the gas tank 5 will
be controlled using a closed loop feedback control system that monitors both the temperature
and pressure during use.
[0043] In a preferred embodiment of the invention, the fluid in the gas tank will be
compressed carbon dioxide, but any other suitable fire extinguishing fluid may be used.
[0044] In a yet another embodiment of the invention, the temperature is stabilized by means
of having a tank with a very large thermal inertia, so that the tank passively maintains its
temperature.
[0045] In an alternative embodiment of the invention, the thermal inertia of the tank is
enhanced by means of containing elements of water or some other suitable material with a
high thermal inertia.
[0046] In yet another embodiment of the invention, the thermal inertia of the tank is enhanced
by means of containing elements of water or some other suitable material that will undergo a
phase change during the expected temperature drop, such a phase change giving off enough
heat to prevent the tank from dropping further in temperature while the phase change is not
yet complete.
[0047] While only some of the embodiments of the present invention has been shown and
described, it will be obvious to those persons skilled in the art that many changes and
modifications may be made thereunto without departing from the spirit and scope of the
invention.

Title: Temperature Compensated Gas Tank for Fire Extinguishers
Field: Fire Fighting Equipment
Claims:
What is claimed is
    1. A temperature compensated fire extinguisher incorporating a heating device for the
       gas tank.
    2. A temperature compensated fire extinguisher as described in Claim 1 in which said
       heating device is able to compensate for the temperature drop encountered when the
       fire extinguisher is discharged or partially discharged.
    3. A temperature compensated fire extinguisher as described in Claim 2 in which said
       heating device is an electrical resistance heater.
    4. A temperature compensated fire extinguisher as described in Claim 2 in which said
       heating device is a peltier effect heat pump.
    5. A temperature compensated fire extinguisher as described in Claim 2 in which said
       heating device is any other suitable form of heater.
    6. A temperature compensated fire extinguisher as described in Claims 1 to 5 in which
       said heating device is activated when the fire extinguisher is used.
    7. A temperature compensated fire extinguisher as described in Claims 1 to 5 in which
       said heating device is activated when the fire extinguisher prepared for use.
    8. A temperature compensated fire extinguisher as described in Claims I to 7 in which
       said heating device is controlled by a closed loop control system to maintain an
       optimal gas tank temperature.
    9. A temperature compensated fire extinguisher as described in Claims I to 7 in which
       said heating device is controlled by a closed loop control system to maintain an
       optimal gas tank pressure.

10. A temperature compensated fire extinguisher as described in Claims 1 to 7 in which
    said heating device is activated before use to preheat the tank to an optimum
    temperature and pressure. Said preheat activation may be initiated by the fire alarm
    system or by any other suitable activation signal.
11. A temperature compensated fire extinguisher as described in Claims 1 to 7 in which
    temperature is stabilized by means of having a tank with a very large thermal inertia,
    so that the tank passively maintains its temperature.
12. A temperature compensated fire extinguisher as described in Claim 11 in which the
    thermal inertia of the tank is enhanced by means of containing elements of water or
    some other suitable material with a high thermal inertia.
13. A temperature compensated fire extinguisher as described in Claim 11 in which the
    thermal inertia of the tank is enhanced by means of containing elements of water or
    some other suitable material that will undergo a phase change during the expected
    temperature drop, such a phase change giving off enough heat to prevent the tank
    from dropping further in temperature while the phase change is not yet complete.

                  Editorial Note
<removed-date>
                    <removed-apn>
              There are four pages of drawings only
<removed-apn>

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
