                                               ABSTRACT
5 A novel manufacturing method for functionally graded component includes a cold sprayed additive
  manufactured core material and a cold sprayed additive manufactured set of teeth around said
  core made from another material.

 115
0l

STRUCTURED MATERIAL ALLOY COMPONENT AND ITS FABRICATION
FIELD OF THE INVENTION
[0001] The present disclosure relates generally to powdered additive manufacturing
applications of functionally graded structure and materials.
BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
[0002] Gear manufacturing is one of the most complicated manufacture processes. The
selection of gear materials requires consideration of controlled hardenability, minimal
non-metallic inclusions, especially oxides, good formability for better forge die life and
consistency of forge quality, good machinability, low quench distortion and minimal
grain growth during high temperature carburization. Gear steel processes and chemical
compositions that reduce inter-granular oxidation through the development of secondary
refining are also relatively expensive.
[0003] To produce one gear, wide ranges of operations of between 50 to 160 steps are
often required, dependent on the application, e.g., general or aerospace. Current gear
manufacture     processes, such as casting, extrusion, or forging, in addition to
carburization, heat treatments and machining, may require relatively high energy
consumption, high tooling cost for initial production and relatively long lead times for the
raw material.
SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
[0004] Broadly, the present invention provides a structured material alloy gear
component which includes a cold sprayed additive manufactured core and a cold
sprayed additive manufactured set of teeth around the core.
[0005] In a more specific form, the present invention provides an additive manufactured
gear component comprising:
        an inner metal structure, formed by cold-spraying of powdered metal onto a
removable substrate such as to provide a densified metal structure, the substrate
                                              1

having a shape with an outer diameter that becomes a gear shaft inner diameter of a
near net shape additive manufactured component, wherein the inner metal structure
and the substrate initially form an additive manufactured core; and
        a set of additive manufactured set of teeth integral with and around the inner
metal structure, formed by cold-spraying of powdered tool steel alloy metal onto and
densifying on the core, wherein the additive manufactured set of teeth is heat treated to
provide predetermined gear component characteristics, the substrate is removed from
the core to yield the near net shape additive manufactured gear component, and the
additive manufactured set of teeth is machined to final specifications to provide the gear
component.
[0006] Preferably, the inner metal structure is manufactured of a carbon steel alloy
powder.
[0007] Advantageously, the core and the set of teeth are manufactured as a near net
shape.
[0008] The inner metal structure will advantageously be of a carbon steel alloy metal,
whereas the set of teeth is manufactured using a tool steel alloy powder as precursor.
[0009] This enables the inner metal structure and the outer set of teeth of the additive
manufactured gear component to have different characteristics adapted to the structure
on which the gear is to be mounted and the gear element with which the gear
component cooperates in use.
[0010] In the alternative or additionally thereto, the gear component is at least partially
hollow.
[0011] Also disclosed herein is a method of manufacturing a gear component according
to one or more of the embodiments of the gear component set out above, the method
including the step of cold spraying onto a substrate a powdered metal to form an
additive manufactured       core;  spraying a powdered       metal to form    an additive
manufactured set of teeth around the core; and removing the substrate.
[0012] Cold spraying will preferably involve applying a carbon steel powdered metal
onto a carbon steel metal substrate to form the additive manufactured core.
[0013] The method will advantageously include heat-treating the additive manufactured
set of teeth.

[0014] The method will be carried out such that the powdered metal is sprayed onto the
substrate to accelerate and plastically deform the powdered metal at the substrate.
[0015] Advantageously, spraying is conducted such as to generate high strain rate
plasticity.
[0016] Preferably, spraying the powdered metal is effected using a cold spray system.
[0017] Preferentially, the substrate is removed from the substrate following heat
treatment of the set of teeth.
[0018] The process of manufacture will advantageously entail final machining the
additive manufactured set of teeth, preferentially after removal of the substrate.
[0019] Various other advantageous features will become apparent to those skilled in the
art from the following detailed description of a non-limiting embodiment provided with
reference to the accompanying drawings.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0020] Figure 1 is a general schematic view of an exemplary cold spray system used in
manufacturing a gear component in accordance with an embodiment of the present
invention;
[0021] Figure 2 is a graph comparing certain properties of a cold sprayed additive
manufacturing component and an equivalent conventional wrought component;
[0022] Figure 3 is a partial sectional view of a cold sprayed additive manufacturing
component that is manufactured with low alloy steel and a tool steel outer layer;
[0023] Figure 4 is a flow diagram of an integrated design / additive manufacturing
approach to produce an additively manufactured functionally graded gear according to
one embodiment of the invention;
[0024] Figure 5 illustrates a conventional, related art design of an aerospace gear; and
[0025] Figure 6 illustrates a modification of the gear of Figure 5 after utilizing a topology
optimization method to reduce weight without sacrificing.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS
[0026] Figure 1 schematically illustrates a cold spray system 20 that is utilized to
produce dense powdered metal components that incorporate high levels of work into
                                              3

the process of densification. Cold gas-dynamic spraying (cold spray) may be utilized as
an Additive      Manufacturing   (AM)   process. Significantly higher strength     through
recrystallization and micro structure refinement is provided via the cold spray system 20
as other powder processes cannot produce the level of working and thus the
mechanical properties of this process. One example cold spray system 20 is that
manufactured by, for example, Sulzer Metco Kinetiks TM 4000 Cold Spray Gun.
[0027] The cold spray system 20 exposes a metallic substrate 22 to a high velocity 671
3355 mph (300-1500 m/s) jet of relatively small 0.00004-0.0039 inches (1-100 pm)
powdered metal particles accelerated by a supersonic jet of compressed gas. The cold
spray system 20 accelerates the powdered metals toward the substrate such that the
powdered metal particles deform on impact to generate high strain rate plasticity. This
plasticity works the powdered metals, densifies the structure, and due to the high strain
rate of the process, recrystallizes nano-grains in the deposited material. Experiments
have shown that a component produced through this cold spray process may exhibits
strength in excess of an equivalent wrought counterpart (Figure 2).
[0028] The cold spray process disclosed herein selects the combination of particle
temperature, velocity, and size that allows spraying at a temperature far below the
melting point of the powdered metals which results in a layer 24 of particles in their solid
state. The cold spray system 20 also offers significant advantages that minimize or
eliminate the deleterious effects of high-temperature oxidation, evaporation, melting,
crystallization, residual stresses, de-bonding, gas release, and other common problems
of other additive manufacturing methods yet provides strong bond strength on coatings
and substrates.
[0029] In one disclosed non-limiting embodiment, the powdered metal may include one
or more various ductile metals 26 such as Copper, Aluminum, steel alloys or others that
plastically deform. The prime mover of the cold spray system 20 is an inert or semi-inert
carrier gas 28 such as Helium, Nitrogen or Krypton that is non-oxidizing to the
powdered metal particles.
[0030] The velocity of the spray is inversely proportional to the molecular mass of the
gas 28 such that a mixture of gasses may also be utilized to further control resultant
temperatures and particle velocity. Generally, the desired velocity is great enough to
break the oxide film on the powdered metal particles yet remain below the speed of
                                             4

sound through a convergent divergent nozzle 30. Furthermore, the temperature of the
gas readily affects the velocity at which the speed of sound is reached. For example, a
cold gas reaches the speed of sound at approximately 805 mph (360 m/s) while the
same gas at approximately 1470F (800C) may be propelled at approximately 1118 mph
(500 m/s). In one example, the carrier gas may be heated to temperatures of
approximately 1470F (800C) with heater 32.
[0031] The cold spray system 20 may be used as an Additive Manufacturing process to
produce higher strength, lighter weight and consolidated components such as gear and
shaft components through the layered deposition of powdered metals. It should be
understood that although particular component types are illustrated in the disclosed
non-limiting embodiment, other components will also benefit herefrom.
[0032] The cold spray system 20 facilitates additive manufacturing through the
deposition of powdered metals of multiple materials. The additive manufactured
component may then be readily heat treated, and machined to final shape.
[0033] With reference to Figure 3, in one non-limiting embodiment, two (or more)
different powdered metals may be utilized. For example only, a core 40 of a gear or
shaft may be manufactured with low carbon steel alloy powder to provide high bending
fatigue resistance, while the gear teeth providing an outer surface 42 may be
manufactured with a tool steel alloy powder to provide high wear resistance and high
surface hardness. The additive manufactured near net shape may then be heat treated
and machined in its hardened state to a final profile.
[0034] An interface between the core 40 and the outer surface 42 need not be
consistent. That is, the interface between the core 40 and the outer surface 42 may be
delineated in response to expected loads, weight or other variables.
[0035] With reference to Figure 4, a cold spray additive manufacture process 200 to
additive   manufacture     a   component    is   schematically illustrated. The additive
manufacturing process constructs a component layer by layer from powdered metal.
The powdered metal of each layer may be consolidated either by diffusion through
melting via, for example, a laser or electron beam, or are bonded through plastic
deformation of both substrate and powder metal particle layers that provide intimate
conformal contact from the high local pressures generated by the cold spray system 20.
                                               5

[0036] Initially, a preliminary design of a near net shape component is proposed (Step
202). That is, models are developed to optimize the near net shape component design
to be manufactured with cold spray additive manufacturing.
[00371 A substrate 44 (Figure 3) is manufactured to provide, for example, a mandrel-like
shape to initiate the cold spray process. The substrate may, for example, provide an
outer diameter that becomes a gear shaft inner diameter of the near net shape
component (Step 204).
[0038] The near net shape component design may then be optimized with, for example,
OptiStruct Topology optimization software manufactured by Altair Engineering, Inc. The
optimization constraints may include a 25% increase in the material mechanical
properties, increased surface resistance to fatigue and wear with a stronger material
such as tool steel, reduce component weight without stress state increase and
enhanced performance. One example output of the optimization analysis is to reduce
weight of a near net shape gear (RELATED ART; Figure 5) (Step 206; Figure 6).
Another optimization analysis may be directed to a low cost gear. A third optimization
analysis may be directed to increase the fatigue strength of the near net shape
component.
[0039] After near net shape component design optimization, finite element modelling of
the cold spray process (modelling of the multiple splats deposition) may be used to
optimize the process parameters such as powdered material initial temperature, critical
velocity, and powder size to facilitate cold spraying at a temperature below the melting
point of the metal materials. The desired velocity is greater than the critical velocity
necessary to achieve a successful deposition in their solid state.
[0040] Models may then be used to identify the optimum powder deposition path for
each material to insure proper bonding of the particles (Step 208). This model may also
be used to support the selection of nozzle 30 geometry to increase the efficiency of the
deposition process. The near net shape is then produced via the cold spray process on
the substrate (Step 210).
[0041] The heat treatment of the near net shape may also be simulated with finite
element analysis to define the heating temperature and cooling rate for the selected
carbon steel and tool steel material properties (Step 212).

[0042] The produced near net shape component is then heat treated to achieve the
required properties (Step 214). No carburization heat treatment cycle is required since
tool steel material is utilized at the tooth surface.
[0043] The core substrate 44 is then melted and removed (Step 216). That is, the
substrate 44 upon which the cold spray additive manufacturing is initiated is removed.
[0044] Optimum machining parameters and cutter paths are then identified to generate
the final tooth profile (Step 218). Because the surface hardness after heat treatment is
greater than 60 Rc in the disclosed non-limiting embodiment, the final process is to use
hard turning technologies and ceramic or cubic boron nitride tools to machine the gear
teeth to the final profile. The shaft 46 (Figure 3) may then be machined to final
dimensions (Step 220).
[0045] Following this methodology, a cold spray additive manufacturing component has
shown an increase in both ultimate tensile strength and yield by approximately 20%.
[0046] Although the different non-limiting embodiments have specific illustrated
components, the embodiments of this invention are not limited to those particular
combinations. It is possible to use some of the components or features from any of the
non-limiting embodiments in combination with features or components from any of the
other non-limiting embodiments.
[0047] It should be understood that like reference numerals identify corresponding or
similar elements throughout the several drawings. It should also be understood that
although    a   particular component        arrangement  is disclosed   in the  illustrated
embodiment, other arrangements will benefit herefrom.
[0048] Although the different non-limiting embodiments have specific illustrated
components, the embodiments of this invention are not limited to those particular
combinations. It is possible to use some of the components or features from any of the
non-limiting embodiments in combination with features or components from any of the
other non-limiting embodiments.
[0049] Although particular step sequences are shown, described, and claimed, it should
be understood that steps may be performed in any order, separated or combined unless
otherwise indicated and will still benefit from the present disclosure.
[0050] The foregoing description is exemplary rather than defined by the limitations
within. Various non-limiting embodiments are disclosed herein, however, one of ordinary

skill in the art would recognize that various modifications and variations in light of the
above teachings will fall within the scope of the appended claims. It is therefore to be
understood that within the scope of the appended claims, the disclosure may be
practiced other than as specifically described. For that reason the appended claims
should be studied to determine true scope and content.
                                             8

CLAIMS:
1.      A component comprising:
        a cold sprayed additive manufactured core material; and
        a cold sprayed additive manufactured set of teeth of different material around
said core.
2.      The component as recited in claim 1, wherein said core is manufactured of a
carbon steel alloy powder.
3.      The component as recited in claim 1 or 2, wherein said set of teeth is
manufactured of a tool steel alloy powder.
4.      The component as recited in claim 1, 2 or 3, wherein said core and said set of
teeth are manufactured as a near net shape.
5.      The component as recited in any one of claims 1 to 4, wherein said component is
a gear.
7.      The component as recited in claim 5, wherein said gear is at least partially
hollow.
8.      An additive manufactured gear component, comprising:
        an inner metal structure, formed by cold-spraying of powdered metal onto a
removable substrate and densifying into a metal structure, the substrate having a shape
with an outer diameter that becomes a gear shaft inner diameter of a near net shape
additive manufactured gear component, wherein the inner metal structure and the
substrate initially form an additive manufactured core; and
        a set of additive manufactured set of teeth integral with and around the inner
metal structure, formed by cold-spraying of powdered tool steel alloy metal onto and
densifying on the core, wherein the additive manufactured set of teeth is heat treated to
provide predetermined gear component characteristics, the substrate is removed to
yield the near net shape additive manufactured gear component and the additive
manufactured set of teeth is machined to final specifications to provide the gear
component.
9.      The additive manufactured gear component of claim 8, wherein the inner metal
structure is manufactured from a carbon steel alloy powder.

10.     The additive manufactured gear component of claim 8 or 9, wherein the set of
teeth is manufactured from a tool steel alloy powder.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
