  Abstract of the disclosure
  The invention relates to a push stick (3) for a table saw, comprising a gripping
  possibility for a machine operator at its operator-side end, wherein a workpiece
5 engagement notch, which is spaced therefrom and is suitable for acting on the
  workpiece, is formed at its workpiece-side end, which notch comprises a push
  surface (1) facing in an intended feed direction of the workpiece and a holding
  down surface (2) protruding therefrom at the top under a preferably right angle,
0 The invention is characterized in that the push stick (3) comprises a detection
  device (4) which detects whether the push surface (1) and the holding-down
  surface (2) lie flat against the workpiece, and that the push stick comprises a
  signalling device (5) which emits a flat contact signal in response to whether or not
  the detection device (4) has detected the flat contact of the push surface (1) and
5 the holding-down surface (2) on the workpiece, which signal therefore signals
  whether or not the push surface (1) and the holding-down surface (2) lie flat
  against the workpiece.
  The invention also relates to a table saw with such a push stick.
  (Fig. 2)
                                              10

                                                                                     P/00/011
                                                                                Regulation 3.2
                                      AUSTRALIA
                                    Patents Act 1990
           COMPLETE SPECIFICATION
                         FOR A STANDARD PATENT
                                      ORIGINAL
                       TO BE COMPLETED BY APPLICANT
Name of Applicant:            Scheppach Fabrikation von
                              Holzbearbeitungsmaschinen GmbH
Invention Title:              A Table Saw and a Push Stick for said Saw
Address for Service:          A.P.T. Patent and Trade Mark Attorneys
                              PO Box 833, Blackwood, SA 5051
The following statement is a full description of this invention, including the best method
of performing it known to me/us:
                                              1

    A table saw and a push stick for said saw
    The invention relates to a table saw according to the preamble of claim 8, and to a
 5  push stick for said saw according to the preamble of claim 1.
    Table saws of the generic type have a machine table, which is penetrated by a
    motor-driven saw blade. Workpieces are then placed on the machine table and
    pushed towards the saw blade, where the saw blade then comes into contact with
 0  the workpiece and saws it apart when the forward feed is continued.
    Working on such table saws, for example table circular saws, or also on table band
    saws, are associated with considerable dangers. In particular, the hand of the
    machine operator guiding the workpiece to be sawn is thereby exposed to the risk
 5  of being accidentally passed over the saw blade and thereby being seriously
    injured.
    For the protection of the machine operator, and in particular of his hand guiding the
    workpiece, various devices are already known. For example, US Pat. No. 4,370,909
 .0 shows a hand protection device whose hand grip permits the workpiece to be fed to
    the saw blade without the hand used for this purpose being able to come into
    contact with the saw blade. In this case, a deadman switch is provided on the hand
    grip, which - when released - cuts off the motor of the saw.
25  A similar device is shown in US Pat. No. 7,989,718 B1,   in which a switch for
    switching on and off the power supply of the circular saw is provided on the hand
    grip of the hand protection device, and in addition an indicator light which indicates
    the state of the switch.
30  Furthermore, in the utility model DE 20 2005 010 656 U1, a parallel stop for a table
    circular saw can be found which has a feed blade which is moved by a hand grip in
    the direction of cutting in order to advance the workpiece past the saw. Contact
    switches are provided at the ends of the feed path of the feed blade.
35  According to the standard EN62841-3-1, each table circular saw must be equipped
    with a so-called push stick. If the width of the workpiece to be sawn is less than 10
                                                2

   cm, the push stick should already be used to prevent accidental contact of the saw
   blade by the hand. Such a push stick can be seen in the utility model DE 20 2010
   004 458 U1, wherein a protective hood is additionally provided there over the saw
   blade and a sensor system is provided on the table circular saw with which a body
 5 part of a user is detected.
   According to standard EN61029-2-5 and EN1807, table band saws must also be
   equipped with a push stick.
 0 Such a push stick of the generic type has at its one end a gripping possibility for
   the machine operator and, at its other end, a corner groove or a notch or workpiece
   engagement notch in order to engage the workpiece. For this purpose, the
   workpiece engagement notch has two surfaces arranged at a preferably right angle
   to one another, i.e. a sliding surface facing the feed direction of the workpiece, and
 5 a holding-down surface pressing on the workpiece from above.
   Based on this, it is the object of the present invention to make the work on a
   motor-driven table saw, such as, for example, a table circular saw or a band saw,
   safer with simple means.
   This object is achieved with respect to a push stick with the features of claim 1, and
   with respect to a table circular saw with the features of claim 8.
   Starting from a generic push stick, the push stick according to the invention thus
25 has a gripping possibility for a machine operator at its operator-side end, and
   furthermore at its workpiece-side end spaced therefrom a workpiece engagement
   notch which is suitable for acting on the workpiece and which comprises a push
   surface facing in the direction of the workpiece feed and a holding-down surface
   projecting therefrom at the top side under an angle. According to the invention, the
30 push stick now also has a detection device which detects whether the push surface
   and the holding-down surface lie flat against the workpiece, as well as a signalling
   device which emits a respective flat contact signal in response to whether or not
   the detection device has detected such a flat contact of the push surface and the
   holding-down surface, which signalling device therefore signals whether or not the
35 push surface and the holding-down surface lie flat against the workpiece. Therein,
   the angle at which the holding-down surface protrudes from the push surface will
                                               3

    generally be a right angle since the workpieces to be sawn are usually boards with
    side edges adjoining each other at right angles. For special applications, however, a
    different angle could also be provided.
 5  The table saw according to the invention is correspondingly equipped with such a
    push stick. The table saw according to the invention can have a motor-driven saw
    blade which penetrates a machine table and can be designed, for example, as a
    table circular saw or as a table band saw.
 0  Since it is currently detected and signalled whether both the push surface and the
    holding-down surface lie flat against the workpiece, slipping of the push stick during
    the workpiece feed to the saw blade can be avoided. A forward bending of the
    machine operator to visually check whether both surfaces lie flat against the
    workpiece, which represents an additional source of danger, can thus be avoided.
 5  Rather, the machine operator, who is at the other end of the push stick, is given
    the opportunity for the first time to ascertain whether or not flat contact is
    predominant on the workpiece.
    Advantageous further developments are the subject matter of the remaining
 .0 subclaims.
    Thus, the detection device on the push surface and on the holding-down surface
    can each have at least one recessed push-button switch, which indicates whether
    the respective surface rests against the workpiece or not. In this case, the push
25  button switches are more preferably recessed with respect to the push surface or
    the holding-down surface, and are advantageously recessed in such a way that
    actuation of the respective push-button switch takes place only when the respective
    surface lies flat against the workpiece.
30  The momentary-contact or pushbutton switch can be designed as micro-switches. If
    the two pushbutton switches are advantageously connected in an AND gate, so that
    the detection device detects flat contact only when both micro-switches are
    actuated by the pressure exerted by the workpiece, a simple and reliable design is
    obtained.
35
                                                4

    Alternatively or additionally, the detection device can also have an electro-optical or
    electro-acoustic scanning device which detects whether the push surface and the
    holding-down surface lie flat against the workpiece.
 5  The signalling device can, on the other hand, comprise an LED or another light
    which is illuminated in the case of flat contact, i.e. for example when the AND gate
    is closed by a pressure exerted on the push surface and the holding-down surface
    by the workpiece. Alternatively or in addition, a different kind of signalling device
    can also be considered, e.g. an acoustic alarm when there is no flat contact or a
 0  corresponding vibration feedback.
    If the signalling device has a wire-bound or preferably wireless communication
    interface, such as, for example, a Bluetooth or Wifi interface, via which the flat
    contact signal can be transmitted, and the machine controller of the table saw has a
 5  correspondingly assigned communication interface, the flat contact signal can also
    be evaluated on the machine side.
    Thus, the machine controller can generally comprise an actuator and an actuating
    device for the actuator, which actuates the actuator in response to whether or not
 .0 the flat contact signals that the push surface and the holding-down surface lie flat
    against the workpiece. As an actuator, an ON/OFF switch is mainly considered for
    driving the saw blade in order to allow the table saw to be switched on only when
    the work piece is guided by a push block. An emergency stop switch, or even a
    brake for the saw blade, would also be conceivable as an actuator in order to stop
25  the saw blade as quickly as possible when there is no more flat contact.
    In order to evaluate the flat contact signal delivered by the pushbutton switches of
    the detection device, a debouncing device is advantageously provided for
    debouncing the flat contact signal, wherein the debouncing device preferably has a
30  low-pass filter, a flip-flop and/or a microcontroller with debouncing software. The
    debouncing device can be part of the signal transmitter device on the push block or
    part of the machine controller on the table saw.
    A button cell receptacle, into which a button cell is inserted, is also advantageously
35  provided for the power supply of the detection device and the signal transmitter
    device on the push stick. However, a cable-connected power supply would also be
                                                5

    conceivable especially in case of a wire-bound transmission of the flat contact
    signal.
    An advantageous embodiment of the invention is explained in closer detail below by
 5  reference to the appended drawings, wherein:
    Fig. 1 shows a side view of an advantageous embodiment of a push stick;
    Fig. 2 shows a perspective front view of the push stick shown in Fig. 1;
 0
    Fig. 3 shows a circuit diagram of the push stick shown in Figs. 1 and 2.
    Reference is made firstly to Figs. 1 and 2, which show a push stick 3 which can be
    gripped at its right end in Fig. 1 by a machine operator of a table circular saw or a
 5  table saw so that, with its left end in Fig. 1, a workpiece engagement notch can be
    brought into engagement with a workpiece to be pushed past a saw blade of the
    table circular saw/table band saw. For this purpose, the workpiece engagement
    notch has a push surface 1 and a holding-down surface 2 protruding therefrom at a
    right angle to the workpiece, so that the push stick 3 with its push surface 1 and its
 .O holding-down surface 2 is arranged in a planar manner on a workpiece which is
    constructed for example as a board with side surfaces adjoining at right angles.
    Two micro-buttons or micro-switches 4 are disposed on the push surface 1 and on
    the holding-down surface 2 of the push stick 3. The scanning could also take place
25  by means of electro-optical or electro-acoustic scanning instead of or in addition to
    these electromechanical components, as long as the detection device 4 formed
    thereby detects whether the push surface 1 and the holding-down surface 2 lie flat
    against the workpiece.
30  Furthermore, the push stick 3 has an LED 5, which serves as signalling device 5
    which, in response to whether or not the detection device 4 formed by the two
    micro-switches 4 detects the flat contact of the sliding surface 1 and the holding
    down surface 2 on the workpiece, emits a flat contact signal which signals whether
    or not the push surface 1 and the holding-down surface 2 rest flat against the
35  workpiece. In the exemplary embodiment, the LED 5 thus lights up in the case of
    flat contact. It could, of course, also be the case that the LED 5 is illuminated as a
                                                 6

    warning light when there is no flat contact on both sides. Furthermore, the
    signalling device 5 could also comprise a different signal transmitter alternatively or
    additionally to the LED 5, for example an acoustic signalling device or a vibration
    alarm. Furthermore, it would be conceivable for the signalling device to have a
 5  communication module or a communication interface, for example a Bluetooth or
    WLAN transmitter/receiver, via which it is connected to a machine controller of the
    table circular saw. Thus, for example, it would be possible for the table circular saw
    to be put into operation only when the push surface 1 and the holding-down surface
    2 of the push stick 3 abut or lie flat against the workpiece.
 0
    Fig. 3 shows the circuit diagram of the push stick 3 and thus the electrical
    connection of the micro-switches 4 with the LED 5 and the button cell 7 provided as
    a power supply which is inserted into a button cell holder 8 shown in Fig. 1. The two
    micro-switches 4 are connected as AND gates, i.e. the LED 5 is only illuminated
 5  when both micro-switches 4 are actuated, i.e. when both surfaces 1, 2 lie flat
    against the workpiece. The illuminating LED 5 thus indicates to the machine
    operator using the push stick 3 that the workpiece can be fed to the saw blade of
    the table saw with the greatest possible safety.
 .0 In order to be able to utilize the flat contact signal output by the two micro
    switches 4 also for sensitive signal processing devices, e.g. on the machine
    controller of the circular saw, it is advantageous to debounce the micro-switches 4.
    This can be done, for example, by a low-pass filter, a flip-flop or by a
    microcontroller with corresponding software.
25
    Variations and modifications of the embodiments shown are possible without
    departing from the scope of the invention.
                                                 7

   CLAIMS:
      1. A push stick (3) for a table saw, comprising a gripping possibility for a
 5       machine operator at its operator-side end, wherein a workpiece engagement
         notch, which is spaced therefrom and is suitable for acting on the workpiece,
         is formed at its workpiece-side end, which notch comprises a push surface
         (1) facing in an intended feed direction of the workpiece and a holding-down
         surface (2) protruding therefrom at the top under a preferably right angle,
 0       characterized in that
         the push stick (3) comprises a detection device (4) which detects whether
         the push surface (1) and the holding-down surface (2) lie flat against the
         workpiece, as well as
 5       a signalling device (5) which emits a respective flat contact signal in
         response to whether or not the detection device (4) has detected the flat
         contact of the push surface (1) and the holding-down surface (2) on the
         workpiece, which flat contact signal signals whether or not the push surface
         (1) and the holding-down surface (2) lie flat against the workpiece.
      2. A push stick (3) according to claim 1, characterized in that the detection
         device (4) on the push surface (1) and on the holding-down surface (2) each
         comprise at least one pushbutton switch (4) which is recessed in such a way
         that actuation of the respective pushbutton switch (4) takes place only when
25       the respective surface lies flat against the workpiece.
      3. A push stick (3) according to claim 2, characterized in that the detection
         device (4) comprises a respective micro-switch (4) on the push surface (1)
         and on the holding-down surface (2), wherein the two micro-switches (4) are
30       switched in an AND gate, so that the detection device (4) detects flat contact
         only when both micro-switches (4) are actuated.
      4. A push stick according to claim 1, 2 or 3, characterized in that the
         detection device has an electro-optical or electro-acoustic scanning device
35       which detects whether the push surface and the holding-down surface lie flat
         against the workpiece.
                                              8

    5. A push stick (3) according to one of the preceding claims, characterized in
       that the signalling device (5) comprises an LED (5), which is illuminated
       under flat contact.
 5  6. A push stick according to one of the preceding claims, characterized in
       that the signalling device comprises a wire-bound or preferably wireless
       communication interface, via which the flat contact signal can be
       transmitted.
 0  7. A push stick according to one of the preceding claims, characterized in
       that the signalling device comprises a debouncing device for debouncing the
       flat contact signal, wherein the debouncing device preferably comprises a
       low-pass filter, a flip-flop and/or a microcontroller with debouncing software.
 5  8. A table saw with a push stick, characterized in that the push stick is
       formed according to one of the preceding claims.
    9. A table saw according to claim 8, characterized in that the push stick
       comprises the wire-bound or preferably wireless communication interface, via
 .0    which the flat contact signal can be transmitted, and a machine controller of
       the table saw comprises a respective wire-bound or preferably wireless
       communication interface, via which the flat contact signal can be received,
       wherein the machine controller comprises an actuator and an actuating
       device for the actuator, which actuating device actuates the actuator in
25     response to whether the flat contact signals as to whether or not the sliding
       surface and the holding-down surface lie flat against the workpiece.
    1O.A table saw according to claim 9, characterized in that the actuator is an
       ON/OFF switch for driving the saw blade.
30
                                             9

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           1/3

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                     2/3

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                       3/3

