                                           ABSTRACT
      The embodiment of the present disclosure relates to a processor implemented system and
      method for grouping of the plurality of entities for delivery of tangible assets. The system
      groups entities based on identified parameters relevant to an outcome of the grouping,
5     data points on the various instances of the identified parameters with each data point
      comprising of information corresponding to an identified parameter, standardization of
      the data points, determination of weightage for the identified parameters and associating
      weightage to the standardized data points.
      [Use Fig. 1]
                                                 32
  2590255v1

   ri
         m
            0=0
                II
0     M             m  .c
  0              m        NJ
          00
          Cz
        mL
    M              0>
  >0             0O
           00
                     M
  m
                  0 m

               GROUPING OF ENTITIES FOR DELIVERY OF TANGIBLE
                                                 ASSETS
       CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS AND PRIORITY
        [0001] This    patent  application   claims   priority  to   India   Patent Application
 5      1639/MUM/2015, filed on April 22, 2015, the entirety of which is hereby incorporated
       by reference.
       FIELD OF DISCLOSURE
        [0002] The embodiments herein generally relate to entities grouping systems, and more
10     particularly, to a computer implemented system and method for grouping of a plurality
       of entities.
       BACKGROUND
        [0003] In past few years there has been an exponential development of ability to capture
15     and process large amount of information in various sectors e.g., research data in
       pharmaceutical industry, data on consumers behaviour, data on consumer preferences,
       real time data from systems. Hence generation of large amount of useful information and
       the ability to aggregate, interpret and harness this information has led to newer
       opportunities,   approaches   and   technologies   to   manage   businesses  with higher
20     efficiencies.
                                                  1
   259025 5v1

        [0004] In most industries, organizations and associations, and in specific the products
        and services industries, there has been an important need to be able to position and target
        products and/or services to a set of customers or beneficiaries with the most potential for
        success. Hence there has been a strong correlation between success and the appropriate
 5      positioning of products and/or services.
        [0005] Industries, organizations and associations follow grouping of customers,
        products, services, teams or stores based on various kinds of available data points. The
        success of above task depends on the quality of groups derived to address the targeted
        objective. The quality of the resulting groups is measured in terms of similarity and
10      dissimilarity of the constituents of the group, based on predetermined criteria. Quite
        often the groups so formed are heterogeneous on the desired metrics and hence may not
        offer a focussed group for targeting products or services.
        [0006] Accordingly there is a need for system and method for creation of more
        homogenous groups of entities.
15      [0007] Hence, it would be critical if a system can enable the user to determine grouping
        based on a set of parameters of relevance to the outcome and control the selection and
        impact of the parameters in a way that leads to grouping with improved potential to
        achieve the targeted outcome.
20      OBJECTS OF THE PRESENT DISCLOSURE
        [0008] An object of the present disclosure is to provide a computer implemented system
        and method which enables the grouping of entities while factoring in targeted outcome
        oriented identified parameters.
                                                   2
   259025 5v1

        [0009] Another object of the present disclosure is to provide a system which analyses
        and adjusts the grouping of the entities by enabling individual importance to be
        attributed to each of the individual identified parameters to achieve the targeted outcome
        of grouping the entities.
 5      [0010] Another objective of the present disclosure is to enable the importance attributed
        to each of the identified parameters, to be determined by (i) the correlation between each
        of the identified parameters and a measure critical to the outcome or (ii) in terms of
        ranking of the identified parameters.
        [0011] Another objective of the present disclosure is to deliver products or services
10      based on the grouping of the entities.
        [0012] Still another objective     of the present disclosure is to enable continued
        recalibration of the grouping, based on the data points received subsequent to the
        grouping of entities.
        [0013] Other objects and advantages of the present disclosure will be more apparent
15      from the following description when read in conjunction with the accompanying figures,
        which are not intended to limit the scope of the present disclosure.
        SUMMARY
        [0014] The present disclosure envisages a computer implemented system and method
20      for grouping of entities for delivery of tangible assets, considering on one or more
        parameters identified based on their relevance to the targeted outcome, with an ability to
        attribute importance to each of the identified parameters. The delivery of tangible assets
        (also referred herein as products and/or services) is then based on the entities so
                                                     3
   2590255v1

        identified by this grouping. The terms 'tangible assets' and 'products and/or services'
        are interchangeably used herein.
        [0015] The system comprises a database to store data points on the entities, data points
        on the identified parameters, data points about the various instances of the identified
 5      parameters with each data point comprising of information corresponding to an
        identified parameter, data points on the standardization ranges, the standardized data
        points, data points on the ranking of identified parameters, data points on the measure
        critical to the outcome, data points on the correlation between each of the identified
        parameters and the measure critical to the outcome, data points on the weightage, data
10      points with the corresponding weightage associated, and data points on the grouping of
        the entities.
        [0016] Input modules to accept the identified parameters, the data points about the
        various instances of the identified parameters with each data point comprising of
        information    corresponding    to   an  identified  parameter,  standardization   ranges,
15      standardized data points, ranking of the identified parameters, measure critical to the
        outcome and weightage associated data points. A grouping module configured to
        determine grouping of the entities incorporating importance by means of weightages to
        be attributed to each of the identified parameters, based on correlation or ranking of the
        identified parameters. On a continuous basis, to cater to the impact on the data points as
20      an outcome of the grouping, the system would also periodically re-determine the
        grouping of the entities. The data points considered in such subsequent grouping will
        then be a mix of the earlier data points as well as the subsequent data points received.
        The grouping so derived is used for delivery of products and/or services.
                                                    4
   259025 5v1

        BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF ACCOMPANYING DRAWINGS
        [0017] Figure-i illustrates a schematic diagram of a system for grouping of entities
        based on targeted outcome, in accordance with an embodiment of the present disclosure;
        [0018] Figure-2 illustrates a flow diagram illustrating a method of grouping of entities
 5      based on a targeted outcome, in accordance with an embodiment of the present
        disclosure;
        [0019] Figure-3 illustrates a list of identified parameters in accordance with an
        embodiment of the present disclosure;
        [0020] Figure-4 is a table view that illustrates a plurality of values of store sales data
10      points in accordance with an embodiment of the present disclosure;
        [0021] Figure-5 is a table view that illustrates values of weightages for each identified
        parameter when correlation data points are available in accordance with an embodiment
        of the present disclosure;
        [0022] Figure-6 is a table view that illustrates values of weightages for each identified
15      parameter based on ranking of the identified parameters in accordance with an
        embodiment of the present disclosure;
        [0023] Figure-7 is a table view that illustrates data points for each of the identified
        parameters in accordance with an embodiment of the present disclosure;
        [0024] Figure-8 is a table view that illustrates a set of standardized data points in
20      accordance with an embodiment of the present disclosure;
        [0025] Figure-9 is a table view that illustrates a set of standardized data points with the
        corresponding weightage based on correlation, associated in accordance with an
        embodiment of the present disclosure;
                                                   5
   259025 5v1

        [0026] Figure-10 is a table view that illustrates grouping of retail outlets based on
        identified parameters, the standardization and the associated weightage in accordance
        with an embodiment of the present disclosure;
        [0027] Figure-11 illustrates the distribution of an identified parameter 'Average
 5      Household Income', over the grouping derived using weightage for data points on the
        various instances of Average Household Income, in accordance with an embodiment of
        the present disclosure; and
        [0028] Figure-12 illustrates the distribution of an identified parameter 'Average
        Household Income', over the grouping derived without using weightage for data points
10      on the various instances of Average Household Income, in accordance with an
        embodiment of the present disclosure.
        DETAILED DESCRIPTION
        [0029] A computer implemented system and method to group entities for delivery of
15      tangible assets, based on targeted outcome, using at least one identified parameter, the
        data points of the various instances of the identified parameters with each data point
        comprising of information corresponding to an identified parameter, standardization of
        the data points, weightage determination for the identified parameters and association of
        weightage to the corresponding standardized data points, will now be described with
20      reference to the embodiment shown in the accompanying drawings.
        [0030] The embodiments described herein do not limit the scope and ambit of the
        present disclosure. The embodiments herein and the various features and advantageous
        details thereof are explained more fully with reference to the non-limiting embodiments
                                                  6
   2590255v1

        that are illustrated in the accompanying drawings and detailed in the following
        description. The description relates purely to the examples and preferred embodiments
        of the disclosed system and its suggested applications. Descriptions of well-known
        parameters and processing techniques are omitted so as to not unnecessarily obscure the
 5      embodiment herein. The examples used herein are intended merely to facilitate an
        understanding of ways in which the embodiments herein may be practiced and to further
        enable those of skill in the art to practice the embodiments herein. Accordingly, the
        examples should not be construed as limiting the scope of the embodiments herein.
        [0031] As used herein, the term "targeted outcome" refers to the purpose of the grouping
10      of entities. For example one purpose could be in telecommunications industry, to form
        group of customers with certain similar characteristics based on which a particular
        calling plan could be offered to the customers in that group.
        [0032] As used herein, the term "identified parameter" refers to parameters identified for
        the grouping, that are directly relevant to the targeted outcome of grouping the entities.
15      [0033] As used herein, the term "weightage" refers to the importance of the identified
        parameter to the outcome when compared with other identified parameters being
        considered.
        [0034] As used herein, the term "notionally common scale" refers to use of one range of
        numbers or one scale, for data having different ranges. For example population data may
20      be available in units of millions while income may be in units of thousands. In such
        cases a scale of say one to one hundred may be considered as one possible notionally
        common scale. Similarly for the same data a scale of zero to one can also be taken as a
        notionally common scale.
                                                     7
   259025 5v1

        [0035] As used herein, the term "standardized data points" refers to adjusting the
        various instances of the raw data points of the identified parameter, obtained on different
        scales, to a notionally common scale.
        [0036] As used herein, the term "associated" refers to influencing the standardized data
 5      points by multiplying the standardized data points with the weightage of an identified
        parameter leading to 'weightage associated data points'.
        [0037] As used herein, the term "entity" refers to objects that need to be grouped. For
        example entities could be a set of stores in the retail industry, or as another example
        entities could be a set of routes in the transportation industry, or as another example set
10      of customer in telecommunications industry.
        [0038] As used herein, the term "grouping" refers to forming sets of entities that have
        homogeneous characteristics for at least a sub set of identified parameters that are
        relevant to the targeted outcome of grouping the entities.
        [0039] As used herein, the term "internal data points" refers to data points obtained from
15      sources internal to an organization (e.g., data points related to sales).
        [0040] As used herein, the term "spread of grouping mean" refers to spread of the group
        mean across groups i.e., a higher spread will indicate a larger variance.
        [0041] As used herein, the term "interquartile range" refers to the difference between (i)
        the middle value between the smallest value and the median of the ranked data points
20      and (ii) the middle value between the median and the highest value of the ranked data
        points.
        [0042] As used herein, the term "measure critical to the outcome" refers to an aspect
        that is an important indicator of the success of the outcome of the grouping. For example
        in the context of grouping of subscribers in the telecommunication industry, average
                                                     8
   2590255v1

        revenue per user, can be considered as an example of such a measure. Similarly in the
        context of formation of a sporting team, the measure can be number of instances of
        winning in the sport or in the retail industry it could be sales data points for stores.
        [0043] As used herein, the term "tangible assets" refers to products and/or services to be
 5      delivered to private and public sector entities such as but not limited to financial
        institutions, retail  outlets,  government     bodies,   sporting   teams   and educational
        institutions.
        [0044] As used herein, the term "industries" refers to industries, organizations, and
        associations in both private and public sectors. The term "industries" and organizations
10      and/or associations are interchangeably used herein.
        [0045] As used herein, the term "raw data points" refer to data points, as obtained from
        the various sources, prior to making any changes to them.
        [0046] Figure-1 is a block diagram of an Entity Grouping system 100 according to an
        embodiment of the present disclosure.         The entity grouping system 100 includes a
15      hardware processor 102, a memory 104 storing instructions and a database 106, a
        parameter identification module 108, a parameter data point capturing module 110, a
        standardization module 112, a correlation module 114, a weightage module 116, a
        weightage association module 118, a grouping module 120 and a group quality
        validation module 122. The hardware processor 102 is configured by the instructions to
20      execute the parameter identification module 108, the parameter data point capturing
        module 110, the standardization module 112, the correlation module 114, the weightage
        module 116, the weightage association module 118, the grouping module 120 and the
        group quality validation module 122.
                                                     9
   259025 5v1

        [0047] The database 106 stores data points specific to the entities, data points specific to
        the identified parameters, data points specific to the various instances of the identified
        parameters with each data point comprising of information corresponding to an
        identified parameter, data points specific to the standardization ranges, the standardized
 5      data points, data points specific to the ranking of the identified parameters, data points
        specific to the measure critical to the outcome, data points specific to the correlation
        between each of the identified parameters and the measure critical to the outcome, data
        points specific to the weightage, data points with the corresponding weightage
        associated, and data points specific to the grouping of the entities.
10      [0048] The identified parameters and their various instances of data points are selected
        from a group comprising, but are not limited to, financial data points, demographic data
        points, personal data points, data points related to subscription and usage of one or more
        services, and a combination thereof, etc. The one or more sources for obtaining data
        points of the various instances of the identified parameters are selected from a group
15      comprising, but are not limited to, one or more telecommunication industries, one or
        more retailers, one or more medical institutions, one or more financial institutions, one
        or more sporting events, in one example embodiment. Sources for data points on the
        measure critical to the outcome can also be internal data sources (e.g., from sales
        department within an organization to obtain sales data points of the organization).
20      [0049] The parameter identification module 108 identifies one or more parameters,
        based on a selection, that are to be considered for grouping of the entities. The identified
        parameters are considered to be directly relevant to the targeted outcome of grouping the
        entities.
                                                    10
   2590255v1

        [0050] The parameter data point capturing module 110 captures multiple data points
        related to the various instances of the identified parameters as defined in the parameter
        identification module 108. These data points form one among the inputs towards
        grouping of the entities. The data points can be obtained from multiple data sources such
 5      as networks and, systems internal as well as external to the organization. In one example
        embodiment, for an entity being stores in a retail chain, data points of relevance, can
        comprise data points related to age, household income levels, ethnicity, population
        density etc., of residents in the vicinity (or in close proximity) of each store. Hence, the
        age groups, the household income levels, the ethnicity, the population density, etc. may
10      be the identified parameters. In one example embodiment, data points used in
        determining correlation with the identified parameters can be internal data points
        comprising of the sales data points of a particular commodity at each store in the chain.
        [0051] In another example embodiment, grouping can be applicable for formation of
        team for a gaming activity such as baseball, basketball, cricket etc., from a set of
15      available players. The need in such a grouping will be for homogeneity in certain
        characteristics (e.g., selection criteria) of the team like players with high scoring
        averages, players with high physical characteristics like height, annual fees of players
        etc. Hence these will be the identified parameters for grouping of the players into team.
        [0052] Since the data points on the various instances of the identified parameters are
20      obtained from multiple data sources, and are in multiple ranges, the standardization
        module 112, adjusts the data points to notionally common scale to obtain standardized
        data points. The standardized data points can be locally stored in the database 106 or can
        be computed and accessed on the fly, without storing in the database 106. As an
        example the household income data points can have a wide range say from Ten
                                                     11
   259025 5v1

        Thousand to Ten lacs, and as part of standardization the household income data points
        would be adjusted to be within a range of Zero to One giving standardized data points.
        Hence each of data points will be standardized. Standardization of the data points is
        done in accordance with the equation:
 5              xstdij = (xij- mini / maxi - mini)
        where
                xstdij - standardized value of jth instance of the data point of ith identified
                parameter
                xij - value of jth data point of ith identified parameter
10              mini - minimum value of ith identified parameter
                maxi - maximum value of ith identified parameter
                where 'i' is a natural number ranging from 1,2,3,...m
                where 'j' is a natural number ranging from 1,2,3,...n
        [0053] In other words, the data points are standardized based on a ratio of (i) a
15      difference of value of jth instance of the data point of ith identified parameter and
        minimum value of ith identified parameter (ii) a difference of maximum value of ith
        identified parameter and minimum value of ith identified parameter, where 'i' ranges
        from 1 to m and    'j' ranges  from 1 to n, giving standardized data points.
        [0054] Figure-8 with reference to Figure-1, gives a sample representation of
20      standardized data points in accordance with an embodiment of the present disclosure.
                                                       12
   2590255v1

        [0055] The correlation module 114 determines a correlation between each of the
        identified parameters and the measure critical to the outcome. As an example, in the case
        of retail industry with stores being the entity for grouping, sales data points can be
        considered to be important to determine correlation with each of the identified
 5      parameters. As an example, using standard statistical formulae, correlation is determined
        between data points of sales of each store and an average household income of
        households around the corresponding store. The correlation data points can be locally
        stored in the database 106 or can be computed and accessed on the fly, without storing
        in the database 106.
10      [0056] Figure-5 with reference      to Figure-1,     gives a sample representation      of
        computation of correlation described above in accordance with an embodiment of the
        present disclosure.
        [0057] For each of the identified parameters, the influence on the grouping of the
        entities or importance can be controlled by assigning a weightage. The weightage
15      module 116 determines the weightage for each of the identified parameters. Weightage
        can be determined based on (i) a correlation between each of the identified parameters
        and the measure critical to the outcome, or (ii) based on ranking of the identified
        parameters. The weightage data points can be locally stored in the database 106 or can
        be computed and accessed on the fly, without storing in the database 106.
20      [0058] When the correlation data points between each of the identified parameters and
        the measure critical to the outcome are available, the weightage module 116 determines
        the weightage for each of the identified parameters based on the identified parameter's
        correlation with the measure critical to the outcome. An identified parameter with the
        highest correlation is given the maximum weightage (wtmax) and considered as an upper
                                                  13
   2590255v1

        bound to assign a relative weightage to the other identified parameters. Any numeric
        value can be fixed as maximum weightage (e.g., 100). Weightage to the subsequent
        identified parameters is derived in accordance with the equation:
                wti = (wtmax / rt)* ri
 5      where
                wti -Weightage to     ith identified parameter
                wtmax -   Maximum weightage
                rt - Maximum Correlation value from among all identified parameters
                ri - Correlation value of ith identified parameter
10      [0059] In other words, the weightage is obtained based on a product of the correlation
        value of   ith identified parameter and a ratio of (i) maximum weightage i.e., weightage
        assigned to the identified parameter with the highest correlation (ii) maximum
        correlation value from among all identified parameters.
        [0060] Figure-5 with reference to Figures-1 through 4, gives a representation of
15      computation of weightage by the approach based on the correlation described above in
        accordance with an embodiment of the present disclosure.
        [0061] In another scenario, the weightage module 116 determines the weightage for
        each of the identified parameters based on a rank assigned to the each of the identified
        parameters based on the impact of the identified parameter on the desired outcome,
20      leading to ranked identified parameters.
        [0062] If there are 'in' identified parameters comprising in 1 , m 2,m 3 ... ,m, then the first
        rank i.e., rank '1' is attributed to an identified parameter with the most impact on the
                                                       14
   2590255v1

        desired outcome and the last rank i.e., rank 'm' will be assigned to the identified
        parameter with the least impact on the desired outcome. The identified parameter with
        the first rank is given maximum weightage wtmax. Any numeric value can be fixed as
        maximum weightage (e.g., 100). Weightage for the ith identified parameter with sh rank
 5      is derived in accordance with the equation:
                wti = wtmax / s
        where
                wti -Weightage of    ith identified parameter
                wtmax  - maximum weightage
10              s - Rank of the identified parameter (s =1,2,3,...m)
        [0063] In other words, the weightage for each identified parameter is obtained based on
        a ratio of (i) maximum weightage and (ii) rank of the identified parameter.
        [0064] Figure-6 with reference to Figures-1 through 5, gives a sample representation of
        computation of weightage by the approach described above based on ranking of
15      identified parameters in accordance with an embodiment of the present disclosure.
        [0065] The weightage association module 118 associates weightages to the standardized
        data points, leading to the weightage associated data points, in accordance with the
        equation:
                xwtij = xstdij * wti
20      where
                xwtij - weightage associated value of jth instance of the data point of ith identified
                parameter
                                                      15
   2590255v1

                 xstdij - standardized value of jth instance of the data point of ith identified
                 parameter
                 wti - Weightage of the   ith  identified parameter
        [0066] In other words, the weightage associated value of jth instance of the data point of
 5      ith identified parameter is obtained based on a product of (i) a standardized value of jth
        instance of the data point of        ith  identified parameter and (ii) weightage of the ith
        identified parameter. The weightage associated data points can be locally stored in the
        database 106 or can be computed and accessed on the fly, without storing in the database
        106.
10      [0067] Figure-7 with reference to Figure-1 through 6, gives a sample representation of
        the raw data points for the identified parameters in accordance with an embodiment of
        the present disclosure.
        [0068] Figure-8 with reference to Figure-1 through 7, gives the standardized
        representation of the raw data points of Figure-7 in accordance with an embodiment of
15      the present disclosure.
        [0069] Figure-9 with reference to Figure-1 through 8, gives a sample representation of
        association of weightage to each of the data points, leading to weightage associated data
        points in accordance with an embodiment of the present disclosure.
        [0070] Based on the above weightage associated data points, the grouping module 120
20      forms groups of entities. In one embodiment the grouping is done using 'K means
        clustering with Euclidean distance'.
                                                        16
   2590255v1

        [0071] Figure-10 with reference to Figure-1 through 9, gives a sample representation of
        grouping of the entities using weightage associated data points in accordance with an
        embodiment of the present disclosure.
        [0072] The group quality validation module 122 determines the quality of the groups
 5      formed. In one embodiment the quality is determined using 'Calinksi-Harabasz (CH)
        Index'.
        [0073] Higher value of 'CH index' indicates an optimal grouping of the entities. To have
        better visibility on the effect of individual weightage of each identified parameter,
        additional measures such as spread of grouping mean and interquartile range are also
10      considered.
        [0074] Similarity criteria: The interquartile range shows the similarity measure within
        the group. The similarity criteria need to be as less as possible, in a preferred
        embodiment. In Figures-11 and 12, the length of box plot shows the similarity criteria
        and the length of box plot is lesser in the graphical representation in Figure-11 as
15      compared to the graphical representation in Figure-12. Both of these indicate that there
        is an increase in the similarity within the group with respect to the identified parameter
        'Average household income' by considering a targeted outcome oriented identified
        parameters with weightage.
        [0075] Dissimilarity criteria: - The spread of grouping mean across the groups show the
20      dissimilarity criteria and the spread of grouping mean across the groups needs to be as
        high as possible. The spread of grouping mean across the groups is higher with
        weightage as shown in Figure-11 as compared to without weightage as shown in
        Figure-12. In Figures-11 and 12, the spread of grouping mean across the box plot
        shows the dissimilarity criteria and spread of grouping mean across the box plot is
                                                   17
   2590255v1

        higher in the graphical representation in Figure-11             as compared to graphical
        representation in Figure-12. Both of these indicate that there is a decrease in the
        dissimilarity between groups by considering targeted outcome oriented identified
        parameters with weightage.
 5      [0076] Based on the groups formed, the system 100 continues to obtain and process data
        points of the various instances of the identified parameters with each data point
        comprising of information corresponding to an identified parameter. This continuous
        receipt of these data points and the associated redetermination of the grouping results in
        a continuous feedback on the grouping and hence enables reconsidering of the grouping
10      for furthering the target objectives. In other words, at least a subset of the plurality of
        data points are continuously received for a plurality of entities that are being (or to be)
        grouped for a subsequent grouping of entities, wherein the subsequent groups of entities
        comprise at least in part entities from the groups of entities.
        [0077] Although, the example below and Figures-3 to 10 are depictions based on data
15      points related to retail industry, it is to be understood for a person skilled in the art that
        the data points and the implementation is not limited to the retail industry.
        [0078] The identified parameters for this example are shown in Figure-3. In this
        analysis a total raw data point count of 938 records have been considered for grouping
        the entities, out of which, a representative subset of 10 data points are depicted in the
20      Figures 4 to 10.
        [0079] In one example embodiment, for a retail chain, the entity for grouping can be
        stores in the chain. One of the targeted outcomes can be to identify the group of stores
        best suited for positioning of toys. The inputs for this grouping would be considerations
        like (i) residents of certain ethnicity have a higher tendency to purchase toys and also the
                                                      18
   2590255v1

        fact that (ii) residents of higher household incomes have a higher tendency to purchase
        toys.
        [0080] In such a scenario the parameters of relevance, may comprise of average
        household income and ethnicity in terms of number of residents who are Hispanics or
 5      Indians. Additional aspects could be population density, total resident population in the
        vicinity of each store etc. Internal data points can comprise of the sales data points of
        each store in the chain. Figure-3 illustrates such a sample representation of identified
        parameters in accordance with an embodiment of the present disclosure.
        [0081] Figure-4 illustrates a sample representation of value of sales data points by store,
10      used to determine correlation with the identified parameters in accordance with an
        embodiment of the present disclosure. The value can be in currencies like INR, USD etc.
        As depicted in Figure-4, a first store in a retail chain is identified by a store identifier
        102, and corresponding value of sales is 2464229. Similarly, a second store in the retail
        chain is identified by a store identifier 103, and corresponding value of sales is 2721058.
15      Figure-5 represents the correlation between the identified parameters and the sales data
        points as also the weightage determined for each of the identified parameters based on
        the correlation in accordance with an embodiment of the present disclosure. As depicted
        in Figure-5, an identified parameter is identified by the name 'Average Household
        Income' with a correlation value to sales being 0.34193 and the weightage attributed
20      being 100. Similarly, another identified parameter is identified by the name 'Ethnicity
        Hispanic'      with a correlation value to sales being 0.26431 and the weightage being
        computed to 77. Figure-6 represents the weightage determined for each of the identified
        parameters based on ranking of the identified parameters in accordance with an
        embodiment of the present disclosure. As depicted in Figure-6, an identified parameter
                                                     19
   2590255v1

        is identified by the name 'Average Household Income' with a ranking of '1' and the
        weightage attributed being 100. Similarly, another identified parameter is identified by
        the name 'Ethnicity - Hispanic' with a ranking of 3 and the weightage being computed
        to 33.
 5      [0082] Figure-7 shows a sample representation of the raw data points for the identified
        parameters in accordance with an embodiment of the present disclosure. As depicted in
        Figure-7, the first store in the retail chain is identified by the store identifier 102, with
        the corresponding total population being 23741, the 'Ethnicity - Hispanic' value being
        1909, the 'Ethnicity - Indian' value being 3613, the 'Average Household Income' value
10      being 71533 and the 'Population Density' value being 1934.             Similarly, the second
        store in the retail chain is identified by the store identifier 103, with the corresponding
        total population being 29953, the 'Ethnicity - Hispanic' value being 1925, the 'Ethnicity
        - Indian' value being 2959, the 'Average Household Income' value being 102901 and
        the   'Population   Density'   value being     3530. Figure-8     shows the      standardized
15      representation of the raw data points of Figure-7 leading to standardized data points in
        accordance with an embodiment of the present disclosure. As depicted in Figure-8, the
        first store in the retail chain is identified by the store identifier 102, with the
        corresponding standardized values, for total population being 0.2273, for 'Ethnicity
        Hispanic' being 0.0595, for 'Ethnicity - Indian' being 0.0572, for 'Average Household
20      Income' being 0.2481 and for 'Population Density' being 0.019.          Similarly, the second
        store in the retail chain is identified by the store identifier 103, with the corresponding
        standardized values, for total population being 0.3257, for 'Ethnicity - Hispanic' being
        0.06, for 'Ethnicity - Indian' being 0.0461, for 'Average Household Income' being
        0.4679 and for 'Population Density' being 0.0389. Figure-9 shows the standardized data
                                                    20
   2590255v1

        points associated with the weightage represented in Figure-5, leading to weightage
        associated data points in accordance with an embodiment of the present disclosure. As
        depicted in Figure-9, the first store in the retail chain is identified by the store identifier
        102, with the corresponding weightage associated data points, for total population being
 5      16.8228, for 'Ethnicity - Hispanic' being 2.7953, for 'Ethnicity - Indian' being 4.4075,
        for 'Average Household Income' being 24.8103 and for 'Population Density' being
        1.3325.      Similarly, the second store in the retail chain is identified by the store
        identifier 103, with the corresponding weightage associated data points, for total
        population being 24.0997, for 'Ethnicity - Hispanic' being 2.8218, for 'Ethnicity
10      Indian'   being 3.5483, for 'Average Household Income' being 46.7928 and for
        'Population Density' being 2.7225. Figure-10 shows the grouping of the stores based on
        the data points in Figure-9 in accordance with an embodiment of the present disclosure.
        As depicted in Figure-10, the first store in the retail chain is identified by the store
        identifier 102, belongs to the group 'Group-3'. Similarly, the second store in the retail
15      chain is identified by the store identifier 103, belongs to the group 'Group-2'.
        [0083] Figure- 2, with reference to Figure-1, is a flow diagram illustrating a computer
        implemented system and method for grouping of entities for delivery of tangible assets
        according to an embodiment of the present disclosure.               The method comprising
        identifying (202), using the parameter identification module 108, parameters to be used
20      for grouping of entities, wherein the identified parameters are directly relevant to the
        targeted outcome of grouping of entities; capturing (204), using the parameter data point
        capturing module 110, data points of various instances of each of the identified
        parameters wherein each data point comprising of information corresponding to an
        identified parameter; standardizing (206), using the standardization module 112, each
                                                     21
   2590255v1

        data point to a notionally common scale to obtain standardized data points; determining
        (208), using the correlation module 114, correlation of each identified parameter to a
        measure critical to the outcome; computing (210), using the weightage module 116,
        weightage for each of the identified parameters; associating (212), using the weightage
 5      association module 118, weightage to each of the standardized data points to obtain
        weightage associated data points; determining (214), using the grouping module 120,
        grouping based on weightage associated data points; determining (216), using the group
        quality validation module 122, quality of the grouping achieved.
10      TECHNICAL ADVANCEMENTS
        [0084] The technical advancements of the system envisaged by the present disclosure
        include the realization of:
             *  A system for delivery of tangible assets based on grouping of entities depending
                on parameters identified based on their impact on the targeted outcome. The
15              grouping is carried out using standardized data points for the various instances of
                the identified parameters and in accordance with the weightage attributed to each
                of the identified parameters impacting the grouping.
             *  A system that analyses and adjusts the grouping of the entities based on the
                weightage determined by correlation of the identified parameters with measure
20              critical to the outcome or ranking of the identified parameters.
             *  A system which determines highly homogeneous grouping of entities.
        [0085] The illustrated steps are set out to explain the exemplary embodiments shown,
        and it should be anticipated that ongoing technological development will change the
                                                   22
   2590255v1

        manner in which particular functions are performed.         These examples are presented
        herein for purposes of illustration, and not limitation. Further, the boundaries of the
        functional building blocks have been arbitrarily defined herein for the convenience of
        the description. Alternative boundaries can be defined so long as the specified functions
 5      and relationships thereof are appropriately         performed.     Alternatives  (including
        equivalents, extensions, variations, deviations, etc., of those described herein) will be
        apparent to persons skilled in the relevant art(s) based on the teachings contained herein.
        Such alternatives fall within the scope and spirit of the disclosed embodiments. Also,
        the words "comprising," ''having," ''containing," and "including," and other similar
10      forms are intended to be equivalent in meaning and be open ended in that an item or
        items following any one of these words is not meant to be an exhaustive listing of such
        item or items, or meant to be limited to only the listed item or items. It must also be
        noted that as used herein and in the appended claims, the singular forms "a," "an," and
        "the" include plural references unless the context clearly dictates otherwise.
15      [0086] Furthermore, one or more computer-readable storage media may be utilized in
        implementing embodiments consistent with the present disclosure. A computer-readable
        storage medium refers to any type of physical memory on which information or data
        readable by a processor may be stored. Thus, a computer-readable storage medium may
        store instructions for execution by one or more processors, including instructions for
20      causing the processor(s) to perform steps or stages consistent with the embodiments
        described herein.    The term "computer-readable medium" should be understood to
        include tangible items and exclude carrier waves and transient signals, i.e., be non
        transitory.   Examples include random access memory (RAM), read-only memory
                                                   23
   2590255v1

        (ROM), volatile memory, nonvolatile memory, hard drives, CD ROMs, DVDs, flash
        drives, disks, and any other known physical storage media.
        [0087] The foregoing description of the specific embodiments will so fully reveal the
        general nature of the embodiments herein that others can, by applying current
 5      knowledge, readily modify and/or        adapt for various applications such specific
        embodiments without departing from the generic concept,         and, therefore,   such
        adaptations and modifications should and are intended to be comprehended within the
        meaning and range of equivalents of the disclosed embodiments. It is to be understood
        that the phraseology or terminology employed herein is for the purpose of description
10      and not of limitation. Therefore, while the embodiments herein have been described in
        terms of preferred embodiments, those skilled in the art will recognize that the
        embodiments herein can be practiced with modification within the spirit and scope of
        the embodiments as described herein.
        [0088] This application    is a divisional application   from Australian Application
15      <removed-apn>. The full disclosure of AU<removed-apn> is incorporated herein by reference.
                                                  24
   2590255v1

   WE CLAIM:
   1. A computer implemented method for delivering tangible assets, the computer
   implemented method comprising;
 5        identifying, by a hardware processor, one or more parameters, wherein the one
   or more identified parameters are relevant for determining a targeted outcome of a
   grouping of a plurality of entities used for delivering the tangible assets,
          wherein the tangible assets are delivered based on the grouping of the plurality
   of entities;
10        obtaining, by the hardware processor, a plurality of data points from one or
   more sources, wherein each of the plurality of data points comprises of information
   corresponding to an identified parameter from the one or more identified parameters;
          standardizing, by the hardware processor, the plurality of data points to a
   notionally common scale to obtain standardized data points;
15        computing, by the hardware processor, a correlation between each of the one or
   more identified parameters and a measure critical to the outcome;
          computing, by the hardware processor, a weightage of each of the one or more
   identified parameters based on the correlation;
          associating, by the hardware processor, the computed weightage corresponding
20 to each of the one or more identified parameters, to each of the corresponding
   standardized data points to obtain weightage associated data points;
          grouping, by the hardware processor, the plurality of entities based on the
   weightage associated data points to obtain a group of entities; and
          determining the tangible assets based on the grouping of the plurality of entities.
25
                                                25
   3545573vl

   2. The computer implemented method of claim 1, wherein the plurality of data points
   are standardized based on (i) a value of ith data point of ith identified parameter, (ii) a
   minimum value of ith identified parameter, and (iii) a maximum value of ith identified
   parameter.
 5
   3. The computer implemented method of claim 1, wherein the weightage is computed
   based on (i) a maximum weightage, (ii) a maximum correlation value from among all
   identified parameters, and (iii) a correlation value of ith identified parameter.
10 4. The computer implemented method of claim 1, wherein each of the identified
   parameters is ranked based on a relevance to the targeted outcome of grouping of the
   plurality of entities to obtain ranked identified parameters.
   5. The computer implemented method of claim 4, wherein the weightage is computed
15 for each of the ranked identified parameters based on (i) a maximum weightage, and
   (ii) a rank of a corresponding ranked identified parameter from the ranked identified
   parameters.
   6. The computer implemented method of claim 1, wherein the weightage is associated
20 with each of the standardized data points based on (i) a standardized value of ith data
   point of ith identified parameter, and (ii) a weightage of ith identified parameter.
   7. The computer implemented method of claim 1, wherein the group of entities are
   obtained for delivery of tangible assets.
25
                                                26
   3545573vl

   8. The computer implemented method of claim 1, wherein at least a subset of the
   plurality of data points are continuously received for a plurality of entities that are
   being grouped to form subsequent groups of entities, and wherein the subsequent
   groups of entities comprise at least in part entities from the groups of entities.
 5
   9. A computer implemented system for delivering tangible assets, the computer
   implemented system comprising:
          a hardware processor;
          a memory that stores instructions and a database, wherein the database
10        comprises a plurality of data points obtained from one or more sources, wherein
          the data points comprise information corresponding to one or more of the
          identified parameters, and wherein the hardware processor is configured by the
          instructions to execute:
          a parameter identification module that identifies one or more parameters,
15        relevant to a targeted outcome of grouping of the plurality of entities to obtain
          one or more identified parameters;
          a parameter data point capturing module that obtains a plurality of data points
          from one or more sources, wherein each of the plurality of data points comprises
          of information corresponding to an identified parameter from the one or more
20        identified parameters;
          a standardization module that standardizes the plurality of data points to a
          notionally common scale to obtain standardized data points;
          a correlation module that computes a correlation between each of the one or
          more identified parameters and a measure critical to the outcome;
                                                27
   3545573vl

          a weightage module that computes a weightage of each of the one or more
          identified parameters based on the correlation;
          a weightage association module that associates the computed weightage
          corresponding to each of the one or more identified parameters, to each of the
 5        corresponding standardized data point to obtain weightage associated data
          points;
          a grouping module that groups the plurality of entities based on the weightage
          associated data points to obtain a group of entities; and
          delivering the tangible assets, based on the targeted outcome, using the one or
10        more identified parameters.
   10. The computer implemented system of claim 9, wherein the standardization
   module standardizes the plurality of data points based on (i) a value of ith data point
   of ith identified parameter, (ii) a minimum value of ith identified parameter, and (iii) a
15 maximum value of ith identified parameter.
   11. The computer implemented system of claim 9, wherein the weightage module
   computes the weightage based on (i) a maximum weightage, (ii) a maximum
   correlation value from among the identified parameters, and (iii) a correlation value of
20 ith identified parameter.
   12. The computer implemented system of claim 9, wherein each of the identified
   parameters is ranked based on a relevance to the outcome of grouping of the plurality
   of entities to obtain ranked identified parameters.
25
                                               28
   3545573vl

   13. The computer implemented system of claim 12, wherein the weightage module
   computes the weightage for each of the ranked identified parameters based on (i) a
   maximum weightage, and (ii) a corresponding ranked identified parameter from the
   ranked identified parameters.
 5
   14. The computer implemented system of claim 9, wherein the weightage association
   module associates weightage with each of the standardized data points based on (i) a
   standardized value of jth data point of ith identified parameter, and (ii) a weightage of
   ith identified parameter.
10
   15. The computer implemented system of claim 9, wherein the group of entities are
   obtained for delivery of tangible assets.
   16. The computer implemented system of claim 9, wherein at least a subset of the
15 plurality of data points are continuously received for a plurality of entities that are
   being grouped to form subsequent groups of entities, and wherein the subsequent
   groups of entities comprise at least in part entities from the groups of entities.
   17. One or more non-transitory machine readable information storage mediums
20 comprising one or more instructions, which when executed by one or more hardware
   processors causes to perform a computer implemented method comprising:
          identifying, by said one or more hardware processors, one or more parameters
          relevant to an outcome of grouping of the plurality of entities to obtain one or
          more identified parameters;
                                                29
   3545573vl

          obtaining a plurality of data points from one or more sources, wherein each of
          the plurality of data points comprises of information corresponding to an
          identified parameter from the one or more identified parameters;
          standardizing the plurality of data points to a notionally common scale to obtain
 5        standardized data points;
          computing, by the hardware processor, a correlation between each of the one or
          more identified parameters and a measure critical to the outcome;
          computing, by the hardware processor, a weightage of each of the one or more
          identified parameters based on the correlation;
10        associating, by the hardware processor, the computed weightage corresponding
          to each of the one or more identified parameters, to each of the corresponding
          standardized data points to obtain weightage associated data points; and
          grouping, by the hardware processor, the plurality of entities based on the
          weightage associated data points to obtain a group of entities.
15
   18. The one or more non-transitory machine readable information storage mediums of
   claim 17, wherein each of the identified parameters is ranked based on a relevance to
   the outcome of grouping of the plurality of entities to obtain ranked identified
   parameters.
20
   19. The one or more non-transitory machine readable information storage mediums of
   claim 17, wherein the group of entities are obtained for delivery of tangible assets.
   20. The one or more non-transitory machine readable information storage mediums of
25 claim 17, wherein at least a subset of the plurality of data points are continuously
                                               30
   3545573vl

  received for a plurality of entities that are being grouped to form subsequent groups of
  entities, and wherein the subsequent groups of entities comprise at least in part entities
  from the groups of entities.
5
                                                31
  3545573vl

           <removed-apn>      <U+2721><U+2720><U+271F><U+271E><U+2704><U+271D><U+2706><U+260E><U+2704>2018
                        06 Mar
Figure-1
   <U+2702> <U+2701>

                <removed-apn>      <U+2721><U+2720><U+271F><U+271E><U+2704><U+271D><U+2706><U+260E><U+2704>2018
                             06 Mar
     Figure-2
<U+2702><U+2701>

      <removed-apn>      <U+261B><U+2721><U+2720><U+271F><U+260E><U+271E><U+271D><U+2706><U+260E>2018
                   06 Mar
               Figure-3
<U+2704><U+2702><U+2701>

      <removed-apn>       <U+261B><U+2721><U+2720><U+271F><U+260E><U+271E><U+271D><U+2706><U+260E>2018
                    06 Mar
         Figure-4
<U+2704><U+2702><U+2701>

            <removed-apn>      <U+261B><U+2721><U+2720><U+271F><U+260E><U+271E><U+271D><U+2706><U+260E>2018
                         06 Mar
      Figure-5
<U+2704><U+2702><U+2701>

           <removed-apn>      <U+261B><U+2721><U+2720><U+271F><U+260E><U+271E><U+271D><U+2706><U+260E>2018
                        06 Mar
      Figure-6
<U+2704><U+2702><U+2701>

             <removed-apn>      <U+261B><U+2721><U+2720><U+271F><U+260E><U+271E><U+271D><U+2706><U+260E>2018
                          06 Mar
  Figure-7
<U+2704><U+2702><U+2701>

             <removed-apn>      <U+261B><U+2721><U+2720><U+271F><U+260E><U+271E><U+271D><U+2706><U+260E>2018
                          06 Mar
  Figure-8
<U+2704><U+2702><U+2701>

             <removed-apn>      <U+261B><U+2721><U+2720><U+271F><U+260E><U+271E><U+271D><U+2706><U+260E>2018
                          06 Mar
  Figure-9
<U+2704><U+2702><U+2701>

        <removed-apn>           <U+261B><U+2721><U+2720><U+271F><U+260E><U+271E><U+271D><U+2706><U+260E>2018
                          06 Mar
              Figure-10
<U+2704><U+2702><U+2701> <U+2702>

            <removed-apn>      <U+261B><U+2721><U+2720><U+271F><U+260E><U+271E><U+271D><U+2706><U+260E>2018
                         06 Mar
Figure-11
  <U+2704><U+2702><U+2701><U+2702><U+2702>

            <removed-apn>      <U+261B><U+2721><U+2720><U+271F><U+260E><U+271E><U+271D><U+2706><U+260E>2018
                         06 Mar
Figure-12
   <U+2704><U+2702><U+2701><U+2704><U+2702>

