                                            ABSTRACT
  Systems, apparatuses, and methods for classification based automated instance management are
  disclosed. Classification based automated instance management may include automatically
  commissioning an application instance based on a plurality of classification metrics, and
5 automatically monitoring the application instance based on the plurality of classification metrics.
  Automatically monitoring the application instance may include identifying a plurality of instance
  monitoring policies associated with the application instance based on the plurality of
  classification metrics. Automatically    monitoring   the  application   instance    may   include
  automatically suspending the application instance plurality of instance monitoring policies and
0 automatically decommissioning the application based on the plurality of instance monitoring
  policies.
                                                  1

          CLASSIFICATION BASED AUTOMATED INSTANCE MANAGEMENT
                      CROSS REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
[0001]          The present application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No.
62/098,470 filed December 31, 2014, entitled, "Classification Based Automated Instance
Management," herein incorporated by reference.
                                       TECHNICAL FIELD
[0002]          The present disclosure relates in general to techniques and devices for managing
cloud based computing system instances.
                                          BACKGROUND
[0003]          Cloud computing relates to the sharing of computing resources that are typically
accessed via the Internet. A cloud computing infrastructure typically includes a large number of
servers that are configured to execute various programs, such as application servers, web servers,
and/or database servers. Accordingly, classification based automated instance management
would be advantageous.
                                            SUMMARY
[0004]          One implementation of the disclosure is an apparatus for automatically
commissioning and decommissioning a computer-instantiated application instance comprising a
processor configured to execute instructions stored in a memory, the processor comprising a
communication input at which a request to commission an application instance is provided, an
identity request module that identifies the request to commission the application instance, the
request indicating a classification metric for the application instance, an instance commissioning
module that automatically commissions the application instance based on the classification
metric, an instance monitoring module that utilizes data received at the communication input to
                                                -1-

automatically monitor the application instance based on the classification metric and an instance
decommissioning module that automatically decommissions the application based on the
classification metric.
[0005]           Another implementation of the disclosure is an apparatus for classification based
automated instance management, comprising a processor configured to execute instructions
stored in a memory to identify a request to commission an application instance, the request
indicating a plurality of classification metrics for the application instance, automatically
commission the application instance based on the plurality of classification metrics, and
automatically monitor the application instance based on the plurality of classification metrics by
identifying a plurality of instance monitoring policies associated with the application instance
based on the plurality of classification metrics; and identifying an approved extension for the
application instance based on the plurality of instance monitoring policies, wherein monitoring
the application instance comprises on a condition that an approved extension is identified,
extending the application instance based on the plurality of instance monitoring policies, and on
a condition that an approved extension is unidentified, determining whether the application
instance is in an active state or a suspended state based, wherein monitoring the application
instance comprises on a condition that the application instance is in an active state, identifying an
expiration date for the application instance based on the plurality of instance monitoring policies,
wherein monitoring the application instance comprises on a condition that the expiration date is
identified, identifying an expiration milestone for the application instance based on the plurality
of instance monitoring policies, wherein monitoring the application instance comprises on a
condition that the expiration milestone is identified, generating and sending an expiration
milestone notification for the application instance based on the plurality of instance monitoring
policies and the identified expiration milestone; and on a condition that the expiration milestone
is unidentified, monitoring the application instance comprises determining whether a duration for
the application instance has expired based on the plurality of instance monitoring policies, and
on a condition that the duration for the application instance has expired, suspending the
application instance based on the plurality of instance monitoring policies, and on a condition
that the expiration date is unidentified, generating the expiration date for the application instance
based on the plurality of instance monitoring policies, and sending an instance expiration
                                                 -2-

notification indicating that the instance will be suspended after the expiration date; and on a
condition that the application instance is in a suspended state, determining whether a suspension
period for the application instance has expired based on the plurality of instance monitoring
policies, and on a condition that the suspension period for the application instance has expired,
decommissioning the application instance based on the plurality of instance monitoring policies.
[0006]          Another implementation of the disclosure is a computer-implemented method for
automatically commissioning and decommissioning an application instance comprising receiving
at a communication input of a processor a request to commission an application instance on a
computer, identifying, by the processor, the request to commission the application instance, the
request structured to include a classification metric for the application instance, automatically
commissioning, by the processor, the application instance based on the classification metric,
automatically monitoring by the processor, utilizing data received at the communication input,
the application instance running on the computer based on the classification metric, and
automatically decommissioning by the processor the application based on the classification
metric.
                           BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0007]          The description herein makes reference to the accompanying drawings wherein
like reference numerals refer to like parts throughout the several views.
[0008]          FIG. 1 is a block diagram of a networked distributed or cloud computing system
in which the teachings herein may be implemented.
[0009]          FIG. 2 is a block diagram of an example internal configuration of a computing
device, such as a computing device of the computing system as shown in FIG. 1.
[0010]          FIG. 3A is a block diagram illustrating primary components of the classification
based automated instance management system in accordance with this disclosure.
[0011]          FIG. 3B is a flowchart illustrating an example of classification based automated
instance management in accordance with this disclosure.
[0012]          FIG. 4 is a flowchart illustrating an example of instance commissioning in
accordance with this disclosure.
                                                 -3-

[0013]           FIG. 5 is a flowchart illustrating an example of automated instance monitoring in
accordance with this disclosure.
[0014]           FIGS. 6A and 6B together constitute a flowchart illustrating an example of
automated instance lifecycle monitoring and management in accordance with this disclosure.
[0015]           FIG. 7 is a flow chart illustrating an example of automated instance
decommissioning in accordance with this disclosure.
                                     DETAILED DESCRIPTION
[0016]           An application instance, such as a web site or service, in a cloud computing
system may be instantiated on one or more physical devices, one or more virtual device, or a
combination of physical and virtual devices. For example, an application instance may include a
web server and a database server dedicated to the application and executing on a virtual machine,
which may be hosted on a physical server. In another example, multiple physical servers may be
dedicated to an application instance. Each active instance may utilize various cloud computing
system resources, such as processors, or processor cycles, random access memory (RAM),
storage or disk space, network address space, network communication bandwidth, and the like.
The operational expectations, such as response time, availability, maximum concurrent use, and
the like, for each instance may vary from instance to instance, and may be subject to contractual
obligations, such as a service level agreement (SGA). Managing instances may utilize significant
human resources.
[0017]           Instance management may include monitoring and controlling instance use and
lifecycle, which may include commissioning or provisioning an instance, maintaining or
monitoring an instance, and decommissioning an instance and reclaiming associated resources.
However, existing instance management systems may not efficiently and automatically manage
application instances, may inefficiently allocate cloud computing system resources, may
inefficiently utilize human resources, and may not efficiently comply with operation
expectations.
[0018]           Computing resources of cloud computing infrastructure may be allocated, for
example, using a multi-tenant or a single-tenant architecture. Under a multi-tenant architecture,
installations or instantiations of application, database, and/or other software application servers
                                                   -4-

may be shared amongst multiple customers. For example, a single web server (e.g., a unitary
Apache installation), application server (e.g., unitary Java Virtual Machine) and/or a single
database server catalog (e.g., a unitary MySQL catalog) may handle requests from multiple
customers. In a multi-tenant architecture, data or applications used by various customers can be
commingled or shared. In an implementation of this architecture, the application and/or database
server software can distinguish between and segregate data and other information of the various
customers using the system. For example, database records belonging to a particular customer
may be identified using a customerid field in a database table holding records for numerous
customers.
[0019]           Under a single-tenant infrastructure, separate web servers, application servers,
and/or database servers are created for each customer. In other words, each customer will access
its dedicated web server(s), will have its transactions processed using its dedicated application
server(s), and will have its data stored in its dedicated database server(s) and or catalog(s). In a
single-tenant architecture, physical hardware servers may be shared such that multiple
installations or instantiations of web, application, and/or database servers may be installed on the
same physical server. Each installation may be allocated a certain portion of the physical server
resources, such as RAM, storage, and CPU cycles.
[0020]           In an example implementation, a customer instance is composed of four web
server instances, four application server instances, and two database server instances. As
previously described each of these server instances may be located on different physical servers
and each of these server instances may share resources of the different physical servers with a
number of other server instances associated with other customer instances. The web, application,
and database servers of the customer instance can be allocated to two different datacenters to
facilitate high availability of the applications and data provided by the servers. There may be a
primary pair of web servers and application servers in a first datacenter and a backup pair of web
servers and application servers in a second datacenter. There may be a primary database server in
the first datacenter and a second database server in the second datacenter. The primary database
server can replicate data to the secondary database server. The cloud computing infrastructure
can be configured to direct traffic to the primary pair of web servers which can be configured to
                                                 -5-

utilize the primary pair of application servers and primary database server respectively. In a
failure scenario, the secondary servers may be converted to primary servers.
[0021]          The application servers can include a platform application, such as one written in
Java, for example, that provides generic platform functionality for accessing the database
servers, integrating with external applications, and rendering web pages and other content to be
transmitted to clients. The generic platform functionality may be configured with metadata stored
in the database server. In other words, the operation of the platform on the application server may
be customized by certain end-users of the platform without requiring the Java code of the
platform application to be changed. The database server instances can be configured with a
database configuration and schema to facilitate the operation of the platform. For example, the
database server instance can be configured with various tables for storing metadata about
applications, tables/fields, menus, forms, business rules, scripts, and custom UI elements that are
used to customize the appearance and operation of the customer instance. In some
implementations, the application servers can include web server functionality and the web
servers can be omitted.
[0022]          In an alternative implementation, a customer instance may include only two
application servers and one database server. In a given cloud infrastructure system, different
implementations of customer instances may be used for different customer instances at the same
time. Other configurations and implementations of customer instances may also be used.
[0023]          The proper allocation of computing resources of a physical server to an instance
of a particular software server, such as a database server instance, can be important to the
efficient and effective functioning of the cloud infrastructure. If too few resources are allocated,
performance of the services provided to the customer using the database server may be degraded.
If too many resources are allocated, computing resources may be wasted as the extra allocated
resources may not meaningfully increase the performance of the services provided to the
customer. Repeated over allocation of computing resources may require that additional server
hardware be purchased to satisfy the over allocation, resulting in a greater than necessary cost for
providing the cloud infrastructure. In current systems, the amount of possible RAM may be
constrained per physical server and the utilization of RAM may be relatively higher than other
available computing resources, such as processing cycles (e.g., CPU) and storage (e.g., solid
                                                -6-

state and magnetic hard disks). Thus, it may be advantageous to more precisely allocate the
amount of RAM to each database server instance due to the relative scarcity of RAM resources.
[0024]          The amount of memory used by a database server may be fixed once the database
server is provisioned or created. In this case, in order to change an amount of memory allocated
to a database server, a new database server instance may be created and the contents of the
existing database server transferred to the new database server instance. This process may be
controlled by a database instance move system which may be provided with an identifier of a
database server instance and a desired size for the database server instance in order to move the
instance. In certain implementations, the move system can identify a server that the database
server instance can be moved to based on certain criteria, such as available free resources,
location, or other known information. A customer notification can be provided and the
provisioning of the new database server instance with the desired size can be performed
automatically followed by the copying of database server data to the new database server
instance, switching configuration settings so that users are directed to the new database server
instance and retiring the original database server after a pre-determined time (e.g., 2 days) to
reclaim system resources, such as RAM, allocated to the original database server. In an
alternative implementation, the amount of memory used by a database server instance can be
adjusted in certain circumstances. For example, the amount of memory may be increased only to
the extent that additional memory is available on the physical server for allocation.
[0025]          A database instance can be allocated RAM and storage, such as non-volatile
storage, which can be accessed and processed using a CPU. The RAM can include a buffer pool,
key cache, query cache, and other memory allocations. The buffer pool can be used to cache
table and index database pages from the storage. Query cache can store some or all previous
queries to the database to optimize processing of later similar or same queries. Key cache can be
used to store portions of database tables that may be accessed more often than other portions.
Each of buffer pool, query cache, and key cache may be allocated a certain portion of the RAM.
The size of each allocation may differ, for example, the buffer pool may be allocated more RAM
than query cache and key cache. Other allocations can include other buffers or data structures
used in the operation of the database instance. The buffers and data structures used in an
                                                 -7-

implementation of a database instance may vary and may include less or additional buffers than
described here.
[0026]          The storage an include storage of table data including tables. The number of
tables can vary and can number in the thousands, for example. The storage can also include other
storage for storing other data used by the database instance, for example, configuration data,
index data, and other information used in the operation of the database instance.
[0027]          Classification based automated instance management may reduce instance
management human resource utilization, may improve the allocation, utilization, and reclamation
of cloud computing system resources, and may improve compliance with operation expectations,
by performing instance management automatically based on instance classification information.
[0028]          FIG. 1 is a block diagram of a distributed (e.g., client-server, networked, or cloud)
computing system 100. Use of the phrase "cloud computing system" herein is a proxy for any
form of a distributed computing system, and this phrase is used simply for ease of reference.
Cloud computing system 100 can have any number of customers, including customer 110. Each
customer 110 may have clients, such as clients 112. Each of clients 112 can be in the form of a
computing system including multiple computing devices, or in the form of a single computing
device, for example, a mobile phone, a tablet computer, a laptop computer, a notebook computer,
a desktop computer, and the like. Customer 110 and clients 112 are examples only, and a cloud
computing system may have a different number of customers or clients or may have a different
configuration of customers or clients. For example, there may be hundreds or thousands of
customers and each customer may have any number of clients.
[0029]          Cloud computing system 100 can include any number of datacenters, including
datacenter 120. Each datacenter 120 may have servers, such as servers 122. Each datacenter 120
may represent a facility in a different geographic location where servers are located. Each of
servers 122 can be in the form of a computing system including multiple computing devices, or
in the form of a single computing device, for example, a desktop computer, a server computer
and the like. The datacenter 120 and servers 122 are examples only, and a cloud computing
system may have a different number of datacenters and servers or may have a different
configuration of datacenters and servers. For example, there may be tens of data centers and each
data center may have hundreds or any number of servers.
                                               -8-

[0030]           Clients 112 and servers 122 may be configured to connect to network 130. The
clients for a particular customer may connect to network 130 via a common connection point 116
or different connection points, e.g. a wireless connection point 118 and a wired connection point
119. Any combination of common or different connections points may be present, and any
combination of wired and wireless connection points may be present as well. Network 130 can
be, for example, the Internet. Network 130 can also be or include a local area network (LAN),
wide area network (WAN), virtual private network (VPN), or any other means of transferring
data between any of clients 112 and servers 122. Network 130, datacenter 120 and/or blocks not
shown may include network hardware such as routers, switches, load balancers and/or other
network devices.
[0031]           Other implementations of the cloud computing system 100 are also possible. For
example, devices other than the clients and servers shown may be included in system 100. In an
implementation, one or more additional servers may operate as a cloud infrastructure control,
from which servers and/or clients of the cloud infrastructure are monitored, controlled and/or
configured. For example, some or all of the techniques described herein may operate on said
cloud infrastructure control servers. Alternatively, or in addition, some or all of the techniques
described herein may operate on servers such as servers 122.
[0032]           FIG. 2 is a block diagram of an example internal configuration of a computing
device 200, such as a client 112 or server device 122 of the computing system 100 as shown in
FIG. 1, including an infrastructure control server, of a computing system. As previously
described, clients 112 or servers 122 may take the form of a computing system including
multiple computing units, or in the form of a single computing unit, for example, a mobile
phone, a tablet computer, a laptop computer, a notebook computer, a desktop computer, a server
computer and the like.
[0033]           The computing device 200 can include a number of components, as illustrated in
FIG. 2. CPU (or processor) 202 can be a central processing unit, such as a microprocessor, and
can include single or multiple processors, each having single or multiple processing cores.
Alternatively, CPU 202 can include another type of device, or multiple devices, capable of
manipulating or processing information now-existing or hereafter developed. When multiple
processing devices are present, they may be interconnected in any manner, including hardwired
                                                -9-

or networked, including wirelessly networked. Thus, the operations of CPU 202 can be
distributed across multiple machines that can be coupled directly or across a local area or other
network The CPU 202 can be a general purpose processor or a special purpose processor.
[0034]           Random Access Memory (RAM 204) can be any suitable non-permanent storage
device that is used as memory. RAM 204 can include executable instructions and data for
immediate access by CPU 202. RAM 204 typically comprises one or more DRAM modules such
as DDR SDRAM. Alternatively, RAM 204 can include another type of device, or multiple
devices, capable of storing data for processing by CPU 202 now-existing or hereafter developed.
CPU 202 can access and manipulate data in RAM 204 via bus 212. The CPU 202 may utilize a
cache 220 as a form of localized fast memory for operating on data and instructions.
[0035]           Storage 206 can be in the form of read only memory (ROM), a disk drive, a solid
state drive, flash memory, Phase-Change Memory (PCM), or any form of non-volatile memory
designed to maintain data for some duration of time, and preferably in the event of a power loss.
Storage 206 can include executable instructions 206A and application files/data 206B along with
other data. The executable instructions 206A can include, for example, an operating system and
one or more application programs for loading in whole or part into RAM 204 (with RAM-based
executable instructions 204A and application files/data 204B) and to be executed by CPU 202.
The executable instructions 206A may be organized into programmable modules or algorithms,
functional programs, codes, and code segments designed to perform various functions described
herein. The operating system can be, for example, a Microsoft Windows®, Mac OS X*, or
Linux®, or operating system, or can be an operating system for a small device, such as a smart
phone or tablet device, or a large device, such as a mainframe computer. The application
program can include, for example, a web browser, web server and/or database server. Application
files 206B can, for example, include user files, database catalogs and configuration information.
In an implementation, storage 206 includes instructions to perform the discovery techniques
described herein. Storage 206 may comprise one or multiple devices and may utilize one or more
types of storage, such as solid state or magnetic.
[0036]           The computing device 200 can also include one or more input/output devices,
such as a network communication unit 208 and interface 230 that may have a wired
communication component or a wireless communications component 290, which can be coupled
                                               -10-

to CPU 202 via bus 212. The network communication unit 208 can utilized any of a variety of
standardized network protocols, such as Ethernet, TCP/IP, to name a few of many protocols, to
effect communications between devices. The interface 230 can comprise one or more
transceiver(s) that utilize the Ethernet, power line communication (PLC), WiFi, infrared,
GPRS/GSM, CDMA, etc.
[0037]           A user interface 210 can include a display, positional input device (such as a
mouse, touchpad, touchscreen, or the like), keyboard, or other forms of user input and output
devices. The user interface 210 can be coupled to the processor 202 via the bus 212. Other output
devices that permit a user to program or otherwise use the client or server can be provided in
addition to or as an alternative to display 210. When the output device is or includes a display,
the display can be implemented in various ways, including by a liquid crystal display (LCD) or a
cathode-ray tube (CRT) or light emitting diode (LED) display, such as an OLED display.
[0038]           Other implementations of the internal configuration or architecture of clients and
servers 200 are also possible. For example, servers may omit display 210. RAM 204 or storage
206 can be distributed across multiple machines such as network-based memory or memory in
multiple machines performing the operations of clients or servers. Although depicted here as a
single bus, bus 212 can be composed of multiple buses, that may be connected to each other
through various bridges, controllers, and/or adapters. Computing devices 200 may contain any
number of sensors and detectors that monitor the device 200 itself or the environment around the
device 200, or it may contain a location identification unit 260, such as a GPS or other type of
location device. The computing device 200 may also contain a power source 270, such as a
battery, so that the unit can operate in a self-contained manner. These may communicate with the
CPU/processor 202 via the bus 212.
[0039]           FIG. 3A is a block diagram illustrating an example of the basic components of a
classification based automated instance management system in accordance with this disclosure.
Application instances may be classified based on one or more ontological classification metrics,
which may be hieratically organized. Information representing implementations of an instance,
which may include classification metrics, may be stored as records 360 in a classification based
automated instance management database or configuration file 350, which may include a
configuration management database (CMDB) 370. The classification based automated instance
                                                 -11-

management data may define classification metrics, and may describe relationships, such as
hierarchical relationships, between the classification metrics. For example, the classification
based automated instance management data may include a first record defining a first
classification metric, a second record defining a second classification metric, and a third record
indicating that the sub-hierarchy of the first classification metric includes the second
classification metric.
[0040]          Application instances may be classified as an internal instance or an external
instance 362. An internal instance may be an instance commissioned by or for the use of an
owner or operator of the classification based automated instance management system. For
example, an internal instance may be associated with a domain associated with the owner or
operator of the classification based automated instance management system. An external instance
may be an instance commissioned by or for the use of a defined client or customer. For example,
an external instance may be associated with a domain associated with a customer or client of the
owner or operator of the classification based automated instance management system.
Application instances may be classified based on environment 364, such as a production
environment, a sub-production environment, or a demonstration environment. Application
instances may be classified based on type, purpose, or sub-category 366, such as training,
development, marketing, or sales. Application instances may be classified based on customer
visibility 368, which may indicate whether an instance is client facing or accessible. These
classifications are by way of example only.
[0041]          Classification based automated instance management may include using one or
more policies or rules 380 to automatically manage application instances. For example, the
classification based automated instance management system may include information indicating
automation policies which may be stored as records in the classification based automated
instance management database. In some implementations, one or more policies may represent an
agreement, such as a service level agreement (SLA). Classification based automated instance
management policies may be associated with one or more classification metrics and the
classification based automated instance management data may include records describing the
associations between classification metrics and the policies. For example, an instance may be
associated with a customer account, and the classification based automated instance management
                                                -12-

system may include records, or combinations of records, representing policies corresponding to
the customer account. In some implementations, classification based automated instance
management policies may be associated with a user, a user role, a user group, or a combination
thereof.
[0042]          FIG. 3B is a flowchart illustrating an example of classification based automated
instance management. In some implementations, classification based automated instance
management may include generating a request to commission an instance at 300, commissioning
the instance at 310, monitoring the instance at 320, decommissioning the instance at 330, or a
combination thereof.
[0043]          A request to commission an instance may be generated at 300. For example, a
request to commission an instance may be generated based on user input via a user interface. In
some implementations, a request to commission an instance may be generated in response to user
input selecting parameters for the instance and submitting the request via a user interface, such as
a web page. In some implementations, the user interface may have an ontological association.
For example, an internal instance may be commissioned using an internal instance request
interface, and an external instance may be commissioned using an external instance request
interface.
[0044]          A request to commission an instance may include parameters for the instance,
such as an ontology indicator, environment indicator, a type indicator, a visibility indicator, an
owner identifier, an assignment group identifier, a name, a comment, a target datacenter, a target
address, such as a universal resource locator (URL), or any other information relevant to
managing the instance. An environment indicator may indicate whether the request is for a
production instance, a sub-production instance, or a demonstration instance. A type or sub
category indicator may indicate a type associated with the instance. For example, a sub-category
indicator may indicate that the instance is a training instance, a development instance, a
marketing instance, a sales instance, or any other purpose or use for the instance. The customer
facing indicator may indicate whether the instance will include one or more components that
may be directly available to an external customer, such as a user interface accessible by the
customer. An owner indicator may identify a user, a user role, a group, or an organization as an
                                                -13-

owner of the instance. For example, the request may be generated in response to user input and
the owner may be the user.
[0045]          The instance may be commissioned at 310, as shown in FIG. 4. For example,
commissioning an instance may include identifying policies, confirming approval, provisioning
cloud computing system resources, generating and storing classification based automated
instance management system information representing the instance, or a combination thereof.
[0046]          An instance may be automatically monitored at 320, as shown in FIG. 5. For
example, automatically monitoring an instance may include automated customer support
activities, automated resource monitoring, automated backup, automated instance lifecycle
management, or a combination thereof.
[0047]          An instance may be automatically decommissioned at 330, as shown in FIG. 7.
For example, automatically decommissioning an instance may include identifying and evaluating
policies, archiving the instance, reclaiming resources, generating and sending notifications, or a
combination thereof.
[0048]          FIG. 4 is a flowchart illustrating an example of instance commissioning 310 in
accordance with this disclosure. Commissioning an instance may be performed in response to
generating or receiving a request to commission an instance and may include identifying policies
at 400, confirming approval at 410, provisioning cloud computing system resources at 420,
generating and storing classification based automated instance management system information
representing the instance at 430, generating and sending notifications at 440, or a combination
thereof.
[0049]          Classification based automated instance management policies may be
automatically identified at 400 in an identity request module. For example, one or more
classification based automated instance management policies may be identified by examining the
CMDB based on the parameters indicated in the request.
[0050]          Identifying policies at 400 may include determining resource allocations for the
instance. Resource allocations may identify defined hardware configuration parameters, defined
software configuration parameters, defined system configuration parameters, defined data
configuration parameters, or any other information that may be used to automatically configure
an instance.
                                                 -14-

[0051]          Resource allocations may identify processor attributes for an instance, such as a
number, quantification, or count of processors, a type of processor, a capability of a processor, or
a portion of one or more processors, such as a number of clock cycles per unit time. Resource
allocations may identify a defined processor. For example, a resource allocation may identify a
SKU representing a defined processor, or an inventory control identifier representing a defined
processor.
[0052]          Resource allocations may identify volatile memory, such as random access
memory (RAM), attributes for an instance, such as a number, quantification, or amount of
volatile memory space, a type of volatile memory, or a capability of volatile memory. Resource
allocations may identify a defined memory unit. For example, a resource allocation may identify
a SKU representing a defined memory unit, or an inventory control identifier representing a
defined memory unit.
[0053]          Resource allocations may identify storage or disk space attributes for an instance,
such as a number, quantification, or amount of disk space, a type of disk space, or a disk
capability, such as read time, write time, or redundancy. Resource allocations may identify a
defined disk unit. For example, a resource allocation may identify a SKU representing a defined
disk unit, or an inventory control identifier representing a defined disk unit.
[0054]          Resource allocations may identify network attributes for an instance, such as a
number, quantification, or amount of communication bandwidth, an address, address space, or
domain, or a network capability, such as response time, availability, configuration, or the like.
Resource allocations may identify a defined network attribute, such as a defined URL.
[0055]          Resource allocations may identify software for an instance, such as an operating
system type, version, or configuration, a web server type, version, or configuration, a database
server type, version, or configuration. A resource allocation may identify a virtual machine type,
version, or configuration. A resource allocation may identify a defined host system. For example,
resource allocations may identify a virtual machine and a physical server to host the virtual
machine. In another example, resource allocations may identify a defined web server to host a
web component of the application instance and a defined database server to host a database for
the instance.
                                                -15-

[0056]           Resource allocations may be relative in nature. For example, a resource allocation
may indicate that an instance should be allocated to available hardware or racks that are older or
not as capable (e.g., for an instance that is less critical, such as an employee instance) or that an
instance should be allocated to available hardware or racks that are newer or more capable (e.g.,
for an instance that is critical, such as a sales demonstration instance). For example, available
resources can be ranked by one or more criteria, such as processing power, memory, storage
space, and/or age, and the resource allocation can indicate that an instance should be assigned in
order of the ranking or within a certain percentile of the ranking (e.g., to hardware in the 20t
percentile of processing power).
[0057]           In some implementations, identifying policies at 400 may include identifying
approval policies for the requested instance. For example, one or more approval policies may be
identified by evaluating the classification based automated instance management data based on
the parameters indicated in the request. An approval policy may indicate an approval required for
commissioning the requested instance, and may indicate one or more approval entities associated
with the approval. An approval entity may be a user or a user role. For example, the approval
entity may be a user identifier for a user that is a manager or supervisor of the user indicated as
the owner of the instance. In another example, the owner may be a customer and the approval
entities may include internal users associated with the customer, such as an account
representative, a manager of the account representative, and a director of the manager. In some
implementations, the classification based automated instance management data may include
information describing approval relationships between users or user roles.
[0058]           Approval of the request may be automatically confirmed at 410 based on the
approval polices identified at 400. For example, confirming the approval may include evaluating
the classification based automated instance management data to identify a record indicating
approval for the request. In some implementations, an approval may be generated automatically
or may be omitted. For example, a user may be identified as an approver for the request, and
confirming the approval may include determining that automatic approval is defined for the user,
or for a user role associated with the user. In some implementations, an approval record
associated with an approval entity for the instance may be unavailable, and commissioning the
instance may be delayed. For example, the classification based automated instance management
                                                  -16-

system may periodically determine whether the request is approved, or may determine whether
the request is approved in response to an event, such as receiving or storing an approval record.
In some implementations, a request may be denied and commissioning the instance may be
terminated.
[0059]           Cloud computing system resources may be provisioned at 420 in an instance
commissioning module based on the resource allocations identified at 400. Provisioning cloud
computing resources may include reserving resources, acquiring resources, creating resources,
distributing resources, configuring resources, deploying resources, or any other activities
associated with providing resources for an instance. For example, generating or provisioning an
instance at 420 may include installing software on a device, such as a server, configuring
hardware or software, storing data, such as application data and files, or a combination thereof.
In some implementations, provisioning the instance at 420 may include creating a virtual
machine on a server. In some implementations, provisioning the instance at 420 may include
generating and storing routing information for the instance.
[0060]           Classification based automated instance management system information
representing the instance may be automatically generated and stored at 430. Generating and
storing classification based automated instance management information at 430 may include
generating information, such as records, representing the instance and storing the record in the
classification based automated instance management database or configuration file, which may
include the CMDB.
[0061]           Notifications regarding the instance may be automatically generated and sent at
440 based on the policies identified at 400. For example, a notification may be sent to the
instance owner, an approver of the request, the assignment group, or a combination thereof. In
some implementations, the classification based automated instance management policies may
indicate that an instance is configured to expire automatically. For example, the classification
based automated instance management data may indicate a duration for the instance, which may
indicate a period, such as a number of days, from the date the instance is commissioned, after
which the instance will be automatically decommissioned. In another example, the classification
based automated instance management data may indicate an expiration event for the instance.
For example, an instance associated with a user may be configured to automatically expire in
                                                -17-

response to a change of a status of the user to inactive. In some implementations, the
classification based automated instance management data may indicate a combination of an
expiration event and a duration. For example, an instance may be configured to automatically
expire after 60 days of inactivity. The notification may indicate the duration for the instance, an
expiration date determined based on the duration, an expiration event, or a combination thereof.
[0062]          FIG. 5 is a flowchart illustrating an example of automated instance monitoring
320 in an instance monitoring module in accordance with this disclosure. Automated instance
monitoring may include identifying automated instance monitoring policies at 500, evaluating
the policies at 510, performing one or more automated instance monitoring activities at 520, or a
combination thereof.
[0063]          Automated instance monitoring 320 may include continuous monitoring, periodic
monitoring, or a combination thereof. For example, the classification based automated instance
management system may include one or more scheduled monitoring jobs, which may be
scheduled to execute periodically, such as daily. Continuous instance monitoring may include
performing a defined activity in response to an event, a trigger, or a condition. Periodic instance
monitoring may include periodically evaluating instances, such as each instance identified in the
classification based automated instance management data. In some implementations, the
classification based automated instance management data may indicate that an instance is
decommissioned, and monitoring for the instance may be limited to decommissioned instance
monitoring, or omitted.
[0064]          Automated instance monitoring policies may be identified at 500. Identifying
automated instance monitoring policies may include identifying instances defined in the
classification based automated instance management data and identifying classification based
automated instance management policies for the instances. In some implementations, the
automated monitoring activities for an instance may be determined by examining the
classification based automated instance management data to identify policies associated with the
instance. For example, the classification based automated instance management system may
automatically examine the classification based automated instance management data to identify
classification based automated instance management policies for an instance.
                                                 -18-

[0065]          The policies identified at 500 may be evaluated at 510. Evaluating the policies
may include identifying one or more automated instance monitoring activities, such as automated
customer support activities, automated resource monitoring, automated backup, automated
instance lifecycle management, or a combination thereof. Evaluating the policies may include
determining whether to perform one or more of the identified activities based on defined instance
information, current instance state information, and the identified policies.
[0066]          One or more of the identified automated instance monitoring activities may be
performed at 520 based on the determination at 510. In some implementations, classification
based automated instance management may include communicating with one or more external
systems. For example, automated monitoring may include identifying a policy in an instance
monitoring policy identifying module that indicates an external computing system for
performing a defined instance management activity, and the classification based automated
instance management system may communicate with the external computing system to perform
the defined instance management activity.
[0067]          In an example, the policies may indicate automated support for an instance. The
identified policies may identify reporting criteria, which may include a user or user role as a
defined recipient for automated support notifications, and classification based automated
instance management may include automatically generating and sending support notifications to
the identified user based on the identified reporting criteria.
[0068]          In another example, the policies may indicate an amount or type of resource
monitoring for an instance. For example, classification based automated instance management
policies may indicate a monitoring frequency, may indicate components of an instance to
monitor, may indicate whether to monitor usage, may indicate whether to monitor resource
availability and usage for the instance, or may indicate any other type of instance monitoring,
and classification based automated instance management may include automatically monitoring
the instance based on the identified policies.
[0069]          In another example, the policies may indicate frequency, retention period, size, or
redundancy for backing up an instance, and classification based automated instance management
may include automatically backing up the instance based on the identified policies.
                                               -19-

[0070]          In another example, the policies may indicate parameters for performing
automated lifecycle monitoring and management, and classification based automated instance
management may include automatically performing automated lifecycle monitoring and
management, as shown in FIGS. 6A and 6B.
[0071]          FIGS. 6A and 6B together constitute a flowchart illustrating an example of
automated instance lifecycle monitoring and management in accordance with this disclosure.
Automated instance lifecycle monitoring and management may include identifying an approved
extension at 600, extending the instance at 610, determining whether an instance is active at 620,
identifying an expiration date for the instance at 630, determining recency of use at 640,
determining whether an expiration milestone is current at 650, determining whether the instance
is expired at 660, determining whether a suspension period is expired at 670, or a combination
thereof.
[0072]          An approved extension determination may be performed at 600. Although not
shown separately in FIGS. 6A-6B, determining whether an extension is approved for the
instance at 600 may include performing an extension request procedure. An extension request
procedure may include generating a request to extend an instance, notifying an approval entity
regarding the request, recording information indicating whether the request is approved, or a
combination thereof. In some implementations, an extension request may be generated using an
extension request interface. For example, an expiration notice may indicate a link to an extension
request interface or a user may attempt to access a suspended instance and the user may access a
placeholder instance, which may include a link to the extension request interface, and the
extension request may be generated and submitted via the extension request interface.
[0073]          The extension request procedure may include generating and submitting an
extension request. An extension request may include an identifier for the instance, a name of the
instance, an owner of the instance, an assignment group associated with the instance, a current
expiration date for the instance, an extension justification, or a combination thereof. In response
to generating and submitting the extension request, an extension approval procedure may be
performed. The extension approval procedure may include storing information indicating
whether the extension request is approved. In some implementations, the extension approval
procedure may include determining whether an extension is available for the instance and may
                                               -20-

include automatically indicating that the extension request is denied in response to determining
that there are no available extensions for the instance. The extension approval procedure may
include generating and sending an extension request response notification indicating whether the
request has been approved or denied. Target recipients for the notification may be identified
based on the classification based automated instance management data. For example, the
notification may be sent to the owner, the requestor, the assignment group, or a combination
thereof, as indicated by the classification based automated instance management data.
[0074]           The approved extension determination at 600 may indicate that an extension
request for the instance is approved, the instance may be extended at 610, and the system may
continue to monitor the instance at 320. Extending the instance at 610 may include updating an
expiration date for the instance based on the approved extension duration as indicated in the
classification based automated instance management data.
[0075]           In some implementations, an approved extension may be identified for a
suspended instance at 600, and extending the instance at 610 may include adding, modifying, or
deleting one or more records, such as records in a classification based automated instance
management database, to indicate that the instance is active. For example, the classification
based automated instance management database may include records indicating a status of the
instance, and the status may be updated to "active" or "operational". In some implementations,
network address information may be modified to indicate that the instance is active. Modifying
the network address may include adding, deleting, or modifying network routing, naming, or
address translation records, such as domain name system (DNS) records. In some
implementations, the IP address of the suspended instance may be marked as active, or may be
added to one or more routing or IP address management tables or systems.
[0076]           Extending a suspended instance at 610 may include generating and sending an
extension notification indicating that the instance has been extended, and indicating an updated
expiration date for the instance. Target recipients for the notification may be identified based on
the classification based automated instance management data. For example, the notification may
be sent to the owner, the approvers, the assignment group, or a combination thereof, as indicated
by the classification based automated instance management data.
                                                -21-

[0077]          The approved extension determination at 600 may not identify a request for
extension for the instance, may determine that any current requests for extension are denied, or
may determine that there are no available extensions for the instance, and a status of the instance
may be identified at 620, which may include determining whether the instance is active, inactive,
suspended, or decommissioned. For example, the classification based automated instance
management data may include information indicating the status of the instance. In some
implementations, monitoring for a decommissioned instance may be omitted.
[0078]          The status of the instance may be identified as active at 620, and an expiration
date may be identified at 630. Automated instance lifecycle monitoring and management may
include determining expiration information for an instance, such as an expiration period or
duration, a number of available extensions, an extension duration, or a combination thereof. For
example, the expiration information may be determined by examining defined classification
based automated instance management data, such as data stored in a database table or a
configuration file. Table 1 shows an example of defined classification based automated instance
management duration data.
          X, MaInWoeExueat4
                    T..                                          xte
External            Customer                 90 Days           3               30 Days
External            Partner                  90 Days           3               30 Days
External            Developer                90 Days           0               0
Internal            Employee                 90 Days           1               90 Days
                    Training    -    Single90Dy190as
Internal90Dy190as
                    Use
Internal            Development              90 Days           1               90 Days
Internal            Marketing                Ongoing           N/A             N/A
Internal            Sales                    Ongoing           N/A             N/A
                                               -22-

Internal            Solution Consultant      Ongoing            N/A            N/A
Internal            Info Doc                 Ongoing            N/A            N/A
Internal            RSA                      Ongoing            N/A            N/A
Internal            Support                  Ongoing            N/A            N/A
Internal            Training - Ongoing       Ongoing            N/A            N/A
Internal            Expert Services          Ongoing            N/A            N/A
Internal            QA                       Ongoing            N/A            N/A
                                               Table 1
          Defined Classification Based Automated Instance Management Duration Data
[0079]          In some implementations, identifying an expiration date at 630 may include
identifying an expiration type for the instance. An instance expiration type may be identified
based on the instance environment, the instance type, or a combination thereof, as shown in
Table 1.
[0080]          For example, the instance may be identified as having an expiration type of
"ongoing", indicating an event based expiration type. An ongoing instance may be an instance
for which a defined duration is not specified, is specified as ongoing, or is specified using a
defined ongoing duration value, such as zero. For example, Table 1 above indicates a "Training
Ongoing" instance type, for which a defined duration is specified as ongoing. Although not
shown in Table 1, the classification based automated instance management data may indicate a
duration associate with an event based expiration type. For example, the classification based
automated instance management data may indicate that an instance will expire a defined
temporal threshold, such as 60 days, after a defined event, such as a recency of use.
[0081]          In another example, the instance may be identified as having a temporal
expiration type. A temporal expiration type instance may be an instance for which a defined
duration is specified. For example, Table 1 above indicates a "Training - Single Use" instance
type that has a defined duration specified.
                                               -23-

[0082]          The expiration date determination at 630 may not identify a defined expiration
date for the instance and may determine that the instance is an ongoing instance, and the instance
may be evaluated to determine recency of use at 640. Determining recency of use at 640 may
include determining a most recent use of the instance, such as a most recent request for
information, such as a web page, from the instance, or a most recent successful login to the
instance. For example, a system log associated with the instance may be evaluated and a most
recent request to use or access the application instance may be identified. The most recent use
may be evaluated to determine whether it is within a defined ongoing instance recency threshold,
such as 60 days. For example, a difference between the current date and the most recent use may
be less than or equal to the defined ongoing instance recency threshold, and the system may
continue to monitor the instance at 320. In another example, the difference between the current
date and the most recent use may be greater than the defined ongoing instance recency threshold,
an ongoing instance expiration notification may be generated at 642, an expiration date may be
determined and stored at 644, and the system may continue to monitor the instance at 320.
[0083]          Generating an ongoing instance expiration notification at 642 may include
generating and sending a notification indicating automatic expiration of the ongoing instance
after a defined ongoing instance automatic expiration period, such as 15 days. The notification
may include instructions for requesting an extension of the ongoing instance, which may include
a link to an extension request form or page. In some implementations, generating the ongoing
instance expiration notification at 642 may be omitted if the difference between the current date
and the most recent use is greater than one day larger than the defined ongoing instance use
duration threshold, or may be omitted in response to determining that an ongoing instance
expiration notification for the current expiration period was previously sent. Target recipients for
the notification may be identified based on the classification based automated instance
management data. For example, the notification may be sent to the owner, the approvers, the
assignment group, or a combination thereof, as indicated by the classification based automated
instance management data.
[0084]          An expiration date for the instance may be determined and stored at 644. The
expiration date may be the sum of the current date and the defined ongoing instance automatic
expiration period as indicated in the ongoing instance expiration notification generated at 642.
                                                -24-

Storing the expiration date may include generating and storing a record indicating the expiration
date in the classification based automated instance management data. In some implementations,
generating the ongoing instance expiration notification at 642 may include generating and storing
a record indicating the date the ongoing instance expiration notification was sent in the
classification based automated instance management data, and storing the expiration date at 644
may be omitted. In some implementations, generating the ongoing instance expiration
notification at 642 may be performed on the date that the recency of use reaches the recency of
use threshold, and storing the expiration date at 644 may be omitted.
[0085]           In some implementations, the expiration date determination at 630 may indicate
that the instance is an ongoing expiration type instance and may indicate that an expiration date
is identified for the instance. For example, the classification based automated instance
management data may include an indication of an expiration date for the ongoing instance. In
another example, the expiration date determination at 630 may determine that a defined ongoing
instance recency threshold has been met or that a notification indicating that the defined ongoing
instance recency threshold has been met has been sent, and the expiration date may be identified
based on the date that the defined ongoing instance recency threshold was met or the date the
notification indicating that the defined ongoing instance recency threshold has been met was
sent.
[0086]           The expiration date determination at 630 may indicate that the instance is a
temporal expiration type instance and the instance may be evaluated to determine whether a
defined expiration milestone has been reached at 650. A defined expiration milestone may
indicate a period, which may be a number of days, such as 1 day, 5 days, 15, or any other period,
between a current date and an expiration date for the instance. The expiration date for the
instance may be determined based on the commissioning date for the instance, the duration for
the instance, the number of approved extensions for the instance, and the duration for each
approved extension, which may be identified based on the instance classification metrics, as
shown in Table 1 above. For example, the expiration date may be the sum of the commissioning
date for the instance and the duration for the instance. In some implementations, the
classification based automated instance management data may define expiration milestones
corresponding to the classification metrics.
                                                -25-

[0087]          The milestone determination at 650 may indicate that a defined expiration
milestone has been reached, and an instance expiration notification may be generated at 652.
Generating an instance expiration notification at 652 may include generating and sending a
notification indicating automatic expiration of the instance after a period corresponding to the
defined expiration milestone. For example, the defined milestone may be a 5-day milestone,
which may indicate that the instance is 5 days from automatic expiration. The notification may
include an indication of the defined expiration milestone, and may include instructions for
requesting an extension of the instance, which may include a link to an extension request form or
page. In some implementations, generating the instance expiration notification at 652 may be
omitted if the difference between the current date and the most recent use is greater than one day
larger than the defined expiration milestone, or may be omitted in response to determining that
an instance expiration notification for the defined expiration milestone was previously sent.
Target recipients for the notification may be identified based on the classification based
automated instance management data. For example, the notification may be sent to the owner,
the approvers, the assignment group, or a combination thereof, as indicated by the classification
based automated instance management data.
[0088]          The milestone determination at 650 may indicate that the current date differs from
the defined expiration milestones for the instance, or may determine that a pending expiration
milestone is not specified, and the instance may be evaluated to determine whether the instance
has expired at 660. The expiration determination may indicate that the instance has expired, and
the instance may be suspended at 662.
[0089]          Suspending an instance at 662 may include maintaining the instance configuration
and operation, including instance monitoring at 320, except as described herein. Suspending an
instance may include adding, modifying, or deleting one or more records, such as records in
classification based automated instance management database, to indicate that the instance is
suspended. For example, the classification based automated instance management database may
include records indicating a status of the instance, and the status may be updated to "suspended".
In some implementations, network address information may be modified to indicate that the
instance is suspended. Modifying the network address may include adding, deleting, or
modifying network routing, naming, or address translation records, such as DNS records. In
                                                -26-

some implementations, the IP address of the suspended instance may be marked as suspended, or
may be deleted from one or more routing or IP address management tables or systems.
[0090]           Suspending an instance may include generating and sending a suspended instance
notification indicating that the instance has been automatically suspended, and indicating that the
instance will be decommissioned after a defined period, such as 14 days. The notification may
include may include instructions for requesting restoration and extension of the instance, which
may include a link to an extension request form or page. Target recipients for the notification
may be identified based on the classification based automated instance management data. For
example, the notification may be sent to the owner, the approvers, the assignment group, or a
combination thereof, as indicated by the classification based automated instance management
data.
[0091]           Suspending an instance may include providing a suspended instance placeholder.
For example, a defined web server may host a suspended instances page, site, or application, and
may be configured to present information indicating that the instance has been suspended and to
provide information for extending the instance, such as a link to an instance extension form, and
the IP address of the suspended instance may be replaced with the IP address of the suspended
instances site in the DNS records.
[0092]           The status of the instance may be identified as suspended at 620 in an instance
suspension module, a determination whether a suspension duration has expired may be
performed at 670. The suspended period expired determination at 670 may determine whether
the instance has been suspended for a defined suspension duration. The suspended period expired
determination at 670 may indicate that the instance has been suspended for less than the defined
period, and the system may continue to monitor the instance at 320. The suspended period
expired determination at 670 may indicate that the instance has been suspended for the defined
period, and the instance may be retired or decommissioned, as shown in FIG. 7.
[0093]           FIG. 7 is a flowchart illustrating an example of automated instance
decommissioning 330 in an instance decommissioning module in accordance with this
disclosure. Automated instance decommissioning may include identifying automated instance
decommissioning policies at 700, evaluating the policies at 710, archiving the instance at 720,
                                                  -27-

reclaiming resources at 730, generating and sending a decommissioned instance notification at
740, or a combination thereof.
[0094]           Automated instance decommissioning policies may be identified at 700.
Identifying automated instance decommissioning policies may include identifying policies
defined in the classification based automated instance management data based on instance
classification metrics. In some implementations, the automated monitoring activities for an
instance may be determined by examining the classification based automated instance
management data to identify policies associated with the instance.
[0095]           The policies identified at 700 may be evaluated at 710. Evaluating the policies
may include identifying one or more automated instance decommissioning activities, such as
automated archival, automated resource reclamation, automated decommissioning notification,
or a combination thereof. Evaluating the policies may include determining whether to perform
one or more of the identified activities based on defined instance information, current instance
state information, and the identified policies.
[0096]           The instance may be automatically archived at 720. Automatically archiving the
instance may include generating a backup of the instance for storage in an online backup system
or at an offline backup facility. Automatically arching the instance may include adding,
modifying, or deleting one or more records, such as records in the classification based automated
instance management database, to indicate that the instance is retired or decommissioned. For
example, the classification based automated instance management database may include records
indicating a status of the instance, and the status may be updated to "retired". In some
implementations, network address information may be modified to indicate that the instance is
decommissioned. Modifying the network address may include adding, deleting, or modifying
network routing, naming, or address translation records, such as DNS records. In some
implementations, the IP address of the suspended instance may be marked as decommissioned,
or may be deleted from one or more routing or IP address management tables or systems.
[0097]           Resources utilized by the instance may be automatically reclaimed at 730.
Reclaiming resources may include deleting instance data from data storage systems, removing
records associated with the data from one or more databases, updating records in the
                                                -28-

classification based automated instance management data, or in an external system, such as an
inventory tracking system, to indicate that the resources are available or unassigned.
[0098]           A decommissioned instance notification may be generated and sent at 740. The
decommissioned instance notification may indicate that the instance has been automatically
decommissioned. Target recipients for the notification may be identified based on the
classification based automated instance management data. For example, the notification may be
sent to the owner, the approvers, the assignment group, or a combination thereof, as indicated by
the classification based automated instance management data.
[0099]           All or a portion of implementations of the invention described herein can be
implemented using a general purpose computer/processor with a computer program that, when
executed, carries out any of the respective techniques, algorithms and/or instructions described
herein. In addition, or alternatively, for example, a special purpose computer/processor can be
utilized which can contain specialized hardware for carrying out any of the techniques,
algorithms, or instructions described herein.
[0100]           The implementations of computing devices as described herein (and the
algorithms, methods, instructions, etc., stored thereon and/or executed thereby) can be realized in
hardware, software, or any combination thereof. The hardware can include, for example,
computers, intellectual property (IP) cores, application-specific integrated circuits (ASICs),
programmable logic arrays, optical processors, programmable logic controllers, microcode,
microcontrollers, servers, microprocessors, digital signal processors or any other suitable circuit.
In the claims, the term "processor" should be understood as encompassing any of the foregoing
hardware, either singly or in combination.
[0101]           For example, one or more computing devices can include an ASIC or
programmable logic array such as a field-programmable gate array (FPGA) configured as a
special-purpose processor to perform one or more of the operations or operations described or
claimed herein. An example FPGA can include a collection of logic blocks and random access
memory (RAM) blocks that can be individually configured and/or configurably interconnected in
order to cause the FPGA to perform certain functions. Certain FPGA's may contain other general
or special purpose blocks as well. An example FPGA can be programmed based on a hardware
definition language (HDL) design, such as VHSIC Hardware Description Language or Verilog.
                                               -29-

[0102]          The implementations herein may be described in terms of functional block
components and various processing operations. Such functional blocks may be realized by any
number of hardware and/or software components that perform the specified functions. For
example, the described implementations may employ various integrated circuit components, e.g.,
memory elements, processing elements, logic elements, look-up tables, and the like, which may
carry out a variety of functions under the control of one or more microprocessors or other control
devices. Similarly, where the elements of the described implementations are implemented using
software programming or software elements the invention may be implemented with any
programming or scripting language such as C, C++, Java, assembler, or the like, with the various
algorithms being implemented with any combination of data structures, objects, processes,
routines or other programming elements. Functional implementations may be implemented in
algorithms that execute on one or more processors. Furthermore, the implementations of the
invention could employ any number of conventional techniques for electronics configuration,
signal processing and/or control, data processing and the like. The words "mechanism" and
"element" are used broadly and are not limited to mechanical or physical embodiments, but can
include software routines in conjunction with processors, etc.
[0103]          Implementations or portions of implementations of the above disclosure can take
the form of a computer program product accessible from, for example, a computer-usable or
computer-readable medium. A computer-usable or computer-readable medium can be any device
that can, for example, tangibly contain, store, communicate, or transport a program or data
structure for use by or in connection with any processor. The medium can be, for example, an
electronic, magnetic, optical, electromagnetic, or a semiconductor device. Other suitable
mediums are also available. Such computer-usable or computer-readable media can be referred
to as non-transitory memory or media, and may include RAM or other volatile memory or
storage devices that may change over time. A memory of an apparatus described herein, unless
otherwise specified, does not have to be physically contained by the apparatus, but is one that
can be accessed remotely by the apparatus, and does not have to be contiguous with other
memory that might be physically contained by the apparatus.
[0104]          Any of the individual or combined functions described herein as being performed
as examples of the invention may be implemented using machine readable instructions in the
                                               -30-

form of code for operation of any or any combination of the aforementioned computational
hardware. Computational code may be implemented in the form of one or more modules by
which individual or combined functions can be performed as a computational tool, the input and
output data of each module being passed to/from one or more further module during operation of
the methods and systems described herein.
[0105]           The word "example" is used herein to mean serving as an example, instance, or
illustration. Any implementation or design described herein as "example" is not necessarily to be
construed as preferred or advantageous over other implementations or designs. Rather, use of the
word "example" is intended to present concepts in a concrete fashion. As used in this application,
the term "or" is intended to mean an inclusive "or" rather than an exclusive "or". That is, unless
specified otherwise, or clear from context, "X includes A or B" is intended to mean any of the
natural inclusive permutations. In other words, if X includes A; X includes B; or X includes both
A and B, then "X includes A or B" is satisfied under any of the foregoing instances. In addition,
the articles "a" and "an" as used in this application and the appended claims should generally be
construed to mean "one or more" unless specified otherwise or clear from context to be directed
to a singular form. Moreover, use of the term "an implementation" or "one implementation"
throughout is not intended to mean the same embodiment, aspect, or implementation unless
described as such.
[0106]           The particular implementations shown and described herein are illustrative
examples of the invention and are not intended to otherwise limit the scope of the invention in
any way. For the sake of brevity, conventional electronics, control systems, software
development and other functional implementations of the systems (and components of the
individual operating components of the systems) may not be described in detail. Furthermore, the
connecting lines, or connectors shown in the various figures presented are intended to represent
example functional relationships and/or physical or logical couplings between the various
elements. Many alternative or additional functional relationships, physical connections or logical
connections may be present in a practical device. Moreover, no item or component is essential to
the practice of the invention unless the element is specifically described as "essential" or
"critical".
                                                -31-

[0107]           The use of "including," "comprising," or "having" and variations thereof herein is
meant to encompass the items listed thereafter and equivalents thereof as well as additional
items. Unless specified or limited otherwise, the terms "mounted," "connected," "supported,"
and "coupled" and variations thereof are used broadly and encompass both direct and indirect
mountings, connections, supports, and couplings. Further, "connected" and "coupled" are not
restricted to physical or mechanical connections or couplings.
[0108]           The use of the terms "a" and "an" and "the" and similar referents in the context of
describing the invention (especially in the context of the following claims) should be construed
to cover both the singular and the plural. Furthermore, recitation of ranges of values herein are
merely intended to serve as a shorthand method of referring individually to each separate value
falling within the range, unless otherwise indicated herein, and each separate value is
incorporated into the specification as if it were individually recited herein. Finally, the operations
of all methods described herein are performable in any suitable order unless otherwise indicated
herein or otherwise clearly contradicted by context. The use of any and all examples, or example
language (e.g., "such as") provided herein, is intended merely to better illuminate the invention
and does not pose a limitation on the scope of the invention unless otherwise claimed.
[0109]           All references, including publications, patent applications, and patents, cited
herein are hereby incorporated by reference to the same extent as if each reference were
individually and specifically indicated as incorporated by reference and were set forth in its
entirety herein.
[0110]           The above-described implementations have been described in order to allow easy
understanding of the present invention and do not limit the present invention. To the contrary, the
invention is intended to cover various modifications and equivalent arrangements included
within the scope of the appended claims, which scope is to be accorded the broadest
interpretation so as to encompass all such modifications and equivalent structure as is permitted
under the law.
                                                -32-

What is claimed is:
         1.      An apparatus for automatically commissioning and decommissioning a computer
instantiated application instance comprising:
        a processor configured to execute instructions stored in a memory, the instructions
comprising:
                 a communication input at which a request to commission an application instance
        is provided;
                 an identity request module that identifies the request to commission the
        application instance, the request indicating a classification metric for the application
        instance;
                 an instance commissioning module that automatically commissions the
        application instance based on the classification metric;
                 an instance monitoring module that utilizes data received at the communication
        input to automatically monitor the application instance based on the classification metric;
        and
                 an instance decommissioning module that automatically decommissions the
        application based on the classification metric.
        2.       The apparatus of claims 1 or 2, wherein the classification metric provides an
indicator selected from the group consisting of an indicator that indicates: whether the
application instance is an internal instance or an external instance, an operational environment
for the application instance, and an operational type for the application instance.
        3.       The apparatus of any of the above claims, wherein:
        the classification metric is a first classification metric from a plurality of classification
metrics indicated by the request;
        the first classification metric indicates whether the application instance is an internal
instance or an external instance;
        a second classification metric from the plurality of classification metrics indicates an
operational environment for the application instance; and
                                                  -33-

        a third classification metric from the plurality of classification metrics indicates an
operational type for the application instance.
        4.      The apparatus of any of the above claims, wherein the instance monitoring
module comprises an instance monitoring policy identifying module that monitors the
application by inputting and identifying an instance monitoring policy stored in the memory and
associated with the application instance, wherein the instance monitoring module automatically
monitors the application instance based on the classification metric by an operation selected from
the group consisting of:
        identifying an approved extension for the application instance based on the classification
metric;
        on a condition that the approved extension is identified, extending the application
instance based on the classification metric; and
        on a condition that an approved extension is unidentified, determining whether the
application instance is in an active state or a suspended state.
        5.      The apparatus of claim 4, wherein the instance monitoring policy identifying
module identifies the instance monitoring policy by identifying an instance monitoring policy
record from a database stored in the memory based on the classification metric.
        6.      The apparatus of any of the above claims, wherein the instance monitoring
module automatically monitors the application instance based on the classification metric by an
operation consisting of:
        identifying an approved extension for the application instance based on the classification
metric.
        on a condition that the approved extension is identified, extending the application
instance based on the classification metric.
        by, on a condition that an approved extension is unidentified, determining whether the
application instance is in an active state or a suspended state.
                                                 -34-

        7.       The apparatus of claim 6, wherein the instance monitoring module automatically
monitors the application instance based on the classification metric by, on a condition that the
application instance is in an active state, identifying an expiration date for the application
instance based on the classification metric.
        8.       The apparatus of claim 7, wherein the instance monitoring module automatically
monitors the application instance based on the classification metric by, on a condition that the
expiration date is identified, identifying an expiration milestone for the application instance
based on the classification metric.
        9.       The apparatus of claim 8, wherein the instance monitoring module automatically
monitors the application instance based on the classification metric by, on a condition that the
expiration milestone is identified, generating and sending an expiration milestone notification for
the application instance based on the classification metric and the identified expiration milestone.
        10.      The apparatus of claims 8 or 9, wherein the instance monitoring module
automatically monitors the application instance based on the classification metric by, on a
condition that the expiration milestone is unidentified, determining whether a duration for the
application instance has expired based on the classification metric.
        11.      The apparatus of claim 10, wherein:
        the instructions further comprise an application instance suspension module; and
        the instance monitoring module automatically monitors the application instance based on
the classification metric by, on a condition that the duration for the application instance has
expired, utilizes the instance suspension module to suspend the application instance.
        12.      The apparatus of claim 11, wherein the instance suspension module suspends the
application instance by utilizing an IP address to:
        identify a first internet protocol address corresponding to the application instance;
        identify a domain name system record indicating the first internet protocol address;
                                                 -35-

         identify a second internet protocol address corresponding to a suspended application
instance placeholder application; and
         update the domain name system record to replace the first internet protocol address with
the second internet protocol address.
         13.     The apparatus of any of the claims 7 through 12, wherein the instance monitoring
module automatically monitors the application instance based on the classification metric by, on
a condition that the expiration date is unidentified, utilizes an expiration date generation module
of the processor that generates the expiration date for the application instance based on the
classification metric.
         14.     The apparatus of claim 13, wherein the expiration data generator module
identifies the expiration date for the application instance based on the classification metric by:
         determining a recency of use for the application instance based on the classification
metric;
         determining an ongoing instance recency threshold for the application instance based on
the classification metric
         determining a defined ongoing instance automatic expiration period; and
         on a condition that the recency of use is greater than the ongoing instance recency
threshold, identifying a sum of a current date and the defined ongoing instance automatic
expiration period as the expiration date.
         15.     The apparatus of claim 14, wherein the instance monitoring module automatically
monitors the application instance based on the classification metric by, on a condition that the
recency of use is greater than the ongoing instance recency threshold, generating and sending an
instance expiration notification indicating that the instance will be suspended after the defined
ongoing instance automatic expiration period.
         16.     The apparatus of any of the claims 6 through 15, wherein the instance monitoring
module automatically monitors the application instance based on the classification metric by, on
                                                -36-

a condition that the application instance is in a suspended state, determining whether a
suspension period for the application instance has expired based on the classification metric.
        17.      The apparatus of claim 16, wherein the instance monitoring module automatically
monitors the application instance based on the classification metric by, on a condition that the
suspension period for the application instance has expired, determine whether to automatically
decommission the application instance based on the classification metric.
        18.      An apparatus for classification based automated instance management,
comprising:
        a processor configured to execute instructions stored in a memory to:
                 identify a request to commission an application instance, the request indicating a
        plurality of classification metrics for the application instance,
                 automatically commission the application instance based on the plurality of
        classification metrics, and
                 automatically monitor the application instance based on the plurality of
        classification metrics by:
                         identifying a plurality of instance monitoring policies associated with the
                 application instance based on the plurality of classification metrics; and
                         identifying an approved extension for the application instance based on the
                 plurality of instance monitoring policies, wherein monitoring the application
                 instance comprises:
                                  on a condition that an approved extension is identified, extending
                         the application instance based on the plurality of instance monitoring
                         policies, and
                                  on a condition that an approved extension is unidentified,
                         determining whether the application instance is in an active state or a
                         suspended state based, wherein monitoring the application instance
                         comprises:
                                                  -37-

         on a condition that the application instance is in an active
state, identifying an expiration date for the application instance
based on the plurality of instance monitoring policies, wherein
monitoring the application instance comprises:
                 on a condition that the expiration date is identified,
         identifying an expiration milestone for the application
         instance based on the plurality of instance monitoring
         policies, wherein monitoring the application instance
         comprises:
                          on a condition that the expiration milestone
                 is identified, generating and sending an expiration
                 milestone notification for the application instance
                 based on the plurality of instance monitoring
                 policies and the identified expiration milestone; and
                          on a condition that the expiration milestone
                 is unidentified, monitoring the application instance
                 comprises:
                                  determining whether a duration for
                          the application instance has expired based
                          on the plurality of instance monitoring
                          policies, and
                                  on a condition that the duration for
                          the application instance has expired,
                          suspending the application instance based on
                          the plurality of instance monitoring policies,
                          and
                 on a condition that the expiration date is
         unidentified, generating the expiration date for the
         application instance based on the plurality of instance
         monitoring policies, and sending an instance expiration
                 -38-

                                         notification indicating that the instance will be suspended
                                         after the expiration date; and
                                         on a condition that the application instance is in a
                                 suspended state, determining whether a suspension period for the
                                 application instance has expired based on the plurality of instance
                                 monitoring policies, and on a condition that the suspension period
                                 for the application instance has expired, decommissioning the
                                 application instance based on the plurality of instance monitoring
                                 policies.
         19.     The apparatus of claim 18, wherein the processor is configured to execute
instructions stored in the memory to suspend the application instance by:
        identifying a first internet protocol address corresponding to the application instance;
        identifying a domain name system record indicating the first internet protocol address;
        identifying a second internet protocol address corresponding to a suspended application
instance placeholder application; and
        updating the domain name system record to replace the first internet protocol address
with the second internet protocol address.
        20.      A computer-implemented method for automatically commissioning and
decommissioning an application instance comprising:
                 receiving at a communication input of a processor a request to commission an
        application instance on a computer;
                 identifying, by the processor, the request to commission the application instance,
        the request structured to include a classification metric for the application instance;
                 automatically commissioning, by the processor, the application instance based on
        the classification metric;
                 automatically monitoring by the processor, utilizing data received at the
        communication input, the application instance running on the computer based on the
        classification metric; and
                                                  -39-

         automatically decommissioning by the processor the application based on the
classification metric.
                                     -40-

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
