ABSTRACT
The present invention relates to methods for recellurization of blood vessels. This method is
particularly useful for producing an allogeneic vein, wherein a donor vein is decellularized and
then recellularized using whole blood or bone marrow stem cells. The allogeneic vein produced
by the methods disclosed herein are particularly          advantageous    for implantation or
transplantation into patients with vascular diseases.

                   BIOENGINEERED ALLOGENEIC BLOOD VESSEL
                                  RELATED APPLICATIONS
[0001]          This is a divisional application of Australian Patent Application No.
2013234037. Australian Patent Application No. 2013234037 claims priority to, and benefit of
U.S. Provisional Application No. 61/611, 810, filed on March 16, 2012, the contents of which
are incorporated herein in its entirety.
                                         BACKGROUND
[0002]          Vascular diseases are among the increasing health problems experienced by
millions of people worldwide. Surgical replacement of blood vessels is often required in
common vascular surgical procedures such as coronary bypass heart surgery. Current sources
of blood vessels for transplant or implant include the patient' s own blood vessels (i.e. , from
limbs), tissue-matched blood vessels from donors, blood vessels from animals, and artificial
blood vessels or synthetic grafts. Unfortunately, these sources of replacement blood vessels
have many disadvantages and complications, such as insufficient or lack of usable allogeneic
vessels, donor shortage and unavailability, poor patency, transplant rejection, length
restrictions, immunosuppression, and thrombotic complications, etc.
[0003]          Thus, there exists a need for allogeneic blood vessels and methods for their
production.
                                           SUMMARY
[0004]          The present invention features materials and methods for producing an
allogeneic blood vessel.
[0005]          The present invention provides a method of recellularizing a blood vessel
comprising introducing a population of cells to a decellularized blood vessel and culturing
said population of cells on the decellularized blood vessel, thereby recellularizing the blood
vessel.
[0006]          The present invention features a method for providing a blood vessel graft to a
patient comprising delivering a subject-derived population of cells to a decellularized blood
vessel; and culturing said population of cells on the decellularized blood vessel. In some
aspects, the decellularized blood vessel is from an allogeneic donor.
[0007]          In one aspect, the population of cells is from whole blood, bone marrow, or a
stem cell.

[0008]       In another aspect, the population of cells comprises endothelial cells and smooth
muscle cells. The stem cell is a CD133+ expressing cell.
[0009]       In another aspect, the population of cells is expanded and differentiated into
endothelial cells and smooth muscle cells in vitro prior to introducing the endothelial cells
and the smooth muscle cells to the decellularized blood vessel.
[00010]      In a further aspect, the population of cells is introduced to the decellularized blood
vessel by injection or perfusion.
[00011]      In another aspect, the culturing of the population of cells comprises perfusion of
endothelial cell medium and smooth muscle cell medium. The perfusion of the endothelial
cell medium and the smooth muscle cell medium is administered in alternation. The
administration in alternation is repeated at least twice.
[00012]      In another aspect, the culturing the population of cells on the decellularized blood
vessel results in differentiation of the population of cells to endothelial cells and smooth
muscle cells. In some embodiments, the endothelial cells line the exterior of the
decellularized blood vessel and said smooth muscle cells line the lumen of the decellularized
blood vessel.
[00013]      In any of the foregoing methods, the endothelial cells express VE-cadherein,
AcLDL, vWF or CD31. In any of the foregoing methods, the smooth muscle cells express
smooth muscle actin or vimentin.
[00014]      In one aspect, the culturing of the population of cells is in vitro.
[00015]      In the blood vessel is a vein or artery.
[00016]      The present invention features a blood vessel produced by any one of the methods
described herein.
[00017]      The present invention also features the use of a blood vessel produced by any one
of the methods described herein for implantation.
[00018]      Unless otherwise defined, all technical and scientific terms used herein have the
same meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art to which this
invention belongs. Although methods and materials similar or equivalent to those described
herein can be used in the practice or testing of the present invention, suitable methods and
materials are described below. In addition, the materials, methods, and examples are
illustrative only and not intended to be limiting. All publications, patent applications, patents,
                                                   2

and other references mentioned herein are incorporated by reference in their entirety. In case
of conflict, the present specification, including definitions, will control.
[00019]      The details of one or more embodiments of the invention are set forth in the
accompanying drawings and the description below. Other features, objects, and advantages of
the invention will be apparent from the drawings and detailed description, and from the
claims.
                              BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[00020]      Figure 1 shows pictures of the operation area prior to and after the clinical and
surgical procedures. (A) Diagnostic CT Angiography before the primary operation. The
image shows intra-hepatic portal flow concentrated to the left part of the liver (i). Collaterals
feed the portal vein but no external portal vein in continuity can be seen (ii). The spleen is
enlarged and collaterals can be found around the esophagus and in the liver hilum. (B-C)
Successful surgical correction using a graft between the SMV and the left portal vein (meso
Rex). The stem-cell derived vein is anastomosed to the SMV (i) The vein graft is
anastomosed to the left portal vein (ii) Peroperative ultrasound showing blood flows of 25
40cm/s in the graft and in the intra-hepatic portal vein. (E) CT Angiography showing a patent
graft (i), 1 week after surgery. The image has been reconstructed using 3-4 images to better
visualize the orientation of the graft.
[00021]      Figure 2 shows the macroscopic and microscopic view of iliac vein before and
after decellularization. (A) Original blood vessels obtained from a deceased donor.
Hematoxylin and eosin staining of iliac vein shows presence of nuclei (blue) in the native
graft (B) and the presence of a clear endothelial layer. Immunohistochemistry of the same
vein showing presence of MHC class I (C; black brown staining) but no MHC class 11 (D)
since EC and SMC do not constitutively express MHC class II). (E) A translucent iliac vein
after 7 cycles of detergent-enzymatic treatment. Although the decellularized tissue
maintained structural integrity, the absence of blue-stained cell nuclei (F), MHC class I (G)
and MHC class 11 (H) indicates that the luminal surface as well as the matrix are completely
acellular. Flow cytometric analysis was performed to detect anti-endothelial cell antibodies
using the XM-ONE kit. Representative histograms demonstrating the absence of binding of
anti-endothelial cell antibodies (I), while a positive reaction was obtained with the positive
control serum (J). Black line represents negative control. Magnification B-H 20 X.
[00022]      Figure 3 shows immunofluorescence staining of recipient's endothelial and
                                                 3

smooth muscle cells grown on chamber slides. Cells stained positive for the antibodies are
green, nuclei are blue. (A) Endothelial cells are positive for VE-Cadherin, AcLDL and vWF.
(B) Smooth muscle cells stained positive for their specific markers alpha-actin and vimentin.
(A) Magnification 40X and (B) Magnification 20X
[00023]      Figure 4 shows the macroscopic and microscopic view of the bioengineered vein
grafts. Gross photographs of the two bioengineered vein grafts (A-graft 1) and (B-graft 2).
C&D negative controls for immunohistochemistry and immunofluorescence. After two
weeks of seeding incubation with recipient's stem cells, the grafts were completely
recellularized (E-J) as evidenced by a confluent EC monolayer on the vessel wall and
presence of smooth muscle cells in the media. IHC staining (brown) of paraffin sections from
graft Ishowing the clear presence of endothelial cells covering 90% of the lumen (E) and the
valves (F). (G) Presence of smooth muscles cells is also visible in the media. IF staining of
graft 2 showed similar results. EC are detected (green) in the lumen (H) and valves (I), and
SMC (red) in the media. Magnification 20X.
[00024]      Figure 5 shows pictures post-transplant. (A) The image shows that one year post
transplant, the graft (graft 1) was narrowed at the portal vein but was patent. The image has
been reconstructed using 3-4 images to visualize the entire length of the graft. The diameter
of the vein at the SMV (i) is 6mm and closer to the left portal vein (ii) 4mm. (B) The primary
graft is shown at the site of the SMV anastomosis (i). The vessel is thin walled and patent.
(C) The primary graft close to the left portal anastomosis (ii), showing a narrowed graft
partially strictured by tissue from the meso-colon. Therefore surgical correction of the meso
Rex shunt was done using a second stem-cell derived vein graft. (D) The image shows
completion of the left portal vein anastomosis after dissection of the portal vein further into
the liver using an ultra-sound dissector (CUSA) and releasing the tissue causing the stricture
in the meso-colon (iii). (E) Image showing completion of the distal anastomosis by patching
the new graft to the old SMV anastomosis. After 24 hours this was revised and the
anastomosis enlarged after extending the opening of the SMV. (F) Ultrasound images
demonstrating restituted blood flow of over 20cm/s in the graft (G) and a good intra-hepatic
portal vein blood flow of 25-40cm/s.
[00025]      Figure 6 shows a schematic of the bioreactor. The vessel is in the center of the
chamber, and media is supplied through the pipes as shown. The direction of arrows indicates
the flow of solutions in the pipes.
[00026]      Figure 7 shows a series of photographs of four donor veins (left photographs),
                                                 4

after decellularization (middle photographs), and after recellularization (right photographs).
[00027]     Figure 8 shows histological analysis by HE staining of nuclei in normal veins (top
panels) and decellularized veins (DC, bottom panels). No staining for nuclei was observed
after 9 cycles of decellularization.
[00028]     Figure 9 shows histological analysis by Massons Trichrome (MT) staining of
normal veins (top panels) and decellularized veins (DC, bottom panels). No staining for
nuclei was observed after 9 cycles of decellularization. MT staining also showed the
preservation of collagen in decellularized veins.
[00029]     Figure 10 shows histological analysis by Vernhoeff Von Gieson (VVG) staining
of normal veins (top panels) and decellularized veins (DC, bottom panels). No staining for
nucleic was observed after 9 cycles of decellularization. VVG staining also showed the
preservation of elastin (and elastin ring) and collagen in decellularized veins.
[00030]     Figure 11 shows shows histological analysis by staining of normal veins (left
panels) and decellularized veins (DC, right panels). Staining showed the preservation of
Collagen I (top panels) and Collagen IV (bottom panels) in decellularized veins.
[00031]     Figure 12 shows shows histological analysis by Vernhoeff Von Gieson (VVG)
staining of normal veins (left panels) and decellularized veins (DC, right panels). VVG
staining showed the preservation of fibronectin (top panels) and laminin (bottom panels) in
decellularized veins.
[00032]     Figure 13 shows the quantification of DNA, collagen, and glycosaminoglycans
(GAGs) levels after decellularization, as determined by gel electrophoresis, sircol, and
bislycan assays, respectively. DNA gel (top right panel) shows ladder control (L),
decellularized veins (DC) and normal veins (N). Collagen levels were measured by sircol
assay: raw data is presented in the table (middle left) and quantification is represented in the
graph (middle right). Glycosaminoglycan (GAG) levels were measured by bislycan assay:
raw data is presented in the table (bottom left) and quantification is represented in the graph
(bottom right).
[00033]     Figure 14 shows the levels of 17 angiogenic growth factors in normal vein
compared to decellularized veins. Raw data is presented in the table (left) and quantified in
the graph (right).
[00034]     Figure 15 shows histology staining with HE and demonstrates the presence of
nuclei in the inner, middle and outer layers of recellularized veins. Recellularized veins
underwent 2 cycles of perfusion (top panels) or 4 cycles of perfusion (bottom panels).
                                                 5

[00035]      Figure 16 shows histology staining with Massons Trichrome (MT) and confirms
presence of nuclei, cytoplasm, and attachment of cells to collagen.
[00036]      Figure 17 shows histology staining with Vernhoeff Von Giesen (VVG) and
confirms the presence of nucleic, cytoplasm, and attachment of cells to collagen.
[00037]      Figure 18 shows immunofluorescence staining for endothetlial and smooth
muscle cell markers. CD31 (top panels) and VWF (middle panels) staining confirmed the
presence of endothelial cells towards the inner lining of the vein. SMA (bottom panels)
staining confirmed the presence of smooth muscle cells.
[00038]      Figure 19 shows immunohistochemistry staining for smooth muscle actin
confirmed the presence of spindle-shaped smooth muscle cells in the middle and outer layers
of the vein.
[00039]      Figure 20 shows immunohistochemistry staining of smooth muscle actin after
decellularization by sodium deoxycholate (SDC).
[00040]      Figure 21 shows immunohistochemistry staining of smooth muscle actin after
decellularization by sodium deoxycholate (SDC).
[00041]      Figure 22 shows immunohistochemistry staining of smooth muscle actin after
decellularization by sodium deoxycholate (SDC).
[00042]      Figure 23 shows quantification of tensile strength assays and pictures of the vein
preparation and testing. Box and whisker diagrams of measured total force (left graph) and
elongation (right graph) display the results of the tensile tests. NHV - Native human vein;
DCHV - decellularized human vein; and RCHV - recellularized human vein.
                                     DETAILED DESCRIPTION
[00043]      The present invention is based on the surprising discovery that blood vessels
suitable for surgical implantation can be successfully bioengineered from a deceased donor
vein that was decellularized and later recellularized by autologous cells from the recipient of
the graft. This approach can be considered for patients in need of bypass surgery or vascular
vein shunts due to thrombosis, chronic deep vein incompetence, vein obstruction or venous
reflux. Further, this technique obviates the need for life-long immunosuppression, and is a
promising and safe clinical approach with great benefits and lower risks than previous
vascular transplant solutions.
[00044]      The present invention provides methods for decellularizing a blood vessel.
Methods for decellularization of blood vessels encompass the removal of endogenous cells
                                                 6

while preserving integrity of the extracellular matrix (ECM) are described herein. The
process of decellularization as described herein utilizes sequential treatment of two or more
different cellular disruption solutions, in several cycles. In a preferred embodiment,
decellularization may be achieved when no nuclei remains, as detected by various methods
known in the art. The blood vessel may be a vein or an artery. The blood vessel may be
from a donor. In some embodiments, the donor is deceased. In other embodiments, the donor
may be from a HLA or tissue-matched donor.
[00045]      The present invention also provides methods for recellularization of the
decellularized blood vessel, comprising introducing a population of cells to the decellularized
blood vessel and culturing said population of cells on and in the decellularized blood vessel.
Methods described herein are useful for the expansion of the population of cells and
differentiation of the population of cells to functional endothelial cells and smooth muscle
cells to produce a functional blood vessel.
[00046]      In one embodiment, the population of cells utilized for recellularization are
derived from stem or progenitor cells, for example, bone-marrow-derived stem or progenitor
cells, or cells expressing CD133 (CD133+ cells). Stem or progenitor cells can be expanded
and differentiated in vitro into endothelial cells and/or smooth muscle cells by methods
known in the art. For example, stem or progenitor cells can be cultured in the presence of
certain growth factors and supplements that initiate differentiation into endothelial cells
and/or smooth muscle cells. In some aspects, the differentiated cells may not be terminally
differentiated, but express at least one endothelial cell marker (i.e., CD31 or vWF) or at least
one smooth muscle cell marker (i.e., smooth muscle actin) prior to introduction to the
decellularized blood vessel. The endothelial cells and smooth muscle cells derived from the
stem cell as described herein are introduced to the decellularized blood vessel, for example,
by perfusion. Culturing of the endothelial cells and smooth muscle cells comprise incubating
the cells and blood vessel with endothelial cell medium or smooth muscle cell medium in
alternating cycles until the desired recellularization is achieved.
[00047]      Post natal vasculogenesis is the formation of new blood vessels in adults by
circulating endothelial progenitor cells (EPCs); and angiogenesis is formation of new blood
vessels from pre-existing endothelial cells (Ribatti D et al., 2001). These two processes
contribute in formation of vessel branches and in pathogenic states like wound healing,
ischaemia, fracture healing, tumor growth etc., (Laschke etal, 2011). There are endothelial
cells and endothelial progenitor cells co-existing in circulation in whole blood, and the
                                                  7

endothelial progenitor cells contribute to vascularization (Asahara T etal., 1997).
Furthermore, progenitor cells for smooth muscle cells are also present in circulating whole
blood (Simper D et al., 2002).
[00048]      In another embodiment, the population of cells utilized for recellularization is
from whole blood. Use of whole blood for regeneration of a decellularized blood vessel,
would result in efficient recellularization of blood vessels without the need to isolate and
expand subpopulations of angiogenic progenitor cells from bone-marrow or whole blood.
Whole blood is introduced to the decellularized blood vessel, for example, by perfusion.
[00049]      There are many advantages of the present invention over the options for vascular
grafts currently available. The present invention provides an autologous engineered blood
vessel with the following advantages: 1) is non-immunogenic and therefore having minimal
risk of graft rejection or adverse immune response; 2) obviates the need for
immunosuppression, and therefore less risk to the patient after surgery and for their lifetime;
3) has no length restriction; 4) is more readily available, as compared to matched donor blood
vessels or autologous blood vessels; 5) is composed of natural components (i.e., ECM,
endothelial cells and smooth muscle cells), and therefore has superior qualities to mostly
synthetic and artificial blood vessels, including preserving residual angiogenic growth factors
and biomechanical integrity; 6) production of blood vessel is minorly invasive in comparison
to harvesting autologous blood vessel for transplant; 7) use of whole blood cells allows rapid
and minimally invasive procedure to subject.
[00050]      As used herein, a "subject" includes a mammal. The mammal can be e.g., any
mammal, e.g., a human, primate, bird, mouse, rat, fowl, dog, cat, cow, horse, goat, camel,
sheep or a pig. Preferably, the mammal is a human. As used herein, a "subject in need
thereof' is a subject having a vascular disease or disorder that requires a vascular graft or
transplant, or a subject having an increased risk of developing a vascular disease or disorder
that requires a vascular graft or transplant relative to the population at large.
[00051]      Decellularization of Blood Vessels
[00052]      The invention provides for methods and materials to decellularize a blood vessel.
As used herein, "decellularization" refers to the process of removing cells from a blood
vessel, such that the three-dimensional structure of the extracellular matrix (ECM) scaffold
remains. Physical methods and chemical and biologic agents are used in combination to lyse
cells, often followed by a rinsing step to remove cell remnants and debris. Effective
decellularization is dictated by factors such as tissue density and organization, geometric and
                                                  8

biologic properties desired for the end product, and the targeted clinical application.
Decellularization of blood vessels with preservation of the ECM integrity and bioactivity can
be optimized by those skilled in the art, for example, by choosing specific agents and
techniques during processing.
[00053]      The most effective agents for decellularization will depend on many factors
including cellularity, density, lipid content, and thickness of the vessel. It should be
understood that while most cell removal agents and methods may alter ECM composition and
cause some degree of ultrastructure disruption, minimization of these undesirable effects is
preferred. One skilled in the art could readily optimize the decellularization process, as
described herein, to minimize the disruption of the ECM scaffold.
[00054]      One or more cellular disruption solutions can be used to decellularize blood
vessel. A cellular disruption solution generally includes at least one detergent, such as SDS,
PEG, or Triton X. A particularly preferred detergent is Triton X. A cellular disruption
solution can include water such that the solution is osmotically incompatible with the cells.
Alternatively, a cellular disruption solution can include a buffer (e.g., PBS) for osmotic
compatibility with the cells. Cellular disruption solution also can include enzymes such as,
without limitation, one or more collagenases, one or more dispases, one or more DNases, or a
protease such as trypsin. In some instances, cellular disruption solution also or alternatively
can include inhibitors of one or more enzymes (e.g., protease inhibitors, nuclease inhibitors,
and/or collegenase inhibitors).
[00055]       In certain embodiments, the vessel may be treated sequentially with two or more
different cellular disruption solutions. For example, a first cellular disruption solution
contains 1%Triton X-100 (x100, Sigma, Sweden), a second cellular disruption solution
contains 1%tri-n-butyl phosphate (TNBP) 28726.1, VWR, Sweden), and a third cellular
disruption solution contains 0.004 mg/ml deoxyribonuclease I (DNase I) (D7291, Sigma,
Sweden). Sequential treatment may include repeating treatment with at least one of the
cellular disruption solutions in the treatment sequence. In some aspects, the vessel may be
treated by decellularization cycles comprising the sequential treatment of one or more cellular
disruption solutions in the same order until the desired level of decellularization is achieved.
In some embodiments, the preferred number of decellularization cycles is at least 2, at least 3,
at least 4, at least 5, at least 6, at least 7, at least 8, at least 9, at least 10, at least 11, at least
12, at least 13, at least 14, at least 15, at least 16, at least 17, at least 19, or at least 20 cycles.
The number of cycles needed for desired decellularization is determined through monitoring
                                                       9

for presence of nuclei, HLA class I or II antigens, and other indications of presence of cells in
the vessels. The preferred level of decellularization is indicated by the lack of nuclei present
on the decellularized blood vessel.
[00056]      In some embodiments, each cellular disruption solution may further comprise
additional components, such as antibiotics (i.e., penicillin, streptomycin, and amphotericin),
ethylenediaminetetraaceticacid (EDTA) disodium salt dehydrate (EDTA), and/or phenyl
methyl sulfonyl fluoride (PMSF). For example, a cellular disruption solution that comprises
DNase I may also include calcium chloride and magnesium chloride (A12858, Life
Technologies) to activate the enzyme.
[00057]      Perfusion methods may be used to treat the vessel with cellular disruption
solutions for decellularization of the blood vessel. Alternating the direction of perfusion
(e.g., antegrade and retrograde) can help to effectively decellularize the blood vessel.
Decellularization as described herein essentially decellularizes the vessel from the inside out,
resulting in very little damage to the ECM. Depending upon the size and weight of the tissue
and the particular detergent(s) and concentration of detergent(s) in the cellular disruption
solution, a vessel generally is perfused from about 2 to about 12 hours per gram of tissue with
cellular disruption medium. Including washes, an organ may be perfused for up to about 12 to
about 72 hours per gram of tissue. Perfusion generally is adjusted to physiologic conditions
including pulsatile flow, rate and pressure. Perfusion decellularization as described herein can
be compared to immersion decellularization as described, for example, in U.S. Pat. Nos.
6,753,181 and 6,376,244.
[00058]      In a preferred embodiment, the vessel may be filled with cellular disruption
solutions and simultaneously agitated for decellularization of the blood vessel. Different
cellular diruptions solutions may be added in a sequential order, and the order repeated
multiple times until the desired level of decellularization is achieved. For example, one end
of the vein may be kept open while the rest of the openings (i.e., abrasions and branches)
were sutured to prevent leakage. The vein may be first rinsed in PBS containing antibiotics
(0.5% penicillin, 0.5% streptomycin and 0.5% amphotericin B). Then the vein may be rinsed
in distilled water for 72 hours. Each decellularization cycle preferably consists of incubation
with 1% Triton X for 3 hours, followed by 1% TnBP for 3 hours, and 0.004 mg/ml DNase I
for three hours. Lastly, the vessel may be washed with distilled water overnight to remove
cell debris. In each incubation, the vein may be filled with the cellular disruption solution
and may be clamped closed. Then the vein may be placed on an agitator at 370 C for the
                                                10

incubation time (3 hours or overnight) with gentle shaking. At the end of each incubation, the
contents of the vessel may be removed and the vessel was rinsed with PBS. After 7-9 cycles
(of TritonX, TnBP, DNaseJ and water wash) plus agitation, the vein may be washed
continuously for 48 hours with PBS, where the PBS was replaced every 6 hours. Varying
concentrations of detergent (TritonX or TnBP) can be utilized, as needed or to the discretion
of one ordinarily skilled in the art. Varying concentrations of enzymes, such as DNase, can be
utilized, as needed or to the discretion of one ordinarily skilled in the art.
[00059]      Optionally, the decellularized vessel can be sterilized prior to recellularization
steps. For example, the decellularized vessel is incubated in 0.1% peracetic acid in sterile
PBS for 1 hour, followed by washing with sterile water and PBS for 4 hours with each
solution.
[00060]      As indicated herein, a decellularized vessel consists essentially of the extracellular
matrix (ECM) components of the vascular tree. ECM components can include any or all of
the following: fibronectin, fibrillin, laminin, elastin, members of the collagen family (e.g.,
collagen I, III, and IV), glycosaminoglycans, ground substance, reticular fibers and
thrombospondin, which can remain organized as defined structures such as the basal lamina.
Successful decellularization is defined as the absence of detectable myofilaments, endothelial
cells, smooth muscle cells, and nuclei in histologic sections using standard histological
staining procedures. Preferably, but not necessarily, residual cell debris also has been
removed from the decellularized organ or tissue.
[00061]      To effectively recellularize and generate an allogeneic blood vessel, it is important
that the morphology and the architecture of the ECM be maintained (i.e., remain substantially
intact) during and following the process of decellularization. "Morphology" as used herein
refers to the overall shape of the organ or tissue or of the ECM, while "architecture" as used
herein refers to the exterior surface, the interior surface, and the ECM therebetween. The
morphology and architecture of the ECM can be examined visually and/or histologically to
verify that the decellularization process has not compromised the three-dimentional structure
and bioactivity of the ECM scaffold. Histological analysis by staining (i.e., H&E, MT or
VVG) may be useful to visualize decellularized blood vessel architecture and preservation of
ECM components, such as collagen I, collagen IV, laminin and fibronectin. Other methods
and assays known in the art may be useful for determining the preservation of ECM
components, such as glycosaminoglycans and collagen. Importantly, residual angiogenic or
growth factors remain associated with the ECM scaffold after decellularization. Examples of
                                                  11

such angiogenic or growth factors include, but are not limited toVEGF-A, FRF-2, PLGF, G
CSF, FGF-1, Follistatin, HGF, Angiopoietin-2, Endoglin, BMP-9, HB-EGF, EGF, VEGF-C,
VEGF-D, Endothelin- 1, Leptin, and other angiogenic or growth factors known in the art.
[00062]      Recellularization of Blood Vessels
[00063]      The invention provides for materials and methods for generating a regenerated
blood vessel. A regenerated blood vessel can be produced by contacting a decellularized
blood vessel from a donor as described herein with a population of cells and culturing said
population of cells on and in the decellularized blood vessel. As used herein,
"recellularization" refers to the process of introducing or delivering cells to a decellularized
blood vessel or ECM scaffold, and culturing the cells such that the cells proliferate and/or
differentiate to eventually regenerate a blood vessel with architecture, cell organization, and
bioactivity similar to that of normal blood vessels.
[00064]      The population of cells as used herein may be any cells used to recellularize a
decellularized blood vessel. These cells can be totipotent cells, pluripotent cells, or
multipotent cells, and can be uncommitted or committed. In addition, cells useful in the
present invention can be undifferentiated cells, partially differentiated cells, or fully
differentiated cells. Cells useful in the present invention also include progenitor cells,
precursor cells, and "adult"-derived stem cells. Examples of cells that can be used to
recellularize a blood vessel include, but are not limited to, bone marrow-derived stem or
progenitor cells, bone marrow mononuclear cells, mesenchymal stem cells (MSC),
mutltipotent adult progenitor cells, whole-blood derived stem or progenitor cells such as
endothelial stem cells, endothelial progenitor cells, smooth muscle progenitor cells, whole
blood, peripheral blood, and any cell populations that can be isolated from whole blood. In
some embodiments, the population of cells used to recellularize the blood vessel is
allogeneic. "Allogeneic" as used herein refers to cells obtained from the same species as that
from which the organ or tissue originated (i.e., self or related or unrelated individuals.). In a
particularly preferred embodiment, the cells are from the recipient (i.e., "autologous").
[00065]      The population of cells may be a heterogeneous population of cells. For example,
the cells may be whole blood cells, or from whole blood. These cells include red blood cells,
white blood cells, thrombocytes, endothelial cells, endothelial progenitor cells, and smooth
muscle progenitor cells. It is known in the art that circulating endothelial cells, endothelial
progenitor cells, and progenitor cells for smooth muscle cells can contribute to
vasculogenesis and angiogenesis. Thus, application of whole blood cells can readily supply a
                                                 12

decellularized blood vessel with cells capable of expanding and differentiating into
endothelial and smooth muscle cells for the regeneration of the blood vessel.
[00066]      The population of cells utilized for recellularization may be isolated from a
heterogeneous population of cells. In one embodiment, the population of cells may be stem
or progenitor cells isolated from bone marrow. In another embodiment, the population of
cells may be endothelial cells or endothelial progenitor cells isolated from whole blood.
Methods for isolating particular populations of cells from a heterogeneous population are
known in the art. Such methods include lymphotrap, density gradients, differential
centrifugation, affinity chromatography, and FACS flow cytometry. Markers known in the
art that identify particular populations of cells of interest may be used to isolate the cells from
the heterogeneous population. For example, CD133 is known to be expressed on the surface
of stem cells or stem-like cells derived from the bone marrow. Selection for CD133+ cells
can be achieved by utilization of MACs beads and specific antidbodies that recognize
CD133. Markers specific for endothelial progenitor or smooth muscle cell progenitor cells
can also be utilized to purify the population of cells of interest.
[00067]      In some aspects, the population of cells may be cultured in vitro prior to
introduction to the decellularized blood vessel. The purpose of culturing in vitro include
expanding cell numbers and differentiating cells to specific cell lineages of interest. In some
embodiments, the population of cells may be first isolated from a heterogeneous population
prior to culturing in vitro. In some embodiments, the population of cells may be bone
marrow-derived stem or progenitor cells (i.e CD133+ cells) and may be differentiated in vitro
prior to introduction to the decellularized blood vessel. Various differentiation protocols are
known in the art and include, for example, growing cells in growth media supplemented with
factors, agent, molecules or compounds that induce differentiation into endothelial cells or
smooth muscle cells.
[00068]      The number of cells that is introduced to a decellularized blood vessel in order to
generate a blood vessel may be dependent on the size (i.e., length, diameter, or thickness) of
the vessel and the types of cells used for recellularization (i.e., stem cells vs. more
differentiated cells, such as whole blood). Different types of cells may have different
tendencies as to the population density those cells will reach. By way of example, a
decellularized organ or tissue can be "seeded" with at least about 1,000 (e.g., at least 10,000,
100,000, 1,000,000, 10,000,000, or 100,000,000) cells; or can have from about 1,000
                                                 13

cells/mg tissue (wet weight, i.e., prior to decellularization) to about 10,000,000 cells/mg
tissue (wet weight) attached thereto.
[00069]      The population of cells can be introduced ("seeded") into a decellularized blood
vessel by injection into one or more locations. In addition, more than one type of cell (i.e.,
endothelial cells or smooth muscle cells) can be introduced into a decellularized blood vessel.
For example, endothelial cells can be introduced to the exterior of the decellularized blood
vessel, while smooth-muscle cells can be introduced to the lumen of the blood vessel.
Alternatively, or in addition to injection, the population of cells can be introduced by
perfusion into a cannulated decellularized blood vessel. For example, the population of cells
can be introduced to a decellularized blood vessel by perfusion. After perfusion of the cells,
expansion and/or differentiation media may be perfused through the blood vessel to induce
growth and/or differentiation of the seeded cells. In some embodiments, anti-coagulant
agents, such as heparin, may be administered prior to and/or simultaneously to the
introduction the population of cells.
[00070]      Expansion and differentiation media, as used in the present invention, includes
cell growth medium containing supplements and factors required for proliferation of
endothelial cell or smooth muscle cell, and differentiation to endothelial cell or smooth
muscle cell. In some embodiments, the differentiation medium for endothelial cells may be
the same as the growth/proliferation medium for endothelial cells. For example, additional
factors or supplements present in endothelial growth or differentiation media may include,
but are not limited to: ascorbic acid, hydrocortisone, transferrin, insulin, recombinant human
VEGF, human firbroblast growth factor, human epithelial growth factor, heparin and
gentamycin sulfate. In some embodiments, the differentiation medium for smooth muscle
cells may be the same as the growth/proliferation medium for smooth muscle cells. For
example, additional factors or supplements present in endothelial growth or differentiation
media may include, but are not limited to: smooth muscle growth supplement, smooth muscle
differentiation supplement, MesenPro, and transforming growth factor       f1.  At minimum,
growth and differentiation media comprise a base media (i.e., MCDB 131, M23 1, or DMEM)
heat inactivated serum (for example, at 10%), glutamine and antibiotics (i.e., penicillin,
streptomycin, amphotericin).
[00071]      In some embodiments, the seeded blood vessel may be incubated or perfused with
endothelial cell media and smooth muscle cell media in alternation until the desired
recellularization is achieved. In some embodiments, the perfusion of endothelial cell media
                                                 14

and smooth muscle cell media in alternation can also be repeated multiple times, for example,
at least once, at least 2 times, at least 3 times, at least 4 times, at least 5 times, at least 6 times,
at least 7 times, at least 8 times, at least 9 times, at least 10 times, at least 11 times, at least 12
times, at least 13 times, at least 14 times or at least 15 times. In some embodiments, the
duration of perfusion of endothelial cell media may be the same as the duration of perfusion
of smooth muscle cell media. Alternatively, the duration of perfusion of endothelial cell
media may be different from the duration of perfusion of smooth muscle cell media.
Duration of perfusion of either differentiation or growth media may be dependent on the
characteristics of the population of cells seeded on the decellularized blood vessel. Duration
of perfusion of the differentiation and growth media may be determined by one skilled in the
art.
[00072]      During recellularization, the decellularized blood vessel may be maintained under
conditions in which at least some of the seeded cells can multiply and/or differentiate within
and on the decellularized blood vessel. Those conditions include, without limitation, the
appropriate temperature and/or pressure, electrical and/or mechanical activity, force, the
appropriate amounts of 02 and/or C0 2 , an appropriate amount of humidity, and sterile or
near-sterile conditions. During recellularization, the decellularized blood vessel and the cells
attached thereto are maintained in a suitable environment. For example, the cells may require
a nutritional supplement (e.g., nutrients and/or a carbon source such as glucose), exogenous
hormones or growth factors, and/or a particular pH.
[00073]      The present invention also provides for a bioreactor for recellularizing a blood
vessel under the appropriate conditions, as described herein. Specifically, the bioreactor
comprises a completely closed chamber that is large enough to fit the blood vessel to be
recellularized and can be sterilized, a tube for supplying cells and/or media connected to a
pumping mechanism (i.e., a peristaltic pump), a structure to which one end of the vessel is
connected to, and 2 inlets and 2 outlets. The set-up of the tubes in relation to the blood vessel
and pump allows the cells or media to flow through the lumen of the blood vessel, and flow
around, or immerse, the exterior of the blood vessel. A schematic diagram depicting the set
up of an exemplary bioreactor is shown in Figure 6.
[00074]      In some instances, a blood vessel generated by the methods described herein is to
be transplanted into a patient. In those cases, the cells used to recellularize a decellularized
blood vessel can be obtained from the patient such that the regenerative cells are
?autologous" to the patient. Cells from a patient can be obtained from, for example, blood,
                                                   15

bone marrow, tissues, or organs at different stages of life (e.g., prenatally, neonatally or
perinatally, during adolescence, or as an adult) using methods known in the art. Alternatively,
cells used to recellularize a decellularized organ or tissue can be syngeneic (i.e., from an
identical twin) to the patient, the cells can be human lymphocyte antigen (HLA)-matched
cells from, for example, a relative of the patient or an HLA-matched individual unrelated to
the patient, or cells can be allogeneic to the patient from, for example, a non-HLA-matched
donor.
[00075]      The progress of the seeded cells can be monitored during recellularization. For
example, the number of cells on or in the decellularized blood vessel or tissue can be
evaluated by taking a biopsy at one or more time points during recellularization. In addition,
the amount of differentiation that the cells have undergone can be monitored by determining
whether or not various markers are present in a cell or a population of cells. Markers
associated with different cells types and different stages of differentiation for those cell types
are known in the art, and can be readily detected using antibodies and standard
immunoassays, immunofluorescence, immunohistochemistry or histology techniques. For
example, to confirm the presence of endothelial cells, or cells that have differentiated in the
endothetlial lineage, any endothelial markers known in the art can be assayed. Preferred
endothelial markers include, but are not limited to CD3 1, VWR, VE-cadherin and AcLDL.
For example, to confirm the presence of smooth muscle cells, or cells that have differentiated
in the smooth muscle cell lineage, any smooth muscle cell markers known in the art can be
assayed. Preferred smooth muscle cell markers include, but are not limited to smooth muscle
actin and vimentin. Recellularization is achieved upon appropriate expression of at least one
endothelial marker on the surface of the engineered vessel and at least one smooth muscle
markers in the lumen of the engineered vessel.
[00076]      In some embodiments, tensile strength of the engineered vessel may be tested.
Tensile strength tests are known in the art. For example, an engineered vessel may be cut
laterally into ring segments and tested by radial deformation. Total force used to break the
samples completely and elongation at 50% total force can be calculated to determine tensile
strength. In some embodiments, the recellularized vessels demonstrate increased tensile
strengths when compared to decellularized vessels. For example, engineered blood vessels of
the present invention may demonstrate the ability to withstand 10%, 20%, 30%, 40%, 50%,
60%, 70%, 80%, 90%, 100% or more total force in comparison to decellularized blood
                                                  16

vessels. In other embodiments, the recellularized vessels demonstrate similar, or about the
same tensile strength as normal vessels.
                                           EXAMPLES
[00077]      Example 1: Bioengineered Blood Vessel Using Bone Marrow
[00078]      This Example describes the meso Rex procedure using a decellularized donor
vein, recellularized with autologous stem cells, in a ten year old girl with EHPVO.
[00079]      Extra-Hepatic Portal Vein Obstruction (EHPVO) is a condition with impaired
hepato-pedal blood flow from the Superior-Mesenteric Vein (SMV), Splenic Vein (SV),
Coronary Veins (CV) through the Portal Vein (PV).
[00080]      Methods
[00081]      A one year old girl was discovered to have thrombocytopenia and splenomegaly.
She was thought to have idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura (JTP) and was followed for
several years at a local hospital. When she was 9.5 years old she was further investigated and
esophageal varicose veins and splenomegaly were confirmed. INR was slightly elevated.
Protein-S and Protein-C showed normal levels, and APC-resistance was excluded. She was
medicated with betablockers to reduce the portal hypertension.
[00082]      Elastography (Fibroscan) was normal (stiffness core 4.6). A CT-angiography
revealed a portal vein thrombosis with collateral circulation in the hepatic ligament and an
open superior mesenteric vein (SMV) (Fig. 1A). Treatment with beta-blockers and proton
pump inhibitors was initiated. Due to the portal hypertension and evolving esophageal
varicose veins she was evaluated and accepted for a by-pass procedure (meso Rex). In case
the umbilical vein should not be patent, an autologous stem cell derived vein graft was
planned as a rescue procedure. The alternative would be either to use another vessel from the
patient or from an allogeneic donor, or to perform a liver transplantation, the latter two
requiring life-long immunosuppression. The internal jugular veins were patent on both sides
(ultrasound and CT), but the estimated length of the graft was shorter than the distance from
the left portal vein to the SMV. The intrahepatic portal vascular bed was difficult to visualize.
This might be caused by the almost 9 years of EHPVO.
[00083]      Decellularizationof donor vein
[00084]      A 9 cm vein segment was retrieved from a healthy 30 year old organ transplant
donor who had no ongoing infections or other diseases. One end of the vein was kept open,
while the rest of the openings were sutured to prevent leakage. The vein was rinsed in
                                               17

phosphate buffered saline (PBS) containing 0.5% penicillin, 0.5% streptomycin, and 0.5%%
amphotericin B. Initially, the tissue was rinsed in distilled water (D/W) for 72 h. Each
decellularization cycle consisted of incubation with 1% Triton X (3 hrs), followed by 1% Tri
n Butyl Phosphate (3hrs) and 0.004 mg/ml deoxyribonuclease I (all Sigma, Gothenburg,
Sweden) in 1 M sodium chloride (3 hrs). One end of the graft was kept open while the other
was clamped and the lumen was filled with 1%Triton X (Sigma, Gothenburg, Sweden). The
other end was then clamped and placed on an agitator at 370 C for 3 h with gentle shaking. At
the end of the incubation time, one end of the specimen was opened, the contents of the
lumen were emptied and the specimen was washed with PBS. The same procedure was
followed for treatment with Tri n Butyl Phosphate (Sigma), and DNAse (Sigma). Lastly, the
specimen was washed with distilled water overnight to remove cell debris. Seven cycles were
run. At the end of the decellularization process, the graft was washed continuously for 48 hrs
with PBS (changed every 6 hrs). All solutions used for decellularization contained the above
mentioned antibiotics. After each cycle a small piece of tissue was screened for the presence
of nuclei, HLA class I and II antigens and verified histologically using standard procedure.
[00085]     Preparationof recipient's autologous endothelialand smooth muscle cells
[00086]     Autologous recipient cells were prepared from 20 ml of bone-marrow obtained
from the recipient. The bone-marrow was first separated on lymphoprep and washed three
times with Dulbecco's modified eagle medium (DMEM). Endothelial cells were isolated with
CD133-coated Mini MACS beads according to the manufacturer's instructions. The number
of CD133+ cells obtained was counted and viability tested using trypan blue. CD133+ cells
were cultured in 0.2 % gelatine coated culture wells at 37 'C in a humidified atmosphere of
95 % air and 5 % CO 2 . For preparation of complete media: basal medium MCDB 131+10%
heat inactivated human AB serum, 1% L-glutamine and 1% penicillin-streptomycin +
supplemented with EGM-2 Single Quote kit (Lonza, Walkersville, MD USA) containing
ascorbic acid, hydrocortisone, transferrin, insulin, recombinant human vascular endothelial
growth factor, human fibroblast growth factor, human epithelial growth factor, heparin and
gentamicin sulfate. The medium was replaced every 2-3 days. Confluent cells from all wells
were detached by trypsinization, pooled and washed once with phosphate buffered saline
(PBS). Cultured autologous recipient endothelial cells at first passage were stained with dual
color immunofluorescence for VE cadherin, Acetylated LDL and von Willebrand factor,
counterstained with 4',6-diamidino-2-phenylindole (DAPI) to confirm endothelial phenotype
before attachment to the matrix in the bioreactor.
                                                18

[00087]      For smooth muscle cells, the cells isolated from bone-marrow were grown in
commercially available smooth muscle cell medium (Cascade Biologics- medium
231+growth factor supplements cat. no. S-007-25). Cells were counted and seeded in 75 cm2
flasks at a density of 1x10 6 per mL. Cells were grown in complete medium and the medium
was replaced every 3 days. When cells reached 90% confluence, the supernatant was
removed and the cells washed with PBS and then passaged with IX trypsin-EDTA. To
induce smooth muscle differentiation, the culture medium was changed to complete medium
containing smooth muscle cell differentiation supplement (Cascade Biologics- cat. no. S-008
5). Cultured autologous recipient smooth muscle cells were stained with immunofluorescence
histology for alpha actin and vimentin counterstained with DAPI to confirm smooth muscle
cell phenotype before attachment to the matrix in the bioreactor.
[00088]      Seeding of cells
[00089]      Endothelial cells were detached from culture flasks, diluted in their growth
specific medium, and applied longitudinally to the internal surface of the matrix with a micro
syringe. The mean number of seeded EC per square centimeter of graft surface was 7.5x 104 .
The open end was clamped and the matrix was placed on a rock'n roller at 370C with 5%
CO 2 . After 3 days, the internal surface was seeded with the same density of smooth muscle
cells suspended in smooth muscle cell differentiation medium and further incubated for 3
days. The matrix was then placed within a bioreactor. Endothelial cell medium without serum
(serum-free medium) was added internally (25 ml) and serum-free SMC differentiation
medium externally (25 ml) and rotation started at 1.5 revolutions per min (37'C, 5% CO2 ).
The external and internal medium was changed every 72 hrs. The extracted medium was
tested for microbial colonization using a commercially available kit (Invitrogen, Sweden, cat.
No. C-7028). The total period of bioreactor culture was two weeks.
[00090]      Surgicalprocedure
[00091]      The operation was planned to a date when the vein graft was ready. It was
transferred to cold storage solution from the bioreactor at the time of surgery. The patient was
opened with a Mercedes like incision to expose the hepatic ligament and hilum. The round
ligament was mobilized carefully from the umbilicus to the liver. The umbilical vein was
found and was very small and only partly patent. Varicose veins in the left part of the
abdomen were found and the enlarged spleen filled the left hypocondrium. The varicose veins
were of poor quality and not suitable for bypass. The preoperative length of the jugular vein
was not explored due to estimated too short length for the bypass.
                                                19

[00092]      Dissection of the hilum was commenced, following the round ligament down to
the left portal vein which was found patent. The extra-hepatic right portal vein was thin and a
common portal vein above pancreas was not found. Further dissection of the left portal vein
included opening of the umbilical vein at the junction. A fibrous ligament was found that
could be removed with dilatation, revealing a good left portal vein with good backflow. The
lumen was dilated to 15mm. The right portal vein was not identified and small branches from
segment three to segment four were seen.
[00093]      The next step included finding the superior mesenteric vein (SMV). The Treitz
ligament was identified and the duodenum was mobilized to expose the inferior mesenteric
vein. By following this vein, the splenic vein and the SMV could easily be mobilized. The
SMV was patent and enlarged.
[00094]      The decision to use the stem cell derived vein was taken because of no good
alternative using the child's own veins without extensive additional surgery using a
combination of jugular, iliacal or saphenous veins. Without bypass, liver or multivisceral
transplantation would be the option.
[00095]      The stem cell seeded vein was brought into the operating room. A suitable length
of the Y shaped graft was selected and prepared for bypass. The anastomosis to the SMV was
first carried out by clamping the SMV after mobilization. The graft was sutured with 5-0
Surgipro@ end to side and the clamp was then released with a vascular clamp on the graft
(Fig IB). The graft was placed over the pancreas but under the colon and stomach. The
vascular clamp was moved in steps to reassure a graft without leaks. Next, a clamp was put
on the intrahepatic left portal vein and the graft was anastomosed to the portal vein (Fig IC).
The graft was larger than the portal vein, but by adjusting the sutures this was overcome.
[00096]      Postoperativemonitoring
[00097]      Reperfusion was uneventful. Good blood flows of 25-30 cm/s in the portal vein
and 40 cm/s in the artery were measured intra-operatively and confirmed with ultrasound
(Fig. ID). Intraoperative portal vein pressure was 20mm Hg at the start of the procedure, but
was not measured after reperfusion of the portal vein. The patient was followed with
ultrasound twice daily the first week and then daily during the second week. Blood flows
reached up to 80cm/s in some left portal branches, while lower flows of 15cm/s were seen in
the right portal vein. The graft was visualized using CT Angiography one week after surgery
and found to be patent (Fig. 1E). A postoperative ultrasound noticed a changed contour of the
vessel wall at the site of the portal anastomosis on postoperative day seven and the radiologist
                                                20

could not rule out a thrombosis at this site. Hence, postoperatively the patient was put on
Heparin@ 1000IE 6 times daily intravenously and followed with ultrasound twice daily to
monitor this finding. After a few days, the patient had a bleeding from the wound dressing
and a fall in hemoglobin, but did not need blood transfusion. The APTT was found to be
>210 the same day, probably caused by the heparin treatment, and therefore temporarily
stopped. The patient was monitored continuously for the first month, with sequential blood
tests for donor antigens, liver enzymes and imaging of blood flow speed using ultrasound
were performed. Similar tests were performed at 3, 6, 9, and 12 months post-transplant.
[00098]     Anti-endothelial cell antibody screening
[00099]      Screening for anti-endothelial cell antibodies was performed both pre and post
transplantation. Serum samples were collected one month prior to 1 and 3weeks, 1, 3, 6, 9
and 12 months post-transplantation. On each occasion, peripheral blood mononuclear cells
(PBMC) expressing the angiopoietin receptor Tie-2 were freshly isolated from blood samples
of the patient using the commercial XM-ONE* kit according to the instructions of the
manufacturer (AbSorber AB, Stockholm, Sweden). The cells were analyzed immediately on
Guava flow cytometer (Millipore, Gothenburg, Sweden) using Guava analysis software.
Serum from a healthy non-transfused blood group AB male known not to have any antibodies
served as negative control. A pool of sera from patients who had formed alloantibodies as a
result of multiple blood transfusions or organ transplantations was used as positive control.
Frozen lymphocytes from the cadaveric donor were also used as targets for screening of anti
donor HLA antibodies and anti-endothelial cell antibodies as described above.
[000100]     Results
[000101]     Using Triton, TnBP and Dnase, the donor vein was successfully decellularized
after seven cycles. The gross morphology of the iliac vein before and after decellularization is
shown in Figs. 2A-H. The architecture of the decellularized vein was however different from
the native control (Fig. 2B). No nuclei or expression of HLA class I or II antigens on the
decellularized vein graft was found at the end of cycle 7 (Figs. 2F-H). The entire
decellularization procedure took 12 days; at the end of which it was found that the vein was
successfully decellularized (based on histological findings). Isolated CD133+ stem cells from
the bone-marrow of the patient differentiated very easily into mature endothelial cells
expressing VE-cadherin, AcLDL and vWF (Fig. 3). Similarly, smooth muscle cells could be
successfully grown from bone-marrow cells, which later differentiated into cells expressing
                                                 21

alpha-smooth actin and vimentin (Fig. 3). The total time for isolation and expansion of EC
and SMC was approximately 15 days.
[000102]    Both cell types in passage 4 were used for recellularization of the vein graft. Gross
pictures of the two grafts used are shown in Figs. 4A&B. All cells were characterized once
again immediately prior to seeding and found to express the required phenotypic markers. In
the recellularized vein, ECs were found in the lumen, while SMC had migrated into the walls
of the tissue as detected by immunohistochemistry and immunofluorescence (Fig. 4).
Moreover, both cell types expressed their specific markers after culture in the bioreactor (Fig.
4E-H). As seen in this figure, approximately 80-90% of the lumen was found to be covered
by an endothelial layer prior to implantation in the patient. It was also found that most of the
valves in the graft were re-endothelialized (Figs. 4E and 4H). Based on these results, it was
decided to proceed to transplantation. The total time for preparation of the graft for
transplantation after bone-marrow aspiration including culture in the bioreactor was
approximately one month.
[000103]    The patient was discharged 3 weeks after the procedure with normal liver function
tests (LFT) except the INR (1.4). She responded more quickly and was more alert than prior
to transplantation. At 4.5 weeks follow-up the patient had normal liver values including INR
(1.2), which had improved from 1.4 pre-operatively. She was markedly less tired and an
improved life quality was reported by the parents. At the 3 and 6 month check-up the patient
was doing fine with a patent graft on ultrasound and normal laboratory tests. There was no
detection of any anti-endothelial cell antibodies pre and/or post-transplantation (Figs. 2 I&J).
After the 6 month check-up, the patient was more tired; however the laboratory tests were
normal, except for a decreased platelet count. A CT angiography, performed after the visit,
showed that the lumen had decreased from 8mm to 4 - 6 mm (Fig. 5A). An ultrasound
confirmed a decreased portal flow. A decision to explore the patient was taken after a
thorough discussion with the pediatric team and the parents.
[000104]    One year after the primary procedure, the patient was explored again. It was
decided to if possible correct the narrowed graft or use an alternative autologous vein from
the internal jugular on the left side. As a precaution, a new stem-cell derived vein as
described earlier was prepared after acquiring the necessary permissions (see figs. 4B & H-J).
[000105]    At the site of the anastomoses to the SMV, a patent graft with a diameter of 8mm
was found (Fig. 5B). The graft was compressed at the site of the passage through the meso
colon, to allow the vessel "to hang" on the tissue behind the graft. The remaining part of the
                                                 22

graft to the left portal vein was narrowed to 4-6 mm in diameter but patent (Fig. 5C). The
graft looked normal with thin walls. A thickening of the retro-peritoneum at the site of SMV
was detected, as noted one year earlier in the surgical notes of the primary procedure. Once
the tissue causing the compression of the vessel was removed the graft dilated further, but
due to the shortening of the graft close to the left portal anastomosis, the best solution was to
place a new vein at this site and explore the anastomosis at the same time. The internal
jugular vein was judged as being too short. So the decision was taken to use the newly
prepared stem-cells derived vein graft.
 [000106]    A new graft was placed from the hilum after dissecting the left portal vein even
further into the liver, using an ultra sound dissector (CUSA) and patching the SMV
 anastomosis (Figs. 4D&E). Blood flows of over 20cm/s in the graft and the portal vein could
be registered per and postoperatively (Figs. 4F&G). The patient was explored 24 hours after
 surgery due to a reduced blood flow. The distal anastomosis to the SMV had a clot, and was
redone. Portal pressure was 20mm Hg before surgery and 13mm Hg after reperfusion of the
graft. Collaterals along the minor and major curvature of the stomach were ligated before
closing the patient. The patient did not receive any immunosuppressive drugs, but received
75mg of salicylic acid once daily and 10 mg omeprazole for 6 months after the primary
operation. The betablocker was withdrawn on the day of surgery. After the second operation,
the patient was put on intravenous heparin for 2 weeks, and is administered anticoagulants for
 6-12 months after the procedure.
 [000107]    The patient has shown improvement in both height and weight and has grown in
one year from 137 cm to 142.5 cm and increased in weight from 30.2 kg to 35 kg.
 [000108]    Discussion
 [000109]    These results demonstrated successful recellularization of a decellularized human
iliac vein using autologous stem cells, which was subsequently used for a by-pass procedure
between the superior mesenteric vein and the intrahepatic left portal vein in a patient with
portal vein thrombosis.
 [000110]    The histology results showed that decellularization with Triton-X-TnBP and
DNase is complete and allows the adequate preservation of the extracellular matrix. Already
 after 4 cycles, human veins can be decellularized with remnants of nuclei. It was also found
that use of Triton-X-TnBP instead of Na-deoxycholate retained a much better extracellular
matrix such as elastin and fibronectin. Thus, a decellularization protocol was successfully
 applied to human venous tissue as verified by the absence of donor cells.
                                                 23

[000111]     It was postulated that in vitro migration of smooth muscle cells into the media
would be facilitated in the presence of an intact endothelium. Therefore, first, the endothelial
cells were seeded which formed a layer on the graft within 3 days. After this the smooth
muscle cells were seeded into the lumen of the vein and these cells were found to embed after
24 hrs. However, the complete recellularization of the vein took a total of 2 weeks. No
external seeding of SMC was performed since it was found that the approach had
successfully repopulated the media of the vein with SMC. Although re-seeding of the
decellularized vein was not performed using perfusion, this is important. It is known that
shear stress is required for optimal EC lining in the lumen. Use of perfusion recellularization
for blood vessels is developed.
[000112]     The data presented proof of concept that allogeneic human tissues from deceased
donors can be reengineered using autologous stem cells for successful "personalized" or
tailor-made transplants. Furthermore new areas of research are developed which reproduces
arteries for surgical use in patients with arterio-venous fistulas for dialysis or coronary by
pass surgery.
[000113]     Example 2: Allo2eneic Blood Vessel Usin2 Whole Blood
[000114]     Post natal vasculogenesis is the formation of new blood vessels in adult
contributed by circulating endothelial progenitor cells (EPCs) and angiogenesis is formation
of new blood vessels from pre-existing endothelial cells. These two processes contribute in
formation of vessel branches and in pathogenic states like wound healing, ischaemia, fracture
healing, tumor growth etc. There are endothelial cells and endothelial progenitor cells co
existing in circulation, and the endothelial progenitor cells contribute to vascularization.
Furthermore, progenitor cells for smooth muscle cells-another important cell type in blood
vessels, are also present in circulating blood.
[000115]     A reliable and reproducible procedure was developed that is clinically feasible
globally. Since circulating angiogenic cells are present in whole blood, use of whole blood
for regeneration of vein resulted in efficient recellularization of blood vessels without the
need to isolate and expand subpopulations of angiogenic progenitor cells from bone-marrow
or whole blood.
[000116]     In the current invention, 5 human iliac veins were decellularized by a combination
of perfusion and agitation and then recellularized by perfusing with whole peripheral blood
followed by perfusion with endothelial and smooth muscle cells growth media respectively.
                                                 24

Successful recellularization process was confirmed by the presence of endothelial and smooth
muscle cells and also mechanical properties. To test in vivo patency, two patients suffering
with extra hepatic portal vein obstruction (EPHVO) were selected and a tissue engineered
vein regenerated using autologous peripheral blood was transplanted. The patients are
followed for 8 and 6 months. The results prove the clinical potential of this method in
treatment for patients with vascular diseases.
[000117]    Materials and methods
[000118]    Decellularizationof veins
[000119]    Human iliac veins about 7-9 cms were retrieved from cadaveric organ donors,
stored in sterile PBS with antibiotics and transported to laboratory. The veins were
immediately washed with distilled water to remove whole blood. Both the ends of vein were
connected to connector with lid and the other abrasions, branches were sutured preventing
leakage. Decellularization cycle comprised agitation of veins with 1% triton-x 100 (x1OO,
Sigma, Sweden), 1% tri-n-butyl phosphate (TNBP) (28726.29 1, VWR, Sweden) and 4mg/L
deoxyribonuclease I (DNase I) (D7291, Sigma, Sweden) for 4h with each solution in an
agitator at 160RPM speed at 37 0 C. Triton and TNBP solutions were prepared in distilled
water containing antibiotics penicillin 200U/ml, Streptomycin 0.2mg/ml and amphotericin
2ug/ml) (Sweden), 5mM ethylenediaminetetraaceticacid (EDTA) disodium salt dehydrate
(ED2SS, Sigma, Sweden) and 0.4mM phenyl methyl sulfonyl fluoride (PMSF) (93482,
Sigma, Sweden). DNase I solution was prepared in Dulbecos PBS with calcium chloride and
Magnesium chloride (A12858, Life technologies). Decellularization was continued for 9
cycles with washing in between each cycle by perfusion with distilled water. After
decellularization, tissue was sterilized with 0.1% peracetic acid in sterile PBS for lh followed
by washing with sterile distilled water and PBS for 24h with each solution.
[000120] Characterizationof decellularizedveins
[000121]    After 9 cycles, biopsies were taken from decellularized veins and processed for
immunohistochemistry, immunofluorescence, DNA quantification, luminex, scanning and
transmission electron microscopic analysis, tensile strength and extracellular matrix
quantifications.
[000122]    Histology, immunohistochemistry and immunofluorescence
[000123]    Normal, decellularized and recellularized vein biopsies were processed following
the same protocol. Biopsies were fixed in 4% buffered formalin for 48h to prepare paraffin
block and tissue tech OCT for cryoblock and frozen in liquid nitrogen. The paraffin and
                                                 25

cryosections of 5um thickness were cut for stainings. The paraffin sections after rehydration
in descending series of alcohols were stained with hematoxilin-eosin (HE), massons
trichrome (MT), vernhoeff von gieson (VVG) staining and immunohistochemistry. In HE
staining the slides were incubated in Meyers hematoxylin and alcoholic eosin for 7 and 1 min
respectively, followed by washing with distilled water in between for 10min, later dehydrated
and mounted. The MT (25088-1, Polysciences, Germany) and VVG (25089-1, Polysciences,
Germany) staining were performed according to the manufacturer's instructions.
[000124]    Immunohistochemistry was done to see ECM proteins and smooth muscle actin.
The protocol followed was according to the manufacturer's instructions and the primary
antibody concentrations were collagen 1 (1:100), collagen IV (1:500), fibronectin (1:500),
laminin (1:100) and smooth muscle actin (1:50).
[000125]    DNA Quantification
[000126]    About 20 mg of five normal and five decellularized biopsies were collected from
five different veins and DNA was isolated following DNeasy blood and tissue kit protocol
(69506, Qiagen, Sweden). Amount of DNA present was measured with nanodrop.
[000127]    Luminex
[000128]    A panel of 17 angiogenic growth factors were quantified in three normal and
compared to three decellularized vein tissues. About 30 mg of tissue sample was taken and
total protein was isolated (2140, Millipore, Germany). The amount of protein was measured
by Bradford method with a set of BSA standards and measured at 595nm using an ELISA
reader (Synergy2, Biotek, USA). The protein amount of all tissues was normalized to the
same concentration with TM buffer (millipore) and loaded onto luminex plate. Luminex was
performed according to the human angiogenesis/growth factor magnetic bead panel 1
supplier's protocol (Millipore, Sweden). In brief, luminex plate was activated with 200ul
assay buffer. Normalized protein 25ul, standards and controls were added to respective wells,
where assay buffer was used as blank. Samples in wells were diluted with 25ul assay buffer
while standards and controls were diluted with 25ul TM buffer. Antibody coated magnetic
beads were vortexed and 25ul beads were added to all wells and incubated for 20h at 40 C on
gentle plate shaker. The plate was rested on magnet for 1min and washed with wash buffer.
Detection antibodies 25ul was added and incubated for 1h followed by addition of 25ul
streptavidin-phycoerythrin and incubated for 30min. The plate was later washed with wash
buffer following washing instructions and 100ul sheath fluid was added to all wells and
magnetic beads are suspended by shaking for 5min and read on luminex.
                                               26

[000129]     Collagen and GAGs Quantification
[000130]     Collagen and GAGs quantification was done using the Sircol Collagen Assay kit
and Bislycan GAGs Assay kit from Biocolor Company. In brief, collagen was extracted with
pepsin dissolved in acetic acid for 24h from about 20 mg of tissue and concentrated and
purified with concentrating reagent. Extracted collagen was saturated with 1ml sircol dye
reagent followed by washing with acid-salt wash reagent. Collagen-dye pellet was released in
alkali reagent and read at 555nm (Synergy2, Biotek, USA). GAGs were extracted from 20
mg tissue in papain extraction reagent for 3h at 65 C. Extracted GAGs were saturated with
1ml bislycan dye reagent for 30min on shaker and then centrifuged to pellet GAG-dye
complex. The bound dye was released in 0.5ml dye dissociation reagent and read at 656nm
(Synergy2, Biotek, USA). Collagen and GAGs were quantified based on standard graph with
known concentrations of collagen and GAGs supplied in the kit.
[000131]     Tensile strength measurement
[000132]     Vein segments were tensile tested with an Instron 5566 (Instron, Norwood USA).
The pre-load was 0.1N and the test speed used was 50mm/minute. The accuracy of the tensile
tester is 0.5% in force and 0.5% in elongation. The vein was cut into approximately 4mm
wide ring shaped samples. The smallest width of the sections were measured with a caliper
and recorded. Two cylindrical 5mm grips (each 2.5mm high and 5mm wide) were placed
inside the ring samples before performing the radial deformation. The force was normalized
by dividing the measured force with the smallest width of the rings, since this is the part
experiencing the load (stress was not calculated since the blood vessel wall was considered to
be too inhomogenic). The elongation of the samples after pre-load was also measured. Total
force used to break the samples completely and elongation at 50% total force was calculated.
[000133]     Bioreactor
[000134]     A bioreactor was prepared indigenously in the laboratory depending on the
dimensions of the veins. The bioreactor consisted of an enclosed setup of polypropylene tube
connected to polyethylene and silicon tubes. Bioreactor and tubes were sterilized in an
autoclave before use. Blood and media were perfused at 2ml/min speed using a peristaltic
pump.
[000135]     The bioreactor was designed such that the vein fits into a completely closed
chamber and all the media required can be supplied through pipes with a peristaltic pump
(Fig. 6). The bioreactor includes a tube of about 15cm, 2 lids each with 1 inlet and 1 outlet, a
conical shaped structure made of rubber that can be connected to inlets and 2 vicers that
                                               27

prevents leakage from both lids. The 2 lids are designed in a fashion so the inlets will pass
through the lid in and out so that pipe can be connected easily from the outside and conical
shaped rubber can be fixed to the inner side to which the vein was tied. The outlets will just
extend to the outside and collect media from the surface. The outlet at the bottom lid was
used to collect the media pipe and can be connected from the outside easily where the outlet
for upper lid is a little bigger in diameter and the pipe can pass through it but maintains
airtight. It is used to pull the vessel from inside and keep it straight and extended. The one
end of the vein is connected first to conical shaped rubber and fixed to the inlet and the
second end is connected to a connector containing pipe that passes through the outlet of the
upper lid. The perfusing media enters the vessel through the inlet from the bottom and passes
through the vessel and exeunt through the pipe via the upper lid and enters into the bioreactor
again through the inlet of the upper lid thus filling the outside of vein also with the same
medium. When the outside vein is filling the bioreactor it is turned upside down and after
filling it is brought back to normal and connected to the inlet pipe with a connector. All the
bioreactor parts and pipes are sterilized with autoclave before use.
[000136]      Collection of blood
[000137]      On the day of recellularization, 30 ml blood was collected from each healthy
donor (age group 25-35) in sterile heparin coated vacutainer tubes and transported to
laboratory as soon as possible. The volume of blood required depends on length of vessel and
length of pipes. A vein of 9 cm length and 1cm in diameter can be recellularized with 30 ml
blood. Blood collected from both arteries of veins can be used for recellularization.
[000138]      Recellularizationof veins
[000139]      The entire recellularization process was performed under very sterile conditions
and all perfusions were carried out in an incubator at 37C supplied with 5% CO 2 . Before
recellularization, the veins were perfused with heparin (Leo) at a concentration of 50 IU/ml
PBS for 2h. The heparin was drained off and whole blood was immediately perfused for 48h
at 2ml/min speed. The blood was then drained off and the vein was washed with PBS
containing 1%penicillin-streptomycin-amphotericin for 3-5 min or until blood was
completely removed. The vein was subsequently perfused 12 days alternatively with
endothelial and smooth muscle media (3 days with each medium). The complete endothelial
medium was prepared using MCDB131 (10372, Life technologies, Sweden) basal medium
supplemented with 10% heat inactivated human AB serum (34005100, Life technologies,
Sweden), 1% glutamine (25030, Lonza, Denmark), 1% penicillin-streptomycin-amphotericin,
                                                  28

and EGM2 single quote kit (CC-4176, Lonza, Denmark) that contained ascorbic acid,
hydrocortisone, transferrin, insulin, recombinant human VEGF, human fibroblast growth
factor, human epithelial growth factor, heparin and gentamycin sulfate. The complete smooth
muscle medium was prepared using 500ml Medium 231 (M23 1, Life technologies, Sweden)
supplied with 10% heat inactivated human AB serum, 1% penicillin-streptomycin
amphotericin and 20ml smooth muscle growth supplement (SMGS) (S-007-25, Life
Technologies, Sweden) and 5ml smooth muscle differentiation supplement (SMDS) (S-008
5, Life technologies). For the first cycle, smooth muscle medium containing only SMGS was
used, while in the second cycle both SMGS and SMDS were used.
[000140] Characterizationof recellularizedveins
[000141]     After 14 days of recellularization biopsies were taken from veins to prepare
cryoblock and paraffin block as explained earlier. To visualize the presence of endothelial
cells, CD31 (1:1000) and VWF (1:100) markers were selected and stained by
immunofluorescence, while smooth muscle actin (1:50) was stained by
immunohistochemistry to visualize smooth muscle cells. The recellularized vein was also
tensile tested for mechanical strength as explained earlier.
[000142]     Results
[000143]     Decellularization of veins
[000144]     Decellularization by a combination of agitation and perfusion with 1% Triton and
1% TNBP successfully decellularized iliac veins in 9 cycles. The gross morphology of the
DV looked white and translucent, but no changes in size and leakage was found (Fig. 7).
Histological analysis was done by HE, MT and VVG stainings. In all DV no staining for
nuclei (HE-blue and MT-black staining) was observed after 9 cycles (Figs 8, 9, & 10).
[000145]     Extracellular matrix present in decellularized veins
[000146]     MT staining showed the presence of abundant amount of collagen (blue colour,
Fig. 3) after decellularization. VVE staining gives black color to elastin and nuclei and red to
collagen (Fig. 10). From VVE staining the presence of elastin ring even after
decellularization was observed. The immunohistochemistry staining for major ECM proteins
laminin, fibronectin, collagen IV and Collagen I in DV also showed preservation of important
ECM proteins (Figs. 11 & 12). The quantification of collagen and GAGs with sircol and
bislycan assays respectively also showed no significant loss of collagen and GAGs after
decellularization (Fig. 13). The decellularization protocol also lead to decrease in DNA
amount from 193--ng/mg of tissue in normal veins to 158ng/mg in decellularized veins
                                                 29

(Fig. 13). Out of 17 angiogenic growth factors tested through luminex, growth factors leptin,
and EGF there were 13 growth factors which were still present in the DV (Fig. 14). The
growth factors retained in DV were albeit less and the fold decrease was 7-9 times. The
growth factors not detected in decellularized veins were present in fewer amounts in normal
veins. All these results showed that this decellularized ECM can be a suitable scaffold for
recellularization.
[000147]    Recellularization of veins
[000148]    With the bioreactor system, 5 veins between 7-9 cm in length were recellularized
with blood for 2 days and alternating endothelial and smooth muscle mediums for 12 days, 3
days with each medium. The gross morphology of veins after recellularization looked pinkish
with god tunica externa. The veins worked convincingly with the bioreactor. Histology
staining with HE showed the presence of many nuclei in inner, middle and outer layers of
vein. MT staining also confirmed the presence of nuclei stained with black and cytoplasm in
red and attachment of cells to collagen in blue (Figs. 15, 16 & 17).
[000149]    Characterization of recellularized veins
[000150]    Immunofluorescence staining with an endothelial cell marker VWF showed a
continuous green color and dotted appearance of green color with CD31 antibody confirmed
the presence of endothelial cells towards the inner lining of vein (Fig. 18).
Immunohistochemistry staining with smooth muscle actin also confirmed the presence of
spindle shaped smooth muscle cells all over the middle and outer layers of the vein (Fig. 19).
Smooth muscle cells are distributed in the whole vein and presence of thin rings of smooth
muscle cells just below endothelial lining. Similar results were not obtained when
decellularization was carried out with sodium deoxycholate (Figs. 20, 21 & 22).
[000151]    Tensile Testing
[000152]    The tensile strength of decellularized vein compared to normal showed a decrease
in force required to break and length of elongation before breaking indicating that the
decellularized vein can withstand less amount of pressure compared to normal. But both these
properties are regained and are close to normal after recellularization (Fig. 23).
[000153]    Discussion
[000154]    These experiments demonstrated ex vivo three dimensional culture of veins using
whole blood. It is believed this technology for graft preparation and procedure is safe for
clinical use in patients with vascular diseases. The indigenously prepared bioreactor system
helped in tissue growth and because of mild pressure of perfusion the vein inside the reactor
                                                 30

can be kept inflated so that the entire surface area is exposed to nutrients. The
decellularization of iliac veins with TNBP and triton also yielded a scaffold with preserved
ECM components and strength. However, the number of cycles required to decellularize a
vein varies from donor to donor and from location to location within the tissue. In these
experiments common, external and internal iliac veins were used. Common iliac vein took 9
cycles and external and internal iliac veins were decellularized after 7 cycles. It required
continuous monitoring after 6-7 cycles of perfusion and the decellularization procedure can
be stopped as soon as nuclei are absent.
[000155]    Perfusion of whole bioreactor system with heparin prior to recellularization
prevents formation of blood clots in vein, circulating pipes and most importantly it also
activates FGFs that are pleiotropic in function and stimulate the growth of endothelial cells,
smooth muscle cells, fibroblasts etc. As analyzed by luminex FGFs are abundantly present
even after decellularization. VEGF for unknown reasons is present more in decellularized
tissue compared to normal but is very advantageous. VEGF is a potential mitogen for
vascular endothelial cells. It is believed the residual tissue growth factors still present after
decellularization and the ECM proteins fibronectin, collagen, elastin and laminin play an
important role and enhance the attachment and growth of these cells in the tissue. Perfusion
with alternate endothelial and smooth muscle cell mediums twice for 3 days with each
medium was found to be sufficient to repopulate the endothelium layer characterized by
presence of continuous VWF and CD31 layers. Also, the presence of smooth muscle actin in
the tissue implied the vein has the same compliance and helps in contraction and expansion
movements to push the blood towards the heart. This procedure can be used for a recipient of
any age.
                                                 31

What is claimed is:
    1. A method of recellularizing a blood vessel comprising introducing a population of
       cells to a decellularized blood vessel and culturing said population of cells on the
       decellularized blood vessel, thereby recellularizing the blood vessel.
   2. The method of claim 1, wherein said population of cells is from whole blood, bone
       marrow, or a stem cell.
   3. The method of claim 1, wherein said population of cells comprises endothelial cells
       and smooth muscle cells.
  4. The method of claim 2, wherein said stem cell is a CD133+ expressing cell.
  5. The method of claim 1, wherein said population of cells is expanded and
      differentiated into endothelial cells and smooth muscle cells in vitro prior to
      introducing the endothelial cells and the smooth muscle cells to the decellularized
      blood vessel.
  6. The method of claim 1, wherein said introducing the population of cells to the
      decellularized blood vessel is by injection or perfusion.
  7. The method of claim 1, wherein said culturing comprises perfusion of endothelial cell
      medium and smooth muscle cell medium.
  8. The method of claim 7, wherein said perfusion of said endothelial cell medium and
      said smooth muscle cell medium are administered in alternation.
  9. The method of claim 8, wherein said administration in alternation is repeated at least
      twice.
  10. The method of claim 1, wherein said culturing the population of cells on the
      decellularized blood vessel results in differentiation of the population of cells to
      endothelial cells and smooth muscle cells.
                                               32

11. The method of claim 10, wherein said endothelial cells line the exterior of the
    decellularized blood vessel and said smooth muscle cells line the lumen of the
    decellularized blood vessel.
12. The method of claims 3 or 11, wherein said endothelial cells express VE-cadherein,
    AcLDL, vWF or CD3 1.
13. The method of claims 3 or 11, wherein said smooth muscle cells express smooth
    muscle actin or vimentin.
14. The method of claim 1, wherein said culturing the population of cells is in vitro.
15. The method of claim 1, wherein said blood vessel is a vein or artery.
16. A blood vessel produced by any one of the preceding claims.
17. The use of a blood vessel of claim 16 for implantation.
18. A method for providing a blood vessel graft to a patient comprising
        a. delivering a subject-derived population of cells to a decellularized blood
            vessel; and
        b. culturing said subject-derived population of cells on the decellularized blood
            vessel.
19. The method of claim 18, wherein said decellularized blood vessel is from an
    allogeneic donor.
20. The method of claim 18, wherein said subject-derived population of cells is ftom
    whole blood, bone marrow, or a stem cell.
21. The method of claim 18, wherein said subject-derived population of cells comprises
    endothelial cells and smooth muscle cells.
22. The method of claim 20, wherein said stem cell is a CD 133+ expressing cell.
23. The method of claim 18, wherein said subject-derived population of cells is expanded
    and differentiated into endothelial cells and smooth muscle cells in vitro prior to
                                            33

    introducing the endothelial cells and the smooth muscle cells to the decellularized
    blood vessel.
24. The method of claim 18, wherein said introducing the subject-derived population of
    cells to the decellularized blood vessel is by injection or perfusion.
25. The method of claim 18, wherein said culturing comprises perfusion of endothelial
    cell medium and smooth muscle cell medium.
26. The method of claim 25, wherein said perfusion of said endothelial cell medium and
    said smooth muscle cell medium are administered in alternation.
27. The method of claim 26, wherein said administration in alternation is repeated at least
    twice.
28. The method of claim 18, wherein said culturing the subject-derived population of
    cells on the decellularized blood vessel results in differentiation of the subject-derived
    population of cells to endothelial cells and smooth muscle cells.
29. The method of claim 28, wherein said endothelial cells line the exterior of the
    decellularized blood vessel and said smooth muscle cells line the lumen of the
    decellularized blood vessel.
30. The method of claims 21 or 29, wherein said endothelial cells express VE-cadherein,
    AcLDL, vWF or CD3 1.
31. The method of claims 21 or 29, wherein said smooth muscle cells express smooth
     muscle actin or vimentin.
32. The method of claim 18, wherein said culturing the population of cells is in vitro.
33. The method of claim 18, wherein said blood vessel is a vein or artery.
                                             34

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           1/23

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           2/23

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           3/23

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           4/23

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           5/23

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           6/23

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           7/23

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           8/23

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           9/23

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           10/23

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           11/23

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           12/23

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           13/23

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           14/23

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           15/23

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           16/23

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           17/23

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           18/23

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           19/23

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           20/23

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           21/23

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           22/23

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           23/23

