                                           Abstract
      The present invention provides a filter assembly structure, which comprises a filter
holder and at least one filter, wherein the at least one filter is mounted on the filter holder in a
way of magnetic attraction. In a way of magnetic attraction, the present invention achieves
quick mounting and disassembling between the filter and the filter holder, and solves the
phenomenon of getting stuck when the filter is being mounted on the conventional filter
holder; and the cancelation of the conventional slot leads to that the thickness of the entire
filter holder is greatly reduced and the vignetting will not happen after the filter is mounted,
and the photographing effect is improved. When in use, the filter is not easy to slide down
due to the quality of the conventional slot of the holder and the filter's own weight, and the
mounting is stable and reliable. At the same time, the filter is very flexible and convenient
when it is adjusted to slide up and down or to turn left and right. Due to the magnetic
attraction, no light leakage occurs because of a gap between the filters, and the
photographing effect is not affected.

     5/7
100
         300
           --300
                300
                -- 200
    FIG. 8

                           FILTER ASSEMBLY STRUCTURE
   TECHNICAL FIELD
         The present invention relates to the technical field of photographic equipment and
 5 in particular, to a filter assembly structure that facilitates the mounting and adjustment
   of a filter.
   BACKGROUND
         With the maturation and improvement of photography technology, people's
   requirements on photography have also increased. Filters, such as UV (Ultra Violet)
 0 filters, polarizing filters, neutral density filters, starbursts and so on, have been widely
   used in field of professional photography and camera shooting, as a complementary
   way for professional photography.
         CPL, which stands for Circular-Polarizing Filters in English, is used for
   increasing the color density, darkening blue sky, highlighting white clouds, and
 5 eliminating the reflected light reflected by non-metallic surfaces such as glass or water.
   It can also reduce the soft focus caused by atmospheric fog in the landscape
   photography, without changing the tone balance of the entire picture. When using CPL
   filters, the angle of the CPL filters needs to be adjusted at any time, and the CPL filters
   is often reversed. So there is a certain obstacle in the cooperation between the CPL
20 filters and other filters, and the photographing effect is affected. In order to use and
   cooperate with different filters, and to achieve better creative photographing effect, a
   filter holder is required.
         In the prior art, the filter holder is provided with a plurality of slots for mounting
   filter, and for at least one filter to be inserted and fixed. However, when the filter is
25 inserted into the slot or when the filter is adjusted relative to the slot, it is easy to get
   stuck, which is inconvenient. The arrangement of the plurality of slots causes the
   entire filter holder to be relatively thick, and causes vignetting after the filter is
   inserted into the filter holder, which affects the photographing effect. At the same time,
   due to environmental factors or the filter's own weight, the filter may be loosen or may

   slide off when it is mounted in the slot, and it is difficult to be fixed, and may even
   cause the glass filter to be broken, which causing a cost loss to the user. In addition,
   the distance between the slots causes a gap between the filters, and thus causes light
   interference, thereby causing light leak and affecting the photographing effect.
 5 SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
          The object of the present invention is to solve the above technical problems at
   least to a certain extent.
          The object of the present invention is to provide a filter assembly structure, which
   changes the way that a conventional filter is inserted into and fixed by a filter holder,
 o and uses a way of magnetic attraction to facilitate mounting and adjustment of the
   filter and to solve the problems of vignetting and light leakage arised during
   photographing.
          To achieve the above-mentioned         object, the present invention adopts the
   following technical solutions: a filter assembly structure, comprising a filter holder and
 5 at least one filter, wherein the at least one filter is mounted on the filter holder in a way
   of magnetic attraction.
          In a way of magnetic attraction, the present invention achieves quick mounting
   and disassembling between the at least one filter and the filter holder, and solves the
   phenomenon of getting stuck when the filter is being mounted on the conventional
zo filter holder; and the cancelation of the conventional slot leads to that the thickness of
   the entire filter holder is greatly reduced and the vignetting will not happen after the
   filter is mounted, and the photographing effect is improved. When in use, the filter is
   not easy to slide down due to the quality of the conventional slot of the holder and the
   filter's own weight, and the mounting is stable and reliable. At the same time, the filter
25 is very flexible and convenient when it is adjusted to slide up and down or to turn left
   and right. Due to the magnetic attraction, no light leakage occurs because of a gap
   between the filters, and the photographing effect is not affected.
          In one embodiment, a fixed frame is provided around the filter, and a magnetic
   material is provided in the fixed frame. The filter holder is provided with a mounting
30 area for mounting the filter, and at least the mounting area is made of a material that
                                                  2

   can be magnetically attracted to the magnetic material. In a way of magnetic attraction,
   the filter is not easy to slide off and be broken. However, the arrangement of the fixed
   frame leads to that, due to the buffering protection of the fixed frame, the filter is not
   easy to be broken even if the filter slides off due to an accident. At the same time, the
 5 design of the fixed frame can further ensure that there will be no gap between the
   filters, which prevents light leakage.
         The magnetic material generally refer to substance that can directly generate
   magnetism, such as lodestone, magnetic rubber or metallic magnets, and so on. The
   magnetic material of the present invention is preferably a permanent magnetic material,
 o to ensure long-term and reliable use. The material that can be magnetically attracted to
   the magnetic material includes a magnetic material, a non-magnetic iron-containing
   material, and a combination thereof, wherein the non-magnetic iron-containing
   material generally refers to a material that containing more than 40% of iron element,
   such as stainless iron, steel, iron plate, and so on.
 5       Of course, in another embodiment, at least the mounting area of the filter holder
   may be made of a magnetic material, and a material that can be magnetically attracted
   to the magnetic material may be provided in the fixed frame, or the fixed frame may
   be made of the      material that can be magnetically attracted to the magnetic material,
   as long as they meets the condition of magnetic attraction.
20       Preferably, the fixed frame comprises an upper frame, a lower frame, a left frame
   and a right frame, and the magnetic material is provided in at least the left frame and
   the right frame. The fixed frame is split into four sections, which are the upper, lower,
   left and right sections, such that they can be easily fixed around the filter respectively
   and can be easily assembled or disassembled. Normally, the magnetic material being
25 provided just in the left frame and the right frame can ensure that the filter is firmly
   mounted on the filter holder. Of course, the magnetic material may also be provided in
   the upper frame and/or the lower frame, which can further increase the magnetic
   attraction force and lead to firmer mounting.
         More preferably, the left frame and the right frame are respectively provided with
30 a hollow groove and a first U-shaped groove, and the upper frame and the lower frame
                                                  3

   are respectively provided with a second U-shaped groove. Both ends of the upper
   frame and both ends of the lower frame are respectively provided with a convex block.
   The left frame and the right frame are respectively fitted with a left side and a right
   side of the filter via the first U-shaped groove, and the upper frame and the lower
 5 frame are respectively fitted with an upper side and a lower side of the filter via the
   second U-shaped groove. The magnetic material is provided in the hollow groove. The
   convex blocks are respectively inserted into both ends of the hollow groove such that
   the fixed frame is assembled. Such structure not only facilitates that the magnetic
   material   is provided in the         fixed frame, but facilitates    the assembling and
 o disassembling of the fixed frame itself, and the assembling and disassembling of fixed
   frame relative to the filter.
         In a preferred embodiment, a double-sided tape is provided in the first U-shaped
   groove and/or the second U-shaped groove. That the double-sided tape is provided in
   the U-shaped grooves lead to a closer fit between the U-shaped groove and the edge of
 5 the filter. Ordinary glue is easily affected by temperature or other environmental
   factors, and thus causes stickiness failure. However, the stickiness of the double-sided
   tape is not easily affected, which ensures the longevity of use.
         In a preferred embodiment, a depth of the first U-shaped groove and/or the
   second U-shaped groove is ranged from 1.5mm to 2 mm. Depth value that is too low
2o will cause the U-shaped groove to be fitted with the edge of the filter less closely,
   which causes that the filter slides off easily. Depth value that is too high will cause a
   decrease in the width of the filter, which causes vignetting to be formed easily during
   photographing. In addition, the thickness of the fixed frame is preferably 3 mm, and
   the thickness of both side walls of the U-shaped grooves is preferably 0.5 mm.
25       Preferably, at least the left frame or the right frame is provided with a scale. Since
   the shooting process requires a higher accuracy of position of the filter, the
   arrangement of the scale can facilitate that the position of the filter is adjusted by the
   user by sliding, and especially facilitate the adjustment within a small range, which
   reduces the adjustment error and improves the accuracy.
30       Preferably, only the mounting area is made of the material that can be
                                                  4

   magnetically attracted to the magnetic material. That is to say, except the mounting
   area, other areas are made of a material that cannot be magnetically attracted to the
   magnetic material. The mounting area is preferably a vertical rectangular area, and the
   width of which is preferably 5 to 10 mm. Since other areas are made of the material
 5 that cannot be magnetically attracted to the magnetic material, only the mounting area
   can be magnetically attracted to the fixed frame. When the fixed frame is not aligned
   with the mounting area, the filter cannot be mounted on the filter holder by the user.
   Such arrangement facilitates the mounting or the adjustment of the filter by the user.
         In one embodiment, the filter assembly structure comprises at least two filters,
 o and a hollow connecting ring being provided between the adjacent filters. The hollow
   connecting ring and the filters are fixed in a way of magnetic attraction. If two
   adjacent filters are directly magnetically attracted to each other, when one filter is
   rotated and adjusted relative to the other filter, the way of magnetic attraction
   gradually changes from surface contact to point contact, and the magnetic attraction
 5 force decreases sharply, which causes the filter to slides off easily. And the range of
   adjustment of rotation is limited due to point contact. Therefore, a hollow connecting
   ring is provided between the adjacent filters. When one filter is rotated and adjusted
   relative to the other filter, the way of the magnetic attraction between the two adjacent
   filters and the hollow connecting ring always remains as surface contact, and the
20 magnetic attraction force can be kept constant, which ensures that the filter does not
   slide off during the adjustment process and is rotated and adjusted more precisely.
         Preferably, the hollow connecting ring is a circular-shaped hollow connecting ring,
   and the hollow connecting ring is provided with a scale. The scale being provided
   along the hollow connecting ring facilitates the adjustment of the rotation of the angle
25 of the filter by the user, and especially facilitates the adjustment within a small range,
   which reduces the adjustment error and improves the accuracy.
         The present invention has following advantages:
         In a way of magnetic attraction, the present invention achieves quick mounting
   and disassembling between the filter and the filter holder, and solves the phenomenon
30 of getting stuck when the filter is being mounted on the conventional filter holder; and
                                                 5

    the cancelation of the conventional slot leads to that the thickness of the entire filter
    holder is greatly reduced and the vignetting will not happen after the filter is mounted,
    and the photographing effect is improved. When in use, the filter is not easy to slide
    down due to the quality of the conventional slot of the holder and the filter's own
  5 weight, and the mounting is stable and reliable. At the same time, the filter is very
    flexible and convenient when it is adjusted to slide up and down or to turn left and
    right. Due to the magnetic attraction, no light leakage occurs because of a gap between
    the filters, and the photographing effect is not affected.
    BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
  o       FIG. 1 is a schematic view shows how a filter assembly structure is assembled in
    embodiment 1 of the present invention.
          FIG. 2 is a schematic view shows how the filter and the fixed frame are assembled
    in embodiment 1 of the present invention.
          FIG. 3 is a schematic view shows how the filter and the fixed frame are
  5 disassembled in embodiment 1 of the present invention.
          FIG. 4 is a schematic view partly shows how the filter and a left frame are
    assembled in embodiment 1 of the present invention.
          FIG. 5 is a schematic view partly shows how the filter and a right frame are
    assembled in embodiment 1 of the present invention.
zo0       FIG. 6 is a schematic view partly shows how the filter and an upper frame are
    assembled in embodiment 1 of the present invention.
          FIG. 7 is a schematic view partly shows how the filter and a lower frame are
    assembled in embodiment 1 of the present invention.
          FIG. 8 is a schematic view shows how a filter assembly structure is assembled in
25  embodiment 2 of the present invention.
          FIG. 9 is a schematic view shows how a filter assembly structure is assembled in
    embodiment 3 of the present invention.
          FIG. 10 is a schematic view shows how the filter assembly structure is
    disassembled in embodiment 3 of the present invention.
30        The accompanying drawings are only for exemplary description, and shall not be
                                                  6

   construed as limiting the patent. In order to better illustrate the embodiments of the
   present invention, some parts are omitted, zoomed in or out in the accompanying
   drawings, but do not represent the actual size of the product. It is understandable for
   those skilled in the art that some known structures and the description thereof may be
 5 omitted in the accompanying drawings.
   DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERED EMBODIMENT
          The present invention is further described with reference to the accompanying
   drawings and specific embodiment.
          Embodiment 1
 0        As shown in FIG. 1, a filter assembly structure 100 of the present invention,
   comprises a filter holder 200 and a filter 300, wherein the filter 300 is mounted on the
   filter holder 200 in a way of magnetic attraction, so as to achieves quick mounting and
   disassembling between the filter 300 and the filter holder 200, and solves the
   phenomenon of getting stuck when the filter is being mounted on the conventional
 5 filter holder. The cancelation of the conventional slot leads to that the thickness of the
   entire filter holder is greatly reduced and the vignetting will not happen after the filter
   is mounted, and the photographing effect is improved. When in use, the filter 300 is
   not easy to slide down due to the quality of the conventional slot of the holder and the
   filter's own weight, and the mounting is stable and reliable. At the same time, the filter
2o 300 is very flexible and convenient when it is adjusted to slide up and down or to turn
   left and right.
          In the present embodiment, a fixed frame is provided around the filter 300, and a
   magnetic material is provided in the fixed frame. The filter holder 200 is provided with
   a mounting area (which is not shown) for mounting the filter 300, and at least the
25 mounting area is made of a material that can be magnetically attracted to the magnetic
   material. The arrangement of the fixed frame leads to that, due to the buffering
   protection of the fixed frame, the filter is not easy to be broken even if the filter slides
   off due to an accident.
          The magnetic material generally refer to substance that can directly generate
30 magnetism, such as lodestone, magnetic rubber or metallic magnets. The magnetic
                                                 7

   material of the present invention is preferably a permanent magnetic material, to
   ensure long-term and reliable use. The material that can be magnetically attracted to
   the magnetic material includes a magnetic material, a non-magnetic iron-containing
   material, and a combination thereof, wherein the non-magnetic iron-containing
 5 material generally refers to a material that containing more than 40% of iron element,
   such as stainless iron, steel, iron plate, and so on.
         In the present embodiment, only the mounting area is made of the material that
   can be magnetically attracted to the magnetic material. That is to say, except the
   mounting area, other areas are made of a material that cannot be magnetically attracted
 o to the magnetic material. The mounting area is preferably a vertical rectangular area,
   and the width of which is preferably 5 to 10 mm. Since other areas are made of
   non-magnetic material, only the mounting area can be magnetically attracted to the
   fixed frame. When the fixed frame is not aligned with the mounting area, the filter 300
   cannot be mounted on the filter holder 200 by the user. Such arrangement facilitates
 5 the mounting or the adjustment of the filter by the user.
         As shown in FIG. 2 to FIG. 3, in the present embodiment, the fixed frame
   comprises an upper frame 301, a lower frame 302, a left frame 303 and a right frame
   304, and the magnetic material 305 is provided in at least the left frame 303 and the
   right frame 304. Normally, the magnetic material being provided just in the left frame
20 can ensure that the filter is firmly mounted on the filter holder. Of course, the magnetic
   material may also be provided in the upper frame and/or the lower frame, which can
   further increase the magnetic attraction force and lead to firmer mounting.
         As shown in FIG. 3 to FIG. 7, the left frame 303 and the right frame 304 are
   respectively provided with a hollow groove 306 and a first U-shaped groove 307, and
25 the upper frame 301 and the lower frame 302 are respectively provided with a second
   U-shaped groove 308. Both ends of the upper frame 301 and both ends of the lower
   frame 302 are respectively provided with a convex block 309. The left frame 303 and
   the right frame 304 are respectively fitted with a left side and a right side of the filter
   300 via the first U-shaped groove 307, and the upper frame 301 and the lower frame
30 302 are respectively fitted with an upper side and a lower side of the filter 300 via the
                                                  8

   second U-shaped groove 308. The magnetic material 305 is provided in the hollow
   groove 306. The convex blocks 309 are respectively inserted into both ends of the
   hollow groove 306 such that the fixed frame is assembled. Such structure not only
   facilitates that the magnetic material 305 is provided in the fixed frame, but facilitates
 5 the assembling and disassembling of the fixed frame itself, and the assembling and
   disassembling of fixed frame relative to the filter.
         In the present embodiment, a double-sided tape is provided in the first U-shaped
   groove 307 and/or the second U-shaped groove 308. That the double-sided tape is
   provided in the U-shaped grooves lead to a closer fit between the U-shaped groove and
 o the edge of the filter.
         In the present embodiment, a depth of the first U-shaped groove 307 and/or the
   second U-shaped groove 308 is ranged from 1.5mm to 2 mm. Depth value that is too
   low will cause the U-shaped groove to be fitted with the edge of the filter less closely,
   which causes that the filter slides off easily. Depth value that is too high will cause a
 5 decrease in the width of the filter, which causes vignetting to be formed easily during
   photographing. In addition, the thickness of the fixed frame is preferably 3 mm, and
   the thickness of both side walls of the U-shaped grooves is preferably 0.5 mm.
         In the present embodiment, the left frame 303 or the right frame 304 is provided
   with a scale. Since the shooting process requires a higher accuracy of position of the
zo filter, the arrangement of the scale can facilitate that the position of the filter is
   adjusted by the user by sliding, and especially facilitate the adjustment within a small
   range, which reduces the adjustment error and improves the accuracy.
         Embodiment 2
         The present embodiment differs from embodiment 1 in that: as shown in FIG. 8,
25 the filter assembly structure 100 in the present embodiment comprises three filters 300,
   and the adjacent filters are fixed in a way of magnetic attraction.
         Due to the magnetic attraction, no light leakage occurs because of a gap between
   the filters 300, and the photographing effect is not affected. At the same time, the
   design of the fixed frame can further ensure that there will be no gap between the
30 filters 300, which prevent light leakage.
                                                9

         The rest of the structure is the same with embodiment 1.
         Embodiment 3
         The present embodiment differs from embodiment 2 in that: as shown in FIGS.
   9-10, in the present embodiment, a hollow connecting ring 400 is provided between
 5 the adjacent filters 300. The hollow connecting ring 400 and the filters 300 are fixed in
   a way of magnetic attraction. If two adjacent filters are directly magnetically attracted
   to each other, when one filter is rotated and adjusted relative to the other filter, the way
   of magnetic attraction gradually changes from surface contact to point contact, and the
   magnetic attraction force decreases sharply, which causes filter to slide off easily. And
 o the range of adjustment of rotation is limited due to point contact. Therefore, a hollow
   connecting ring 400 is provided between the adjacent filters. When one filter is rotated
   and adjusted relative to the other filter, the way of the magnetic attraction between the
   two adjacent filters 300 and the hollow connecting ring 400 always remains as surface
   contact, and the magnetic attraction force can be kept constant, which ensures that the
 5 filter does not slide off during the adjustment process and is rotated and adjusted more
   precisely.
         In the present embodiment, the hollow connecting ring 400 is a circular-shaped
   hollow connecting ring, and the hollow connecting ring 400 is provided with a scale.
   The scale being provided along the hollow connecting ring facilitates the adjustment of
2o the rotation of the angle of the filter by the user, and especially facilitates the
   adjustment within a small range, which reduces the adjustment error and improves the
   accuracy.
         The rest of the structure is the same with embodiment 2.
         Apparently, the above-described embodiment of the present invention is just an
25 embodiment for describing the present invention clearly, but not limitation to the
   implementations of the present invention. For those having ordinary skill in the art,
   variations or changes in different forms can be made on the basis of the above
   description. All of the implementations should not and could not be exhaustive herein.
   Any amendments, equivalent replacements and improvement made within the spirit
30 and principle of the present invention shall all be included within the scope of
                                                 10

  protection of the claims of the present invention.
       It will be understood that the term "comprise" and any of its derivatives         (eg
  comprises, comprising) as used in this specification is to be taken to be inclusive of
  features to which it refers, and is not meant to exclude the presence of any additional
s features unless otherwise stated or implied.
       The reference to any prior art in this specification is not, and should not be taken
  as, an acknowledgement of any form of suggestion that such prior art forms part of the
  common general knowledge.
                                              11

What is claimed:
1. A filter assembly structure, comprising a filter holder and at least one filter, characterized
in that, the at least one filter is mounted on the filter holder in a way of magnetic attraction.
2. The filter assembly structure according to claim 1, wherein a fixed frame is provided
around the filter, and a magnetic material being provided in the fixed frame, and the filter
holder is provided with a mounting area for mounting the filter, at least the mounting area
being made of a material that can be magnetically attracted to the magnetic material.
3. The filter assembly structure according to claim 2, wherein the fixed frame comprises an
upper frame, a lower frame, a left frame and a right frame, the magnetic material being
provided in at least the left frame and the right frame.
4. The filter assembly structure according to claim 3, wherein the left frame and the right
frame are respectively provided with a hollow groove and a first U-shaped groove, and the
upper frame and the lower frame are respectively provided with a second U-shaped groove,
both ends of the upper frame and both ends of the lower frame being respectively provided
with a convex block, the left frame and the right frame being respectively fitted with a left
side and a right side of the filter via the first U-shaped groove, the upper frame and the lower
frame being respectively fitted with an upper side and a lower side of the filter via the second
U-shaped groove, the magnetic material being provided in the hollow groove, the convex
blocks being respectively inserted into both ends of the hollow groove such that the fixed
frame is assembled.
5. The filter assembly structure according to claim 4, wherein a double-sided tape is provided
in the first U-shaped groove and/or the second U-shaped groove.
6. The filter assembly structure according to claim 4, wherein a depth of the first U-shaped
                                                   12

groove and/or of the second U-shaped groove is ranged from 1.5mm to 2 mm.
7. The filter assembly structure according to claim 3, wherein at least the left frame or the
right frame is provided with a scale.
8. The filter assembly structure according to claim 2, wherein only the mounting area is made
of the material that can be magnetically attracted to the magnetic material.
9. The filter assembly structure according to any one of claims 1-8, wherein the filter
assembly structure comprises at least two filters, a hollow connecting ring being provided
between the adjacent filters, the hollow connecting ring and the filters being fixed in a way of
magnetic attraction.
10. The filter assembly structure according to claim 9, wherein the hollow connecting ring is
a circular-shaped hollow connecting ring, and the hollow connecting ring is provided with a
scale.
                                                13

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
