ABSTRACT
        The present invention is directed to an intraluminal guiding device having an
expandable guiding member so as to facilitate and overcome the difficulties associated
with obtaining contra-lateral leg access of a bifurcated stent or a bifurcated stent graft with
a second guidewire and a method for treating abdominal aortic aneurysms with such a
device.   The guiding device comprises a pre-loaded second wire positioned within the
contra-lateral leg which facilitates access to said leg in accordance with the present
invention.

      1/14
     FIG. I
          22a
            21a
                    11
                     14
                        10
 22b
                       12
20           21b
            30
               41
                 40

                                                  1
STENT CANNULATION GUIDING DEVICE FOR BIFURCATED STENT AND
METHOD OF USE
CROSS REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATION
[0001]    This application is a divisional application of Australian patent application no.
2013270547, the disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference.
FIELD OF THE INVENTION
[0002]           The present invention relates to abdominal aortic aneurismal devices and
more particularly to a guiding device of the delivery system which facilitates cannulation
of the contra-lateral leg of a Bifurcated Stent or Bifurcated Stent Graft in-vivo and the
method of use.
BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
[0003]           An aneurysm is an abnormal dilation of a layer or layers of an arterial wall,
usually caused by a systemic collagen synthetic or structural defect. An abdominal aortic
aneurysm is an aneurysm in the abdominal portion of the aorta, usually located in or near one
or both of the two iliac arteries or near the renal arteries. The abdominal aortic aneurysm
often arises in the infrarenal portion of the diseased aorta, for example, below the kidneys. A
thoracic aortic aneurysm is an aneurysm in the thoracic portion of the aorta. When left
untreated, the aneurysm may rupture, usually causing rapid fatal hemorrhaging.
[0004]           Aneurysms may be classified or typed by their position as well as by the
number of aneurysms in a cluster. Typically, abdominal aortic aneurysms may be classified
into five types. A Type I aneurysm is a single dilation located between the renal arteries and
the iliac arteries. Typically, in a Type I aneurysm, the aorta is healthy between the renal
arteries and the aneurysm, and between the aneurysm and the iliac arteries.
[0005]           A Type II A aneurysm is a single dilation located between the renal arteries
and the iliac arteries. In a Type II A aneurysm, the aorta is healthy between the renal arteries

                                                  2
and the aneurysm, but not healthy between the aneurysm and the iliac arteries. In other
words, the dilation extends to the aortic bifurcation. A Type II B aneurysm comprises three
dilations. One dilation is located between the renal arteries and the iliac arteries. Like a Type
II A aneurysm, the aorta is healthy between the aneurysm and the renal arteries, but not
healthy between the aneurysm and the iliac arteries. The other two dilations are located in the
iliac arteries between the aortic bifurcation and the bifurcations between the external iliacs
and the internal iliacs. The iliac arteries are healthy between the iliac bifurcation and the
aneurysms. A Type II C aneurysm also comprises three dilations. However, in a Type II C
aneurysm, the dilations in the iliac arteries extend to the iliac bifurcation.
[0006]           A Type III aneurysm is a single dilation located between the renal arteries and
the iliac arteries. In a Type III aneurysm, the aorta is not healthy between the renal arteries
and the aneurysm. In other words, the dilation extends to the renal arteries.
[0007]           A ruptured abdominal aortic aneurysm is presently the thirteenth leading cause
of death in the United States. The routine management of abdominal aortic aneurysms has
been surgical bypass, with the placement of a graft in the involved or dilated segment.
Although resection with a synthetic graft via transperitoneal or retroperitoneal procedure has
been the standard treatment, it is associated with significant risk. For example, complications
may include peri-operative myocardial ischemia, renal failure, erectile impotence, intestinal
ischemia, infection, lower limb ischemia, spinal cord injury with paralysis, aorta-enteric
fistula, and death. Surgical treatment of abdominal aortic aneurysms is associated with an
overall mortality rate of five percent in asymptomatic patients, sixteen to nineteen percent in
symptomatic patients, and is as high as fifty percent in patients with ruptured abdominal aortic
aneurysms.
[0008]           Disadvantages associated with conventional surgery, in addition to the high
mortality rate, include an extended recovery period associated with the large surgical incision
and the opening of the abdominal cavity, difficulties in suturing the graft to the aorta, the loss
of the existing thrombosis to support and reinforce the graft, the unsuitability of the surgery
for many patients having abdominal aortic aneurysms, and the problems associated with
performing the surgery on an emergency basis after the aneurysm has ruptured. Further, the
typical recovery period is from one to two weeks in the hospital and a convalescence period,

                                                  3
at home, ranging from two to three months or more, if complications ensue. Since many
patients having abdominal aortic aneurysms have other chronic illnesses, such as heart, lung,
liver and/or kidney disease, coupled with the fact that many of these patients are older, they
are less than ideal candidates for surgery.
[0009]          The occurrence of aneurysms is not confined to the abdominal region. While
abdominal aortic aneurysms are generally the most common, aneurysms in other regions of
the aorta or one of its branches are possible. For example, aneurysms may occur in the
thoracic aorta. As is the case with abdominal aortic aneurysms, the widely accepted approach
to treating an aneurysm in the thoracic aorta is surgical repair, involving replacing the
aneurismal segment with a prosthetic device. This surgery, as described above, is a major
undertaking, with associated high risks and with significant mortality and morbidity.
[0010]          Over the past five years, there has been a great deal of research directed at
developing less invasive, endovascular, i.e., catheter directed, techniques for the treatment of
aneurysms, specifically abdominal aortic aneurysms. This has been facilitated by the
development of vascular stents, which can and have been used in conjunction with standard or
thin-wall graft material in order to create a stent-graft or endo-graft. The potential advantages
of less invasive treatments have included reduced surgical morbidity and mortality along with
shorter hospital and intensive care unit stays.
[0011]          Stent-grafts or endoprostheses are now Food and Drug Administration
(FDA) approved and commercially available. Their delivery procedure typically involves
advanced angiographic techniques performed through vascular accesses gained via surgical
cut down of a remote artery, which may include the common femoral or brachial arteries.
Over a guidewire, the appropriate size introducer will be placed. The catheter and
guidewire are passed through the aneurysm. Through the introducer, the stent-graft will be
advanced to the appropriate position. Typical deployment of the stent-graft device requires
withdrawal of an outer sheath while maintaining the position of the stent-graft with an
inner-stabilizing device. Most stent-grafts are self-expanding; however, in some cases an
additional angioplasty procedure, e.g., balloon angioplasty, may be required to secure the
position of the stent-graft. Most stent-grafts for percutaneous treatment of abdominal aortic
aneurismal disease frequently have a proximal portion or trunk with a single proximal

                                                  4
lumen that then bifurcates into two distal lumens of a smaller diameter than the diameter of
said proximal portion. The distal lumens may have equal or unequal lengths. The
proximal trunk portion of this bifurcated stent graft, being in fluid communication with
each of the two distal lumens allows for uninterrupted fluid flow though the entire stent
graft while excluding any flow into the aneurismal space.
[0012]           Due to the large diameter of the above-described devices, typically greater
than twenty French (F) (whereas 3F=1 mm), arteriotomy closure typically requires suturing to
facilitate the healing process. Some procedures may require additional surgical techniques,
such as hypogastric artery embolization, vessel ligation, or surgical bypass in order to
adequately treat the aneurysm or to maintain blood flow to both lower extremities. Likewise,
some procedures will require additional advanced catheter directed techniques, such as
angioplasty, stent placement and embolization, in order to successfully exclude the aneurysm
and efficiently manage leaks.
[0013]           As one increases the profile of the device, the difficulty in delivering the
device also increases. The market today is populated by devices approximately 20F and
greater requiring the need for a surgical cut-down approach utilizing catheters, guidewires and
accessory devices. Although devices of this size may substantially eliminate the need for
open surgical intervention and the cut-down approach significantly reduces the acute
complications that often accompany open surgical intervention, the ultimate goal and the
market trend is to reduce delivery system profiles below 20F, and thus be able to perform the
procedure of delivering an endoprosthesis percutaneously, as by the Seldinger technique,
which eliminates the need for the cut-down procedure.
[0014]           Given the large profile of Abdominal Aortic Aneurysm devices, there is a
significant motivation to reduce profile. In order to reduce profile, the stents comprising the
bifurcated legs are sometimes staggered relative to one another so that they are nested
during delivery. By staggering the stent components of the bifurcated section, although a
reduced profile can be achieved, the column strength of each leg may be somewhat
compromised, this may in turn lead to a cannulation difficulties into the bifurcated legs.
An alternative method in which to accomplish a reduction in overall profile is to assemble the
resulting stent graft in the vessel by delivering the portions or sections of the device

                                                  5
individually. With individual delivery of the portions, the overall resulting profile may be
significantly reduced for each individual portion relative to the overall resulting profile in the
situation when the entire device is delivered simultaneously. With a staged delivery as
described, cannulation of the previously implanted portion is critical in locating the
subsequently delivered portion and to ensure that inter-operative assembly of the individual
portions is successful.
[0015]           In addressing Abdominal Aortic Aneurismal disease, frequently, the initial
stent-graft will be supplemented by the use of one or more additional stent-grafts, also known
as endo-legs. By delivering the endo-legs separately, one can achieve the previously stated
objective of reduced profile. The purpose of these endo-legs allows extension of one or both
of the distal lumens of the initial stent-graft into each of the corresponding iliac arteries to
allow for a continuous and uninterrupted flow path from the aorta into the respective iliac
arteries and to ensure complete exclusion of the aneurysm. To ensure the continuous flow
path, proper placement and securing of the endo-leg into the corresponding distal lumen of
the initial stent graft is critical.   Improper placement of the endo-leg may result in poor
fixation and/or anchoring of the device. In addition improper placement may result in a poor
fit of the endo-leg in the distal lumen of the initial stent-graft, which may result in endo-leaks
as the uninterrupted flow path would be compromised.
[0016]           While the above-described endoprostheses represents a significant
improvement over conventional surgical techniques, there is a need to improve the
endoprostheses, particularly their method of use and delivery and their applicability to varied
biological conditions. Accordingly, in order to provide a safe and effective means for treating
aneurysms, including abdominal aortic aneurysms as well as other cases where bifurcated
stents or stent-grafts are utilized, a number of difficulties associated with currently known
endoprostheses and their delivery systems must be overcome. One concern with the use of
endoprostheses as described above, specifically the efficient and proper placement of an
extension leg, is the ease of which access to the lumen of the device, or in the case of an
abdominal aortic aneurismal device, the ease of which access to the contra-lateral leg of the
initial stent-graft with a guide-wire can be achieved. This ease of use is directly correlated to
the time required to achieve this objective, with time in this case being the interventionalist's
enemy.

                                                  6
[0017]           With the placement of abdominal aortic aneurismal devices, the trunk and
distal lumen portions of the device are usually delivered with a delivery system that
frequently utilizes a first guidewire, commonly referred to as the ipsilateral guidewire.
Typically, said trunk and one of the distal lumens of the device tracks over said ipsilateral
guidewire, meaning the ipsilateral guidewire is positioned within the interior of the device,
through the trunk and one of the distal lumens of the initial graft. Proper placement of the
guidewire essentially facilitates proper placement of the trunk portion and one of the distal
lumen portions as well as at least one of the endo-legs providing an extension of the distal
lumen when the corresponding endo-leg is subsequently delivered over said ipsilateral
guidewire.
[0018]           With the first endo-leg properly positioned, access to the contra-lateral leg of
the device is normally performed with a second guidewire, and achieved by feel and
experience of the physician directing the guidewire external to the body to control movement
within the vessel augmented by the real-time fluoroscopic image provided. This can be an
extremely difficult and time consuming task in normal vessels and the difficulty and time may
significantly increase in tortuous vessels, highly angulated vessels, partially diseased vessels,
calcified vessels, odd shaped vessels, short vessels, and/or long vessels all of which are quite
common.      The addition of both time and difficulty to the procedure may affect patient
outcome. It is also desirable to limit exposure time to the various contrast agents utilized that
enable real-time fluoroscopic imaging.
[0019]           Accordingly, there exists a need for obtaining quick, easy, and efficient
access of guidewires into the lumen of a previously placed device. It would be particularly
advantageous to facilitate placement of a guidewire into the contra-lateral leg of an
abdominal aortic aneurismal device.
[0020]           In placing abdominal aortic aneurismal devices, it would also be
advantageous to utilize in some way the existing delivery system over the first guidewire
that placed the initial graft, to facilitate placement of the second guidewire into the contra
lateral leg of the initial graft given the relationship of the locations of the first and second
guidewires ordinarily used in such a procedure.

                                               7
SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
[0021]          The guiding device of the delivery system of the present invention allows
one to overcome the difficulties associated with the methods and devices currently in use
for obtaining contra-lateral leg access of the device to be implanted in order to treat both
aneurysms and other related vascular diseases, as briefly described above, as well as being
useful in other applications where access to a lumen requires facilitation.
[0022]          In one embodiment of the invention, an intraluminal delivery device
comprises an elongate inner tubular member having a proximal region and a distal region
and being adapted to engage over a guidewire. The distal region of the elongate inner
tubular member is configured to receive a bifurcated intraluminal device having a first
tubular leg and a second tubular leg. The first and the second tubular legs each have a
distal opening, wherein the distal region of the elongated inner tubular member is
positioned within the first leg. The intraluminal delivery device further includes a pre
loaded guidewire segment having a length shorter than the elongated inner tubular
member. The pre-loaded guidewire segment is attached to the elongate inner tubular
member in a Y-shaped configuration and positioned within the second leg and extending
there through.
[0023]          In another embodiment of the invention, a pre-loaded wire is loaded into the
prosthesis and delivery catheter at the time of manufacture and positioned to be within or
extend beyond the contra-lateral leg during implantation. This allows the user to capture
this wire with use of a snare and obtain contra-lateral leg access with a second guidewire.
At this point a catheter may be advanced over the snare and wire to allow for placement of
a second prosthesis secured within the contra-lateral leg of the first prosthesis.
[0024]          In accordance with another aspect, the present invention is directed to a
method for treatment of aneurismal disease in an artery wall. More specifically the present
invention is directed to a method to obtain contra-lateral leg access of a Bifurcated Stent or
Bifurcated Stent Graft. Specifically the method in accordance with the present invention
comprises the controlled delivery of an initial bifurcated stent graft for the treatment of
abdominal aortic aneurismal disease or other vascular diseases. The guiding device of this

                                                 8
delivery system in accordance with the present invention allows for and facilitates access
to the contra-lateral lumen of the initial bifurcated stent graft by directing the second
guidewire into the contra-lateral leg. The guiding device achieves this by providing a
larger target or opening diameter to receive the second guidewire and is positioned to allow
for direct entry of the guidewire into the contra-lateral lumen. Upon initial deployment of
the contra-lateral endo-leg, the expandable member may be released having performed its
function, because the guidewire passed through the interior of the expandable member, the
same is true for the second endo-leg, which prevents any additional migration or
movement of the expandable member given that once the endo-leg is fully deployed after
release of the expandable member, the outward diametrical expansion of the endo-legs
retains the position of the expandable member since the expandable member is
concentrically wrapped around the endo-leg. At this point the endo-leg for the ipsilateral
distal lumen can be delivered over the first guide wire. Alternately in accordance with the
present invention, one may utilize the pre-loaded wire in the prosthesis, which upon
capturing with a snare may allow for easier contra-lateral leg access.
[0025]          In accordance with another aspect of the invention, the intraluminal device
has a main body including a proximal trunk portion and distal first and second tubular leg
portions, and a separate and detached endo-leg portion. The method of delivering the
intraluminal device to the location in a body lumen includes delivering a first delivery
device to a location in the body lumen. The first delivery device includes a first elongate
member and a pre-loaded wire attached thereto, and carries the main body of the
intraluminal device such that the first elongate member extends through the proximal trunk
portion and distal first leg portion of the intraluminal main body portion. The main body
of the intraluminal device is deployed at the location in the body lumen, and the first
delivery device is positioned within the main body of the deployed intraluminal device
such that a free end of the pre-loaded wire extends into the second leg of the intraluminal
main body portion. A second delivery device having a second elongate member is
delivered to the location in the body lumen. The second elongate member includes a
capturing mechanism associated therewith, configured for grasping the pre-loaded wire.
The second delivery device also carries the endo-leg of the intraluminal device. The
process further includes grasping the pre-loaded wire with the capturing mechanism
associated with the second delivery device, advancing the second elongate member into the

                                                 9
lumen of the second tubular leg to position the endo-leg in the desired location and
deploying the endo-leg.
[0026]           In accordance with another aspect of the invention, the method of delivering
a bifurcated stent and extension endo-leg comprises the steps of:
                 delivering a bifurcated stent over a first elongated guidewire through a first
vessel, the first elongated guidewire having a proximal and first distal end, the bifurcated
stent having a first end and a second end wherein said second end is bifurcated resulting in
first and second luminal opening, each opening providing a uninterrupted flow path to the
first end and wherein said first guidewire is positioned within the first luminal opening
passing through the uninterrupted flow path and out the first end and wherein said first
guidewire has an ancillary length attached to the distal end resulting in a second distal end
positioned away from said first distal end and positioned within the second luminal
opening extending beyond said opening;
                 delivering over a second guidewire through a second vessel a snare device
wherein said snare device can be operatively attached to the second distal end of the first
guidewire;
                 attaching said snare device to the second distal end of the first guidewire;
                 advancing said first guidewire beyond the first end of the stent resulting in
said second guidewire to be positioned in the second luminal opening; and
                 delivering an extension endo-leg having a first end and a second end over
said second guidewire through a second vessel wherein the first end of the extension endo
leg is positioned within the second luminal opening of the bifurcated stent and the second
end of the extension endo-leg is positioned with the second vessel resulting in an extension
of the uninterrupted flow path.
[0027]           In a further aspect of the invention, a method of delivering an intraluminal
device to the location in a body lumen is provided. The intraluminal device has a main
body including a proximal trunk portion and distal first and second tubular leg portions,
and a separate and detached endo-leg portion. In this aspect, the method comprises the
steps of:
                 delivering a first delivery device to a location in the body lumen, the first
delivery device including a first elongate member and a pre-loaded wire attached thereto,

                                                10
and carrying the main body of the intraluminal device such that the first elongate member
extends through the proximal trunk portion and distal first leg portion of the intraluminal
main body portion;
                 deploying the main body of the intraluminal device at the location in the
body lumen;
                positioning the first delivery device within the main body of the deployed
intraluminal device such that a free end of the pre-loaded wire extends into the second leg
of the intraluminal main body portion;
                delivering a second delivery device having a second elongate member to the
location in the body lumen, the second elongate member having a capturing mechanism
associated therewith configured for grasping the pre-loaded wire, the second delivery
device carrying the endo-leg of the intraluminal device;
                grasping the pre-loaded wire with the capturing mechanism associated with
the second delivery device;
                advancing the second elongate member into the lumen of the second tubular
leg to position the endo-leg in the desired location; and
                deploying the endo-leg.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0028]          The foregoing and other features and advantages of the invention will be
apparent from the following, more particular description of preferred embodiments of the
invention, as illustrated in the accompanying drawings.
[0029]          Figure 1 is a perspective view of a first embodiment of a cannulation
guiding device in the deployed state in accordance with the present invention.
[0030]          Figure 2 is a perspective view of a second embodiment of a cannulation
guiding device in the deployed state in accordance with the present invention.
[0031]          Figure 3 is a perspective view of a third embodiment of a cannulation
guiding device in the deployed state in accordance with the present invention.

                                               11
[0032]          Figure 4 is a perspective view of a fourth embodiment of a cannulation
guiding device in the deployed state in accordance with the present invention.
[0033]          Figure 5 is a perspective view of a fifth embodiment of a cannulation
guiding device in the deployed state in accordance with the present invention.
[0034]          Figure 6 is a perspective view of another embodiment of a cannulation
guiding device in the deployed state in accordance with the present invention.
[0035]          Figures 7a through 7h provide a diagrammatic representation of the process
of how a cannulation guiding device would be utilized to facilitate gaining access to the
contra-lateral leg of an abdominal aortic aneurismal device in accordance with the present
invention.
[0036]          Figures 8a through 8h provide a diagrammatic representation of the process
of how a cannulation guiding device would be utilized to facilitate gaining access to the
contra-lateral leg of an abdominal aortic aneurismal device having a suture loop in place to
maintain the position of the contralateral leg in accordance with the present invention.
[0037]          Figure 9 is a perspective view of a modified embodiment of a deployed
cannulation guiding device in accordance with the present invention.
[0038]          Figure 10 shows the steps one may follow to facilitate placement of the
contra-lateral guidewire within the cannulation guiding device by moving the cannulation
guiding device down over guidewire in accordance with the present invention.
[0039]          Figures 11 a & 11 b show a modified embodiment of the expandable member
of the present invention operatively attached to the inner member both in the deployed
state as well as the deployed and subsequently unconstrained state.
[0040]          Figure 12 is a diagrammatic representation of a first deployment system
with the abdominal aortic aneurismal device deployed having a pre-loaded wire positioned
within the contra-lateral leg which facilitates access to said leg in accordance with the
present invention.

                                               12
DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS
[0041]          The present invention is directed to an endovascular delivery system for use
in treating or repairing aneurysms. Systems for treating or repairing aneurysms come in
many forms. The systems for treating Abdominal Aortic Aneurysms typically include an
anchoring and/or sealing component which is positioned in healthy tissue above the
aneurysm and one or more grafts which are in fluid communication with the anchoring
and/or sealing component and extend through the aneurysm and anchor in healthy tissue
below the aneurysm. This results in an uninterrupted flow path from one portion of the
artery to another thereby bypassing the diseased portion of the artery by isolating the flow
path through the diseased portion of the artery.
[0042]          Current systems are preferably percutaneously delivered and deployed. The
conventional delivery system comprises an elongated inner tube or member having both a
proximal and distal region wherein the distal region of the inner tube is configured to
receive and intraluminal device such as a stent, stent graft or other intraluminal device.
The delivery device also comprises a sheath, which is positioned concentrically around at
least a portion of the inner member and at least partially covers the intraluminal device
positioned on the inner member. This construct is assembled such that when movement of
the inner member relative to the sheath occurs, the intraluminal device moves with the
inner member and becomes uncovered by the sheath allowing for the intraluminal device
to be deployed either by self-expanding means when the stent is fabricated from a shape
memory alloy or be expanded by the application of an outwardly directed radial force on
the inner surface of the stent accomplished with a inflatable balloon mounted on the inner
member and positioned beneath the intraluminal device.
[0043]          The cannulation guiding device and method of use of the present invention
may be utilized to effectively reduce operative time required to prevent and treat
abdominal aortic aneurismal disease by facilitating placement of the contra-lateral
guidewire within the intraluminal medical device. Although the treatment of this disease
continues to advance, as stated above the operator may encounter difficulties in gaining
access to the contra-lateral leg of the deployed device, especially in the more tortuous
vessels, thereby potentially extending the surgical time required to complete the procedure.

                                                13
Although the present invention may be utilized in other procedures and diseases where
similar difficulties are encountered or similar access is required, the exemplary
embodiments of the present invention will be described with respect to the treatment of
Abdominal Aortic Aneurismal Disease. In addition, a methodology will be described for
the effective delivery of abdominal aortic aneurismal devices using a cannulation guiding
device in accordance with the present invention.
[0044]          Referring to figure 1, the illustration depicts a first embodiment of a
cannulation guiding device in accordance with the present invention. For ease of
explanation and clarity, only the distal region of the device is illustrated in this and the
following figures, as the remaining proximal portion of the device is substantially similar
to conventional delivery devices. In this embodiment the system is comprised of an
expandable member (10) having a proximal opening (12) and distal opening (11) and an
intermediate conduit between said proximal and distal openings. The expandable member
may be releasably attached to an inner member (20) of a delivery system by means of a
release wire (30). This may be accomplished by incorporating features such as release wire
guides (21a & 21b) axially positioned on the inner member (20) adapted to receive the
release wire (30) by having the release wire (30) pass through the openings (22a & 22b) of
the release wire guides (21a & 21b). This entire construct is shown in the deployed state,
having been advanced distally relative to the delivery sheath (40) and upon exiting the
opening (41) of the delivery sheath (40) is no longer constrained by said delivery sheath
(40). Alternatively, the delivery sheath (40) may be moved proximally to expose the
construct. The expandable member (10) although not a requirement may preferably be
conically shaped in that the diameter of the proximal opening (11) is smaller than the
diameter of the distal opening (12). The expandable member (10) may also be augmented
with a stent structure (14), which may serve to define the deployed shape of the member.
Stent structure (14) may be fabricated from shape memory alloys or more traditional
metallic alloys. In each case an inflatable member may be used to expand the device or
alternately augment expansion. Alternately, expandable member (10) may be fabricated
from nitinol thin film that may allow expansion without the need for stent structure (14).
[0045]          In an alternative embodiment, expandable member (10) incorporates a
guiding tube (15), which defines a lumen (16) adapted to freely slide and rotate relative to

                                              14
and about release wire (30) as shown in figure 2. Extent of axial movement of expandable
member (10) can be controlled by relative axial positioning of release wire guides (21a &
21b).   Increasing the axial distance between release wire guides (21a & 21b) on inner
member (20) results in increased extent of travel of expandable member (10). Decreasing
the axial distance between release wire guides (21a & 21b) on inner member (20) results in
decrease extent of travel of expandable member (10).      In this embodiment it is preferred
that the lumen (16) of guiding tube (15) is appropriately sized to release wire (30) to allow
for suitable controlled movement of expandable member (10). In this embodiment and the
previous embodiment, axial retraction of the release wire (30) relative to the inner member
(20) allows for the release of the expandable member (10) from the inner member (20).
Once released, the inner member (20) and release wire (30) can be retracted within the
sheath (40) allowing for the entire delivery system to be safely removed from the
vasculature leaving behind the expandable member (10).
[0046]          As shown in figure 3, in yet another alternate exemplary embodiment, the
release wire (30) is optional in accordance with the present invention. In this embodiment
the expandable member (10) once again incorporates a guiding tube (15)              having a
longitudinal lumen (16) adapted to slide over inner member (20) which is preferably
configured with an axial stop (25) to prevent additional axial movement of expandable
member (10) beyond that of axial stop (25) located on inner member (20). Axial stop (25)
allows for any forward movement of inner member (20) to be transmitted to expandable
member (10). In this embodiment, expandable member (10) is free to rotate relative to and
about inner member (20). Expandable member (10) may also be operatively attached to
inner member to prevent rotation with use of a keyed slot. (not shown) Limiting rotational
movement of expandable member, and temporarily stitching the two distal lumens of the
first portion of the intraluminal device together may improve alignment of the cannulation
device with the contralateral distal lumen in the more difficult cases as well as in cases
where the extension lengths of each of the distal lumens of the intraluminal device are not
equivalent. Any required offsets of the cannulation device equivalent to the spacing of the
distal lumens of the delivered intraluminal device may be achieved by modifying the
spacing of the cannulation guiding device from that of the inner member to accommodate
different configurations of intraluminal devices.

                                                15
[0047]           As shown in figure 4, in yet another alternate exemplary embodiment, the
release wire (30) is optional and the need for the guiding tube (15) is no longer required.
In this embodiment in accordance with the present invention modified axial stop (26)
includes an extended shoulder (27) to limit radial translation of expandable member (10)
relative to inner member (20). As in the previous embodiment, the axial stop (26) allows
for any forward movement of inner member (20) to be transmitted to expandable member
(10), while limiting the additional axial movement of expandable member (10) beyond that
of axial stop (26) in the direction towards delivery sheath (40). In this embodiment,
relative rotation of the expandable member (10) relative to the inner member (20) is
allowed, as is limited translation in the radial plane and relative movement in the axial
direction as described above. But both rotation and translation may also be constrained
with the use of stops and keyways if desired.
[0048]           As shown in figure 5, alternate configurations and locations of the guiding
tube (15) are possible. In this embodiment, the guiding tube (15) is replaced with two
guide rings (1 7a & 17b) each having an opening (1 8a & 18b) adapted to receive the release
wire (30). In this embodiment the expandable member (10) is free to rotate about the
release wire (30) while limited axial movement is controlled by the presence and
placement of the release wire guides (21a & 21b).
[0049]           In accordance with the present invention, delivery of the intraluminal device is
greatly enhanced by significantly reducing operative time by facilitating access to the contra
lateral leg of a bifurcated intraluminal medical device. As shown in figure 7a, a first delivery
system (200) is delivered over a first guidewire (201) through one of the iliac arteries (101)
into the aneurismal sac (100) and up into the descending aorta (99). With the delivery system
(200) properly positioned with the aid of fluoroscopy, the first portion of the intraluminal
device (110) is deployed from the inner member (202) of the delivery system (200) securing
the trunk portion into the healthy portion of the descending aorta (99) leaving the two distal
lumens (111 & 112) positioned within the aneurismal sac space (100) as shown in figure 7b.
Advancing the inner member (202) of the first delivery system (200) further, deploys the
cannulation guiding member (10) from inner member (203) in accordance with the present
invention as shown in figure 7c. The location and shape of the cannulation guiding device
(10) is positioned such that upon delivery of a second guidewire (301), delivered up the other

                                                  16
iliac artery (102), allows for the tip of guidewire (301) to enter the interior of the cannulation
guiding member (10) as shown in figure 7d, and upon additional forward movement, the
guidewire (301) is directed into the distal lumen (112) of the intraluminal device (110)
facilitated by the cannulation guiding member (10) as shown in figure 7e. This is followed by
delivery of a second delivery system (300) over the second guide wire (301) up through the
other iliac (102) as shown in figure 7f. With the second delivery system (300) positioned
such that the inner member (302) of the second delivery system (300) passes through the
expandable member (10) of the cannulation guiding device and into the distal lumen (112) of
the intraluminal device (110), one is ready to deploy a second intraluminal device (310) as
shown in figure 7g. The second intraluminal device (310) in this situation is an endo-leg that
upon deployment is anchored into the distal lumen (112) of the intraluminal device (110) and
the opposing end of the second intraluminal device (310) is anchored in the iliac (102) as
shown in figure 7h. In addition, the expansion of the endo-leg (310) being positioned within
the interior of the expandable member (10) fixes the expandable member (10) to the exterior
of the endo-leg (310) after release from the inner member (203) of the first delivery system
(200). The procedure is completed with deployment of a second endo-leg (not shown) from
the first delivery system (200) allowing an uninterrupted flow path from the descending aorta
into both of the iliac arteries (101 & 102).
[0050]           In accordance with an alternative embodiment of the present invention,
facilitating access to the contra-lateral leg of a bifurcated intraluminal medical device can also
be achieved by augmenting or replacing the cannulation guiding member (10) with a suture
loop (113). Figures 8a through 8h provide a diagrammatic representation of the steps
showing how the use of one or more suture loops can, in this case, replace the cannulation
guiding member and still achieve the desired effect. While the cannulation guiding member
is not shown in figures 8a through 8h, it should be noted that the present invention is not
restricted to simply one or the other to facilitate contralateral access, but rather that each
component (i.e. one or more suture loops as shown in figures 8a through 8h, or the
cannulation guiding member as shown in figures 7a through 7h) used alone or in combination
may be utilized to achieve the desired effect.
[0051]           As shown in figure 8a, a first delivery system (200) is delivered over a first
guidewire (201) through one of the iliac arteries (101) into the aneurismal sac (100) and up

                                                  17
into the descending aorta (99). With the delivery system (200) properly positioned with the
aid of fluoroscopy, the first portion of the intraluminal device (110) is deployed from the inner
member (202) of the delivery system (200) securing the trunk portion into the healthy portion
of the descending aorta (99) leaving the two distal lumens (111 & 112) positioned within the
aneurismal sac space (100) as shown in figure 8b. Release wire (204) is positioned both
alongside inner member 202 and within distal lumen (111) and passes through suture loop
(113). Suture loop (113) is attached to distal lumen (112) passing through the wall of distal
lumen (111). The release wire (204) which passes through suture loop (113) serves to lock
the two distal lumens (111 & 112) adjacent to each other and also provides additional column
strength to the distal lumen (112). Although not shown, additional suture loops positioned
above and/or below suture loop (113) may be utilized to increase the degree of locking of the
two distal lumens further. The presence of additional suture loops would also serve to
increase the column strength further. Because of this additional column strength provided,
and somewhat fixed location of the distal lumen (112), entry of a guidewire into the distal
lumen (112) is simplified, more reliable and consistent. As shown in figures 8c and 8d,
advancing a second guidewire (301), delivered up the other iliac artery (102), allows for the
tip of guidewire (301) to enter the interior of the distal lumen (112) and upon additional
forward movement, the guidewire (301) is directed into the distal lumen (112) of the
intraluminal device (110) facilitated by the suture loop (113) locked onto the release wire
(204) which serves not only to fix the position of distal lumen (112) adjacent to distal lumen
(111), but also prevents the collapse of the opening of the distal lumen (112) due to the
increased column strength. With the contralateral guidewire (301) positioned within distal
lumen (112), delivery of a second delivery system (300) over the second guide wire (301) up
through the other iliac (102) can be accomplished as shown in figure 8e. Further
advancement of the second delivery system (300) occurs until the second delivery system is
positioned within the distal lumen (112) as shown in figure 8f. The enlarged detail of figure
8f shows the distal end of the delivery system (300) positioned within the distal lumen (112)
and shows the release wire (204) passing through suture loop (113) both being positioned
within the adjacent distal lumen (111). As shown in figure 8g, before deploying a second
intraluminal device (310) one withdraws the release wire (204) by pulling back release wire
(204) relative to inner member (202) so that the release wire (204) is no longer constrained by
the suture loop (113) and as such, distal lumen (112) is freed from being locked to and
adjacent to distal lumen (111). With distal lumen (112) freed from distal lumen (111),

                                                 18
manipulation of distal lumen (112) can occur if desired, by movement of the second delivery
system (300) which is still located within the distal lumen (112). The second intraluminal
device (310) in this situation is an endo-leg that upon deployment is anchored into the distal
lumen (112) of the intraluminal device (110) and the opposing end of the second intraluminal
device (310) is anchored in the iliac (102) as shown in figure 8h. The procedure is completed
with deployment of a second endo-leg (not shown) from the first delivery system (200). The
distal end of the second endo-leg would be fixed to the distal lumen (111) while the proximal
leg would be anchored to the ipsilateral iliac (101) creating an uninterrupted flow path from
the descending aorta into both of the iliac arteries (101 & 102).
[0052]          In a further embodiment, the expandable member (10) disclosed in Figures 1
7h can be combined with the suture loop (113), disclosed in Figures (8a) through (8h). This
configuration, illustrated in Figure 6, provides control over the location of the contra endo
leg (310), the ability to manipulate the contra endo-leg (310), and the ability to manipulate
and guide the guidewire (301) from the second delivery system (300) into the contra luminal
opening of the intraluminal device (110).
[0053]          As set forth above, in addition to releasing the expandable member (10) by
retraction of the release wire (30), additional modifications to the embodiments include the
expandable member (10) being fabricated with a longitudinal slit (199), as shown in figure
9, which may allow the expandable member to be easily removed from the release wire
(30) without retracting the release wire (30), or alternately allowing the expandable
member to be removed from the inner member (20) in those embodiments lacking a release
wire (30) without any relative axial movement between the inner member (20) and
expandable member (10). In an alternate embodiment the longitudinal slit (99) in the
expandable member (10) may allow for guidance of the second guidewire (2) into the
contra-lateral leg, and once achieved, allow for the expandable member (10) to be removed
from the second guidewire (2) that was previously positioned within the interior of the
expandable member (10).
[0054]          In another alternate exemplary embodiment, the sheath of the delivery
system may comprise an inner layer or coating on its inner surface which substantially
prevents the expandable member (10) from becoming embedded therein while increasing

                                                 19
the lubricity thereof. This inner layer or coating may be utilized with the sheaths
illustrated in figures 1 through 5, & 9 or as an alternative means to decrease the guiding
device deployment forces. Given the thinness of the coating, the overall profile of the
delivery system will be minimally impacted if at all. Any number of suitable biocompatible
materials may be utilized for such a coating. In an exemplary embodiment, silicone based
coatings may be utilized. Essentially, a solution of the silicone-based coating may be
injected through the apparatus and allowed to cure at room temperature. The amount of
silicone-based coating applied to the internal surface of the sheath (40) should be
minimized to prevent transference of the coating to the expandable member or any
additional intraluminal devices contained therein. In addition to increasing the strength of
the sheath and making it more lubricious, the coating is extremely biocompatible which is
important since it does make contact with blood, albeit at least temporarily.
[0055]           Placement of the guidewire within the cannulation guiding device may also
be achieved by sliding the cannulation guiding device over the wire as shown in the steps
indicated in figure 10. The first step shows the device delivery system being tracked over
the ipsilateral guidewire. In step 2, the first portion of the intraluminal device is deployed
and released from the delivery system. In step 3, the sheath of the delivery system is
further retracted exposing the cannulation guiding device that extends eccentrically from
the inner member to which it stays attached. The cannulation guiding device may then be
positioned just above the aortic bifurcation and over the contra-lateral iliac artery by a
combination of torque and axial translations allowing the contra-lateral guidewire to be
tracked and guided into the cannulation guiding device as shown in step 4 in accordance
with the present invention. Once the contra-lateral guidewire is captured within the
cannulation guiding device, the contra-lateral guidewire is tracked through the cannulation
guiding device as shown in step 5. Both the contra-lateral guidewire and the cannulation
guiding device can then be advanced together to gain access with the contra-lateral
guidewire into the contra-lateral leg of the delivered intraluminal device as shown in step 6
of figure 10. The contra-lateral delivery system may then be tracked over the contra-lateral
guidewire through the cannulation guiding device. In each of these steps, visualization of
the process may be enhanced with fluoroscopy.

                                               20
[0056]          The expandable member (10) may also be fabricated from shape memory
alloy, which may allow a pre-defined shape to be programmed. Particularly in accordance
with the present invention, the expandable member may be formed from a sheet with one
end fixed to inner member (20) and the other end operatively attached to inner member
(20) such that when both ends are attached to inner member (20) the guiding conduit of the
expandable member (10) is formed as shown in figure 11 a. This is in contrast to when the
operatively attached end is unconstrained and the sheet is allowed to return to its pre
programmed shape as shown in figure 1 lb. This unfurling of the guiding conduit allows
the first delivery system to become decoupled from the second delivery system and/or
second guidewire which facilitates movement and/or removal of the first delivery system
independent of the second delivery system and/or second guidewire.
[0057]          In an alternate embodiment of the present invention, a pre-loaded wire (121)
can be incorporated into the delivery device (120) and bifurcated intraluminal device (110)
as shown in figure 12. In the illustrated embodiment, the bifurcated intraluminal device
(110) includes a tubular trunk section (132) and distal lumens (111) formed by first and
second tubular legs (133, 134), respectively. The pre-loaded guidewire segment (121) has
a length shorter than the elongated inner tubular member (203), and is attached to the inner
tubular member (203) and positioned within the second leg (134) of the bifurcated
intraluminal device (110). The free end of the pre-loaded guidewire (121) extends through
the second leg (134) of the bifurcated intraluminal device (110), and preferably extends
past the distal opening of the second leg (134).
[0058]          The pre-loaded guidewire segment (121) may be attached to the inner
tubular member (203) of the delivery device (120) at a point proximal the bifurcation point
between the trunk section (132) and the first and second tubular legs (133, 134), within the
trunk section (132) or distal to the bifurcated intraluminal device (110). The pre-loaded
guidewire segment (121) may also have a feature on its free distal end to facilitate capture
by the capture mechanism. The feature may include a geometric shape, such as a ball or
bulbous end.
[0059]          The intraluminal delivery device (120) may further include a sheath having
a proximal end and a distal end positioned concentrically around at least a portion of the

                                                 21
elongated inner tubular member (203) and the intraluminal device (110), wherein the
sheath constrains the expansion of the intraluminal device (110) and whereby relative
movement between the sheath and the inner tubular member (203) allows for the delivery
of the intraluminal device (110). The sheath may further comprise a lubricous coating to
assist relative movement between the sheath and the inner tubular member (203) and intra
luminal device (110).
[0060]           In this embodiment, the delivery device (120), which delivers the
intraluminal device (110), is advanced through one of the iliac arteries (101) over a first
guidewire (122), commonly referred to as the ipsilateral guidewire (122) to the location in
the body lumen. The intraluminal device may be deployed from its radially constrained
position by retraction of the sheath. The delivery device (120), after deploying the
intraluminal device (110), remains positioned within the interior of the intraluminal device
(110) in the region of both the trunk and one of the distal lumens (111). The pre-loaded wire
(121), affixed to the delivery system (120), is positioned within the interior of the remaining
(second) distal lumen (112) of the intraluminal device (110). In a preferred embodiment, the
pre-loaded wire (121) extends beyond the opening of the distal lumen (112). With the
intraluminal device (110) deployed, and the pre-loaded wire (121) extending beyond the distal
lumen (112), access to the distal lumen (112) is easily accomplished with a capture
mechanism, such as a snare (131) associated with the end of a second delivery system (130).
The capture mechanism, which is typically delivered through the other iliac artery (102), is
capable of grasping the pre-loaded wire (121). Once the capture mechanism (131) captures
the pre-loaded wire (121), additional upward movement of the first delivery system (120) up
the descending aorta (99) will bring the second delivery system (130) into the confines of the
interior of the distal lumen (112) of the intraluminal device (110) and position the delivery
system (130) for the subsequent deployment of the contra-lateral endo-leg.
[0061]           Although shown and described is what is believed to be the most practical and
preferred embodiments, it is apparent that departures from specific designs and methods
described and shown will suggest themselves to those skilled in the art and may be used
without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. The present invention is not
restricted to the particular constructions described and illustrated, but should be constructed to
cohere with all modifications that may fall within the scope of the appended claims.

                                               22
[0062]          Throughout this specification and the claims which follow, unless the
context requires otherwise, the word "comprise", and variations such as "comprises" and
"comprising", will be understood to imply the inclusion of a stated integer or step or group
of integers or steps but not the exclusion of any other integer or step or group of integers or
steps.
[0063]          The reference to any prior art in this specification is not and should not be
taken as an acknowledgement or any form of suggestion that the prior art forms part of the
common general knowledge in Australia.

                                                23
CLAIMS
1.        A method of delivering a bifurcated stent and extension endo-leg comprising the
steps of:
          delivering a bifurcated stent over a first elongated guidewire through a first vessel,
the first elongated guidewire having a proximal and first distal end, the bifurcated stent
having a first end and a second end wherein said second end is bifurcated resulting in first
and second luminal opening, each opening providing a uninterrupted flow path to the first
end and wherein said first guidewire is positioned within the first luminal opening passing
through the uninterrupted flow path and out the first end and wherein said first guidewire
has an ancillary length attached to the distal end resulting in a second distal end positioned
away from said first distal end and positioned within the second luminal opening extending
beyond said opening;
          delivering over a second guidewire through a second vessel a snare device
wherein said snare device can be operatively attached to the second distal end of the first
guidewire;
          attaching said snare device to the second distal end of the first guidewire;
          advancing said first guidewire beyond the first end of the stent resulting in said
second guidewire to be positioned in the second luminal opening; and
          delivering an extension endo-leg having a first end and a second end over said
second guidewire through a second vessel wherein the first end of the extension endo-leg is
positioned within the second luminal opening of the bifurcated stent and the second end of
the extension endo-leg is positioned with the second vessel resulting in an extension of the
uninterrupted flow path.
2.        A method of delivering an intraluminal device to the location in a body lumen, the
intraluminal device having a main body including a proximal trunk portion and distal first
and second tubular leg portions, and a separate and detached endo-leg portion, the method
comprising the steps of:
          delivering a first delivery device to a location in the body lumen, the first delivery
device including a first elongate member and a pre-loaded wire attached thereto, and
carrying the main body of the intraluminal device such that the first elongate member

                                               24
extends through the proximal trunk portion and distal first leg portion of the intraluminal
main body portion;
           deploying the main body of the intraluminal device at the location in the body
lumen;
          positioning the first delivery device within the main body of the deployed
intraluminal device such that a free end of the pre-loaded wire extends into the second leg
of the intraluminal main body portion;
          delivering a second delivery device having a second elongate member to the
location in the body lumen, the second elongate member having a capturing mechanism
associated therewith configured for grasping the pre-loaded wire, the second delivery
device carrying the endo-leg of the intraluminal device;
          grasping the pre-loaded wire with the capturing mechanism associated with the
second delivery device;
          advancing the second elongate member into the lumen of the second tubular leg to
position the endo-leg in the desired location; and
          deploying the endo-leg.
3.        The method of Claim 2 further comprising the step of delivering a first guidewire
to the location in the body lumen through a first vessel.
4.        The method of Claim 3 wherein the step of delivering the first delivery device to a
location in the body lumen comprises advancing the first delivery device over the first
guidewire to the location.
5.        The method of any one of Claims 2 to 4 wherein the first delivery device further
includes a first sheath configured to constrain the intraluminal device in a radially
compressed configuration, and wherein the step of deploying the main body portion of the
intraluminal device comprises retracting the first sheath relative to the first elongate
member.
6.        The method of any one of Claims 2 to 5 further comprising the step of extending
the pre-loaded wire in a distal direction past the distal end of the second tubular leg
portion.

                                               25
7.        The method of Claim 2 further comprising the step of delivering a second
guidewire to the location in the body lumen through a second vessel.
8.        The method of Claim 7 wherein the step of delivering a second elongate member
to a location in the body lumen comprises advancing the second elongate member over the
second guidewire to the location.
9.        The method of Claim 2 further comprising extending the capture mechanism from
second elongate member.
10.       The method of Claim 2 or Claim 9 wherein the capture mechanism includes a
snare, and the step of grasping the pre-loaded wire comprises snaring the pre-loaded wire
with the snare.
11.       The method of any one of Claims 2 to 10 wherein the step of advancing the
second elongate member into the lumen of the second tubular leg comprises moving the
first delivery system in a proximal direction.
12.       The method of any one of Claims 2 to 11 wherein the second delivery device
further includes a second sheath configured to constrain the endo-leg in a radially
compressed configuration, and wherein the step of deploying the endo-leg comprises
retracting the second sheath relative to the second elongate member.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
