ABSTRACT
A medical device wherein the device has an outer surface coated with an oleophilic lubricous
coating or the device is formed from a mixture including a polymer and an oleophilic
compound.

                                                  -1
                          OLEOPHILIC LUBRICATED CATHETERS
RELATED APPLICATION
[0001]     The present application claims the benefit of and priority to U.S. Provisional
Application No. 61/901,831, filed November 8, 2013, and claims the benefit of and priority to
U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61/944,173, filed February 25, 2014, both of which are
hereby incorporated herein by reference.
TECHNICAL FIELD
[0002]     The present disclosure relates to lubricants for medical devices and lubricated
medical devices that are inserted into the body. More particularly, the present disclosure
relates to oleophilic lubricants and oleophilic lubricated medical devices for insertion into a
body lumen, e.g., urinary catheters and endoscopes.
BACKGROUND
[0003]     Any discussion of the prior art throughout the specification should in no way be
considered as an admission that such prior art is widely known or forms part of common
general knowledge in the field.
[0004]     Intermittent catheterization is a good option for many users who suffer from various
abnormalities of the urinary system. Urinary catheter systems typically include a long, thin,
flexible tube that is inserted into the urethra, past the trigone muscle and into the bladder to
drain urine from the bladder. Urine flows through the catheter and is collected, e.g., in a toilet
or urine collection bag.
[0005]     Catheters are commonly made from polymers, such as polyvinyl chloride (PVC) and
polyurethane (PU). It is common to lubricate such catheters so as to reduce friction to allow
for easier and less traumatic insertion and withdrawal of the catheter. Currently, there are two
main categories of lubricated catheters, namely gel lubricated catheters and hydrophilic coated
catheters.
[0006]     Gel lubricated catheters are made easier to insert and withdraw by application of
lubricant (such as a water-based lubricant) on the outer surface of the catheter. A catheter can
be supplied with lubricant which is applied on the outer surface just before or during the

                                                -2
packaging operation. Alternatively, lubricant can be applied to the catheter surface by a user
as the catheter is being inserted into the urethra. However, the handling of gel lubricated
catheters by the user can be messy, leaving lubricant on the user's hands. Further, it can
increase the risk of infection from microorganisms being introduced into the body through
handling of the gel lubricated catheter.
[0007]     In a hydrophilic coated catheter, the catheter is provided with a thin hydrophilic
coating which is applied to the outer surface of the catheter during its manufacture. The
coating is activated by swelling the hydrophilic material with a hydrating agent such as liquid
water, water vapor, combinations thereof and the like to provide an extremely low coefficient of
friction surface. The most common form of this product is one in which a sterile, individually
packaged, single use catheter is provided in a dry state or condition. The user opens the
package, pours water into the package, waits a predetermined period of time, for example, 30
seconds, and then removes the catheter from the package which is ready for insertion. Some
hydrophilic coated catheters are provided in a package that contains enough liquid water to
cause it to be immersed. Others are provided with a separate packet of water within the
package wherein the packet contains a sufficient amount of water necessary to immerse the
catheter within the package. In this type of package, the packet is burst open within the
package just prior to use.
[0008]     One disadvantage of the hydrophilic coated catheters is that the immersion liquid has
a tendency to spill from the package as the user handles the catheter and tries to remove it
from the package for subsequent insertion. Further, special packaging requirements increase
the complexity of such catheter systems. Another disadvantage of the hydrophilic coated
catheter is that the catheter has an extremely slippery surface which makes it quite difficult for
the user to handle during insertion.
[0009]     Furthermore, interest in flushable catheters has been increasing. Flushable
catheters may be made of water soluble polymers. Gel lubricants and hydrophilic coatings may
not be suitable for use with catheters made of water soluble materials due to the water soluble
material's sensitivity to water.
[0010]     Therefore, there is a need for improved catheters having a lubricious surface without
the user having to handle gel-lubricants and without the risk of water spillage while opening the
package or activating the hydrophilic surface. The present disclosure provides improved
catheters according to various embodiments to provide an alternative lubricated surface.

                                                  -3
BRIEF SUMMARY
[0011]      There are several aspects of the present subject matter which may be embodied
separately or together in the devices and systems described and claimed below. These
aspects may be employed alone or in combination with other aspects of the subject matter
described herein, and the description of these aspects together is not intended to preclude the
use of these aspects separately or the claiming of such aspects separately or in different
combinations as set forth in the claims appended hereto.
[0012]      According to one aspect of the present invention, there is provided a medical device
comprising: an outer surface; and an oleophilic lubricous coating disposed on the outer
surface, wherein the oleophilic lubricous coating is radiation sterilized and has a coefficient of
friction of less than about 0.45 and preferably less than about 0.3 and more preferably less
than about 0.2
[0013]      According to one aspect of the present invention, there is provided a catheter,
comprising: a catheter tube at least partially formed from a mixture comprising an oleophilic
compound and a polymer wherein the oleophilic mixture is in an amount of about 0.5 percent
by weight (wt. %) to about 20 wt. % of the mixture.
[0014]      According to one aspect of the present invention, there is provided a urinary
catheter, comprising: a catheter tube formed from a water degradable polymer; a coating
disposed on the catheter tube, wherein the coating delays substantial dissolution of the water
degradable polymer.
[0015]      In one aspect, a urinary catheter includes a catheter tube having an outer surface
wherein a lubricious coating including one or more oleophilic compounds is located or
disposed on the outer surface of the catheter tube.
[0016]      In another aspect, a sterilized lubricated urinary catheter includes a catheter tube
having an outer surface and a coating including one or more oleophilic compounds located or
disposed on the outer surface of the catheter tube. The coating and catheter tube are sterilized
by radiation, such as gamma or e-beam radiation.
[0017]      In yet another aspect, a medical device includes an outer surface having an
oleophilic lubricous coating disposed thereon, wherein the oleophilic lubricous coating is

                                                  -4
radiation sterilized and has a coefficient of friction of less than 0.2 as measured in accordance
with the methods disclosed herein.
[0018]      In another aspect, a catheter includes a catheter tube at least partially formed from a
mixture comprising an oleophilic compound in an amount of about 0.5 percent by weight (wt.
%) to about 20 wt. % of the mixture and a polymer. The catheter may be radiation sterilized.
The sterilized or unsterilized catheter may have a coefficient of friction less than 0.2 as
measured in accordance with the methods disclosed herein.
[0019]      In yet another aspect, a method of coating a catheter tube with a lubricous coating
includes placing the catheter tube into a liquid bath containing an oleophilic compound to
deposit the oleophilic compound on an outer surface of the catheter. The catheter tube is
removed from the liquid bath and, optionally, can be heated to anneal the oleophilic compound
on the outer surface of the catheter, if desired. The catheter, optionally, may be sterilized. For
example, the catheter may be sterilized with gamma radiation at a dose of between about 20
kGy and about 40 kGy. Alternatively, it could be sterilized by other known methods such as
steam, ethylene oxide or electron beams.
[0020]      Unless the context clearly requires otherwise, throughout the description and the
claims, the words "comprise", "comprising", and the like are to be construed in an inclusive
sense as opposed to an exclusive or exhaustive sense; that is to say, in the sense of
"including, but not limited to".
DETAILED DESCRIPTION
[0021]     While the subject matter of the present disclosure is susceptible to embodiments in
various forms, there will hereinafter be described presently preferred embodiments with the
understanding that the present disclosure is to be considered an exemplification and is not
intended to limit the disclosure to the specific embodiments illustrated. The words "a" or "an"
are to be taken to include both the singular and the plural. Conversely, any reference to plural
items shall, where appropriate, include the singular.
[0022]     The present disclosure is directed to lubricious medical devices that include an
oleophilic lubricous coating disposed on the outer surface of the medical device to enhance the
lubricity of the medical device so as to ease insertion into the human body. The present
disclosure is also directed to medical devices that are made from a blend or mixture of one or
more polymers and one or more oleophilic compounds wherein the addition of the oleophilic

                                                  -5
compound to the mixture enhances the lubricity of the medical device to ease insertion into the
human body. The medical devices may be, for example, those which are configured for
insertion into a lumen of a human body, such as the urethra, fallopian tubes, nasal passages
or esophagus. Such medical devices may include, but are not limited to, urinary catheters and
endoscopes. While the subject matter disclosed herein may be described relative to urinary
catheters, the subject matter is not limited to such and such subject matter may apply to other
suitable medical devices as well.
[0023]      Urinary catheters typically include a catheter tube having an insertable portion that is
inserted through the urethra and into the bladder to drain urine therefrom. The catheter tube
may include a proximal end portion which is usually part of the insertable portion and is
inserted through the urethra and into the bladder. The proximal end portion may have
drainage eyes or holes that allow urine to drain from the bladder and through the catheter tube.
The catheter tube also includes a distal end portion that may have a drainage element, such
as a funnel, associated therewith to drain the urine into a collection container, such as a toilet
or waste collection bag.
[0024]      In one embodiment of a urinary catheter of the present disclosure, the outer surface
of at least the insertable portion of the catheter has a lubricous coating including one or more
oleophilic compounds disposed on the outer surface of the catheter. The oleophilic
compound(s) lubricate the outer surface of the catheter for easier and less traumatic insertion
of the catheter into and through the urethra.
[0025]       In addition to oleophilic compounds, any of the coatings disclosed herein also may
include other compounds, materials or additives as well. Such additional compounds, materials
or additives may be included for any suitable purpose, such as increasing lubricity or
enhancing adhesion of the coating.
[0026]      Such oleophilic compounds and lubricous coatings may be especially useful with
catheters made from water degradable polymers, such as water soluble polymers or polymers
that deteriorate in water. Catheters made from water-degradable polymers may be designed
to be disposed of by flushing the catheter down the toilet after use. For example, when placed
in the toilet water, the catheter begins to dissolve or degrade so as to make it easier for the
catheter material to be flushed down the toilet and through the pipes of the sanitary system.
Due to the catheters' sensitivity to water (i.e., water solubility), such catheters oftentimes
cannot be pre-lubricated with water based gel lubricants and/or hydrophilic coatings because

                                                -6
the catheters may prematurely breakdown when placed in contact with the gel lubricant or a
wetted hydrophilic coating.
[0027]     In one embodiment, a water degradable catheter tubing may be made from any
suitable water soluble polymer or any polymer that substantially deteriorates in water (e.g., by
hydrolysis). One such polymer is polyvinyl alcohol (PVOH). In other embodiments, the water
degradable polymers from which the tube is made may include polyacrylic acids, polylactic
acid, polyesters, polyglycolide, poly lactic-co-glycolic acid, polylactide, amines,
polyacrylam ides, poly(N-(2-Hydroxypropyl) methacrylamide), starch, modified starches or
derivatives, amylopectin, pectin, xanthan, scleroglucan, dextrin, chitosans, chitins, agar,
alginate, carrageenans, laminarin, saccharides, polysaccharides, sucrose, polyethylene oxide,
polypropylene oxide, acrylics, polyacrylic acid blends, poly(methacrylic acid), polystyrene
sulfonate, polyethylene sulfonate, lignin sulfonate, polymethacrylamides, copolymers of
aminoalkyl-acrylamides and methacrylamides, melamine-formaldehyde copolymers, vinyl
alcohol copolymers, cellulose ethers, poly-ethers, polyethylene oxide, blends of polyethylene
polypropylene glycol, carboxymethyl cellulose, guar gum, locust bean gum, hydroxyproply
cellulose, vinylpyrrolidone polymers and copolymers, polyvinyl pyrrolidone-ethylene-vinyl
acetate, polyvinyl pyrrolidone-carboxymethyl cellulose, carboxymethyl cellulose shellac,
copolymers of vinylpyrrolidone with vinyl acetate, hydroxyethyl cellulose, gelatin, poly
caprolactone, or combinations of any of the above materials including PVOH. The water
degradable materials may also be any of those that are included in certified flushable products
that meet the National Sanitation Foundation standards for flushability or materials and
products that meet INDA/EDANA Flushability Guidelines. While catheters made from water
degradable materials may be disposed of in a toilet, it is not necessary to dispose of such
catheters in a toilet and such catheters may also be disposed in normal municipal waste
systems or garbage collection systems.
[0028]     In other embodiments, the catheter may be made of other polymers such as
polyvinyl chloride (PVC), thermoplastic polyurethane (TPU), ethylene vinyl acetate copolymers
(EVA), nylon ethylene oxide copolymers (PBAX) or blends or copolymer or multi-layer
combinations of these.
[0029]     The oleophilic compound that is coated on the outer surface may be any suitable
oleophilic compound. Additionally, the oleophilic lubricous coating may include only one
oleophilic compound or a mixture of oleophilic compounds with or without other compounds or
additives.

                                                   -7
[0030]     The oleophilic compound may include, for example, an oleated glycerol, such as
glycerol mono, di, tri or mixed oleates, oleyl alcohol, oleic acid, and their mixtures with
themselves or other molecules may also be used. The oleophilic coating applied to the outer
surface of the medical device may also include a mixture of any of the above mentioned
oleophilic compounds. For example, the oleophilic coating may include a mixture of one or
more glycerol oleates or one or more glycerol oleates with oleyl alcohol. In one embodiment,
the oleophilic lubricious coating includes a mixture having between about 95.5 weight percent
(wt. %) to about 80 wt.% of glycerol oleate(s) (one or more glycerol oleates) and about 0.5
wt.% to about 20 wt.% of oleyl alcohol. For example, the lubricious coating may include 95
wt.% glycerol oleate(s) and 5 wt.% of oleyl alcohol, or 90 wt.% glycerol oleate(s) and 10 wt.%
oleyl alcohol, or 80 wt.% glycerol oleate(s) and 20 wt.% oleyl alcohol. In one embodiment, the
glycerol oleate(s) are oleoyl-rac-glycerol, CAS Number 111-03-5, which is a mixture of glycerol
mono, di and tri-oleates. In this embodiment, the coating may include 95 wt.% oleoyl-rac
glycerol and 5 wt.% of oleyl alcohol, or 90 wt.% oleoyl-rac-glycerol and 10 wt.% oleyl alcohol,
or 80 wt.% oleoyl-rac-glycerol and 20 wt.% oleyl alcohol.
[0031]     The oleophilic lubricous coating may be applied to the outer surface of the catheter
or other medical device by any suitable coating process. In one method of coating the catheter
with the oleophilic lubricous coating, the catheter is dipped or immersed in an oleophilic
compound, such as a liquid bath of the oleophilic lubricous coating having one or more
oleophilic compounds. When the oleophilic compound is a solid at room temperature, such as
monooleate glycerol, the compound may be heated to melt the compound into liquid form. The
catheter is left in the oleophilic lubricious coating for any suitable amount of time and in one
embodiment remains in the coating from about 30 seconds to about 60 minutes or more. In
one embodiment, the catheter remains in the oleophilic lubricious coating for about 1 minute to
about 10 minutes. After the catheter is removed from the bath, it may be optionally heated to
anneal the coating and remove any excess liquid. For example, the coated catheter may be
placed in an oven heated to about 30       0C  degrees to about 60 0C.  In one embodiment, the
oven is heated to between about 40        0C to about 50 C. The catheter may remain in the oven
for a time period of about 1 minute to about 24 hours. In one embodiment that catheter is
placed in the oven for about 10 minutes.
[0032]     As described in more detail below, the oleophilic coated catheters may have a
coefficient of friction (CoF) of below 0.3 and more preferably below 0.2 as measured in
accordance with the procedures described in the below Examples. In one embodiment, the
catheter may comprise a water degradable catheter wherein the catheter tube is made of a

                                                 -8
water degradable polymer, such as PVOH, in which the outer surface of the catheter is coated
with an oleophilic coating including one or more oleophilic compounds, such as those identified
above, and has a CoF of less than about 0.45, preferably less than about 0.3 and more
preferably a CoF of less than about 0.2.
[0033]     When the catheter is made from a water degradable polymer, a coating may be
applied to the inner and/or outer surfaces of the catheter to advantageously delay substantial
dissolution or hydrolysis of the water degradable polymer such that the catheter may maintain
structural integrity during handling and use. The coating may create a barrier between the
water/urine and the water degradable polymer wherein the coating impedes or delays the
contact between the water/urine and the soluble polymer. In one embodiment, the coating
may be of a type that repels water/urine.
[0034]     A coating applied to the outer surface of the catheter may, for example, delay
substantial dissolution of the catheter that can result from handling of the catheter. For
instance, a coating on the outer surface of the catheter may delay substantial dissolution may
occur when handling the catheter with wet hands, which may be wet from washing of the
hands prior to catheterization or may be wet due to sweat. A coating on the inner surface of
the catheter may delay substantial dissolution of the catheter as urine passes through the
catheter during drainage of the bladder.
[0035]     Additionally, varying the type, amount, location of application on the catheter tube
and other characteristics of the coating can be employed to tailor the dissolution/hydrolysis
rate of the catheter. The ability to reduce the rate of dissolution by delaying commencement of
dissolution, advantageously, may allow use of soluble polymers that are mechanically
acceptable for catheter applications but dissolve too fast when exposed to water/urine.
[0036]       In one embodiment, the coating for delaying substantial dissolution of the catheter
includes or is any of the oleophilic compounds disclosed herein. For example, an oleophilic
coating may be applied to a catheter made from any of the water degradable material enclosed
herein, such as PVOH. Varying the type and amount of oleophilic coating applied may be used
to vary the delay of substantial distribution.
[0037]     In another embodiment, the catheter may be formed from a mixture containing a
polymer and an oleophilic compound. The polymer may be any one of the water degradable
polymers identified above or any other polymer identified herein. The polymer may also be

                                                -9
ethylene-co-vinyl acetate-co-maleic anhydride polymers (EVA-MA) or ethylene-co-vinyl acetate
copolymers (EVA). In one embodiment, the catheter is formed from a mixture including about
80 wt.% to about 99.5 wt.% of the polymer and about 0.5 wt.% to about 20 wt.% of an
oleophilic compound or a combination of oleophilic compounds. Preferably, the mixture
includes about 88 wt.% to about 97 wt.% of EVA-MA, EVA or PVC and about 3 wt.% to about
12 wt.% of an oleophilic compound or combinations thereof, and more preferably about 90
wt.% to about 95 wt.% of EVA-MA, EVA or PVC and about 10 wt.% to about 5 wt.% of an
oleophilic compound or combinations thereof.
[0038]     Catheters of the present disclosure also may be made by co-extrusion to form a
catheter having two or more layers. In one embodiment of a co-extruded catheter, the catheter
includes at least one layer formed from a mixture containing a water degradable polymer and
an oleophilic compound, such as any of the above described mixtures, and another layer
formed from a polymer, such as any of the water degradable polymers disclosed herein or any
other suitable water degradable polymer or mixtures thereof. In one example, a catheter
made from co-extrusion may be a bilayer catheter that includes an outer layer formed from a
polymer/oleophilic compound mixture and an inner layer made from a water degradable
polymer. The outer layer, which includes the oleophilic compound, provides a lubricious outer
surface for easing insertion of the catheter into and through the urethra. The inner layer, made
of the water degradable polymer, provides structural strength to the catheter to aid in handling
and insertion of the catheter into the urethra. During urine drainage, the inner layer may begin
dissolving and then be designed to quickly dissolve when disposed of in the toilet water after
use. The dissolution of the inner layer weakens the structure of the catheter and may make it
easier for the catheter to be flushed down the toilet and across the u-bend/trap of the sanitary
system piping.
[0039]     The polymer/oleophilic mixture layer may be a mixture of one or more of PVOH,
PVC, EVA or EVA-MA with any of the oleophilic compounds disclosed herein. Additionally, the
polymer to oleophilic compound ratio by weight percent may be any of those disclosed above.
As mentioned above, the polymer layer may be any of the water degradable polymers
disclosed herein. In one example, the thickness of the outer polymer/oleophilic layer is
between about 10 micron and about 200 micron and is preferably about 50 microns. The inner
layer has a thickness of between about 0.1 mm and about 1mm and is preferably about
0.6mm. For instance, the outer layer may be a mixture of PVOH and an oleophilic compound
wherein the outer layer dissolves in water after about one hour and the inner layer may be a
highly soluble PVOH that rapidly dissolves in water. Such rapidly dissolving PVOH may begin

                                                 -10
to dissolve during urine drainage and substantially dissolve soon after being place in toilet
water for disposal. In another catheter, the outer layer may be a mixture of one or more of
PVC, EVA or EVA-MA and an oleophilic compound and the inner layer may be a saccharide,
starch or cellulose. In yet another catheter, the inner layer may be other water degradable
polymers, for example any of the water degradable polymers disclosed herein.
[0040]     All of the catheters or medical devices disclosed herein, optionally, may be sterilized
by radiation. In one embodiment, the catheter or medical devices disclosed herein may be
sterilized with gamma radiation at a dose of about 20kGy to about 40 kGy. In one example, a
catheter having an oleophilic coating thereon or a catheter made from a blend of polymer(s)
and an oleophilic compound(s) may be provided in a ready to use catheter assembly wherein
the catheter is sealed in a liquid and gas impermeable package, such as plastic films, an
aluminum or aluminum laminated package. The package including the catheter sealed therein
may be sterilized with radiation, preferably gamma radiation at a dose of about 20 kGy to
about 40 kGy. In one embodiment, the catheter assembly includes a radiation sterilized
catheter tube having at least the insertable length thereof coated with one or more oleophilic
compounds and/or a catheter tube made from a blend or multi-layer tubes of polymers and one
or more oleophilic compounds, wherein the catheter has a COF of less than about 0.45,
preferably less than about 0.3 and more preferably less than about 0.2 as measured in
accordance with the procedures disclosed in the below Examples. The blending of one or
more oleophilic compounds with the polymer may also result in a delay of substantial
dissolution of the catheter.
EXAMPLES
[0041]     In Examples 1 - 8, tubes formed from various materials were lubricated with different
oleophilic compositions. The coefficients of friction (CoF) of the oleophilic lubricated tubes
were then determined as an indication for their level of lubricity. An average CoF was
calculated from five different samples for each type of tube as described in more detail below.
[0042]     The tubes used in the below described examples were made with a single screw
extruder and had an approximate outer diameter of 4 mm and an inner diameter of 3 mm. The
tubes were made from one of the below listed polymers.
            -    Plasticized polyvinyl chloride with a shore hardness of 82A (PVC 82A) sold
under the trade name MED 7536 by Raumedic, Germany.
            -    Polyvinyl alcohol (PVOH) sold under the trade name Mowiflex LP TC 251,
supplied by Kuraray Plastics Co., Japan.

                                                - 11
           -    Thermoplastic polyurethane with a shore hardness of 85A (TPU 85A) sold
under the trade name Elastonllan 11 85A by BASF, USA.
           -    Plasticized polyvinyl chloride with a shore hardness of 90A (PVC 90A) sold
under the trade name Colorite PVC WU9077G-0515 90A by Colorite, USA.
           -    Ethylene-co-vinyl acetate-co-maleic anhydride (EVA-MA) sold under the trade
name Orevac 18211 by Arkema, France.
           -    Ethylene-co-vinyl acetate (EVA) sold under the trade name Evatane 25-28
supplied by Arkema, France.
[0043]     The oleophilic compositions used in the Examples described below are as follows:
           -    Monooleate glycerol sold under the trade name Atmer 1440 by Croda
International, United Kingdom.
           -    Oleoyl-rac-glycerol, which is a mixture of mono, di and tri-oleate glycerols,
supplied by SigmaAldrich, USA.
           -    Tri-oleate glycerol sold under the trade name Priolube 1435 by Croda, United
Kingdom.
           -    Oleic acid supplied by VWR International, USA.
           -    Oleyl alcohol supplied by VWR International, USA.
[0044]     CoFs of the coated and uncoated samples of tubes, as an indicator of their lubricity,
were measured using a Harland Friction Tester Model FTS5500. To determine the CoF of the
tubes, a mandrel was inserted into 127 mm section of the coated or uncoated tube being
tested. The tube was then clamped between two pieces of silicone rubber at 100g load
wherein the silicone rubber had a Shore hardness of 60A. The tube with the mandrel inserted
therein was pulled through the two pieces of silicone rubber at a speed of 10 mm/s. The force
required to pull about 80 mm of the tube through the two pieces of silicone rubber was
measured and recorded using a universal tensile tester equipped with a 200 N load cell. The
CoF value was calculated from the ratio of recorded sapplied loads (i.e., the recorded load
divided by the applied load) when steady state was reached. At least five test runs were
conducted for each type of coated tube and an average CoF value was calculated for each
type of tube. For the uncoated tubing, three test runs were conducted for each sample and the
average CoFs for the uncoated tubes were calculated from the three test runs.
           EXAMPLE 1

                                                - 12
[0045]      Sections of tubes made from PVOH were coated by a dip coating process to coat the
outer surface of the tubes with glycerol monooleate. The monooleate solution was kept in an
oven at 40    0C, the temperature which it melts and become liquid. The PVOH tubes were
dipped or placed into the melted monooleate glycerol for five minutes. The tubes were
removed from the monooleate glycerol and were held for 30 seconds in the oven to drain off
the excess monooleate from its surface. The average CoF was determined for the coated
tubes as they were removed from the oven. The average CoF of PVOH tubes in which the
outer surface was uncoated was also determined for comparison purposes.
[0046]      After the initial CoF measurement, further PVOH tubing were freshly coated,
removed from the solution and held inside the oven for different period of times. The PVOH
coated tubes remained in the oven for time periods of 10 minutes, 20 minutes and 30 minutes.
The tubes were removed from the oven at the given time period and their CoFs were
measured.
[0047]      In a separate test, fresh tubes of PVOH were coated with glycerol monooleate and
removed from the oven. They were abraded 25 times by passing the tubes through a hole
which is just smaller than the outer diameter of the tubes. The hole was punched in a 1mm
thick, silicone pad with Shore hardness of 60A. This test was designed to remove any portions
of the coating that is not well adhered to the tubes. The CoFs of the abraded tubes were
measured and an average CoF was calculated for each type of tube. At room temperature,
the glycerol monooleate coated on the outer surface of the PVOH tubes can re-solidify. The
measurements were taken before the re-solidification. The re-solidification is more likely to
occur during the abrasion test as it takes time to complete the 25 cycle.
[0048]      The CoF of the coated tubes were measured according to the procedure described
above and summarized in Table I below. The CoF of uncoated PVOH tubes, as control, was
similarly measured. The average CoF of virgin uncoated PVOH was found to be 0.909.

                                                -13
Table I
                 Average CoF of PVOH Tubes Coated with Glycerol Monooleate
  Tube Samples            Avg. CoF     Avg. CoF      Avg. CoF     Avg. CoF       Avg. CoF of
                          T=0 mins     T=10 mins     T=20 mins    T=30 mins      Abraded
                                                                                 tubes
  PVOH tubes coated
  with glycerol
  monooleate                 0.203        0.191        0.199          0.195          0.199
           EXAMPLE 2
[0049]     Sections of tubes made from PVC 82A, PVC 90A, TPU 85A and PVOH were dip
coated in oleoyl-rac-glycerol to coat the outer surface of the tubes. After the outer surfaces
were coated, the average CoF of each type of the coated tubes was determined. The average
CoF of each type of uncoated tubes was also determined for comparison purposes.
[0050]     Oleoyl-rac-glycerol, a mixture of glycerol mono, di and tri-oleates, was heated in an
oven set at 40'C for 30 minutes until the oleoyl-rac-glycerol was completely melted into liquid
form. The melted oleoyl-rac-glycerol was then allowed to cool, but remain in a liquid state.
Each of the above-mentioned sections of tubes was dipped or placed into the melted oleoyl
rac-glycerol for five minutes. After the tubes were removed from the oleoyl-rac-glycerol they
were placed in an oven set at 40'C for 10 minutes to anneal the coating and remove excess
liquid.
[0051]     The CoF of the coated and uncoated tubes were measured according to the
procedure described above. Additionally, coated PVC 82A, PVC 90A, TPU 85A and PVOH
tubes were kept in an oven set at 23 'C and 50% relative humidity (RH) for the time periods of
10 minutes, 20 minutes and 30 minutes after which, the CoF of the tubes was measured as
described above.
[0052]      In measuring the CoFs of the tubes at different time intervals, a new or fresh set of
tubes was used at each time interval, i.e., the tubes used at T=10 minutes were not used at
T=20 minutes. In a separate test, fresh sets of tubes made of PVOH, TPU 85A and PVC 82A
were coated as above and were abraded 25 times by passing the tubes through a hole which
was just smaller than the outer diameter of the tubes. The hole was punched in a 1mm thick,
silicone pad with Shore hardness of 60A. This test was designed to remove any portions of
the coating that is not well adhered to the tubes. The CoFs of each of the tubes were

                                               - 14
measured and an average CoF was calculated for each type of tube. The average CoFs from
Example 2 are summarized in Table 1l.
[0053]     As shown in Table 1l, reductions in CoF values at T=0 were observed in the coated
tubes as compared to uncoated tubes. Furthermore, the PVC 82A, PVC90A and PVOH
coated tubes substantially maintained their lubricity for up to 30 minutes. Finally, the samples
retain most of their low CoF values after the abrasion tests indicating the oleoyl-rac- glycerol is
suitably adhered to these substrates.
Table II
         Average CoFs for Tubes Coated with OleoVI-rac-qlycerol and Uncoated Tubes
Tube Samples                   Avg. CoF    Avg. CoF       Avg. CoF     Avg. CoF       Avg. CoF
                               T=0 mins    T=10 mins      T=20 mins    T=30 mins       of Abraded
                                                                                       tubes
PVOH tubes coated with
oleoyl-rac-glycerol               0.175       0.150         0.146          0.137          0.212
PVOH uncoated tubes               0.909          -              -            -
TPU 85A tubes coated
with oleoyl-rac-glycerol          0.186       0.236            -             -            0.191
TPU 85A uncoated tubes            0.937          -              -            -
PVC 82A tubes coated
with oleoyl-rac-glycerol          0.231       0.204         0.202          0.205          0.326
PVC 82A uncoated tubes            0.925          -              -            -
PVC 90A tubes coated
with oleoyl-rac-glycerol          0.181       0.193         0.146          0.137
PVC 90A uncoated tubes            0.927          -              -            -
           EXAMPLE 3
[0054]     PVC 82A and PVOH tubes were coated with oleoyl-rac-glycerol in the above
described manner. Each of the coated tubes was then individually placed in an aluminium foil
packaging which was heat sealed to enclose the tube within the packaging. The aluminium
packages having one of a PVC 82A or PVOH coated tube enclosed therein were sterilized
using gamma radiation at nominal dose of 25kGy. When each of the packages was opened, a
post-sterilization visual inspection was conducted. No major discoloration or other damage
was observed. After inspection, the CoFs of PVC 82A and PVOH coated tubes were

                                                 -15
measured at time intervals T=0 minutes after opening of the package and T= 10 minutes after
opening of the package. During the 10 minutes, the catheters were conditioned in an oven set
at 23  0C and 50% RH. Additionally, sterilized coated PVC 82A and PVOH tubes were abraded,
as described above.
[0055]     The results of Example 3 are summarized in Table III which shows that the sterilized
coated tubes had similar or lower CoFs as compared to the unsterilized coated tubes of
Example 2. These results indicate that the polymer/oleoyl glycerol combinations are suitable
for gamma sterilisation and remain substantially stable after gamma sterilization.
Table III
                Average CoFs for Sterilized Tubes Coated with Oleovl-rac-qlycerol
       Tube Samples                             Avg. CoF       Avg. CoF      Avg. CoF of
                                                T=0 mins        T=10 mins    Abraded tubes
       Sterilized PVOH tubes coated
       with oleoyl-rac-glycerol                      0.136         0.129            0.127
       Sterilized PVC 82A tubes coated
       with oleoyl-rac-glycerol
                                                     0.223         0.205            0.225
           EXAMPLE 4
[0056]     Sections of tubes made from PVC 82A and PVOH were dip coated in glycerol tri
oleate to coat the outer surface of the tubes with glycerol tri-oleate. Similar to the previously
described Examples, each of the above-mentioned sections of tubes was dipped or placed into
liquid glycerol tri-oleate for five minutes. After the tubes were removed from the glycerol tri
oleate they were placed in an oven set at 40'C for 10 minutes to anneal the coating and
remove excess liquid. After the outer surfaces were coated, the average CoF of each type of
the coated tubes was determined.
[0057]     The CoFs of the coated tubes were measured according to the above-described
procedure. After the dip coating process, the CoFs of the PVC 82A and PVOH tubes were
measured at time intervals of 10, 20 and 30 minutes . During the above-defined time intervals
and prior to measurement, the tubes were held in an oven set at 23 'C and 50% RH. A fresh
set of tubes was used to measure the CoF at each time interval. Additionally, fresh sets of
tubes were abraded as described above and the average CoF of the abraded tubes was
calculated. The average CoFs of Example 4 are summarized in Table IV.

                                                -16
 Table IV
             Average CoF of PVOH and PVC 82A Tubes Coated with Glycerol Tri-oleate
Tube Samples                  Avg. CoF    Avg. CoF       Avg. CoF      Avg. CoF     Avg. CoF of
                              T=0 mins    T=10 mins      T=20 mins     T=30 mins    Abraded tubes
PVOH tubes coated with        0.188        0.169         0.169         0.175        0.201
glycerol tri-oleate
PVC 82A tubes coated          0.236        0.226         0.242         0.232        0.163
with glycerol tri-oleate
             EXAMPLE 5
 [0058]      PVC 82A and PVOH tubes were coated with glycerol tri-oleate in the manner
 described above in Example 4. Each of the coated tubes was then individually placed in an
 aluminium foil packaging which was heat sealed to enclose the tube within the packaging.
 Each of the aluminium packages having one of a PVC 82A or PVOH coated tube therein was
 sterilized using gamma radiation at a nominal dose of 25kGy. When each of the packages
 was opened, a post-sterilization visual inspection was conducted and no damage to the
 catheter or coating was observed. After inspection, the CoFs of the PVC 82A and PVOH
 coated tubes were measured at time intervals 0, 10, 20 and 30 minutes. The samples were
 kept in an oven set at 23 'C and 50%RH for the required time prior to the measurements.
 Fresh sets of tubes were used to measure the CoF at each time interval. Additionally, fresh
 sets of PVC 82A and PVOH tubes were abraded as described above and the average CoF of
 the abraded tubes was calculated.
 [0059]      The results of Example 5 are summarized in Table V which shows that the sterilized
 coated tubes had substantially similar CoFs as the pre-sterile coated tubes of Example 4.
 These results indicate that the polymer/glycerol tri-oleate combinations are suitable for gamma
 sterilisation and remain substantially stable after gamma sterilization.

                                                 -17
Table V
      Average CoF of Sterilized PVOH and PVC 82A Tubes Coated with Tri-oleate qlycerol
  Tube Samples            Avg. CoF    Avg. CoF       Avg. CoF      Avg. CoF    Avg. CoF of
                          T=0 mins    T=10 mins      T=20 mins      T=30 mins  Abraded tubes
  Sterilized PVOH
  tubes coated with
  glycerol tri-oleate        0.211        0.193         0.232         0.219          0.187
  Sterilized PVC 82A
  tubes coated with
  glycerol tri-oleate        0.391        0.415         0.339         0.388          0.297
            EXAMPLE 6
[0060]      PVOH tubing was coated with a mixture of oleyl-rac-glycerol and oleyl alcohol and
the average CoF was determined. Samples of PVOH were soaked in Oleoyl rac glycerol and it
mixtures with Oleyl alcohol for five minutes. They were then place in an oven at 401C for 10
minutes to anneal and remove excess liquids. The mixtures of oleyl-rac-glycerol to oleyl
alcohol that were used to coat the tubes are as follows: 100% oleyl-rac-glycerol; 95 wt.%
oleyl-rac-glycerol/5 wt.% oleyl alcohol; 90 wt.% oleyl-rac-glycerol/10 wt.% oleyl alcohol; and 80
wt.% oleyl-rac-glycerol/20 wt.% oleyl alcohol. The CoFs of the PVOH tubes coated with the
different mixtures of oleyl-rac-glycerol and oleyl alcohol were measured in the above described
manner and the average CoFs are summarized in table VI. Additionally the CoFs of the
coated tubes were measured at time intervals of 10, 20 and 30 minutes after the dip coating
process. The tube samples were kept in an oven set at 23 'C and 50%RH for the above time
period prior to the measurements. Fresh sets of coated tubes were used to measure the CoF
at each time interval. Additionally, fresh tubes were abraded in the above discussed manner
and the average CoF of the abraded tubes was calculated. As shown in Table VI, low CoF
values, (i.e., high lubricity), were obtained with oleyl alcohol present.

                                             -18
Table VI
     Average CoFs for Tubes Coated with Mixtures of Oleyl-rac-qlycerol and Oleyl Alcohol
    Oleyl rac           Avg. CoF     Avg. CoF       Avg. CoF      Avg. CoF      Avg.
    glycerol wt.%       T=0 mins     T=10 mins       T=20 mins    T=30 mins     Abraded
    /Oleyl alcohol wt.                                                          CoF tubes
    100%/0%             0.192        0.190           0.187        0.190         0.154
    95%/5%              0.182        0.185           0.189        0.185         0.167
    90% /10%            0.181        0.182           0.185        0.186         0.166
    80%/20%             0.172        0.176           0.181        0.185         0.157
           EXAMPLE 7
[0061]     Sections of PVOH, TPU 85A, PVC 82A and PVC 90A tubes were coated with oleic
acid. Tube samples were soaked in oleic acid for five minutes after which the CoFs of the
tubes were measured as described above.
[0062]     The CoFs were measured after the tubes were removed from the oleic acid (T=0).
The CoFs of tubes were also measured after the time intervals of 10, 20 and 30 minutes. The
samples were kept in an oven set at 23 'C and 50%RH for the required time prior to the
measurements. Additionally, fresh tubes were abraded in the manner described above and the
average CoFs of the abraded tubes were calculated. As shown in Table VII, low CoF values
were obtained for the tubes coated with oleic acid.
Table VII
                        Average CoFs of Tubes Coated with Oleic Acid
 Tubes          Avg. CoF      Avg. CoF        Avg. CoF        Avg. CoF        Avg. CoF
                T=Omins       T=10mins        T=20mins        T=30mins        Abraded tubes
PVOH            0.237         0.222            0.215          0.253           0.219
TPU 85A         0.213         0.225            0.254          0.226           0.208
PVC 82A         0.196         0.197            0.211          0.260           0.203
PVC 90A         0.178         0.171            0.177          0.183           0.178
           EXAMPLE 8

                                                 -19
[0063]     A mixture of 90 wt.% of EVA and 10 wt.% glycerol monooleate was melt blended in a
twin screw extruder at temperatures between 1000C to 1500C. The mixture was then used to
make tubes using a single screw extruder. Similarly, tubes were made from each of the
following mixtures: EVA-MA 90 wt.%/10 wt.% glycerol monooleate I; 90 wt.% PVC 90A/10
wt.% glycerol monooleate; and 90 wt.% PVC 90A/ 10 wt.% oleoyl-rac-glycerol. The CoF of
each of the tubes was measured in the above-described manner. Furthermore, in a separate
test, fresh tubes were abraded in the manner described above and the CoFs of the abraded
tubes were measured and average CoF of each type of tube was calculated.
[0064]     As shown in Table Vill, there is a reduction in CoF values for tubes made from the
mixture as compared to the virgin polymers.
Table VIII
        Average CoFs of Tubes Made from Blends of Polymers and Oleophilic Compounds
                     And Average CoFs of Tubes Made from Virqin Polymers
Tubes Samples                              Avg. CoF                   Avg. CoF of Abraded
                                                                      tubes
90 wt.% EVA /10 wt.% glycerol               0.162                     0.255
monooleate
Virgin/unmodified EVA                       0.934
90 wt.% EVA-MA /10 wt.% glycerol            0.190                     0.259
monooleate
Virgin/unmodified EVA-MA                    0.925
90 wt.% PVC 90A / 10 wt.% glycerol          0.187                     0.216
monooleate
90 wt.% PVC 90A /10 wt.% Oleoyl-            0.161                     0.194
rac-glycerol
           EXAMPLE 9
[0065]     Bi-layer tubes of PVOH were made from coextruded PVOH polymers. The tubes
included an inner layer of 8095 PVOH and an outer layer of 8120 PVOH, both supplied by G
Polymer. The bi-layer tubes included an outer diameter of about 4.7 mm and an inner
diameter between about 0.7 mm to about 0.8 mm.
[0066]     Sections of the tube where coated with oleoyl-rac-glycerol and then dissolved in
water to test the rate of dissolution of the coated tubes. Uncoated sections of the tube were
also dissolved in water for comparison.

                                              - 20
[0067]    To coat the tubes, oleoyl-rac-glycerol was place in an oven heated to about 50   0C for
1 hour. The heated oleoyl-rac-glycerol was removed from the oven and 10 cm sections of the
bi-layer PVOH tubes where placed in the heated oleoyl-rac-glycerol for 10 minutes and then
removed.
[0068]     Each of the coated and uncoated section of tubes where then cut into 5 cm pieces
and separately placed in water. The water with the pieces of tubes therein was stirred with a
VMS-C7 VWR stirrer at a setting of two. The time periods for which it took to dissolve 95% of
the pieces of tube in the stirred water, as measured by visual indication with the naked eye,
and visual observations were recorded.
[0069]    As shown in Table IX below, the coated sections of tubing took a longer time to
dissolve than the uncoated section.

                                                -21
TABLE IX
                Dissolution Times for Uncoated and Oleate-Coated PVOH Tubinq
Run       Tube Samples         Volum        Dissolution Time                 Observations
                                 e of     (>95% of tubing had
                               Water       dissolved/no longer
                                          visible to naked eye)
  1    Bi-layer PVOH tube       80 ml            58 mins           Couple of very small pieces or
       coated with oleoyl-                                         gel like materials still present
       rac-glycerol                                                at 58minutes
  2    Uncoated Bi-layer        80 ml            32 mins           Substantially dissolved at
       PVOH tube                                                   52mins. Pieces remaining
                                                                   appeared to be from cut end of
                                                                   tubing
  3    Uncoated Bi-layer        80 ml            34 mins           Substantially dissolved at 32
       PVOH tube                                                   minutes. One small gel from
                                                                   end of tubing remained
                                                                   present until 52 minutes
  4    Bi-layer PVOH            1000             45 mins           Substantially dissolved at 45
       tubes coated with          ml                               minutes. One lump of material
       oleoyl-rac-glycerol                                         that was about 10% of the
                                                                   tube took longer than 45
                                                                   minutes to dissolve At 58
                                                                   minutes only small bits of fluffy
                                                                   material remained.
  5    Uncoated Bi-layer        1000              28 min           Substantially dissolved at 28
       PVOH tube                  ml                               minutes. Last remaining small
                                                                   gel disappeared at 30mins
[0070]     From the foregoing it will be observed that numerous modifications and variations
can be effectuated without departing from the true spirit and scope of the novel concepts of the
present invention. It is to be understood that no limitation with respect to the specific
embodiments illustrated is intended or should be inferred. The disclosure is intended to cover
by the appended claims all such modifications as fall within the scope of the claims.
[0071]     Aspects of the present subject matter described above may be beneficial alone or in
combination with one or more other aspects. Without limiting the foregoing description, in
accordance with one aspect of the subject matter herein, there is provided a urinary catheter,
which includes a catheter tube having an outer surface and a lubricious coating comprising
one or more oleophilic compounds disposed on the outer surface of the catheter tube.

                                               - 22
[0072]     In accordance with a second aspect which may be used or combined with the 1 st
aspect the catheter tube may be comprised of a water degradable polymer.
[0073]     In accordance with a third aspect which may be used or combined with the 2 nd
aspect the water degradable polymer may be polyvinyl alcohol.
[0074]     In accordance with a fourth aspect which may be used or combined with the 1 st
aspect the catheter tube may be comprised of one or more of polyvinyl chloride, polyurethane,
ethylene-co-vinyl acetate-co-maleic anhydride and ethylene-co-vinyl acetate.
[0075]     In accordance with a fifth aspect which may be used or combined with any of the
preceding aspects, the oleophilic compound may be comprised of one or more of glycerol
monooleate, oleoyl-rac-glycerol, glycerol tri-oleate, oleic acid and oleyl alcohol or their
mixtures.
[0076]     In accordance with a sixth aspect which may be used or combined with any of the
preceding aspects, the catheter has a coefficient of friction of less than about 0.45, preferably
less than about 0.3 and more preferably less than about 0.2.
[0077]     In accordance with a seventh aspect which may be used or combined with any of the
preceding aspects, the coating may be coated onto the outer surface of the catheter tube.
[0078]     In accordance with an eighth aspect which may be used or combined with any of the
preceding aspects, the coating may be dip coated onto the outer surface of the catheter tube.
[0079]     In accordance with a ninth aspect, there is provided a sterilized lubricated urinary
catheter including a catheter tube having an outer surface, a coating comprising one or more
oleophilic compounds disposed on the outer surface of the catheter tube, and wherein the
coating and catheter tube are sterilized.
[0080]     In accordance with a tenth aspect, which may be used or combined with the        9 th
aspect, the catheter tube may be comprised of a water degradable polymer.
[0081]     In accordance with an eleventh aspect, which may be used or combined with the         10 th
aspect, the water degradable polymer may be polyvinyl alcohol.

                                                  - 23
[0082]        In accordance with a twelfth aspect, which may be used or combined with the     9 th
aspect, the catheter tube may be comprised of one or more of polyvinyl chloride, polyurethane,
ethylene-co-vinyl acetate-co-maleic anhydride and ethylene-co-vinyl acetate.
[0083]        In accordance with a thirteenth aspect, which may be used or combined with any of
the  9 th - 1 2 th aspects, the oleophilic compound may comprise one or more of glycerol
monooleate, oleoyl-rac-glycerol, glycerol tri-oleate, oleic acid and oleyl alcohol or their
mixtures.
[0084]        In accordance with a fourteenth aspect, which may be used or combined with any of
the  9 th _ 13th aspects, the coating may be coated onto the outer surface of the catheter tube.
[0085]        In accordance with a fifteenth aspect, which may be used or combined with any of
the  9 th - 1 4 th aspects, the coating and catheter may be sterilized by e-beam, gamma, steam,
microwave or ethylene oxide.
[0086]        In accordance with a sixteenth aspect, which may be used or combined with any of
the  9 th - 15 th  aspects, the radiation may be between about 20 kGy and about 40 kGy of
gamma radiation.
[0087]        In accordance with a seventeenth aspect which may be used or combined with any
of the preceding aspects, the coating may delay substantial dissolution of the catheter.
[0088]        In accordance with an eighteenth aspect which may be used or combined with any of
the preceding aspects, the coating containing one or more oleophilic compounds may be
applied to an inner lumen of the catheter and the coating delays substantial dissolution of the
catheter.
[0089]        In accordance with an nineteenth aspect, there is provided a medical device
including an outer surface, and an oleophilic lubricous coating disposed on the outer surface,
wherein the oleophilic lubricous coating is radiation sterilized and has a coefficient of friction of
less than about 0.45 and preferably less than about 0.3 and more preferably less than about
0.2.
[0090]        In accordance with a twentieth aspect which may be used or combined with the        1 9 th
aspect, the outer surface of the medical device is comprised of a water degradable polymer.

                                                    - 24
[0091]      In accordance with a twenty first aspect which may be used or combined with the
2 0 th aspect, the water degradable polymer maybe polyvinyl alcohol.
[0092]      In accordance with a twenty second aspect which may be used or combined with the
19th aspect, the catheter tube may be comprised of one or more of polyvinyl chloride,
polyurethane, ethylene-co-vinyl acetate-co-maleic anhydride and ethylene-co-vinyl acetate.
[0093]      In accordance with a twenty third aspect which may be used or combined with the
any one of the 10 th     - 2 2 nd aspects, the oleophilic compound may comprise one or more of
glycerol monooleate, oleoyl-rac-glycerol glycerol, tri-oleate, oleic acid and oleyl alcohol.
[0094]      In accordance with a twenty fourth aspect which may be used or combined with any
one of the 19 th -   2 2 nd  aspects, the coating may be dip coated onto the outer surface of the
medical device.
[0095]      In accordance with a twenty fifth aspect which may be used or combined with any
one of the 19 th -   2 4th  aspects, the coating may be gamma or e-beam sterilized.
[0096]      In accordance with a twenty sixth aspect which may be used or combined with any
one of the 19th -    2 5th  aspects, the radiation may be between about 20 kGy and about 40 kGy
of gamma radiation.
[0097]      In accordance with a twenty seventh aspect, there is provided, a catheter including a
catheter tube at least partially formed from a mixture comprising an oleophilic compound and a
polymer wherein the oleophilic compound is in an amount of about 0.5 percent by weight (wt.
%) to about 20 wt. % of the mixture.
[0098]      In accordance with a twenty eighth aspect which may be used or combined with the
2 7th  aspect, the polymer may be in an amount of about 95.5 wt. % and 80 wt. % of the mixture.
[0099]      In accordance with a twenty ninth aspect which may be used or combined with any
one of the   2 7th and   2 8 th aspects, the polymer may be water degradable.
[00100]     In accordance with a thirtieth aspect which may be used or combined with the        2 9 th
aspect, the water degradable polymer may be polyvinyl alcohol.

                                                        - 25
[00101]       In accordance with a thirty first aspect which may be used or combined with any one
of the 2 7 th  and    2 8 th aspects, the polymer may be one or more of polyvinyl chloride,
polyurethane, ethylene-co-vinyl acetate-co-maleic anhydride and ethylene-co-vinyl acetate.
[00102]       In accordance with a thirty second aspect which may be used or combined with any
one of the     2 7 th - 3 1 st aspects, the oleophilic compound may be one or more of glycerol
monooleate, oleoyl-rac-glycerol, glycerol tri-oleate, oleic acid and oleyl alcohol.
[00103]       In accordance with a thirty third aspect which may be used or combined with any one
of the 2 7 th - 3 2 nd    aspects, the oleophilic compound may be about 0.5 wt. % of the mixture and
the polymer is about 95.5 wt. % of the mixture.
[00104]       In accordance with a thirty fourth aspect which may be used or combined with any
one of the     2 7 th - 3 2 nd  aspects, the oleophilic compound may be about 5 wt. % of the mixture
and the polymer is about 95 wt. % of the mixture.
[00105]       In accordance with a thirty fifth aspect which may be used or combined with any one
of the 2 7 th -  3 2  nd  aspects, the oleophilic compound may be about 10 wt. % of the mixture and
the polymer is about 90 wt. % of the mixture.
[00106]       In accordance with a thirty sixth aspect which may be used or combined with any
one of the     2 7 th - 3 2 nd  aspects, the oleophilic compound may be about 15 wt. % of the mixture
and the polymer is about 85 wt. % of the mixture.
[00107]       In accordance with a thirty seventh aspect which may be used or combined with any
one of the     2 7 th - 3 2 nd  aspects, the oleophilic compound may be about 20 wt. % of the mixture
and the polymer is about 90 wt. % of the mixture.
[00108]       In accordance with a thirty eighth aspect which may be used or combined with any
one of the     2 7 th - 3 2 nd  aspects, the catheter may be radiation sterilized.
[00109]       In accordance with a thirty ninth aspect which may be used or combined with any
one of the     2 7 th - 3 8 th aspects, the catheter may have a coefficient of friction of less than about
0.45 and preferably less than about 0.3 and more preferably less than about 0.2.

                                                        - 26
[00110]        In accordance with a fortieth aspect which may be used or combined with any one of
the    2 7th - 3 9 th aspects, the catheter may include an inner layer and an outer layer wherein the
outer layer is formed from the mixture of oleophilic compound and the polymer.
[00111]        In accordance with a forty first aspect which may be used or combined with the    4 0 th
aspect, the thickness of the outer layer may be between about 10 micron and about 200
micron, and preferably about 50 microns.
[00112]        In accordance with a forty second aspect which may be used or combined with any
one of the      4 0th  and 4 1 st aspects, the inner layer may be made from a water degradable
polymer.
[00113]        In accordance with a forty third aspect which may be used or combined with the     4 2nd
aspect, the water degradable polymer of the inner layer may be one or more of polyvinyl
alcohol, saccharide, starch or cellulose.
[00114]        In accordance with a forty forth aspect, there is provided, a method of coating a
catheter tube with a lubricous coating including placing the catheter tube into a liquid bath
containing an oleophilic compound to deposit the oleophilic compound on an outer surface of
the catheter, removing the catheter from the liquid bath, and heating the catheter to anneal the
oleophilic compound on the outer surface of the catheter.
[00115]        In accordance with a forty fifth aspect which may be used or combined with the    4 4 th
aspect, the method further includes melting the oleophilic compound to form the liquid bath.
[00116]        In accordance with a forty sixth aspect which may be used or combined with the     4 4th
aspect, the catheter tube may be comprised of a water degradable polymer.
[00117]        In accordance with a forty seventh aspect which may be used or combined with the
4 6th  aspect, the water degradable polymer may be polyvinyl alcohol.
[00118]        In accordance with a forty eighth aspect which may be used or combined with the
4 4 th aspect, the catheter tube may be comprised of one or more of polyvinyl chloride,
polyurethane, ethylene-co-vinyl acetate-co-maleic anhydride and ethylene-co-vinyl acetate.

                                                       - 27
[00119]          In accordance with a forty ninth aspect which may be used or combined with any one
of the    4 4 th - 4 8 th  aspects, the oleophilic compound may comprise one or more of monooleate
glycerol, oleoyl-rac-glycerol, tri-oleate glycerol, oleic acid and oleyl alcohol.
[00120]          In accordance with a fiftieth aspect which may be used or combined with any one of
the   4 4th - 4 gth    aspects, the method further includes irradiating the catheter tube having the
oleophilic compound deposited thereon.
[00121]          In accordance with a fifty first aspect, there is provided, a urinary catheter including a
catheter tube formed from a water degradable polymer, and a coating disposed on the catheter
tube, wherein the coating delays substantial dissolution of the water degradable polymer.
[00122]          In accordance with a fifty second aspect which may be used or combined with the
5 1st aspect, the coating may comprise one or more oleophilic compounds.
[00123]          In accordance with a fifty third aspect which may be used or combined with any one
of the    5 1 st  and   5 2 nd aspects, the coating may be applied to an outer surface of the catheter
tube.
[00124]          In accordance with a fifty forth aspect which may be used or combined with any one
of the    5 1 st  - 5 3 rd aspects, the coating may be applied to an inner surface of a lumen of the
catheter tube.
[00125]          In accordance with a fifty fifth aspect which may be used or combined with any one
of the    5 1 st  - 5 4 th aspects, the water degradable polymer may comprise PVOH.

                                                  - 28
CLAIMS
1.         A medical device comprising:
            an outer surface; and
            an oleophilic lubricous coating disposed on the outer surface, wherein the oleophilic
lubricous coating is radiation sterilized and has a coefficient of friction of less than about 0.45.
2.         The medical device of claim 1, wherein the oleophilic lubricous coating is radiation
sterilized and has a coefficient of friction of less than about 0.3.
3.         The medical device of claim 1 or claim 2, wherein the oleophilic lubricous coating is
radiation sterilized and has a coefficient of friction of less than about 0.2.
4.         The medical device of any one of claims 1-3, wherein the outer surface of the
medical device is comprised of a water degradable polymer.
5.         The medical device of claim 4, wherein the water degradable polymer is polyvinyl
alcohol.
6.         The medical device of any one of claims 1-3, wherein the catheter tube is comprised
of one or more of polyvinyl chloride, polyurethane, ethylene-co-vinyl acetate-co-maleic
anhydride and ethylene-co-vinyl acetate.
7.         The medical device of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the oleophilic
compound comprises one or more of glycerol monooleate, oleoyl-rac-glycerol glycerol, tri
oleate, oleic acid and oleyl alcohol.
8.         The medical device of any one of claims 1 - 6, wherein the coating is a dip coated
onto the outer surface of the medical device.
9.         The medical device of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the coating is
gamma or e-beam sterilized.
10.        The medical device of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the radiation is
between about 20 kGy and about 40 kGy of gamma radiation.

                                                 - 29
11.        A catheter, comprising:
           a catheter tube at least partially formed from a mixture comprising an oleophilic
compound and a polymer wherein the oleophilic mixture is in an amount of about 0.5 percent
by weight (wt. %) to about 20 wt. % of the mixture.
12.        The catheter of claim 11, wherein the polymer is in an amount of about 95.5 wt. %
and 80 wt. % of the mixture.
13.        The catheter of claim 11 or claim 12, wherein the polymer is water degradable.
14.        The catheter of claim 13 wherein the water degradable polymer is polyvinyl alcohol.
15.        The catheter of claims 11 or claim 12, wherein the polymer is one or more of
polyvinyl chloride, polyurethane, ethylene-co-vinyl acetate-co-maleic anhydride and ethylene
co-vinyl acetate.
16.        The catheter of any one of claims 11 - 15, wherein the oleophilic compound is one or
more of glycerol monooleate, oleoyl-rac-glycerol, glycerol tri-oleate, oleic acid and oleyl
alcohol.
17.        The catheter of any one of claims 11 - 16, wherein the oleophilic compound is about
0.5 wt. % of the mixture and the polymer is about 95.5 wt. % of the mixture.
18.        The catheter of any one of claims 11 - 16, wherein the oleophilic compound is about
5 wt. % of the mixture and the polymer is about 95 wt. % of the mixture.
19.        The catheter of any one of claims 11 - 16, wherein the oleophilic compound is about
10 wt. % of the mixture and the polymer is about 90 wt. % of the mixture.
20.        The catheter of any one of claims 11 - 16, wherein the oleophilic compound is about
15 wt. % of the mixture and the polymer is about 85 wt. % of the mixture.
21.        The catheter of any one of claims 11 - 16, wherein the oleophilic compound is about
20 wt. % of the mixture and the polymer is about 90 wt. % of the mixture.
22.        The catheter of any one of claims 11 - 16, wherein the catheter is radiation sterilized.

                                                - 30
23.         The catheter of any one of claims 11 - 22, wherein the catheter has a coefficient of
friction of less than about 0.45.
24.          The catheter of any one of claims 11 - 23, wherein the catheter has a coefficient of
friction of less than about 0.3
25.          The catheter of any one of claims 11 - 24, wherein the catheter has a coefficient of
friction of less than about 0.2.
26.         The catheter of any one of claims 11 - 25, wherein the catheter includes an inner
layer and an outer layer wherein the outer layer is formed from the mixture of oleophilic
compound and the polymer.
27.         The catheter of claim 26, wherein the thickness of the outer layer is between about
10 micron and about 200 micron.
28.         The catheter of claim 26 or claim 27, wherein the thickness of the outer layer is about
50 microns.
29.         The catheter of claim 25 or claim 26, wherein the inner layer is made from a water
degradable polymer.
30.         The catheter of claim 29, wherein the water degradable polymer of the inner layer is
one or more of polyvinyl alcohol, saccharide, starch or cellulose.
31.         A urinary catheter, comprising:
             a catheter tube formed from a water degradable polymer;
             a coating disposed on the catheter tube, wherein the coating delays substantial
dissolution of the water degradable polymer.
32.         The urinary catheter of claim 31 wherein the coating comprises one or more
oleophilic compounds.
33.         The urinary catheter of claim 31 or claim 32, wherein the coating is applied to an
outer surface of the catheter tube.

                                              - 31
34.       The urinary catheter of any one of claims 31 - 33, wherein the coating is applied to
an inner surface of a lumen of the catheter tube.
35.       The urinary catheter of any one of claims 31 - 34, wherein the water degradable
polymer comprises PVOH.

