     PERIODIC AMBIENT WAVEFORM ANALYSIS FOR DYNAMIC DEVICE
                                  CONFIGURATION
   ABSTRACT
   Client devices periodically capture ambient audio waveforms and modify their own
   device configuration based on the captured audio waveform.                 In particular
   embodiments,     client devices generate waveform fingerprints and upload the
 5 fingerprints to a server for analysis. The server compares the waveform fingerprints
   to a database of stored waveform fingerprints, and upon finding a match, pushes
   content or other information to the client device. The fingerprints in the database may
   be uploaded by other users, and compared to the received client waveform fingerprint
   based on common location or other social factors. Thus a client's location may be
1o enhanced if the location of users whose fingerprints match the client's is known, and,
   based upon this enhanced location, the server may transmit an instruction to the
   device to modify its device configuration.

           3/6
 coo
     o   m
     LLO
:)    c n
        ZD
     cc

                                            I
     PERIODIC AMBIENT WAVEFORM ANALYSIS FOR DYNAMIC DEVICE
                                   CONFIGURATION
   RELATED APPLICATIONS
   This application is related to US Patent Application Serial No. 13/277,080 filed on
   19 October 2011, International Patent Application No. PCT/US2012/057413 titled
 5 "Periodic ambient waveform analysis for dynamic device configuration" and filed on
   27 September 2012 in the name of Facebook, Inc., Australian Patent Application No.
   2012326553      titled "Periodic  ambient waveform      analysis for dynamic device
   configuration" filed on 27 September 2012 in the name of Facebook, Inc., US Patent
   Application Serial No. 15/045,734 filed on 17 February 2016, and Australian Patent
10 Application No. <removed-apn> titled "Periodic ambient waveform analysis for dynamic
   device configuration" filed on 20 January 2017 in the name of Facebook, Inc., the
   entire content of each of which is incorporated by reference as if fully set forth herein.
   TECHNICAL FIELD
   This disclosure generally relates to periodically capturing waveform data using the
is sensor subsystem of a mobile device and generating a fingerprint of the waveform for
   dynamic device configuration.
   BACKGROUND
   A social networking system, such as a social networking website, enables its users to
   interact with it and with each other through the system. The social networking system
20 may create and store a record, often referred to as a user profile, in connection with
   the user. The user profile        may include a user's demographic           information,
   communication channel information, and personal interest. The social networking
   system may also create and store a record of a user's relationship with other users in
   the social networking system (e.g., social graph), as well as provide services (e.g.,
25 wall-posts., photo-sharing, or instant messaging) to facilitate social interaction
   between users in the social networking system. A geo-social networking system is a
   social networking system in which geographic services and capabilities are used to
   enable additional social interactions. User-submitted location data or geo-location
   techniques (e.g., mobile phone position tracking) can allow a geo-social network to

                                            2
   connect and coordinate users with local people or events that match their interests. For
   example, users can check-in to a place using a mobile client application by providing
   a name of a place (or selecting a place from a pre-established list of places). The geo
   social networking system, among other things, can record information about the
 5 user's presence at the place and possibly provide this information to other users of the
   geo-social networking system.
   SUMMARY
   A first aspect of the present disclosure provides a method comprising:
           by a computing system, generating a waveform fingerprint based on captured
10 ambient audio data;
           by the computing system, sending the generated waveform fingerprint to a
   server;
           by the computing system, receiving instructions from the server to adjust one
   or more device settings of an output device of the computing system, the instructions
15 being based at least in part on identifying one or more audio fingerprints that match
   the generated waveform fingerprint and correlating one or more of the identified
   audio fingerprints to a physical environment of the computing system; and
           by the computing system, adjusting one or more of the device settings of the
   output device of the computing system in accordance with the received instructions.
20 A second aspect of the present disclosure provides one or more computer-readable
   non-transitory storage media embodying software that is operable when executed to:
           generate a waveform fingerprint based on captured ambient audio data;
           send the generated waveform fingerprint to a server;
           receive instructions from the server to adjust one or more device settings of an
25 output device of the client system, the instructions being based at least in part on
   identifying one or more audio fingerprints that match the generated waveform
   fingerprint and correlating one or more of the identified audio fingerprints to a
   physical environment of the client system; and
                   adjust one or more of the device settings of the output device of the
30         client system in accordance with the received instructions.

                                             3
    A third aspect of the present disclosure provides a computer device comprising:
            a processor; and
            a memory coupled to the processor comprising instructions executable by the
    processor, the processor being operable when executing the instructions to:
  5                 generate a waveform fingerprint based on captured ambient audio data;
                     send the generated waveform fingerprint to a server;
                    receive instructions from the server to adjust one or more device
            settings of an output device of the computing device, the instructions being
            based at least in part on identifying one or more audio fingerprints that match
 1o         the generated waveform fingerprint and correlating one or more of the
            identified audio fingerprints to a physical environment of the computing
            device; and
                    adjust one or more of the device settings of the output device of the
            computing device in accordance with the received instructions.
15  Particular embodiments relate to a geo-social networking system that includes
    features directed to automatically adjusting mobile device settings based upon
    ambient audio conditions.      This disclosure also relates to adjusting mobile device
    settings based on social data calculated from periodic uploads of waveform data from
    a plurality of users of the geo-social networking system. These and other features,
20  aspects, and advantages of the disclosure are described in more detail below in the
    detailed description and in conjunction with the following figures.
    BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
    FIGURE 1 illustrates an example social networking environment.
    FIGURE 2 illustrates an example user device.
25  FIGURE 3 illustrates the example data sources the social networking system may
    utilize to determine whether to and to what setting to adjust the settings of a mobile
    device.
    FIGURE 4 illustrates an example of three users of the social networking system
    whose self-reported geographic locations are in the same vicinity.
30  FIGURE 4A illustrates an example portion of a social graph representing the three
    users of FIGURE 3
    FIGURE 5 illustrates an example method of adjusting device settings based on

                                             4
   captured ambient audio searched against online databases.
   FIGURE 6 illustrates an example method of adjusting device settings based on social
   information.
   FIGURE 7 illustrates an example computer system.
 5 DESCRIPTION OF EXAMPLE EMBODIMENTS
   The invention is now described in detail with reference to a few embodiments thereof
   as illustrated in the accompanying drawings. In the following description, numerous
   specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the
   present disclosure. It is apparent, however, to one skilled in the art, that the present
10 disclosure may be practiced without some or all of these specific details. In other
   instances, well known process steps and/or structures have not been described in
   detail in order not to unnecessarily obscure the present disclosure. In addition, while
   the disclosure is described in conjunction with the particular embodiments, it should
   be understood that this description is not intended to limit the disclosure to the
is described embodiments.        To the contrary, the description is intended to cover
   alternatives, modifications, and equivalents as may be included within the spirit and
   scope of the disclosure as defined by the appended claims.
   A social networking system, such as a social networking website, enables its users to
   interact with it, and with each other through, the system.          Typically, to become a
20 registered user of a social networking system, an entity, either human or non-human,
   registers for an account with the social networking system. Thereafter, the registered
   user may log into the social networking system via an account by providing, for
   example, a correct login ID or username and password. As used herein, a "user" may
   be an individual (human user), an entity (e.g., an enterprise, business, or third party
25 application), or a group (e.g., of individuals or entities) that interacts or communicates
   with or over such a social network environment.
   When a user registers for an account with a social networking system, the social
   networking system may create and store a record, often referred to as a "user profile",
   in connection with the user. The user profile may include information provided by
30 the user and information gathered by various systems, including the social networking
   system, relating to activities or actions of the user. For example, the user may provide
   his name, profile picture, contact information, birth date, gender, marital status,
   family status, employment, education background, preferences, interests, and other

                                            5
   demographical information to be included in his user profile. The user may identify
   other users of the social networking system that the user considers to be his friends.
   A list of the user's friends or first degree contacts may be included in the user's
   profile. Connections in social networking systems may be in both directions or may
 5 be in just one direction. For example, if Bob and Joe are both users and connect with
   each another, Bob and Joe are each connections of the other. If, on the other hand,
   Bob wishes to connect to Sam to view Sam's posted content items, but Sam does not
   choose to connect to Bob., a one-way connection may be formed where Sam is Bob's
   connection, but Bob is not Sam's connection.            Some embodiments of a social
10 networking system allow the connection to be indirect via one or more levels of
   connections (e.g., friends of friends). Connections may be added explicitly by a user,
   for example, the user selecting a particular other user to be a friend, or automatically
   created by the social networking system based on common characteristics of the users
   (e.g., users who are alumni of the same educational institution).         The user may
15 identify or bookmark websites or web pages he visits frequently and these websites or
   web pages may be included in the user's profile.
   The user may provide information relating to various aspects of the user (such as
   contact information and interests) at the time the user registers for an account or at a
   later time. The user may also update his or her profile information at any time. For
20 example, when the user moves, or changes a phone number, he may update his
   contact information. Additionally, the user's interests may change as time passes, and
   the user may update his interests in his profile from time to time. A user's activities
   on the social networking system, such as frequency of accessing particular
   information on the system, may also provide information that may be included in the
25 user's profile. Again, such information may be updated from time to time to reflect
   the user's most-recent activities.    Still further, other users or so-called friends or
   contacts of the user may also perform activities that affect or cause updates to a user's
   profile. For example, a contact may add the user as a friend (or remove the user as a
   friend).   A contact may also write messages to the user's profile pages--typically
30 known as wall-posts. A user may also input status messages that get posted to the
   user's profile page.
   A social network system may maintain social graph information, which can generally
   model the relationships among groups of individuals, and may include relationships

                                              6
   ranging from casual acquaintances to close familial bonds. A social network may be
   represented using a graph structure. Each node of the graph corresponds to a member
   of the social network. Edges connecting two nodes represent a relationship between
   two users. In addition, the degree of separation between any two nodes is defined as
 5 the minimum number of hops required to traverse the graph from one node to the
   other. A degree of separation between two users can be considered a measure of
   relatedness between the two users represented by the nodes in the graph.
   A social networking system may support a variety of applications, such as photo
   sharing, on-line calendars and events. For example, the social networking system
10 may also include media sharing capabilities.        For example, the social networking
   system may allow users to post photographs and other multimedia files to a user's
   profile, such as in a wall post or in a photo album, both of which may be accessible to
   other users of the social networking system. Social networking system may also
   allow users to configure events. For example, a first user may configure an event
15 with attributes including time and date of the event, location of the event and other
   users invited to the event. The invited users may receive invitations to the event and
   respond (such as by accepting the invitation or declining it). Furthermore, social
   networking system may allow users to maintain a personal calendar. Similarly to
   events, the calendar entries may include times, dates, locations and identities of other
20 users.
   The social networking system may also support a privacy model. A user may or may
   not wish to share his information with other users or third-party applications, or a user
   may wish to share his information only with specific users or third-party applications.
   A user may control whether his information is shared with other users or third-party
25 applications through privacy settings associated with his user profile. For example, a
   user may select a privacy setting for each user datum associated with the user and/or
   select settings that apply globally or to categories or types of user profile information.
   A privacy setting defines, or identifies, the set of entities (e.g., other users,
   connections of the user, friends of friends, or third party application) that may have
30 access to the user datum. The privacy setting may be specified on various levels of
   granularity, such as by specifying particular entities in the social network (e.g., other
   users), predefined groups of the user's connections, a particular type of connections,
   all of the user's connections, all first-degree connections of the user's connections, the

                                           7
   entire social network, or even the entire Internet (e.g., to make the posted content item
   index-able and searchable on the Internet).      A user may choose a default privacy
   setting for all user data that is to be posted.   Additionally, a user may specifically
   exclude certain entities from viewing a user datum or a particular type of user data.
 5 Social networking system may maintain a database of information relating to
   geographic locations or places. Places may correspond to various physical locations,
   such as restaurants, bars, train stations, airports and the like.      Some places may
   correspond to larger regions that themselves contain places-such as a restaurant or a
   gate location in an airport. In one implementation, each place can be maintained as a
10 hub node in a social graph or other data structure maintained by the social networking
   system, as described in U.S. Patent Application Ser. No. 12/863,181,            which is
   incorporated by reference herein for all purposes.        Social networking system may
   allow users to access information regarding each place using a client application (e.g.,
   a browser) hosted by a wired or wireless station, such as a laptop, desktop or mobile
15 device.    For example, social networking system may serve web pages (or other
   structured documents) to users that request information about a place. In addition to
   user profile and place information, the social networking system may track or
   maintain other information about the user. For example, the social networking system
   may support geo-social networking system functionality including one or more
20 location-based services that record the user's location. For example, users may access
   the geo-social networking system using a special-purpose client application hosted by
   a mobile device of the user (or a web- or network-based application using a browser
   client).  The client application may automatically access Global Positioning System
   (GPS) or other geo-location functions supported by the mobile device and report the
25 user's current location to the geo-social networking system. In addition, the client
   application may support geo-social networking functionality that allows users to
   check-in at various locations and communicate this location to other users. A check
   in to a given place may occur when a user is physically located at a place and, using a
   mobile device, access the geo-social networking system to register the user's presence
30 at the place. A user may select a place from a list of existing places near to the user's
   current location or create a new place. The user may also provide comments in a text
   string when checking in to a given place. The user may also identify one or more
   other users in connection with a check-in (such as friends of a user) and associate

                                            8
   them with the check-in as well. U.S. Patent Application Ser. No. 12/584,614, which
   is incorporated by reference herein for all purposes, describes a system that allows a
   first user to check-in other users at a given place. An entry including a comment and
   a time stamp corresponding to the time the user checked in may be displayed to other
 5 users.   For example, a record of the user's check-in activity may be stored in a
   database. Social networking system may select one or more records associated with
   check-in activities of users at a given place and include such check-in activity in web
   pages (or other structured documents) that correspond to a given place. For example,
   social networking system may select the check-in activity associated with the friends
10 or other social contacts of a user that requests a page corresponding to a place. U.S.
   Application Ser. No. 12/858,817, incorporated by reference in its entirety for all
   purposes, describes an example geo-social networking system that can be used in
   connection with various embodiments of the present invention. The check-in activity
   may also be displayed on a user profile page and in news feeds provided to users of
15 the social networking system.
   Still further, a special purpose client application hosted on a mobile device of a user
   may be configured to continuously capture location data of the mobile device and
   send the location data to social networking system.          In this manner, the social
   networking      system    may   track   the   user's  location   and  provide   various
20 recommendations to the user related to places that are proximal to the user's path or
   that are frequented by the user. In one implementation, a user may opt in to this
   recommendation service, which causes the client application to periodically post
   location data of the user to the social networking system.
   Particular embodiments of the special purpose client application hosted on a mobile
25 device of a user may be configured to continuously or periodically capture ambient
   audio waveform data using a microphone or sensor subsystem in the mobile device.
   In particular embodiments, the mobile device may perform waveform analysis on the
   ambient audio, and adjust the device settings, such as the ringer volume or vibrate
   mode, based upon the ambient waveform data. In particular embodiments, the client
30 device may automatically match the ringer volume to match or slightly exceed the
   ambient audio level, thereby increasing the probability that the ringer is audible in
   noisy environments        and appropriate    in quiet environments.       In particular
   embodiments, the self-determined location of the mobile device may be utilized to

                                           9
   adjust the device settings. For example, if a user's GPS indicates he is in a movie
   theatre, the device may automatically turn off its ringer.
   In particular embodiments, the mobile device may generate a waveform fingerprint of
   the captured ambient waveform for compact, bandwidth-efficient transmission to the
 5 social networking system. In particular embodiments, received waveform fingerprints
   may be matched to a database of object waveforms. For example, if a user is in a
   particular location and the waveform fingerprint uploaded by his or her mobile device
   matches the fingerprint of a particular song stored in an audio database, the social
   networking system may determine that the user is currently listening to the song.
10 In particular embodiments, a combination of database information, waveform
   matching, and the user's GPS data may be utilized to adjust the user's device settings.
   For example, GPS devices often do not function indoors. Thus, a user's last reported
   location may be in the vicinity of, but not in, a movie theatre. If the reported location
   of a user device is near a movie theatre, and the user's waveform fingerprint matches
15 the soundtrack of a particular movie, the social networking system may access an
   online database of the show times for the theatre in the user's vicinity. Based off the
   timestamp from the uploaded waveform fingerprint, the matched movie, and the GPS
   location, the social network may determine that the user is watching, for example, the
   5:30PM showing of "True Grit" at AMC 30. Thus the device may automatically turn
20 off its ringer.
   Still further, particular embodiments allow the social networking system to receive
   waveform fingerprints from a client or mobile device, and perform analysis on the
   waveform fingerprints to provide enhanced social functions to the user of the device.
   In particular embodiments, the determined location of the client device may be
25 enhanced through waveform analysis. For example, if a user is in a particular venue,
   the waveform fingerprints captured by his mobile device will match the waveform
   fingerprints uploaded by other users. If any of the other users' locations converge, or
   if one of the users makes an explicit on-network statement that he or she is at the
   venue, either through a check-in operation, registering for an event, or a comment, the
30 social networking system may update and enhance the user's inaccurately determined
   position. In particular embodiments, the mobile device may adjust its settings based
   on the received location from the social networking system.

                                            10
   In particular embodiments, information from the social network may be leveraged to
   adjust device settings. In particular embodiments, information from the user's profile
   and actions on the social network may be utilized to adjust the user's device settings.
   For example, if a user checks-in to a public library, the device may automatically turn
 5 off its ringer. Alternatively, if the user checks in or is tagged at a sporting event, the
   device may increase its ringer volume.       Additionally, information can be leveraged
   from other users of the social networking system. For example, if multiple users are
   determined, through waveform analysis, to be in the same location, and one of the
   users gives a signal as to the type of the event, either by way of commenting,
10 checking-in, updating his or her status, tagging, etc, then all the users determined to
   be in that location may have their device settings automatically changed.
   FIGURE       1 illustrates  an   example    social  networking    system.   In  particular
   embodiments, the social networking system may store user profile data and social
   graph information in user profile database 101. In particular embodiments, the social
15 networking system may store user event data in event database 102. For example, a
   user may register a new event by accessing a client application to define an event
   name, a time and a location, and cause the newly created event to be stored in event
   database 102. In particular embodiments, the social networking system may store user
   privacy policy data in privacy policy database 103. In particular embodiments, the
20 social networking system may store geographic and location data in location database
   104.     In particular embodiments, social networking          system may store audio
   waveforms or audio waveform fingerprints for various songs, tv shows, soundtracks,
   movies, performances, and the like in audio database               105.      In particular
   embodiments, databases 101, 102, 103, 104, and 105 may be operably connected to
25 the social networking system's front end.           In particular embodiments, social
   networking system also includes waveform matching application 118, that matches
   uploaded waveform fingerprints with waveforms or waveform fingerprints stored in
   audio database 105.
   In particular embodiments, the front end 120 may interact with client device 122
30 through network cloud 121. Client device 122 is generally a computer or computing
   device including functionality for communicating (e.g., remotely) over a computer
   network. Client device 122 may be a desktop computer, laptop computer, personal
   digital assistant (PDA), in- or out-of-car navigation system, smart phone or other

                                            11
   cellular or mobile phone, or mobile gaming device, among other suitable computing
   devices. Client device 122 may execute one or more client applications, such as a
   web browser (e.g., Microsoft Windows Internet Explorer, Mozilla Firefox, Apple
   Safari, Google Chrome, and Opera, etc.) or special-purpose client application (e.g.,
 5 Facebook for iPhone, etc.), to access and view content over a computer network.
   Front end 120 may include web or HTTP server functionality, as well as other
   functionality, to allow users to access the social networking system. Network cloud
   121 generally represents a network or collection of networks (such as the Internet or a
   corporate intranet, or a combination of both) over which client devices 122 may
1o access the social network system.
   In particular embodiments, location database 104 may store an information base of
   places, where each place includes a name, a geographic location and meta information
   (such as the user that initially created the place, reviews, comments, check-in activity
   data, and the like).   Places may be created by administrators of the system and/or
15 created by users of the system.      For example, a user may register a new place by
   accessing a client application to define a place name and provide a geographic
   location and cause the newly created place to be registered in location database 104.
   As discussed above, a created place may correspond to a hub node, which an
   administrator can claim for purposes of augmenting the information about the place
20 and for creating ads or other offers to be delivered to users.             In particular
   embodiments, system front end 120 may construct and serve a web page of a place, as
   requested by a user. In some embodiments, a web page of a place may include
   selectable components for a user to "like" the place or check in to the place. In
   particular embodiments, location database 104 may store geo-location data identifying
25 a real-world geographic location of a user associated with a check-in. For example, a
   geographic location of an Internet connected computer can be identified by the
   computer's IP address. For example, a geographic location of a cell phone equipped
   with cellular, Wi-Fi and/or GPS capabilities can be identified by cell tower
   triangulation, Wi-Fi positioning, and/or GPS positioning. In particular embodiments,
30 location database 104 may store a geographic location and additional information of a
   plurality of places. For example, a place can be a local business, a point of interest
   (e.g., Union Square in San Francisco, CA), a college, a city, or a national park. For
   example, a geographic location of a place (e.g., a local coffee shop) can be an address,

                                           12
   a set of geographic coordinates (latitude and longitude), or a reference to another
   place (e.g., "the coffee shop next to the train station"). For example, a geographic
   location of a place with a large area (e.g., Yosemite National Park) can be a shape
   (e.g., a circle, or a polygon) approximating the boundary of the place and/or a centroid
 5 of the shape. For example, additional information of a place can be business hours,
   photos, or user reviews of the place. In particular embodiments, location database 104
   may store a user's location data. For example, a user can create a place (e.g., a new
   restaurant or coffee shop) and the social networking system can store the created
   place in location database 104. For example, location database 104 may store a user's
10 check-in activities. For example, location database 104 may store a user's geographic
   location provided       by the user's GPS-equipped      mobile device.     In particular
   embodiments, the social networking system may calculate one or more routes of a
   user based on the user's user profile information, check-in activities, and/or
   geographic location data reported by a client application (see above) and store the one
15 or more routes in location database 104. For example, the social networking system
   can calculate a "commute route" of a user between the user's home and work (as
   described in the user's user profile information stored in user profile database 101) by
   using a mapping service application such as Google Map, or by using geographic
   location data points from the user's GPS-equipped mobile phone while the user is
20 driving to work.
   Waveform matching application 118 matches waveforms or waveform fingerprints
   uploaded by client devices 122 to waveforms or waveform fingerprints in audio
   database 105.      In particular embodiments, waveform matching application utilizes
   feature detection using Fast Fourier Transforms (FFTs) or Direct Cosine Transforms
25 (DCTs). In particular embodiments, cross correlation in either the frequency or time
   domain is utilized for waveform matching.         In particular embodiments, dynamic
   waveform matching (DWM) may be utilized to shift the waveforms on the time axis.
   In particular embodiments, waveform matching application             118 utilizes audio
   fingerprinting of the waveform files in audio database 105.              This disclosure
30 contemplates any suitable method or algorithm for waveform or waveform fingerprint
   matching.
   FIGURE 2 illustrates an example client device 122. In particular embodiments, client
   device 122 may be a smart phone (e.g., iPhone or Blackberry), which is a mobile

                                          13
   telephone that offers more advanced computing ability and connectivity than a
   traditional mobile phone. It may be considered as a handheld computer integrated
   with a mobile phone. In particular embodiments, client device 122 may be a netbook
   or tablet computer (e.g., iPad). In particular embodiments, client device 122 may be
 5 connected to a network through a wireless connection.
   In particular embodiments, client device 122 may include hardware 210 and software
   220. In particular embodiments, hardware 210 may include any number of hardware
   components such as, for example and without limitation, processor 211, memory 212,
   storage 213, transceiver 214, input/output device 215 (e.g., display, touch screen,
10 keypad, microphone, speaker, etc.), camera 216, global positioning system (GPS)
   sensor 217, sensors hub 218, notification control switch 219, RFID reader 241, RF
   sensor 242, accelerometer 243, light sensor 244, microphone 245 (which may be part
   of input/output block 215) and so on. This disclosure contemplates any suitable
   hardware components. In particular embodiments, some or all of a user's user data
15 may be stored in storage 213.
   In particular embodiments, software 220 may include an operating system 221, which
   may include a kernel 231 and/or any number of device drivers 232 corresponding to
   some of the hardware components available on client device 122. Operating system
   221 may be selected for client device 122 based on the actual type of device client
20 device 122 is. For example, if client device 122 is a mobile device (e.g., a smart
   phone), then operating system 221 may be a mobile operating system such as, for
   example and without limitation, Microsoft's Windows Mobile, Google's Android,
   Nokia's Symbian, Apple's iOS, and Samsung's Bada.
   In particular embodiments, one or more software applications 223 may be hosted
25 and/or executed on client device 122. In particular embodiments, they may be native
   applications installed and residing on client device 122. For example, one application
   (e.g., Google Maps) may enable a device user to view a map, search for addresses and
   businesses, and get directions; a second application may enable the device user to
   read, send, and receive emails; a third application (e.g., a web browser) may enable
30 the device user to browse and search the Internet; a fourth application may enable the
   device user to take photos or record videos using camera 216; a fifth application may
   allow the device user to receive and initiate VoIP and/or cellular network calls, and so
   on. In particular embodiments, there may be a software application (e.g., notification

                                          14
   control 241) that enables the device user to manage the notifications pushed to client
   device 122.    Each software application 220 may have a user interface and may
   implement one or more specific functionalities. Each software application 220 may
   include one or more software modules implementing the individual functionalities.
 5 The executable code of software applications 220, including notification control 241,
   may be stored in a computer-readable and non-transitory medium (e.g., storage 213 or
   memory 212) on client device 122.
   Audio capture application 246 is operably connected to microphone 245 and sensor
   hub 218.    In particular embodiments, audio capture application 246 continuously
10 captures audio data and converts it into a waveform fingerprint, using audio feature
   detection algorithms (FFT/DCT/etc.).       In particular embodiments, audio capture
   application 246 only periodically captures waveform data and converts the data into
   waveform fingerprints.    In particular embodiments, sensor hub 218 captures and
   stores waveform data via microphone 245 and stores the waveforms in storage 213 for
15 later fingerprint generation   by audio capture application 245.          In particular
   embodiments, audio capture application 246 runs only when the user changes
   location. In particular embodiments, audio capture application 246 runs only when
   the detected sound level exceeds a predetermined number of decibels. This disclosure
   contemplates any suitable manner of capturing ambient audio data.
20 FIGURE 3 illustrates the example data sources that may be utilized by client device
   122 or the social networking system to determine whether to adjust client device
   122's settings as well as how to adjust the settings. Data sources 301-306 may be
   utilized by client device 122 alone, or in any combination with each other, to adjust
   the device settings of client device 122.    Ambient audio 301 and self-determined
25 device location 302 may be utilized by client device 122 without any interaction with
   the social networking system. For example, a basic method of adjusting client device
   122's settings is based solely upon ambient audio 301.     In particular embodiments,
   client device 122 captures the ambient audio waveform and calculates the average
   ambient noise level of the environment (for example, 95 database).         In particular
30 embodiments, client device 122 adjusts its ringer volume to match or be slightly
   louder than the ambient noise level. In particular embodiments, where the ambient
   noise is above or below a predetermined threshold, client device 122 may turn on
   vibrate mode.

                                           15
   In particular embodiments, self-determined device location 302 and online database
   306 are utilized in conjunction to adjust the device settings. For example, if client
   device 122 reports a longitude/latitude position that is associated with a particular
   venue, client device 122 may adjust its settings based on the type of venue. For
 5 example, if the self-determined location of client device 122 is associated with a
   movie theatre, client device 122 may turn off its ringer, or enable vibrate mode. In
   particular embodiments, online database 306 may be a one or more servers in the
   social networking system. In particular embodiments, online database 306 may be an
   external, third-party database such as Google Maps, Yelp, or FourSquare.              In
10 particular embodiments, client device 122 accesses online databases 306 without
   action from the social networking system. In particular embodiments, client device
   122 accesses online databases 306 via the social networking system. This disclosure
   contemplates any suitable manner of accessing, and any type of, online databases 306.
   In particular embodiments, explicit location 303 may be utilized in adjusting the
15 device settings of client device 122. Explicit locations may be self-declared, such as a
   check-in, comment, RSVP, tag, etc. by the user of client device 122, or may be
   declared by other users who check the user in, tag him or her in photos, or the like.
   For example, the social networking system may determine, from user actions on the
   social network, that client device 122 is in a particular location or at a particular
20 event, and adjust device settings based on this determination. For example, a user
   may check-in to an event on the social network, such as a wedding or a nightclub.
   Accordingly, the social networking system may issue a command to client device 122
   to respectively decrease or increase the ringer volume. This disclosure contemplates
   any manner of utilizing on-network actions to adjust device settings.
25 In particular embodiments, waveform-based location 304 may be utilized to adjust
   device settings. For example, if the audio waveform fingerprints uploaded by client
   device 122 match the audio waveform fingerprints uploaded by other users, the social
   networking system may correct client device 122's location, and adjust the device
   settings based on this corrected location. In particular embodiments, explicit location
30 information 303 of other detected users may be utilized to adjust the device settings.
   This particular embodiment is further described with reference to FIGURES 4, 4A,
   and 5.
   In particular embodiments, various combinations of data sources 301-306 may be

                                            16
   utilized to adjust the settings of client device 122. For example, ambient audio 301
   may be utilized to match objects in audio object database 105 to generate a detected
   audio object 305. This detected audio object may be utilized in conjunction with self
   determined location 302, explicit location 303, or waveform-based location 304 to
 5 further refine the location of client device 122. Alternatively or additionally, online
   database 306 may be utilized to further refine the location of client device 122 and
   subsequently adjust the device settings of client device 122. For example, a user
   whose client device's self-determined location 302 indicates he is in the vicinity of a
   park may capture and upload an audio waveform fingerprint matching a song by a
10 band playing at the park. Client device 122 or, alternatively, the social networking
   system, may access an online database 306 which includes a list of performances near
   the park. If it finds a match between the detected audio object 305 and one of the
   performances in online database 306, the social networking system knows that the
   user is actually at the park and listening to a live performance, and may adjust its
15 ringer to "high" and turn on the vibrate mode. This disclosure contemplates any
   suitable combination of data sources 301-306 for adjusting the settings of client
   device 122.
   FIGURE 4 illustrates an example geographic area 400 and the self-reported location
   of various users 410, 420, and 430 of the social networking system on the map. In
20 particular embodiments, the self-reported location is calculated by a GPS receiver
   chip in client devices 122. In particular embodiments, the location is calculated by
   TDOA or other position determination algorithms.           In particular embodiments,
   geographic area may be segmented into various quadrants, and user waveform
   fingerprints may be searched against waveform fingerprints uploaded by other users
25 in the same quadrant. In particular embodiments, the search area is based on the
   amplitude or absolute volume of the uploaded fingerprint.          For example, if an
   uploaded fingerprint indicates that the ambient sound in the environment of the user is
   extremely loud, the search area may be decreased, as there would be a larger number
   of users reporting the same sound from disparate locations.               In particular
30 embodiments, the social networking system first searches the fingerprints uploaded by
   friends of the user at the same time, based on the assumption that they are more likely
   to be together. In particular embodiments, spatial partitioning algorithms may be used
   to determine the search space.         In particular embodiments, an oct-tree spatial

                                           17
   partitioning algorithm is utilized to address the search space.            In particular
   embodiments, a kd-tree is used. in particular embodiments, a quad-tree, or any other
   grid-based method, is used.     This disclosure contemplates any suitable method of
   generating a search area for fingerprints uploaded by other users.
 5 In FIGURE 4, three users' self-determined locations are plotted on the map. Two
   users, 410 and 420, report their location to be within a few meters of each other, in the
   Fox Plaza. Another user, 430, reports his or her location to be across the street, near
   the "Ma'velous" restaurant. Users 410, 420, and 430 may or may not have explicit
   edge connections between each other on the social graph. For the purposes of this
10 example, the social networking system has matched the waveform fingerprints
   generated by all three users.
   FIGURE 4A illustrates an example portion of a social graph including user 410,
   represented by user node 1, user 420, represented by user node 2, and user 430,
   represented by user node 3. Because the waveform fingerprints from all three users
15 match, the social networking system may assume that they are in the same general
   vicinity. In particular embodiments, the social networking system takes into account
   the amplitude of all three waveform fingerprints. For example, if all three waveform
   fingerprints are at the same volume, and the volume is low, the social network may
   infer that the user location of user 430 is incorrect, and may transmit a corrected
20 location to client device 122 of user 430. On the other hand, if all three waveform
   fingerprints are at the same volume, and the volume is very high, then the social
   network may not transmit a corrected location.
   In FIGURE 4A, user node 1 has performed an explicit, on-network action, such as
   RSVPing to an event, checking-in to a location, or being tagged in a location or event,
25 for an event page, in this case "John and Jane's Wedding." Thus, the social network
   immediately knows, upon finding matching waveform fingerprints to the fingerprints
   transmitted by user node 1, that the users transmitting the matching fingerprints are
   also in the same location and attending the same event. Thus, user nodes 2 and 3 may
   be placed at the same location, and a corrected location may be transmitted to user
30 node 3 (user 430 of FIGURE 4). In particular embodiments, the type of event can be
   used to determine whether to alter the device settings of the users.      For example,
   given that the social network knows that user nodes 1, 2, and 3 are attending a
   wedding, it may transmit a command to automatically change the client device

                                             18
   settings to "silent" or "vibrate."
   FIGURE 5 illustrates an example method for adjusting device settings based on
   ambient waveform capture. At step 501, microphone 245 of client device 122 records
   an audio waveform. As previously discussed, waveform recording may be carried out
 5 by processor 211 running audio capture application 246, or low-power processor in
   sensor hub 218. In particular embodiments, client device 122 constantly records the
   ambient audio and stores it in storage 213. In particular embodiments, client device
   122 periodically records ambient audio for analysis. In particular embodiments, client
   device 122 records the ambient audio whenever a change in position is detected via
10 GPS sensor 217 or other location determination algorithms.               In particular
   embodiments, client device 122 captures the ambient audio whenever the audio
   exceeds a certain volume.        In particular embodiments, audio capture step 501 is
   triggered by user interaction with the social network, such as using a social
   networking application, viewing the social networking website, or checking-in to a
15 location. This disclosure contemplates any suitable manner of initiating or timing
   audio capture.
   At Step 502, audio capture application 246 performs feature detection on the
   waveform and analyzes waveform characteristics, also referred to as the "waveform
   DNA."       Feature detection step 502 may include, in particular embodiments,
20 identifying spikes in the audio waveform, predominance or lack of a particular
   frequency band, or other trends in waveform amplitude. In particular embodiments,
   the feature detection is implemented via an FFT or DCT. In particular embodiments,
   other frequency-domain transforms may be utilized to identify key characteristics of
   the waveform, such as how much treble or bass is present in the waveform.           In
25 particular embodiments, audio capture application 246 utilizes a discrete wavelet
   transform. In particular embodiments, audio capture application 246 utilizes a short
   time fourier transform.     In particular embodiments, audio capture application 246
   detects a fundamental frequency of the waveform. In particular embodiments, audio
   capture application 246 filters noise components from the captured waveform.        In
30 particular embodiments, audio capture application 246 utilizes a form of event onset
   detection to create a beat model for the captured waveform.              In particular
   embodiments, audio capture application 246 generates a beat histogram for the
   waveform. This disclosure contemplates any suitable method or algorithm for audio

                                          19
   waveform feature detection.
   At Step 503, an audio "fingerprint" is generated for one or more waveforms. The
   fingerprint is a small robust representation that summarizes the waveform or
   collection of waveforms. For example, in particular embodiments, waveforms may be
 5 captured and analyzed periodically, at one sample per second.           Each waveform
   captured may be analyzed for feature detection, and audio capture application 246
   may aggregate a number of waveforms having similar features (perhaps 100-200
   waveforms) and generate a fingerprint for the aggregate waveform representing a
   song, video, or soundtrack to a movie.       In particular embodiments, audio capture
10 application 246 uses vector quantization to generate representative vectors as the
   waveform fingerprint.     In particular embodiments, audio capture application 246
   utilizes spectrogram peaks, such as those used in the Shazam song recognition
   software, as the captured waveform fingerprint. Techniques for generating waveform
   fingerprints are well-known in the art. This disclosure contemplates any suitable
15 manner of generating fingerprints for the captured waveform or waveforms.
   At Step 504, client device 122 transmits the fingerprint generated in Step 503 to a
   server. In particular embodiments, the server is the system front end 120 of the social
   networking system.      In particular embodiments, client device 122 transmits the
   fingerprint directly to one or more servers running audio matching application 118.
20 This disclosure contemplates any suitable mechanism of transmitting the waveform
   fingerprints to audio matching application 118.      The one or more servers running
   audio matching application 118 receive the transmitted fingerprint at Step 505.
   At Step 506, the received fingerprint is searched against a database of fingerprints
   stored in audio database 105. In particular embodiments, audio database 105 stores
25 fingerprints of various different formats, so that fingerprints generated by a different
   method may still be compared to the stored fingerprints. In particular embodiments,
   audio database 105 stores waveforms, and the fingerprints for the stored waveforms
   are dynamically generated. If no matches are found, the process ends at Step 512.
   If a match is found, at Step 507, information relating to the object associated with the
30 matching fingerprint is pulled from the social networking system.           In particular
   embodiments, this information is stored in audio database 105.             In particular
   embodiments, the information may be stored in a separate object or node database in
   the social networking system. In particular embodiments, the information may be

                                            20
   metadata attached to the waveform stored in audio database 105.          The information
   may comprise general characteristics, such as the artist, song title, album title, date of
   recording, etc., and social characteristics, such as how many of the user's friends have
   "liked", commented on, or otherwise interacted with the object.             In particular
 5 embodiments, the information may be other songs performed by the artist, or other
   types of music in the genre. This disclosure contemplates any type of information
   related to the object associated with the matching waveform fingerprint.
   At Step 508, the social networking system searches its own internal or third-party
   online databases for location information relating to the detected object. For example,
10 because the social networking system is aware of client device 122's self-determined
   location, social networking system may enhance the location of client device 122 by
   matching the detected audio object with entries in online audio databases associated
   with the general vicinity. For example, absent an explicit on-network statement that a
   user is in a movie theatre, the social networking system traditionally had no way of
15 determining whether a user was in a movie theatre or near a movie theatre. However,
   if the social networking system may match the audio waveform fingerprint captured
   by client device 122 to a particular film, and the particular film and client device 122
   location to a listing of showtimes for a theatre near the client device 122's location,
   the social networking system may be positive that the user is watching a particular
20 movie at a particular theatre.
   At Step 509, the server transmits the information to client device 122, and at Step 510,
   the information is received at client device 122. Client device 122 at Step 511 may
   then adjust its own device settings, such as reducing the ringer volume or enabling a
   vibrate mode.
25 Audio object database 105 is not limited to songs. For example, the social networking
   system may determine whether a particular user is watching a movie or TV program.
   In particular embodiments, audio object database 105 stores a fingerprint for each
   user of the social network's voice. Thus, it is possible to adjust device settings based
   on the detected voice of a particular user based upon predefined rules. For example,
30 the user of client device 122 may set an explicit rule that sets his or her client device
    122 to silent mode in the presence of his or her employer. Thus, if the server matches
   the detected voice to the voice of the user's employer in audio database 105, the
   device may automatically enter silent mode.

                                            21
   FIGURE 6 illustrates an example method for adjusting device settings basd on an
   enhanced location of a user based on detected waveforms.                 The process is
   substantially identical to the process of FIGURE 5 until Step 606.           In particular
   embodiments, Steps 606-610 may be performed substantially simultaneously or in
 5 parallel with Steps 505-509.
   At Step 606, audio matching algorithm 246 pulls uploaded waveforms from the same
   general time and area as the uploading user. The location may be ascertained through
   GPS coordinates, TDOA, or a self-reported location, such as a check-in. In particular
   embodiments, the geographic search area decreases for areas in which a large number
10 of fingerprints are being uploaded.       In particular embodiments, the search area is
   based on the amplitude or absolute volume of the uploaded fingerprint. For example,
   if an uploaded fingerprint indicates that the ambient sound in the environment of the
   user is extremely loud, the search area may be decreased, as there would be a larger
   number of users reporting the same sound from disparate locations.           In particular
15 embodiments, the social networking system first searches the fingerprints uploaded by
   friends of the user at the same time, based on the assumption that they are more likely
   to be together.      In particular embodiments, the individual users uploading the
   fingerprints are plotted onto a map or grid.           In such an embodiments, spatial
   partitioning algorithms may be used to determine the search space.           In particular
20 embodiments, an oct-tree spatial partitioning algorithm is utilized to address the
   search space.       In particular embodiments, a kd-tree is used.           in particular
   embodiments, a quad-tree, or any other grid-based method, is used. This disclosure
   contemplates any suitable method of generating a search area for fingerprints
   uploaded by other users.
25 At Step 608, upon obtaining a matching fingerprint or fingerprints, the social
   networking system pulls location data associated with the one or more matching
   fingerprints.   For example, if a particular user's uploaded fingerprints match three
   other users' uploaded fingerprints, and one of the three other users has checked-in to a
   particular location, then the location data for the check-in is pulled and transmitted to
30 the client devices of the three users that did not check-in. In particular embodiments,
   the social networking system may average the geographic locations, or find the point
   equidistant to all the locations, of users uploading matching waveforms. For example,
   if three other users' uploaded audio fingerprints match the user's uploaded fingerprint,

                                           22
   the social networking system may calculate a point equidistant to the three other
   users' locations.   In particular embodiments, the social networking system searches
   for position outliers, for example if three of the four users with matching uploaded
   fingerprints are extremely close, and one is several hundred feet away, the social
 5 networking system may infer that the location of the outlier user is inaccurate.       At
   Step 609, the location data of Step 608 is transmitted to client device 122, and
   received by client device 122 at Step 610.
   At Step 611, client device 122 adjusts its settings based on the received location data.
   In particular embodiments, the settings may include adjusting the volume of the
10 ringer, enabling or disabling vibration, adjusting the brightness of the screen, enabling
   or disabling various wireless connections (such as Bluetooth, Wi-Fi, WiMax, near
   field communications, or cellular radio), locking or unlocking the device, enabling an
   audio recording, or the like.     This disclosure contemplates any suitable manner of
   modifying device settings.
15 Particular embodiments may be implemented on one or more computer systems.
   FIGURE 7 illustrates an example computer system 700. In particular embodiments,
   one or more computer systems 700 perform one or more steps of one or more
   methods described or illustrated herein.      In particular embodiments, one or more
   computer systems 700 provide functionality described or illustrated herein.             In
20 particular embodiments, software running on one or more computer systems 700
   performs one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein or
   provides functionality described or illustrated herein. Particular embodiments include
   one or more portions of one or more computer systems 700.
   This disclosure contemplates any suitable number of computer systems 700.            This
25 disclosure contemplates computer system 700 taking any suitable physical form. As
   example and not by way of limitation, computer system 700 may be an embedded
   computer system, a system-on-chip (SOC), a single-board computer system (SBC)
   (such as, for example, a computer-on-module (COM) or system-on-module (SOM)), a
   desktop computer system, a laptop or notebook computer system, an interactive kiosk,
30 a mainframe, a mesh of computer systems, a mobile telephone, a personal digital
   assistant (PDA), a server, or a combination of two or more of these.               Where
   appropriate, computer system 700 may include one or more computer systems 700; be
   unitary or distributed; span multiple locations; span multiple machines; or reside in a

                                          23
   cloud, which may include one or more cloud components in one or more networks.
   Where appropriate, one or more computer systems 700 may perform without
   substantial spatial or temporal limitation one or more steps of one or more methods
   described or illustrated herein. As an example and not by way of limitation, one or
 5 more computer systems 700 may perform in real time or in batch mode one or more
   steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein. One or more computer
   systems 700 may perform at different times or at different locations one or more steps
   of one or more methods described or illustrated herein, where appropriate.
   In particular embodiments, computer system 700 includes a processor 702, memory
10 704, storage 706, an input/output (1/0) interface 708, a communication interface 710,
   and a bus 712.       Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular
   computer system having a particular number of particular components in a particular
   arrangement, this disclosure contemplates any suitable computer system having any
   suitable number of any suitable components in any suitable arrangement.
15 In particular    embodiments,    processor  702   includes   hardware    for executing
   instructions, such as those making up a computer program.           Where appropriate,
   processor 702 may include one or more arithmetic logic units (ALUs); be a multi-core
   processor; or include one or more processors 702. Although this disclosure describes
   and illustrates a particular processor, this disclosure contemplates any suitable
20 processor.
   In particular   embodiments, memory 704 includes main memory for storing
   instructions for processor 702 to execute or data for processor 702 to operate onOne
   or more memory buses (which may each include an address bus and a data bus) may
   couple processor 702 to memory 704.       Bus 712 may include one or more memory
25 buses, as described below.       In particular embodiments, one or more memory
   management units (MMUs) reside between processor 702 and memory 704 and
   facilitate accesses to memory 704 requested by processor 702.              In particular
   embodiments, memory 704 includes random access memory (RAM). This RAM may
   be volatile memory, where appropriate.        Where appropriate, this RAM may be
30 dynamic RAM (DRAM) or static RAM (SRAM). Moreover, where appropriate, this
   RAM may be single-ported or multi-ported RAM. This disclosure contemplates any
   suitable RAM.      Memory 704 may include one or more memories 704, where
   appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular memory, this

                                           24
   disclosure contemplates any suitable memory.
   In particular embodiments, storage 706 includes mass storage for data or instructions.
   As an example and not by way of limitation, storage 706 may include an HDD, a
   floppy disk drive, flash memory, an optical disc, a magneto-optical disc, magnetic
 5 tape, or a Universal Serial Bus (USB) drive or a combination of two or more of these.
   Storage 706 may include removable or non-removable (or fixed) media, where
   appropriate. Storage 706 may be internal or external to computer system 700, where
   appropriate.    In particular embodiments, storage 706 is non-volatile, solid-state
   memory. In particular embodiments, storage 706 includes read-only memory (ROM).
10 This disclosure contemplates mass storage 706 taking any suitable physical form.
   Storage 706 may include one or more storage control units facilitating communication
   between processor 702 and storage 706, where appropriate.           Where appropriate,
   storage 706 may include one or more storages 706.             Although this disclosure
   describes and illustrates particular storage, this disclosure contemplates any suitable
15 storage.
   In particular embodiments, 1/0 interface 708 includes hardware, software, or both
   providing one or more interfaces for communication between computer system 700
   and one or more I/O devices. Computer system 700 may include one or more of these
   1/0 devices, where appropriate.      One or more of these 1/0 devices may enable
20 communication between a person and computer system 700. As an example and not
   by way of limitation, an I/O device may include a keyboard, keypad, microphone,
   monitor, mouse, printer, scanner, speaker, still camera, stylus, tablet, touch screen,
   trackball, video camera, another suitable 1/0 device or a combination of two or more
   of these.    An 1/0 device may include one or more sensors.             This disclosure
25 contemplates any suitable 1/0 devices and any suitable 1/0 interfaces 708 for them.
   Where appropriate, 1/0 interface 708 may include one or more device or software
   drivers enabling processor 702 to drive one or more of these 1/0 devices.           1/0
   interface 708 may include one or more 1/0 interfaces 708, where appropriate.
   Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular 1/0 interface, this
30 disclosure contemplates any suitable 1/0 interface.
   In particular embodiments, communication interface 710 includes hardware., software,
   or both providing one or more interfaces for communication (such as, for example,
   packet-based communication) between computer system 700 and one or more other

                                           25
   computer systems 700 or one or more networks. As an example and not by way of
   limitation, communication interface 710 may include a network interface controller
   (NIC) or network adapter for communicating with an Ethernet or other wire-based
   network or a wireless NIC (WNIC) or wireless adapter for communicating with a
 5 wireless network, such as a WI-FI network. This disclosure contemplates any suitable
   network and any suitable communication interface 710 for it. As an example and not
   by way of limitation, computer system 700 may communicate with an ad hoc
   network, a personal area network (PAN), a local area network (LAN), a wide area
   network (WAN), a metropolitan area network (MAN), or one or more portions of the
10 Internet or a combination of two or more of these. One or more portions of one or
   more of these networks may be wired or wireless. As an example, computer system
   700 may communicate with a wireless PAN (WPAN) (such as, for example, a
   BLUETOOTH WPAN), a WI-FI network, a WI-MAX network, a cellular telephone
   network (such as, for example, a Global System for Mobile Communications (GSM)
15 network), or other suitable wireless network or a combination of two or more of these.
   Computer system 700 may include any suitable communication interface 710 for any
   of these networks, where appropriate. Communication interface 710 may include one
   or more communication interfaces 710, where appropriate. Although this disclosure
   describes   and illustrates a particular communication interface, this disclosure
20 contemplates any suitable communication interface.
   In particular embodiments, bus 712 includes hardware, software, or both coupling
   components of computer system 700 to each other. Bus 712 may include one or more
   buses 712, where appropriate.      Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a
   particular bus, this disclosure contemplates any suitable bus or interconnect.
25 Herein, reference to a computer-readable storage medium encompasses one or more
   non-transitory, tangible computer-readable storage media possessing structure. As an
   example and not by way of limitation, a computer-readable storage medium may
   include a semiconductor-based or other integrated circuit (IC) (such, as for example, a
   field-programmable gate array (FPGA) or an application-specific IC (ASIC)), a hard
30 disk, an HDD, a hybrid hard drive (HHD), an optical disc, an optical disc drive
   (ODD), a magneto-optical disc, a magneto-optical drive, a floppy disk, a floppy disk
   drive (FDD), magnetic tape, a holographic storage medium, a solid-state drive (SSD),
   a RAM-drive, a SECURE DIGITAL card, a SECURE DIGITAL drive, or another

                                            26
   suitable computer-readable storage medium or a combination of two or more of these,
   where appropriate.      Herein, reference to a computer-readable        storage medium
   excludes any medium that is not eligible for patent protection under 35 U.S.C.  101.
   Herein, reference to a computer-readable storage medium excludes transitory forms of
 5 signal transmission (such as a propagating electrical or electromagnetic signal per se)
   to the extent that they are not eligible for patent protection under 35 U.S.C.  101. A
   computer-readable non-transitory storage medium may be volatile, non-volatile, or a
   combination of volatile and non-volatile, where appropriate.
   This disclosure contemplates        one or more computer-readable         storage media
10 implementing any suitable storage. In particular embodiments, a computer-readable
   storage medium implements one or more portions of processor 702 (such as, for
   example, one or more internal registers or caches), one or more portions of memory
   704, one or more portions of storage 706, or a combination of these, where
   appropriate.    In particular embodiments, a computer-readable          storage medium
15 implements RAM or ROM. In particular embodiments, a computer-readable storage
   medium implements volatile or persistent memory. In particular embodiments, one or
   more computer-readable       storage media embody software.         Herein, reference to
   software may encompass one or more applications, bytecode, one or more computer
   programs, one or more executables, one or more instructions, logic, machine code,
20 one or more scripts, or source code, and vice versa, where appropriate. In particular
   embodiments, software includes one or more application programming interfaces
   (APIs).    This disclosure contemplates any suitable software written or otherwise
   expressed in any suitable programming language or combination of programming
   languages. In particular embodiments, software is expressed as source code or object
25 code.     In particular    embodiments,     software   is  expressed  in a higher-level
   programming language, such as, for example, C, Perl, or a suitable extension thereof.
   In particular embodiments, software is expressed in a lower-level programming
   language, such as assembly language (or machine code). In particular embodiments,
   software is expressed in JAVA, C, or C++. In particular embodiments, software is
30 expressed in Hyper Text Markup Language (HTML), Extensible Markup Language
   (XML), or other suitable markup language.
   Herein, "or" is inclusive and not exclusive, unless expressly indicated otherwise or
   indicated otherwise by context. Therefore, herein, "A or B" means "A, B, or both,"

                                          27
   unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context. Moreover,
   "and" is both joint and several, unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated
   otherwise by context.    Therefore, herein, "A and B" means "A and B, jointly or
   severally," unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context.
 5 This disclosure encompasses all changes, substitutions, variations, alterations, and
   modifications to the example embodiments herein that a person having ordinary skill
   in the art would comprehend.       Similarly, where appropriate, the appended claims
   encompass all changes, substitutions, variations, alterations, and modifications to the
   example embodiments herein that a person having ordinary skill in the art would
10 comprehend. Moreover, reference in the appended claims to an apparatus or system
   or a component of an apparatus or system being adapted to, arranged to, capable of,
   configured to, enabled to, operable to, or operative to perform a particular function
   encompasses that apparatus, system, component, whether or not it or that particular
   function is activated, turned on, or unlocked, as long as that apparatus, system, or
15 component is so adapted, arranged, capable, configured, enabled, operable, or
   operative.
   Further Embodiments
   One embodiment of the present disclosure provides a method, comprising, by a
   computing system:
20         capturing ambient audio data;
           performing waveform analysis on the ambient audio data; and
           adjusting one or more device settings based on the waveform analysis.
   In one arrangement, performing waveform analysis comprises determining the
   volume level of the ambient environment.
25
   In one arrangement, adjusting device settings comprises matching a ringer volume of
   the computing system to the volume level of the ambient environment.
   In one arrangement, adjusting device settings comprises enabling vibrate mode if the
30 volume level of the ambient environment exceeds a predetermined threshold.
   In one arrangement, adjusting device settings comprises enabling vibrate mode if the
   volume level of the ambient environment falls below a predetermined threshold.

                                            28
    In one arrangement, the method further comprises:
            calculating a self-determined location of the computing system;
            generating a waveform fingerprint for the captured ambient audio data;
            transmitting the waveform fingerprint and the self-determined location to a
  5 server;
            receiving instructions from the server to adjust one or more device settings;
    and
            adjusting one or more device settings in accordance with the received
    instructions.
 10 Another embodiment of the present disclosure provides a method comprising, by one
    or more computing systems:
            receiving a waveform fingerprint and a client-determined location from a
    client;
            comparing the received      waveform fingerprint to a database of stored
 is waveform fingerprints, each stored waveform fingerprint associated with an object in
    an object database; and
            finding one or more matching fingerprints from the fingerprint database; and
    transmitting one or more instructions to adjust one or more device settings of the
    client.
20  In one arrangement, the method further comprises:
             searching one or more external databases associated with one or more
    geographic locations in the vicinity of the client-determined location;
            upon finding a match for the one or more objects associated with the one or
    more matching fingerprints, assigning the location associated with the database in
25  which the match was found to the client; and wherein
            the one or more instructions to adjust one or more device settings is based on
    the location.
    In one arrangement, the stored waveform fingerprints comprise uploaded waveform
    fingerprints from one or more other users represented by nodes on a social network,
30  and further comprising:

                                          29
           querying a social graph for location information associated with the one or
   more other nodes whose uploaded fingerprints match the received waveform
   fingerprint, and wherein
           the one or more instructions to adjust one or more device settings is based on
 5 the location information returned by the social graph in response to the query.
   In one arrangement, the location information comprises a check-in to a particular
   geographic location.
   In one arrangement, the location information comprises an RSVP to a particular event.
   In one arrangement, the one or more instructions are operable to instruct the client to
10 increase its ringer volume.
   In one arrangement, the one or more instructions are operable to instruct the client to
   decrease its ringer volume.
   In one arrangement, the one or more instructions are operable to instruct the client to
   enable a vibrate mode.
15 A further embodiment of the present disclosure provides a non-transitory, computer
   readable media comprising instructions operable, when executed by one or more
   computing systems, to
           capture ambient audio data;
           perform waveform analysis on the ambient audio data; and
20         adjust one or more device settings based on the waveform analysis.
   In one arrangement, performing waveform analysis comprises determining the volume
   level of the ambient environment.
   In one arrangement, adjusting device settings comprises matching a ringer volume of
   the computing system to the volume level of the ambient environment.
25 In one arrangement, adjusting device settings comprises enabling vibrate mode if the
   volume level of the ambient environment exceeds a predetermined threshold.

                                          30
   In one arrangement, adjusting device settings comprises enabling vibrate mode if the
   volume level of the ambient environment falls below a predetermined threshold.
   In one arrangement, the media further comprises instructions operable, when executed
   by one or more computing devices, to:
 5         calculating a self-determined location of the computing system;
           generating a waveform fingerprint for the captured ambient audio data;
           transmitting the waveform fingerprint and the self-determined location to a
   server;
           receiving instructions from the server to adjust one or more device settings;
10 and
           adjusting one or more device settings in accordance with the received
   instructions.

                                                     31
   The claims defining!the invention are as follows:
            1.      A method comprising:
            by a computing system, generating a waveform fingerprint based on captured ambient
 5 audio data;
            by the computing system, sending the generated waveform fingerprint to a server;
            by the computing system, receiving instructions from the server to adjust one or more
   device settings of an output device of the computing system, the instructions being based at
   least in part on identifying one or more audio fingerprints that match the generated waveform
io fingerprint and correlating one or more of the identified audio fingerprints to a physical
   environment of the computing system; and
            by the computing system, adjusting one or more of the device settings of the output
   device of the computing system in accordance with the received instructions.
            2.      The method of Claim 1, further comprising calculating a location of the
is computing system and sending the location to a server.
            3.      The method of Claim 2, wherein the identified audio fingerprints are
   correlated to the physical environment based at least in part on matching information
   associated with identified audio fingerprints to information associated with the location.
            4.      The method of either one of Claim 2 and Claim 3, wherein the received
20 instructions are based at least in part on an updated location determined at least in part on
   location information of the identified audio fingerprints.
            5.      The method of any one of Claims 1 to 4, wherein the received instructions
   comprise adjusting a volume of a ringer, enabling vibration, adjusting a brightness of a
   screen, enabling a wireless connection, or locking the computing system.
25          6.      The method of any one of Claims 1 to 5, wherein the received instructions are
   based at least in part on a characteristic of the generated waveform fingerprint.
            7.      The method of any one of Claims 2 to 6, wherein the location is calculated
   based at least in part on cell tower triangulation, Wi-Fi positioning, or global positioning
   system (GPS) positioning.

                                                   32
            8.      The method of any one of Claims 2 to 6, wherein the location is calculated
   based at least in part on information of a user of a social-networking system.
            9.      The method of Claim 8, wherein the information of the user comprises a
   check-in, tag of the user on a photo, comment, or RSVP associated with the location.
 5           10.    The method of any one of Claims 2 to 6, wherein the location is calculated
   based at least in part on querying a social graph for location information associated with one
   or more nodes of the social graph, wherein one or more of the nodes corresponds to one or
   more users that uploaded one of the identified audio fingerprints.
            11.     The method of any one of Claims 1 to 10, wherein the identified audio
10 fingerprints correspond to a song, TV show, soundtrack, movie, or performance.
            12.     The method of Claim 11, wherein one or more of the identified audio
   fingerprints is correlated to the physical environment based at least in part on identifying a
   venue associated with the identified audio fingerprints, wherein the identification is based at
   least in part on information provided by an online database.
is           13.    The method of any one of Claims 2 to 12, wherein the generated waveform
   fingerprint is searched against of the audio fingerprints associated with a search space of the
   calculated location.
            14.     The method of any one of Claims 2 to 13, wherein the ambient audio data is
   captured in response to a sound level of the ambient audio data being higher than a pre
20 determined level or detecting a change in the calculated location.
            15.     One or more computer-readable non-transitory storage media embodying
   software that is operable when executed to:
            generate a waveform fingerprint based on captured ambient audio data;
            send the generated waveform fingerprint to a server;
25          receive instructions from the server to adjust one or more device settings of an output
   device of the client system, the instructions being based at least in part on identifying one or
   more audio fingerprints that match the generated waveform fingerprint and correlating one or
   more of the identified audio fingerprints to a physical environment of the client system; and

                                                  33
           adjust one or more of the device settings of the output device of the client system in
   accordance with the received instructions.
            16.    The media of Claim 15, further comprising calculating a location of the
   computing system and sending the location to a server.
 5          17.    The media of Claim 16, wherein the identified audio fingerprints are
   correlated to the physical environment based at least in part on matching information
   associated with identified audio fingerprints to information associated with the location.
            18.    The media of either one of Claim 16 and Claim 17, wherein the received
   instructions are based at least in part on an updated location determined at least in part on
io location information of the identified audio fingerprints.
            19.    The media of any one of Claims 15 to 18, wherein the received instructions
   comprise adjusting a volume of a ringer, enabling vibration, adjusting a brightness of a
   screen, enabling a wireless connection, or locking the computing system.
           20.     A computing device comprising:
15         a processor; and
           a memory coupled to the processor comprising instructions executable by the
   processor, the processor being operable when executing the instructions to:
                   generate a waveform fingerprint based on captured ambient audio data;
                   send the generated waveform fingerprint to a server;
20                 receive instructions from the server to adjust one or more device settings of an
           output device of the computing device, the instructions being based at least in part on
           identifying one or more audio fingerprints that match the generated waveform
           fingerprint and correlating one or more of the identified audio fingerprints to a
           physical environment of the computing device; and
25                 adjust one or more of the device settings of the output device of the computing
           device in accordance with the received instructions.
                                          Facebook, Inc.
                                 By Patent Attorneys for the Applicant
                                      COTTERS
                                    Patent & Trade Mark Attorneys

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
