A method implemented on a computing device is disclosed, whereby a plurality of binary choice
events are calculated, and a first user can make a progressive buyin in response to this, and if a
subsequent set of selections does not match that of the first selection of the buyin, determining that the
first user does not win the progressive game, and then receiving a buying and selection from a second
user, and if the selection of outcomes after this second buyin does match this second buyin, determine
that the second user wins the progressive game and award a progressive pool to the second user.

      AMUSEMENT DEVICES AND GAMES INVOLVING PROGRESSIVE JACKPOTS
                              Cross Reference to Related Applications
   [0001]   This application claims priority to US provisional application 61/728,038 filed
 5 November 19, 2012, which is hereby incorporated herein by reference.
                                 BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE FIGURES
   [0002]    FIG. I shows a block diagram of components for a hand-reading system, according to
   some embodiments;
10 [0003]    FIG, 2 shows an apparatus for playing a game, according to some embodiments;
   [0004]    FIG. 3 shows an example method according to some embodiments;
   [0005]    FIG. 4 shows another example method according to some embodiments;
   [0006]    FIG. 5 shows another example method according to some embodiments.
15                                      DETAILED DESCRIPTION
   [0007]   The following sections I - X provide a guide to interpreting the present application.
          .        Terms
   [0008]          The term "product" means any machine, manufacture and / or composition of
   matter, unless expressly specified otherwise.
20 [0009]          The term "process" means any process, algorithm, method or the like, unless
   expressly specified otherwise.
   [000101         Each process (whether called a method, algorithm or otherwise) inherently
   includes one or more steps, and therefore all references to a "step" or "steps" of a process have
   an inherent antecedent basis in the mere recitation of the term 'process' or a like term,

   Accordingly, any reference in a claim to a 'step' or 'steps' of a process has sufficient antecedent
   basis.
   [00011]         The term "invention" and the like mean "the one or more inventions disclosed in
   this application", unless expressly specified otherwise.
 5 [00012]         The terms "an embodiment", "embodiment", "embodiments", "the embodiment",
   "the embodiments", "one or more embodiments", "some embodiments", "certain embodiments",
   "one embodiment", "another embodiment" and the like mean "one or more (but not all)
   embodiments of the disclosed invention(s)", unless expressly specified otherwise.
   [00013]         The term "variation" of an invention means an embodiment of the invention,
10 unless expressly specified otherwise.
   [00014]         A reference to "another embodiment" in describing an embodiment does not
   imply that the referenced embodiment is mutually exclusive with another embodiment (e.g., an
   embodiment described before the referenced embodiment), unless expressly specified otherwise.
   [00015] The terms "including", "comprising" and variations thereof mean "including but not
15 necessarily limited to", unless expressly specified otherwise. Thus, for example, the sentence
   "the portfolio includes a red widget and a blue widget" means the portfolio includes the red
   widget and the blue widget, but may include something else.
   [00016]         The term "consisting of' and variations thereof means "including and limited to",
   unless expressly specified otherwise. Thus, for example, the sentence "the portfolio consists of a
2o red widget and a blue widget" means the portfolio includes the red widget and the blue widget,
   but does not include anything else.
   [00017]         The term "compose" and variations thereof means "to make up the constituent
   parts of, component of or member of', unless expressly specified otherwise. Thus, for example,
   the sentence "the red widget and the blue widget compose a portfolio" means the portfolio
25 includes the red widget and the blue widget.
                                                     2

   [00018]         The term "exclusively compose" and variations thereof means "to make up
   exclusively the constituent parts of, to be the only components of or to be the only members of",
   unless expressly specified otherwise. Thus, for example, the sentence "the red widget and the
   blue widget exclusively compose a portfolio" means the portfolio consists of the red widget and
 5 the blue widget, and nothing else.
   [00019]         The terms "a", "an" and "the" mean "one or more", unless expressly specified
   otherwise.
   [00020]         The term "plurality" means "two or mote", unless expressly specified otherwise.
   [00021]         The term "herein" means "in the present application, including anything which
10 may be incorporated by reference", unless expressly specified otherwise.
   [00022]         The phrase "at least one of', when such phrase modifies a plurality of things
   (such as an enumerated list of things) means any combination of one or more of those things,
   unless expressly specified otherwise. For example, the phrase "at least one of a widget, a car and
   a wheel" means either (i) a widget, (ii) a car, (iii) a wheel, (iv) a widget and a car, (v) a widget
15 and a wheel, (vi) a car and a wheel, or (vii) a widget, a car and a wheel. The phrase "at least one
   of', when such phrase modifies a plurality of things does not mean "one of each of' the plurality
   of things.
   [00023]         Numerical terms such as "one", "two", etc. when used as cardinal numbers to
   indicate quantity of something (e.g., one widget, two widgets), mean the quantity indicated by
20 that numerical term, but do not mean at least the quantity indicated by that numerical term, For
   example, the phrase "one widget" does not mean "at least one widget", and therefore the phrase
   "one widget" does not cover, e.g., two widgets.
   [00024]         The phrase "based on" does not mean "based only on", unless expressly specified
   otherwise. In other words, the phrase "based on" describes both "based only on" and "based at
25 least on". The phrase "based at least on" is equivalent to the phrase "based at least in part on".
   [00025]         The term "represent" and like terms are not exclusive, unless expressly specified
   otherwise. For example, the term "represents" does not mean "represents only", unless expressly
                                                        3

   specified otherwise. In other words, the phrase "the data represents a credit card number"
   describes both "the data represents only a credit card number" and "the data represents a credit
   card number and the data also represents something else".
   [00026]          The term "whereby" is used herein only to precede a clause or other set of words
 5 that express only the intended result, objective or consequence of something that is previously
   and explicitly recited. Thus, when the term "whereby" is used in a claim, the clause or other
   words that the term "whereby" modifies do not establish specific further limitations of the claim
   or otherwise restricts the meaning or scope of the claim.
   [00027]          The term "e.g." and like terms mean "for example", and thus does not limit the
10 term or phrase it explains. For example, in the sentence "the computer sends data (e.g.,
   instructions, a data structure) over the Internet", the term "e.g." explains that "instructions" are
   an example of "data" that the computer may send over the Internet, and also explains that "a data
   structure" is an example of "data" that the computer may send over the Internet. However, both
   "instructions" and "a data structure" are merely examples of "data", and other things besides
15 "instructions" and "a data structure" can be "data".
   [00028]          The term "respective" and like terms mean "taken individually". Thus if two or
   more things have "respective" characteristics, then each such thing has its own characteristic,
   and these characteristics can be different from each other but need not be. For example, the
   phrase "each of two machines, has a respective function" means that the first such machine has a
20 function and the second such machine has a function as well. The function of the first machine
   may or may not be the same as the function of the second machine.
   [00029]          The term "i.e." and like terms mean "that is", and thus limits the term or phrase it
   explains. For example, in the sentence "the computer sends data (i.e., instructions) over the
   Internet", the term "i.e." explains that "instructions" are the "data" that the computer sends over
25 the Internet.
   [00030]          Any given numerical range shall include whole and fractions of numbers within
   the range. For example, the range "I to 10" shall be interpreted to specifically include whole
   numbers between I and 10 (e.g., 1, 2, 3, 4, ... 9) and non-whole numbers (e.g., , 1.1, 1.2, ... 1.9).
                                                       4

   [00031]         Where two or more terms or phrases are synonymous (e.g., because of an explicit
   statement that the terms or phrases are synonymous), instances of one such term / phrase does
   not mean instances of another such term / phrase must have a different meaning. For example,
   where a statement renders the meaning of "including" to be synonymous with "including but not
 5 limited to", the mere usage of the phrase "including but not limited to" does not mean that the
   term "including" means something other than "including but not limited to".
         II,       Determining
   [00032]         The term "determining" and grammatical variants thereof (e.g., to determine a
   price, determining a value, determine an object which meets a certain criterion) is used in an
10 extremely broad sense. The term "determining" encompasses a wide variety of actions and
   therefore "determining" can include calculating, computing, processing,.deriving, investigating,
   looking up (e.g., looking up in a table, a database or another data structure), ascertaining and the
   like. Also, "determining" can include receiving (e.g., receiving information), accessing (e.g.,
   accessing data in a memory) and the like, Also, "determining" can include resolving, selecting,
15 choosing, establishing, and the like.
   [00033]         The term "determining" does not imply certainty or absolute precision, and
   therefore "determining" can include estimating, extrapolating, predicting, guessing and the like.
   [00034]         The term "determining" does not imply that mathematical processing must be
   performed, and does not imply that numerical methods must be used, and does not imply that an
20 algorithm or process is used.
   [00035]         The term "determining" does not imply that any particular device must be used.
   For example, a computer need not necessarily perform the determining.
         III.      Forms of Sentences
   [00036]         Where a limitation of a first claim would cover one of a feature as well as more
25 than one of a feature (e.g., a limitation such as "at least one widget" covers one widget as well as
   more than one widget), and where in a second claim that depends on the first claim, the second
   claim uses a definite article "the" to refer to the limitation (e.g., "the widget"), this does not
   imply that the first claim covers only one of the feature, and this does not imply that the second
                                                       5

   claim covers only one of the feature (e.g., "the widget" can cover both one widget and more than
   one widget).
   [00037]          When an ordinal number (such as "first" "second", "third" and so on) is used as
   an adjective before a term, that ordinal number is used (unless expressly specified otherwise)
 5 merely to indicate a particular feature, such as to distinguish that particular feature from another
   feature that is described by the same term or by a similar term. For example, a "first widget"
   may be so named merely to distinguish it from, e.g., a "second widget". Thus, the mere usage of
   the ordinal numbers "first" and "second" before the term "widget" does not indicate any other
   relationship between the two widgets, and likewise does not indicate any other characteristics of
10 either or both widgets. For example, the mere usage of the ordinal numbers "first" and "second"
   before the term "widget" (1) does not indicate that either widget comes before or after any other
   in order or location; (2) does not indicate that either widget occurs or acts before or after any
   other in time; and (3) does not indicate that either widget ranks above or below any other, as in
   importance or quality. In addition, the mere usage of ordinal numbers does not define a
15 numerical limit to the features identified with the ordinal numbers. For example, the mere usage
   of the ordinal numbers "first" and "second" before the term "widget" does not indicate that there
   must be no more than two widgets.
   [00038]          When a single device, article or other product is described herein, more than one
   device / article (whether or not they cooperate) may alternatively be used in place of the single
20 device / article that is described. Accordingly, the functionality that is described as being
   possessed by a device may alternatively be possessed by more than one device / article (whether
   or not they cooperate).
   [00039]          Similarly, where more than one device, article or other product is described herein
   (whether or not they cooperate), a single device / article may alternatively be used in place of the
25 more than one device or article that is described. For example, a plurality of computer-based
   devices may be substituted with a single computer-based device. Accordingly, the various
   functionality that is described as being possessed by more than one device or article may
   alternatively be possessed by a single device / article.
                                                      6

   [00040]          The functionality and / or the features of a single device that is described may be
   alternatively embodied by one or more other devices which are described but are not explicitly
   described as having such functionality / features. Thus, other embodiments need not include the
   described device itself, but rather can include the one or more other devices which would, in
 5 those other embodiments, have such functionality / features.
         IV.        Disclosed Examples and Terminology Are Not Limiting
   [00041]          Neither the Title (set forth at the beginning of the first page of the present
   application) nor the Abstract (set forth at the end of the present application) is to be taken as
   limiting in any way as the scope of the disclosed invention(s), is to be used in interpreting the
10 meaning of any claim or is to be used in limiting the scope of any claim.. An Abstract has been
   included in this application merely because an Abstract is required under 37 C.F.R. § 1.72(b).
   [00042]          The title of the present application and headings of sections provided in the
   present application are for convenience only, and are not to be taken as limiting the disclosure in
   any way.
15 [00043]          Numerous embodiments are described in the present application, and are
   presented for illustrative purposes only. The described embodiments are not, and are not
   intended to be, limiting in any sense. The presently disclosed invention(s) are widely applicable
   to numerous embodiments, as is readily apparent from the disclosure. One of ordinary skill in
   the art will recognize that the disclosed invention(s) may be practiced with various modifications
20 and alterations, such as structural, logical, software, and electrical modifications. Although
   particular features of the disclosed invention(s) may be described with reference to one or more
   particular embodiments and / or drawings, it should be understood that such features are not
   limited to usage in the one or more particular embodiments or drawings with reference to which
   they are described, unless expressly specified otherwise.
25 [00044]          Though an embodiment may be disclosed as including several features, other
   embodiments of the invention may include fewer than all such features. Thus, for example, a
   claim may be directed to less than the entire set of features in a disclosed embodiment, and such
   claim would not include features beyond those features that the claim expressly recites.
                                                        7

   [00045]         No embodiment of method steps or product elements described in the present
   application constitutes the invention claimed herein, or is essential to the invention claimed
   herein, or is coextensive with the invention claimed herein, except where it is either expressly
   stated to be so in this specification or expressly recited in a claim.
 5 [00046]         The preambles of the claims that follow recite purposes, benefits and possible
   uses of the claimed invention only and do not limit the claimed invention.
   [00047]         The present disclosure is not a literal description of all embodiments of the
   invention(s). Also, the present disclosure is not a listing of features of the invention(s) which
   must be present in all embodiments.
10 [00048] All disclosed embodiment are not necessarily covered by the claims (even including all
   pending, amended, issued and canceled claims). In addition, an embodiment may be (but need
   not necessarily be) covered by several claims. Accordingly, where a claim (regardless of
   whether pending, amended, issued or canceled) is directed to a particular embodiment, such is
   not evidence that the scope of other claims do not also cover that embodiment.
15 [00049]         Devices that are described as in communication with each other need not be in
   continuous communication with each other, unless expressly specified otherwise. On the
   contrary, such devices need only transmit to each other as necessary or desirable, and may
   actually refrain from exchanging data most of the time. For example, a machine in
   communication with another machine via the Internet may not transmit data to the other machine
20 for long period of time (e.g. weeks at a time). In addition, devices that are in communication
   with each other may communicate directly or indirectly through one or more intermediaries.
   [00050]         A description of an embodiment with several components or features does not
   imply that all or even any of such components / features are required. On the contrary, a variety
   of optional components are described to illustrate the wide variety of possible embodiments of
25 the present invention(s). Unless otherwise specified explicitly, no component / feature is
   essential or required.
   [00051]         Although process steps, algorithms or the like may be described or claimed in a
   particular sequential order, such processes may be configured to work in different orders. In
                                                       8

   other words, any sequence or order of steps that may be explicitly described or claimed does not
   necessarily indicate a requirement that the steps be performed in that order. The steps of
   processes described herein may be performed in any order possible. Further, some steps may be
   performed simultaneously despite being described or implied as occurring non-simultaneously
 5 (e.g., because one step is described after the other step). Moreover, the illustration of a process
   by its depiction in a drawing does not imply that the illustrated process is exclusive of other
   variations and modifications thereto, does not imply that the illustrated process or any of its steps
   are necessary to the invention(s), and does not imply that the illustrated process is preferred.
   [00052]          Although a process may be described as including a plurality of steps, that does
10 not imply that all or any of the steps are preferred, essential or required. Various other
   embodiments within the scope of the described invention(s) include other processes that omit
   some or all of the described steps. Unless otherwise specified explicitly, no step is essential or
   required.
   [00053]          Although a process may be described singly or without reference to other
15 products or methods, in an embodiment the process may interact with other products or methods.
   For example, such interaction may include linking one business model to another business
   model. Such interaction may be provided to enhance the flexibility or desirability of the process.
   [00054]          Although a product may be described as including a plurality of components,
   aspects, qualities, characteristics and / or features, that does not indicate that any or all of the
20 plurality are preferred, essential or required. Various other embodiments within the scope of the
   described invention(s) include other products that omit some or all of the described plurality.
   [00055]          An enumerated list of items (which may or may not be numbered) does not imply
   that any or all of the items are mutually exclusive, unless expressly specified otherwise.
   Likewise, an enumerated list of items (which may or may not be numbered) does not imply that
25 any or all of the items are comprehensive of any category, unless expressly specified otherwise.
   For example, the enumerated list "a computer, a laptop, a PDA" does not imply that any or all of
   the three items of that list are mutually exclusive and does not imply that any or all of the three
   items of that list are comprehensive of any category.
                                                       9

   [00056]          An enumerated list of items (which may or may not be numbered) does not imply
   that any or all of the items are equivalent to each other or readily substituted for each other.
   [00057]          All embodiments are illustrative, and do not imply that the invention or any
   embodiments were made or performed, as the case may be.
 5        V.        Computing
   [00058]          It will be readily apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art that the various
   processes described herein may be implemented by, e.g., appropriately programmed general
   purpose computers, special purpose computers and computing devices. Typically a processor
   (e.g., one or more microprocessors, one or more microcontrollers, one or more digital signal
10 processors) will receive instructions (e.g., from a memory or like device), and execute those
   instructions, thereby performing one or more processes defined by those instructions.
   Instructions may be embodied in, e.g., one or more computer programs, one or more scripts.
   [00059]          A "processor" means one or more microprocessors, central processing units
   (CPUs), computing devices, microcontrollers, digital signal processors, or like devices or any
15 combination thereof, regardless of the architecture (e.g., chip-level multiprocessing / multi-core,
   RISC, CISC, Microprocessor without Interlocked Pipeline Stages, pipelining configuration,
   simultaneous multithreading).
   [00060]          Thus a description of a process is likewise a description of an apparatus for
   performing the process. The apparatus that performs the process can include, e.g., a processor
20 and those input devices and output devices that are appropriate to perform the process.
   [00061]          Further, programs that implement such methods (as well as other types of data)
   may be stored and transmitted using a variety of media (e.g., computer readable media) in a
   number of manners. In some embodiments, hard-wired circuitry or custom hardware may be
   used in place of, or in combination with, some or all of the software instructions that can
25 implement the processes of various embodiments. Thus, various combinations of hardware and
   software may be used instead of software only.
   [00062]          The term "computer-readable medium" refers to any medium, a plurality of the
   same, or a combination of different media, that participate in providing data (e.g., instructions,
                                                      10

   data structures) which may be read by a computer, a processor or a like device. Such a medium
   may take many forms, including but not limited to, non-volatile media, volatile media, and
   transmission media. Non-volatile media include, for example, optical or magnetic disks and
   other persistent memory. Volatile media include dynamic random access memory (DRAM),
 5 which typically constitutes the main memory. Transmission media include coaxial cables,
   copper wire and fiber optics, including the wires that comprise a system bus coupled to the
   processor. Transmission media may include or convey acoustic waves, light waves and
   electromagnetic emissions, such as those generated during radio frequency (RF) and infrared
   (IR) data communications. Common forms of computer-readable media include, for example, a
10 floppy disk, a flexible disk, hard disk, magnetic tape, any other magnetic medium, a CD-ROM,
   DVD, any other optical medium, punch cards, paper tape, any other physical medium with
   patterns of holes, a RAM, a PROM, an EPROM, a FLASH-EEPROM, any other memory chip or
   cartridge, a carrier wave as described hereinafter, or any other medium from which a computer
   can read.
15 [000631          Various forms of computer readable media may be involved in carrying data (e.g.
   sequences of instructions) to a processor. For example, data may be (i) delivered from RAM to a
   processor; (ii) carried over a wireless transmission medium; (iii) formatted and / or transmitted
   according to numerous formats, standards or protocols, such as Ethernet (or IEEE 802.3), SAP,
   ATP, Bluetooth 0, and TCP/IP, TDMA, CDMA, and 3G; and / or (iv) encrypted to ensure
20 privacy or prevent fraud in any of a variety of ways well known in the art.
   [00064]          Thus a description of a process is likewise a description of a computer-readable
   medium storing a program for performing the process. The computer-readable medium can store
   (in any appropriate format) those program elements which are appropriate to perform the
   method.
25 [00065]          Just as the description of various steps in a process does not indicate that all the
   described steps are required, embodiments of an apparatus include a computer / computing
   device operable to perform some (but not necessarily all) of the described process.
   [00066]          Likewise, just as the description of various steps in a process does not indicate
   that all the described steps are required, embodiments of a computer-readable medium storing a
                                                       11

   program or data structure include a computer-readable medium storing a program that, when
   executed, can cause a processor to perform some (but not necessarily all) of the described
   process.
   [00067]           Where databases are described, it will be understood by one of ordinary skill in
 s the art that (i) alternative database structures to those described may be readily employed, and
   (ii) other memory structures besides databases may be readily employed. Any illustrations or
   descriptions of any sample databases presented herein are illustrative arrangements for stored
   representations of information. Any number of other arrangements may be employed besides
   those suggested by, e.g., tables illustrated in drawings or elsewhere. Similarly, any illustrated
10 entries of the databases represent exemplary information only; one of ordinary skill in the art will
   understand that the number and content of the entries can be different from those described
   herein. Further, despite any depiction of the databases as tables, other formats (including
   relational databases, object-based models and / or distributed databases) could be used to store
   and manipulate the data types described herein. Likewise, object methods or behaviors of a
15 database can be used to implement various processes, such as the described herein. In addition,
   the databases may, in a known manner, be stored locally or remotely from a device which
   accesses data in such a database.
   [00068]           Various embodiments can be configured to work in a network environment
   including a computer that is in communication (e.g., via a communications network) with one or
20 more devices. The computer may communicate with the devices directly or indirectly, via any
   wired or wireless medium (e.g. the Internet, LAN, WAN or Ethernet, Token Ring, a telephone
   line, a cable line, a radio channel, an optical communications line, commercial on-line service
   providers, bulletin board systems, a satellite communications link, a combination of any of the
   above). Each of the devices may themselves comprise computers or other computing devices,
25 such as those based on the Intel® Pentium@ or CentrinoM processor, that are adapted to
   communicate with the computer. Any number and type of devices may be in communication
   with the computer.
   [00069]           In an embodiment, a server computer or centralized authority may not be
   necessary or desirable, For example, the present invention may, in an embodiment, be practiced
                                                       12

   on one or more devices without a central authority. In such an embodiment, any functions
   described herein as performed by the server computer or data described as stored on the server
   computer may instead be performed by or stored on one or more such devices.
   [00070]           Where a process is described, in an embodiment the process may operate without
 5 any user intervention. In another embodiment, the process includes some human intervention
   (e.g., a step is performed by or with the assistance of a human).
          VI.        Continuing Applications
   [00071]           The present disclosure provides, to one of ordinary skill in the art, an enabling
   description of several embodiments and / or inventions. Some of these embodiments and / or
10 inventions may not be claimed in the present application, but may nevertheless be claimed in one
   or more continuing applications that claim the benefit of priority of the present application.
   [00072]           Applicants intend to file additional applications to pursue patents for subject
   matter that has been disclosed and enabled but not claimed in the present application.
          VII.       35 U.S.C. § 112, paragraph 6
15 [00073]           In a claim, a limitation of the claim which includes the phrase "means for" or the
   phrase "step for" means that 35 U.S.C. § 112, paragraph 6, applies to that limitation.
   [00074]           In a claim, a limitation of the claim which does not include the phrase "means
   for" or the phrase "step for" means that 35 U.SC. § 112, paragraph 6 does not apply to that
   limitation, regardless of whether that limitation recites a function without recitation of structure,
20 material or acts for performing that function, For example, in a claim, the mere use of the phrase
   "step of' or the phrase "steps of' in referring to one or more steps of the claim or of another
   claim does not mean that 35 U.S.C. § 112, paragraph 6, applies to that step(s).
   [00075]           With respect to a means or a step for performing a specified function in
   accordance with 35 U.S.C. § 112, paragraph 6, the corresponding structure, material or acts
25 described in the specification, and equivalents thereof, may perform additional functions as well
   as the specified function.
                                                        13

   [00076]           Computers, processors, computing devices and like products are structures that
   can perform a wide variety of functions. Such products can be operable to perform a specified
   function by executing one or more programs, such as a program stored in a memory device of
   that product or in a memory device which that product accesses. Unless expressly specified
 5 otherwise, such a program need not be based on any particular algorithm, such as any particular
   algorithm that might be disclosed in the present application. It is well known to one of ordinary
   skill in the art that a specified function may be implemented via different algorithms, and any of
   a number of different algorithms would be a mere design choice for carrying out the specified
   function.
10 [00077]           Therefore, with respect to a means or a step for performing a specified function in
   accordance with 35 U.S.C. § 112, paragraph 6, structure corresponding to a specified function
   includes any product programmed to perform the specified function. Such structure includes
   programmed products which perform the function, regardless of whether such product is
   programmed with (i) a disclosed algorithm for performing the function, (ii) an algorithm that is
15 similar to a disclosed algorithm, or (iii) a different algorithm for performing the function.
   [00078] Where there is recited a means for performing a function that is a method, one structure
   for performing this method includes a computing device (e.g., a general purpose computer) that
   is programmed and / or configured with appropriate hardware to perform that function.
   [00079] Also included is a computing device (e.g., a general purpose computer) that is
20 programmed and / or configured with appropriate hardware to perform that function via other
   algorithms as would be understood by one of ordinary skill in the art.
          VIII.      Disclaimer
   [00080]           Numerous references to a particular embodiment do not indicate a disclaimer or
   disavowal of additional, different embodiments, and similarly references to the description of
25 embodiments which all include a particular feature do not indicate a disclaimer or disavowal of
   embodiments which do not include that particular feature. A clear disclaimer or disavowal in the
   present application shall be prefaced by the phrase "does not include" or by the phrase "cannot
   perform".
                                                       14

          IX.       Incorporation By Reference
   [00081]          Any patent, patent application or other document referred to herein is
   incorporated by reference into this patent application as part of the present disclosure, but only
   for purposes of written description and enablement in accordance with 35 U.S.C. § 112,
 5 paragraph 1, and should in no way be used to limit, define, or otherwise construe any term of the
   present application, unless without such incorporation by reference, no ordinary meaning would
   have been ascertainable by a person of ordinary skill in the art. Such person of ordinary skill in
   the art need not have been in any way limited by any embodiments provided in the reference
   [00082]          Any incorporation by reference does not, in and of itself, imply any endorsement
10 of, ratification of or acquiescence in any statements, opinions, arguments or characterizations
   contained in any incorporated patent, patent application or other document, unless explicitly
   specified otherwise in this patent application.
          X.        Prosecution History
   [00083]          In interpreting the present application (which includes the claims), one of ordinary
15 skill in the art shall refer to the prosecution history of the present application, but not to the
   prosecution history of any other patent or patent application, regardless of whether there are
   other patent applications that are considered related to the present application, and regardless of
   whether there are other patent applications that share a claim of priority with the present
   application.
20
            XI.     Cards
   [00084] Playing cards have been in existence for many years. Although there are many types of
   playing cards that are played in many different types of games, the most common type of playing
   cards consists of 52 cards, divided out into four different suits (namely Spades, Hearts,
25 Diamonds and Clubs) which are printed or indicated on one side or on the face of each card, In
   the standard deck, each of the four suits of cards consists of 13 cards, numbered either two
   through ten, or lettered A (Ace), K (King),    Q (Queen), or J (Jack), which is also printed or
   indicated on the face of each card. Each card will thus contain on its face a suit indication along
   with a number or letter indication. The King, Queen, and Jack usually also include some sort of
                                                        15

   design on the face of the card, and may be referred to as picture cards. Other types of playing
   cards are described herein, but it should be recognized that various topics may apply to any,
   some, and/or all type of playing cards.
   [00085] In some cases, the 52 card standard playing deck also contains a number of extra cards,
 5 sometimes referred to as jokers, that may have some use or meaning depending on the particular
   game being played with the deck. For example, if a card game includes the jokers, then if a
   player receives a joker in his "hand" he may use it as any card in the deck. If the player has the
   ten, jack, queen and king of Spades, along with a joker, the player would use the joker as an Ace
   of Spades. The player will then have a Royal Flush (ten through Ace of Spades).
10 [00086] Many different games can be played using a standard deck of playing cards. The game
   being played with the standard deck of cards may include other items, such as game boards,
   chips, etc., or the game being played may only need the playing card deck itself. In most of the
   games played using a standard deck of cards, a value is assigned to each card. The value may
   differ for different games.
15 [00087] Usually, the card value begins with the number two card as the lowest value and
   increases as the numbers increase through ten, followed in order of increasing value with the
   Jack, Queen, King and Ace. In some games the Ace may have a lower value than the two, and in
   games where a particular card is determined to be wild, or have any value, that card may have
   the greatest value of all, For example, in card games where deuces, or twos, are wild, the player
20 holding a playing card containing a two can use that two as any other card, such that a nine and a
   two would be the equivalent of two nines.
   [00088] Further, the four different suits indicated on the cards may have a particular value
   depending on the game. Under game rules where one suit, i.e., Spades, has more value than
   another suit, i.e., Hearts, the seven of Spades may have more value than the seven of Hearts.
25 [00089] It is easy to visualize that using the different card quantity and suit values, many
   different games can be played. In certain games, it is the combination of cards that one player
   obtains that determines whether or not that player has defeated the other player or players.
   Usually, the more difficult the combination is to obtain, the more value the combination has, and
                                                     16

   the player who obtains the more difficult combination (also taking into account the value of the
   cards) wins the game.
   [00090] For instance in the game of Poker, each player may ultimately receive five cards. The
   player who obtains three cards having similar numbers on their face, i.e., the four of Hearts, four
 5 of Diamonds and four of Clubs, will defeat the player having only two cards with the same
   numerical value, i.e., the King of Spades and the King of Hearts. However, the player with five
   cards that all contain Clubs, commonly known as a flush, will defeat the player with the same
   three of a kind described above.
   [00091] In many instances, a standard deck of playing cards is used to create gaming machines.
10 In these gaming machines players insert coins and play certain card games, such as poker, using
   an imitation of standard playing cards on a video screen, in an attempt to win back more money
   than they originally inserted into the machine.
   [00092] Another form of gambling using playing cards utilizes tables, otherwise known as table
   games. A table uses a table and a dealer, with the players sitting or standing around the table.
15 The players place their bets on the table and the dealer deals the cards to each player. The
   number of cards dealt, or whether the cards are dealt face up or face down, will depend on the
   particular table game being played.
   [00093] Further, an imitation or depiction of a standard playing card is used in many handheld
   electronic games, such as poker and blackjack, and in many computer games and Internet games.
20 Using a handheld electronic game or a computer terminal that may or may not be connected to
   the Internet, a player receives the imitation playing cards and plays a card game either against the
   computer or against other players. Further, many of these games can be played on the computer
   in combination with gambling.
   [00094] Also, there are many game shows that are broadcasted on television that use a deck of
25 playing cards in the game play, in which the cards are usually enlarged or shown on a video
   screen or monitor for easy viewing. In these television game shows, the participants play the card
   game for prizes or money, usually against each other, with an individual acting as a host
   overseeing the action.
                                                     17

   [00095] Also, there are lottery tickets that players purchase and play by "scratching off' an
   opaque layer to see if they have won money and prizes. The opaque layer prevents the player
   from knowing the results of the lottery ticket prior to purchasing and scratching off the layer. In
   some of these lottery tickets, playing cards are used under the opaque layer and the player may
 5 need to match a number of similar cards in order to win the prizes or money.
            XI.    Rules of Card Games
   Rules of Poker
   [00096] In a basic poker game, which is played with a standard 52-card deck, each player is
10 dealt five cards. All five cards in each player's hand are evaluated as a single hand with the
   presence of various combinations of the cards such as pairs, three-of-a-kind, straight, etc.
   Determining which combinations prevail over other combinations is done by reference to a table
   containing a ranking of the combinations. Rankings in most tables are based on the odds of each
   combination occurring in the player's hand. Regardless of the number of cards in a player's hand,
15 the values assigned to the cards, and the.odds, the method of evaluating all five cards in a
   player's hand remain the same.
   [00097] Poker is a popular skill-based card game in which players with fully or partially
   concealed cards make wagers into a central pot. The pot is awarded to the player or players with
   the best combination of cards or to the player who makes an uncalled bet. Poker can also refer to
20 video poker, a single-player game seen in casinos much like a slot machine, or to other games
   that use poker hand rankings.
   [00098] Poker is played in a multitude of variations, but most follow the same basic pattern of
   play.
   [00099] The right to deal each hand typically rotates among the players and is marked by a
25 token called a 'dealer' button or buck, In a casino, a house dealer handles the cards for each hand,
   but a button (typically a white plastic disk) is rotated clockwise among the players to indicate a
   nominal dealer to determine the order of betting.
                                                      18

   [000100] For each hand, one or more players are required to make forced bets to create an initial
   stake for which the players will contest. The dealer shuffles the cards, he cuts, and the
   appropriate number of cards are dealt to the players one at a time. Cards may be dealt either face
   up or face-down, depending on the variant of poker being played. After the initial deal, the first
 5 of what may be several betting rounds begins. Between rounds, the players' hands develop in
   some way, often by being dealt additional cards or replacing cards previously dealt, At the end of
   each round, all bets are gathered into the central pot.
   [000101] At any time during a betting round, if a player makes a bet, opponents are required to
   fold, call or raise. If one player bets and no opponents choose to match the bet, the hand ends
10 immediately, the bettor is awarded the pot, no cards are required to be shown, and the next hand
   begins. The ability to win a pot without showing a hand makes bluffing possible. Bluffing is a
   primary feature of poker, one that distinguishes it from other vying games and from other games
   that make use of poker hand rankings.
   [000102] At the end of the last betting round, if more than one player remains, there is a
15 showdown, in which the players reveal their previously hidden cards and evaluate their hands.
   The player with the best hand according to the poker variant being played wins the pot.
   [000103] The most popular poker variants are as follows:
   [000104] Draw poker
   [000105] Players each receive five -      as in five-card draw - or more cards, all of which are
20 hidden, They can then replace one or more of these cards a certain number of times.
   [000106] Stud poker
   [000107] Players receive cards one at a time, some being displayed to other players at the table.
   The key difference between stud and 'draw' poker is that players are not allowed to discard or
   replace any cards.
25 [000108] Community card poker
                                                        19

   [000109] Players combine individually dealt cards with a number of "community cards" dealt
   face up and shared by all players. Two or four individual cards may be dealt in the most popular
   variations, Texas hold 'em and Omaha hold 'em, respectively,
 5 Poker Hand Rankings
   [000110] Straight flush
   [000111]A straight flush is a poker hand such as    Q* J  104 94 8+, which contains five cards in
   sequence, all of the same suit. Two such hands are compared by their high card in the same way
   as are straights. The low ace rule also applies: 5* 4+ 3* 2* A* is a 5-high straight flush (also
10 known as a "steel wheel"). An ace-high straight flush such as A6 K*     Q6 J4   106 is known as a
   royal flush, and is the highest ranking standard poker hand (excluding five of a kind).
   [000112] Examples:
   [000113]         7T 6%Y5V 4T 3 beats 54 44 34 2+ A*
   [000114]         J# 104 9 86 74 ties J+ 100 9+ 8+ 7+
15
   [000115] Four of a kind
   [000116]Four of a kind, or quads, is a poker hand such as 9* 9+ 9+ 9V J, which contains four
   cards of one rank, and an unmatched card. It ranks above a full house and below a straight flush.
   Higher ranking quads defeat lower ranking ones. Between two equal sets of four of a kind
20 (possible in wild card and community card games), the kicker determines the winner.
   [000117] Examples:
                                                     20

   [000118]104 10* 10T 10# 5* ("four tens" or "quad tens") defeats 6+ 6W 64 + K* ("four sixes"
   or "quad sixes")
   [000119]10+ 10* 10T 10#        Q0 ("four tens, queen kicker")  defeats 10* 10+ 10T 10+5+ ("four
 5 tens with a five")
   [000120] Full house
   [000121] A full house, also known as a boat or a full boat, is a poker hand such as 34 34 3* 64
   6W, which contains three matching cards of one rank, plus two matching cards of another rank. It
10 ranks below a four of a kind and above a flush. Between two full houses, the one with the higher
   ranking set of three wins. If two have the same set of three (possible in wild card and community
   card games), the hand with the higher pair wins. Full houses are described by the three of a kind
   (e.g. Q-Q-Q)    and pair (e.g. 9-9), as in "Queens over nines" (also used to describe a two pair),
   "Queens full of nines" or simply "Queens full".
15
   [000122] Examples:
   [000123]          10+ 10    10 4+ 4+ ("tens full") defeats 9W 94 9+ A? A# ("nines full")
   [000124]          K+ K+ KY 3+ 3+ ("kings full") defeats 34 3W 3* K+ K+ ("threes full")
20 [000125]          QY Q* Q*     8? 8# ("queens full of eights") defeats QT  Q+ Q*   54 59 ("queens
   full of fives")
   [000126]Flush
                                                      21

   [000127]A flush is a poker hand such as Q+ 100 7# 6* 44, which contains five cards of the
   same suit, not in rank sequence. It ranks above a straight and below a full house. Two flushes are
   compared as if they were high card hands. In other words, the highest ranking card of each is
   compared to determine the winner; if both have the same high card, then the second-highest
 5 ranking card is compared, etc. The suits have no value: two flushes with the same five ranks of
   cards are tied. Flushes are described by the highest card, as in "queen-high flush".
   [000128] Examples:
   [000129]         AT QY 10T 5? 3? ("ace-high flush") defeats K+ Q+ J4 9 6+ ("king-high flush")
10 [000130]         A* K* 7* 6* 2* ("flush, ace-king high") defeats AV QV 10? 5? 3? ("flush, ace
   queen high")
   [000131]         QT 10T 9V 5? 2? ("heart flush") ties Q4 104 94 54 24 ("spade flush")
   [000132] Straight
15 [000133]A straight is a poker hand such as Q+ J+ 10+ 9? 8?, which contains five cards of
   sequential rank, of varying suits. It ranks above three of a kind and below a flush. Two straights
   are ranked by comparing the high card of each. Two straights with the same high card are of
   equal value, and split any winnings (straights are the most commonly tied hands in poker,
   especially in community card games). Straights are described by the highest card, as in "queen
20 high straight" or "straight to the queen".
   [000134] A hand such as A# K4       Q* J+  10* is an ace-high straight, and ranks above a king-high
   straight such as KV  Q4 J    10? 9+. But the ace may also be played as a 1-spot in a hand such as
   5* 4, 3+ 2* A#, called a wheel or five-high straight, which ranks below the six-high straight 6+
   54 4+ 3T 2?. The ace may not "wrap around", or play both high and low in the same hand: 3*
25 2+ A# K* Q4 is not a straight, but just ace-high no pair.
                                                      22

   [000135] Examples:
   [000136]         8+ 7* 6V 5 4+ ("eight-high straight") defeats 6+ 5* 4* 3F 2+ ("six-high
   straight")
 s [000137]         84 7+ 6V 5T 4+ties 8T 7+ 6+ 5? 4W
   [000138]Three of a kind
   [000139]Three of a kind, aiso called trips, set or a prile, is a poker hand such as 2* 24 2W K 6+,
   which contains three cards of the same rank, plus two unmatched cards. It ranks above two pair
10 and below a straight. Higher ranking three of a kind defeat lower ranking three of a kinds. If two
   hands have the same rank three of a kind (possible in games with wild cards or community
   cards), the kickers are compared to break the tie.
   [000140] Examples:
15 [000141]         8+ 8T 8+ 5+ 3* ("three eights") defeats 54 5T 5*    Q*  104 ("three fives")
   [000142]         8+ 81 8+ A+ 2* ("three eights, ace kicker") defeats 8+ 8T 8* 5+ 34 ("three
   eights, five kicker")
   [000143]Two pair
20 [000144]A poker hand such as JY J# 444 9+, which contains two cards of the same rank, plus
   two cards of another rank (that match each other but not the first pair), plus one unmatched card,
   is called two pair. It ranks above one pair and below three of a kind. Between two hands
   containing two pair, the higher ranking pair of each is first compared, and the higher pair wins, If
   both have the same top pair, then the second pair of each is compared. Finally, if both hands
                                                    23

   have the same two pairs, the kicker determines the winner. Two pair are described by the higher
   pair (e.g., K? K#) and the lower pair (e.g., 94 9+), as in "Kings over nines", "Kings and nines"
   or simply "Kings up".
 5 [000145] Examples:
   [000146]         KV K* 24 2+ J ("kings up") defeats J+ J+,10+ 104 9+ ("jacks up")
   [000147]         9* 97+ *7+ 6? ("nines and sevens") defeats 9? 94 5? 5+ K# ("nines and fives")
   [000148]        44 44 3* 3V K* ("fours and threes, king kicker") defeats 4V 4+ 3* 3 104 ("fours
   and threes with a ten")
10
   [000149] One pair
   [000150] One pair is a poker hand such as 4Y 4+ K# 104 54, which contains two cards of the
   same rank, plus three unmatched cards. It ranks above any high card hand, but below all other
   poker hands. Higher ranking pairs defeat lower ranking pairs. If two hands have the same rank of
15 pair, the non-paired cards in each hand (the kickers) are compared to determine the winner.
   [000151] Examples:
   [000152]         104 10* 64 4V 2? ("pair of tens") defeats 9? 94 A? Q* 10+ ("pair of nines")
   [000153]         10? 10+ J+ 3? 24 ("tens with jack kicker") defeats 104 10* 6* 4? 2? ("tens with
20 six kicker")
   [000154]        2* 2V 8* 54 4+ ("deuces, eight-five-four") defeats 24 2* 84 5? 3? ("deuces,
   eight-five-three")
                                                    24

   [000155] High card
   [000156]A high-card or no-pair hand is a poker hand such as KV 3+ 84 7* 34, in which no two
   cards have the same rank, the five cards are not in sequence, and the five cards are not all the
   same suit. It can also be referred to as "nothing" or "garbage," and many other derogatory terms.
 5 It ranks below all other poker hands. Two such hands are ranked by comparing the highest
   ranking card: if those are equal, then the next highest ranking card; if those are equal, then the
   third highest ranking card, etc, No-pair hands are described by the one or two highest cards in the
   hand, such as "king high" or "ace-queen high", or by as many cards as are necessary to break a
   tie.
10 [000157] Examples:
   [000158]          A+ 10+ 94 59 44 ("ace high") defeats K# Q+ J 81 7Y ("king high")
   [000159]          A4 Q&7+ 5Y 24 ("ace-queen") defeats A+ 10+ 94 54 4 ("ace-ten")
   [000160]          74 64 54 4+ 2V ("seven-six-five-four") defeats 74 6+ 5+ 3V 24 ("seven-six
   five-three")
15
   [000161] Decks using a bug
   [000162]The use of joker as a bug creates a slight variation of game play. When a joker is
   introduced in standard poker games it functions as a fifth ace, or can be used as a flush or straight
   card (though it can be used as a wild card too). Normally casino draw poker variants use a joker,
20 and thus the best possible hand is five of a kind, as in Af A+ At A+ Joker.
   Rules of CaribbeanStud
   [000163] Caribbean Stud"m poker may be played as follows. A player and a dealer are each
   dealt five cards. If the dealer has a poker hand having a value less than Ace-King combination or
25 better, the player automatically wins. If the dealer has a poker hand having a value of an Ace
                                                     25

   King combination or better, then the higher of the player's or the dealer's hand wins. If the player
   wins, he may receive an additional bonus payment depending on the poker rank of his hand. In
   the commercial play of the game, a side bet is usually required to allow a chance at a progressive
   jackpot. In Caribbean StudTM poker, it is the dealer's hand that must qualify. As the dealer's hand
 5 is partially concealed during play (usually only one card, at most) is displayed to the player
   before player wagering is complete), the player must always be aware that even ranked player
   hands can lose to a dealer's hand and no bonus will be paid out unless the side bet has been
   made, and then usually only to hands having a rank of a flush or higher.
10 Rules of Blackjack
   [000164] Some versions of Blackjack are now described. Blackjack hands are scored according
   to the point total of the cards in the hand. The hand with the highest total wins as long as it is 21
   or less. If the total is greater than 21, it is a called a "bust." Numbered cards 2 through 10 have a
   point value equal to their face value, and face cards (i.e., Jack, Queen and King) are worth 10
15 points, An Ace is worth 11 points unless it would bust a hand, in which case it is worth I point.
   Players play against the dealer and win by having a higher point total no greater than 21. If the
   player busts, the player loses, even if the dealer also busts. If the player and dealer have hands
   with the same point value, this is called a "push," and neither party wins the hand.
   [000165] After the initial bets are placed, the dealer deals the cards, either from one or more, but
20 typically two, hand-held decks of cards, or from a "shoe" containing multiple decks of cards,
   generally at least four decks of cards, and typically many more. A game in which the deck or
   decks of cards are hand-held is known as a "pitch" game. "Pitch" games are generally not played
   in casinos. When playing with more than one deck, the decks are shuffled together in order to
   make it more difficult to remember which cards have been dealt and which have not. The dealer
25 deals two cards to each player and to himself. Typically, one of the dealer's two cards is dealt
   face-up so that all players can see it, and the other is face down. The face-down card is called the
   "hole card." In a European variation, the "hole card" is dealt after all the players' cards are dealt
   and their hands have been played. The players' cards are dealt face up from a shoe and face down
   if it is a "pitch" game.
                                                          26

   [000166] A two-card hand with a point value of 21 (i.e., an Ace and a face card or a 10) is called
   a "Blackjack" or a "natural" and wins automatically. A player with a "natural" is conventionally
   paid 3:2 on his bet, although in 2003 some Las Vegas casinos began paying 6:5, typically in
   games with only a single deck.
 5 [000167] Once the first two cards have been dealt to each player and the dealer, the dealer wins
   automatically if the dealer has a "natural" and the player does not. If the player has a "natural"
   and the dealer does not, the player automatically wins. If the dealer and player both have a
   "natural," neither party wins the hand.
   [000168] If neither side has a "natural," each player completely plays out their hand; when all
10 players have finished, the dealer plays his hand.
   [000169] The playing of the hand typically involves a combination of four possible actions
   "hitting," "standing," "doubling down," or "splitting" his hand. Often another action called
   "surrendering" is added. To "hit" is to take another card. To "stand" is to take no more cards. To
   "double down" is to double the wager, take precisely one more card and then "stand," When a
15 player has identical value cards, such as a pair of 8s, the player can "split" by placing an
   additional wager and playing each card as the first card in two new hands. To "surrender" is to
   forfeit half the player's bet and give up his hand. "Surrender" is not an option in most casino
   games of Blackjack. A player's turn ends if he "stands," "busts" or "doubles down." If the player
   "busts," he loses even if the dealer subsequently busts. This is the house advantage.
20 [000170] After all players have played their hands, the dealer then reveals the dealer's hole card
   and plays his hand. According to house rules (the prevalent casino rules), the dealer must hit
   until he has a point total of at least 17, regardless of what the players have. In most casinos, the
   dealer must also hit on a "soft" 17 (e.g., an Ace and 6). In a casino, the Blackjack table felt is
   marked to indicate if the dealer hits or stands on a soft 17. If the dealer busts, all remaining
25 players win. Bets are normally paid out at odds of 1:1.
   [000171] Four of the common rule variations are one card split Aces, early surrender, late
   surrender and double-down restrictions. In the first variation, one card is dealt on each Ace and
   the player's turn is over. In the second, the player has the option to surrender before the dealer
                                                       27

   checks for Blackjack. In the third, the player has the option to surrender after the dealer checks
   for Blackjack. In the fourth, doubling-down is only permitted for certain card combinations.
       Insurance
 5 [000172] Insurance is a commonly-offered betting option in which the player can hedge his bet
   by wagering that the dealer will win the hand. If the dealer's "up card" is an Ace, the player is
   offered the option of buying Insurance before the dealer checks his "hole card." If the player
   wishes to take Insurance, the player can bet an amount up to half that of his original bet. The
   Insurance bet is placed separately on a special portion of the table, which is usually marked with
10 the words "Insurance Pays 2:1 ." The player buying Insurance is betting that the dealer's "hole
   card" is one with a value of 10 (i.e., a 10, Jack, Queen or King). Because the dealer's up card is
   an Ace, the player who buys Insurance is betting that the dealer has a "natural."
   [000173]If the player originally bets $10 and the dealer shows an Ace, the player can buy
   Insurance by betting up to $5. Suppose the player makes a $5 Insurance bet and the player's hand
15 with the two cards dealt to him totals 19. If the dealer's hole card is revealed to be a 10 after the
   Insurance betting period is over (the dealer checks for a "natural" before the players play their
   hands), the player loses his original $10 bet, but he wins the $5 Insurance bet at odds of 2:1,
   winning $10 and therefore breaking even. In the same situation, if the dealer's hole card is not
   one with a value of ten, the player immediately loses his $5 Insurance bet. But if the player
20 chooses to stand on 19, and if the dealer's hand has a total value less than 19, at the end of the
   dealer's turn, the player wins his original $10 bet, making a net profit of $5. In the same
   situation, if the dealer's hole card is not one with a value of ten, again the player will
   immediately lose their $5 Insurance bet, and if the dealer's hand has a total value greater than the
   player's at the end of both of their turns, for example the player stood on 19 and the dealer ended
25 his turn with 20, the player loses both his original $10 bet and his $5 Insurance bet.
       Basic Strategy
   [000174] Blackjack players can increase their expected winnings by several means, one of which
   is "basic strategy." "Basic strategy" is simply something that exists as a matter of general
                                                      28

   practice: it has no official sanction. The "basic strategy" determines when to hit and when to
   stand, as well as when doubling down or splitting in the best course. Basic strategy is based on
   the player's point total and the dealer's visible card. Under some conditions (e.g., playing with a
   single deck according to downtown Las Vegas rules) the house advantage over a player using
 5 basic strategy can be as low as 0.16%. Casinos offering options like surrender and double-after
   split may be giving the player using basic strategy a statistical advantage and instead rely on
   players making mistakes to provide a house advantage.
   [000175] A number of optional rules can benefit a skilled player, for example: if doubling down
   is permitted on any two-card hand other than a natural; if "doubling down" is permitted after
10 splitting; if early surrender (forfeiting half the bet against a face or Ace up card before the dealer
   checks for Blackjack) is permitted; if late surrender is permitted; if re-splitting Aces is permitted
   (splitting when the player has more than two cards in their hand, and has just been dealt a second
   ace in their hand); if drawing more than one card against a split Ace is permitted; if five or more
   cards with a total no more than 21 is an automatic win (referred to as "Charlies").
15 [000176] Other optional rules can be detrimental to a skilled player. For example: if a "natural"
   pays less than 3:2 (e.g., Las Vegas Strip single-deck Blackjack paying out at 6:5 for a "natural");
   if a hand can only be split once (is. re-splitting possible for other than aces); if doubling down is
   restricted to certain totals (e.g., 9 11 or 10 11); if Aces may not be re-split; if the rules are those
   of "no-peek" (or European) Blackjack, according to which the player loses hands that have been
20 split or "doubled down" to a dealer who has a "natural'(because the dealer does not check for this
   automatically winning hand until the players had played their hands); if the player loses ties with
   the dealer, instead of pushing where neither the player or the dealer wins and the player retains
   their original bet.
25      Card Counting
   [000177] Unlike some other casino games, in which one play has no influence on any subsequent
   play, a hand of Blackjack removes those cards from the deck. As cards are removed from the
   deck, the probability of each of the remaining cards being dealt is altered (and dealing the same
   cards becomes impossible). If the remaining cards have an elevated proportion of 10-value cards
                                                       29

   and Aces, the player is more likely to be dealt a natural, which is to the player's advantage
   (because the dealer wins even money when the dealer has a natural, while the player wins at odds
   of 3:2 when the player has a natural). If the remaining cards have an elevated proportion of low
   value cards, such as 4s, 5s and 6s, the player is more likely to bust, which is to the dealer's
 5 advantage (because if the player busts, the dealer wins even if the dealer later busts).
   [000178] The house advantage in Blackjack is relatively small at the outset. By keeping track of
   which cards have been dealt, a player can take advantage of the changing proportions of the
   remaining cards by betting higher amounts when there is an elevated proportion of 10-value
   cards and Aces and by better lower amounts when there is an elevated proportion of low-value
10 cards. Over time, the deck will be unfavorable to the player more often than it is favorable, but
   by adjusting the amounts that he bets, the player can overcome that inherent disadvantage. The
   player can also use this information to refine basic strategy. For instance, basic strategy calls for
   hitting on a 16 when the dealer's up card is a 10, but if the player knows that the deck has a
   disproportionately small number of low-value cards remaining, the odds may be altered in favor
15 of standing on the 16.
   [000179]There are a number of card-counting schemes, all dependent for their efficacy on the
   player's ability to remember either a simplified or detailed tally of the cards that have been
   played. The more detailed the tally, the more accurate it is, but the harder it is to remember.
   Although card counting is not illegal, casinos will eject or ban successful card counters if they
20 are detected.
   [000180] Shuffle tracking is a more obscure, and difficult, method of attempting to shift the odds
   in favor of the player. The player attempts to track groups of cards during the play of a multi
   deck shoe, follow them through the shuffle, and then looks for the same group to reappear from
   the new shoe, playing and betting accordingly.
25
           XIII. Tracking the Action at a Table
   [00018 1]US patent 6579181 generally describes, "a system for automatically monitoring playing
   and wagering of a game. In one illustrated embodiment, the system includes a card deck reader
                                                     30

   that automatically reads a respective symbol from each card in a deck of cards before a first one
   of the cards is removed from the deck. The symbol identifies a value of the card in terms of rank
   and suit, and can take the form of a machine-readable symbol, such as a bar code, area or matrix
   code or stacked code. In another aspect, the system does not decode the read symbol until the
 5 respective card is dealt, to ensure security.
   [000182] "In another aspect, the system can include a chip tray reader that automatically images
   the contents of a chip tray. The system periodically determines the number and value of chips in
   the chip tray from the image, and compares the change in contents of the chip tray to the
   outcome of game play to verify that the proper amounts have been paid out and collected.
10 [000183] "In a further aspect, the system can include a table monitor that automatically images
   the activity or events occurring at a gaming table. The system periodically compares images of
   the gaming table to identify wagering, as well as the appearance, removal and position of cards
   and/or other objects on the gaming table. The table monitoring system can be unobtrusively
   located in the chip tray."
15 [000184] US patent 6579181 generally describes "a drop box that automatically verifies an
   amount and authenticity of a deposit and reconciles the deposit with a change in the contents of
   the chip tray. The drop box can image different portions of the deposited item, selecting
   appropriate lighting and resolutions to examine security features in the deposited item.
   [000185] "In another aspect, the system can employ some, or all of the components to monitor
20 the gaming habits of players and the performance of employees. The system can detect suspect
   playing and wagering patterns that may be prohibited. The system can also identify the win/loss
   percentage of the players and the dealer, as well as a number of other statistically relevant
   measures. Such measures can provide a casino or other gaming establishment with enhanced
   automated security, and automated real-time accounting. The measures can additionally provide
25 a basis for automatically allocating complimentary benefits to the players."
   [000186] Various embodiments include an apparatus, method and system which utilizes a card
   dispensing shoe with scanner and its associated software which enable the card dealer when
   dealing the game from a card dispensing shoe with scanner preferably placed on a game table
                                                    31

   where the twenty-one game to be evaluated by the software is being played, to use one or morn
   keyboard(s) and/or LCD displays coupled to the shoe to identify for the computer program the
   number of the active players' seats, or active players, including the dealer's position relative
   thereto and their active play at the game table during each game round dealt from the shoe. These
 5 keyboards and LCD displays are also used to enter other data relevant to each seat's, or player's,
   betting and/or decision strategies for each hand played. The data is analyzed by a computer
   software program designed to evaluate the strategy decisions and betting skills of casino twenty
   one, or blackjack players playing the game of blackjack during real time. The evaluation
   software is coupled to a central processing unit (CPU) or host computer that is also coupled to
10 the shoe's keyboard(s) and LCD displays. The dealer using one or more keyboard(s) attached to
   or can-ied by the shoe, or a keyboard(s) located near the dealer is able to see and record the exact
   amount bet by each player for each hand played for the game to be evaluated. The optical
   scanner coupled to the CPU reads the value of each card dealt to each player's hand(s) and the
   dealer's hand as each card is dealt to a specific hand, seat or position and converts the game card
15 value of each card dealt from the shoe to the players and the dealer of the game to a card count
   system value for one or more card count systems programmed into the evaluation software. The
   CPU also records each players decision(s) to hit a hand, and the dealer's decision to hit or take
   another card when required by the rules of the game, as the hit card is removed from the shoe.
   The dealer uses one or more of the keyboards and LCD displays carried by the shoe to record
20 each player's decision(s) to Insure, Surrender, Stand, Double Down, or Split a hand. When the
   dealer has an Ace or a Ten as an up-card, he/she may use one or more of the keyboards to
   prompt the computer system's software, since the dealer's second card, or hole-card, which is
   dealt face down, has been scanned and the game card value thereof has been imported into the
   computer systems software, to instantly inform the dealer, by means of one or more of the shoe's
25 LCDs, if his/her game cards, or hand total, constitutes a two-card "21" or "Blackjack".
   [000187] In various embodiments, a card playing system for playing a card game which includes
   a card delivery shoe apparatus for use in dealing playing cards to at least one player for the
   playing of the card game comprises, in combination, housing means having a chute for
   supporting at least one deck of playing cards for permitting movement of the playing cards one at
3o a time through the chute, the housing means having an outlet opening that permits the playing
   cards of the deck to be moved one-by-one out of the housing means during the play of a card
                                                     32

   game, card scanning means located within the housing means for scanning indicia located on
   each of the playing cards as each of the playing cards are moved out from the chute of the
   housing means, means for receiving the output of the card scanning means for identifying each
   of the playing cards received by each player from the shoe, for evaluating information relative to
 5 each players received playing cards and their values with information as to playing tactics used
   by each player relative to the values of the received playing cards, and for combining all of this
   information for identifying each player's playing strategy, and a playing table coupled to the card
   delivery shoe apparatus and having at least one keypad means located thereon for permitting at
   least one player to select various card playing options to wager upon.
10 [000188] In various embodiments, a card playing system for playing a card game which includes
   a cad delivery shoe apparatus for use in dealing playing cards to at least one player for the
   playing of the card game comprises, in combination, housing means having a chute for
   supporting at least one deck of playing cards for permitting movement of the playing cards one at
   a time though the chute, the housing means having an outlet opening that permits the playing
15 cards of the deck to be moved one-by-one out of the housing means during the play of a card
   game, card scanning means located within the housing means for scanning indicia located on
   each of the playing cards as each of the playing cards are moved out from the chute of the
   housing means, means for receiving the output of the card scanning means for identifying such
   of the playing cards received by each player from the shoe apparatus, for evaluating information
20 relative to each player's received playing cards and their values with information as to betting
   tactics used by each player relative to playing cards previously dealt out from the shoe apparatus
   providing card count information, and for combining all of this information for identifying each
   player's card count strategy, and a playing table coupled to the card delivery shoe apparatus and
   having at least one keypad means located thereon for permitting the at least one player to select
25 at least one of various card playing options to wager upon.
   [000189] In various embodiments, a card playing system for playing a card game which includes
   a card delivery shoe apparatus for use in dealing playing cards to at least one player for the
   playing of a card game comprises, in combination, housing means having a chute for supporting
   at least one deck of playing cards for permitting movement of the playing cards one at a time
30 through the chute, the housing means having an outlet opening that permits the playing cards of
                                                     33

   the deck to be moved one-by-one out of the housing means during the play of a card game, card
   scanning means located within the housing means for scanning indicia located on each of the
   playing cards as each of the playing cards are moved out from the chute of the housing means,
   means for receiving the output of the card scanning means for identifying each of the playing
 5 cards received by each player from the shoe apparatus, for evaluating information relative to
   each player's received playing cards and their values with information as to playing tactics used
   by each player relative to the values of the received playing cards, for combining use of all of
   this information for identifying each player's playing strategy, and for also identifying each
   player's card count strategy based on each player's betting tactics used by each player relative to
10 playing cards previously dealt out from the shoe apparatus providing card count information, and
   a playing table coupled to the card delivery shoe apparatus and having at least one keypad means
   located thereon for permitting the at least one player to select at least one of various card playing
   options to wager upon.
   [000190] In various embodiments, a secure game table system, adapted for multiple sites under a
15 central control, allows for the monitoring of hands in a progressive live card game. A live card
   game has at least one deck, with each deck having a predetermined number of cards. Each game
   table in the system has a plurality of player positions with or without players at each position and
   a dealer at a dealer position.
   [000191] In one embodiment, for providing additional security, a common identity code is
20 located on each of the cards in each deck. Each deck has a different common identity code. A
   shuffler is used to shuffle the decks together and the shuffler has a circuit for counting of the
   cards from a previous hand that are inserted into the shuffler for reshuffling. The shuffler circuit
   counts each card inserted and reads the common identity code located on each card. The shuffler
   circuit issues a signal corresponding to the count and the common identity code read. The game
25 control (e.g., the computer) located at each table receives this signal from the shuffler circuit and
   verifies that no cards have been withdrawn from the hand by a player (or the dealer) or that no
   new cards have been substituted, If the count is not proper or if a game card lacks an identity
   code or an identity code is mismatched, an alarm signal is generated indicating that a new deck
   of cards needs to be used and that the possibility of a breach in the security of the game has
30 occurred.
                                                     34

   [000192] In yet another embodiment of security, a unique code, such as a bar code, is placed on
   each card and as each card is dealt by the dealer from a shoe, a detector reads the code and issues
   a signal to the game control containing at least the value and the suit of each card dealt in the
   hand. The detector may also read a common identity deck code and issue that as a signal to the
 5 game control. The shoe may have an optical scanner for generating an image of each card as it is
   dealt from the shoe by the dealer in a hand. The game control stores this information in a
   memory so that a history of each card dealt from the shoe in a hand is recorded.
   [000193] In yet another embodiment of security, an integrated shuffler/shoe obtains an optical
   image of each card dealt from the shoe for a hand and for each card inserted into the shuffler
10 after a hand. These images are delivered to the game control where the images are counted and
   compared. When an irregular count or comparison occurs, an alarm is raised. The shuffler and
   shoe are integrated to provide security between the two units.
   [000194] In another embodiment of security for a live card game, a game bet sensor is located
   near each of the plurality of player positions for sensing the presence of a game bet. The game
15 bet sensor issues a signal counting the tokens placed. It is entirely possible that game bet sensors
   at some player positions do not have bets, and therefore, the game control that is receptive of
   these signals identifies which player positions have players placing game. bets. This information
   is stored in memory and becomes part of the history of the game.
   [000195] In another embodiment of security, a progressive bet sensor is located at each of the
20 plurality of player positions and senses the presence of a progressive bet. The progressive bet
   sensor issues a signal that is received by the game control, which records in memory the
   progressive bets being placed at the respective player position sensed. If a progressive bet is
   sensed and a game bet is not, the game control issues an alarm signal indicating improper
   betting. At this point, the game control knows the identity of each player location having placed
25 a game bet and, of those player positions having game bets placed, which player positions also
   have a progressive bet. This is stored in memory as part of the history of the hand.
   [000196] In yet another embodiment of security, a card sensor is located near each player
   position and the dealer position. The card sensor issues a signal for each card received at the card
   sensor. The game control receives this issued signal and correlates those player positions having
                                                     35

   placed a game bet with the received cards. In the event a player position without a game bet
   receives a card or a player position with a game bet receives a card out of sequence, the game
   control issues an alarm. This information is added to the history of the game in memory, and the
   history contains the value and suit of each card delivered to each player position having a game
 5 bet.
   [000197] A progressive jackpot display may be located at each game table and may display one
   or more jackpot awards for one or more winning combinations of cards. In one embodiment of
   the present invention, the game control at each table has stored in memory the winning
   combinations necessary to win the progressive jackpots. Since the game control accurately stores
10 the suit and value of each card received at a particular player position, the game control can
   automatically detect a winning combination and issue an award signal for that player position.
   The dealer can then verify that that player at that position indeed has the correct combination of
   cards. The game control continuously updates the central control interconnected to all other
   game tables so that the central control can then inform all game tables of this win including, if
15 desirable, the name of the winner and the amount won.
   [000198] The central control communicates continuously with each game control and its
   associated progressive jackpot display may receive over a communication link all or part of the
   information stored in each game control.
   [000199] Various embodiments include a card shoe with a device for automatic recognition and
20 tracking of the value of each gaming card drawn out of the card shoe in a covered way (face
   down).
   [000200] Various embodiments include a gaming table with a device for automatic recognition of
   played or not played-boxes (hands), whereby it has to realize multiple bets on each hand and the
   use of insurance lines. Further more, the gaming table may include a device to recognize
25 automatically the number of cards placed in front of each player and the dealer.
   [000201] Various embodiments include the recognition, tracking, and storage of gaming chips.
   [000202] In various embodiment, an electronic data processing (EDP) program may process the
   value of all bets on each box and associated insurance line, control the sequence of delivery of
                                                     36

   the cards, control the distribution of the gaming cards to each player and the dealer, may
   calculate and compare the total score of each hand and the dealer's, and may evaluate the players'
   wins.
   [000203] Gaming data may then be processed by means of the EDP program and shown
 5 simultaneously to the actual game at a special monitor or display. Same data may be recalled
   later on to monitor the total results whenever requested.
   [000204] Various embodiments include a gaming table and a gaming table cloth arranged on the
   gaming table, the gaming table cloth provided with betting boxes and areas designated for
   placement of the gaming chips and other areas designated for placement of the playing cards, a
10 card shoe for storage of one or more decks of playing cards, this card shoe including means for
   drawing individual ones of the playing cards face down so that a card value imprint on the drawn
   card is not visible to a player of the game of chance, a card recognition means for recognizing
   this card value imprint on the drawn card from the card shoe, this card recognition means being
   located in the card shoe, an occupation detector unit including means for registering a count of
15 gaming chips placed on the designated areas and another count of playing cards placed on the
   other designated areas on the table cloth, this occupation detector unit being located under the
   table cloth and consisting of multiple single detectors allocated to each betting box, each area for
   chips and each other area for playing cards respectively, a gaming bet detector for automatic
   recognition or manual input of gaming bets, and a computer including means for evaluating the
20 play of the game of chance according to the rules of the game of chance, means for storing
   results of the play of the game of chance and means for displaying a course of the play of the
   game of chance and the results from electronic signals input from the gaming bet detector, the
   occupation detector unit and the card recognition means.
   [000205] According to various embodiments, the caid recognition means comprises an optical
25 window arranged along a movement path of the card image imprint on the playing card drawn
   from the card shoe; a pulsed light source for illuminating a portion of the drawn playing card
   located opposite the optical window; a CCD image converter for the portion of the drawn
   playing card located opposite the optical window; an optical device for deflecting and
   transmitting a reflected image of the card value imprint from the drawn playing card to the CCD
                                                     37

   image converter from that portion of the drawn playing card when the drawn card is exactly in a
   correct drawn position opposite the optical window; and sensor means for detecting movement
   of the drawn card and for providing a correct timing for operation of the pulsed light source for
   transmission of the reflected image to the CCD image converter The optical device for
 5 deflecting and transmitting the reflected image can comprise a mirror arranged to deflect the
   reflected image to the CCD image converter. Alternatively, the optical device for deflecting and
   transmitting the reflected image comprises a reflecting optical prism having two plane surfaces
   arranged at right angles to each other, one of which covers the optical window and another of
   which faces the CCD image converter and comprises a mirror, and the pulsed light source is
10 arranged behind the latter plane surface so as to illuminate the drawn card when the drawn card
   is positioned over the optical window. Advantageously the sensor means for detecting movement
   of the drawn card and for providing a correct timing comprises a single sensor, preferably either
   a pressure sensor or a photoelectric threshold device, for sensing a front edge of the drawn card
   to determine whether or not the drawn card is being drawn and to activate the CCD image
15 converter and the pulsed light source when a back edge of the drawn card passes the sensor
   means. Alternatively, the sensor means can include two electro-optical sensors, one of which is
   located beyond a movement path of the card image imprint on the drawn playing card and
   another of which is located in a movement path of the card image imprint on a drawn playing
   card. The latter electro-optical sensor can includes means for activating the pulsed light source
20 by sensing a color trigger when the card value imprint passes over the optical window. In
   preferred embodiments of the card shoe the pulsed light source comprises a Xenon lamp.
   [000206] In various embodiments of the gaming apparatus the single detectors of the occupation
   detector unit each comprise a light sensitive sensor for detection of chips or playing cards
   arranged on the table cloth over the respective single detector. Each single detector can be an
25 infrared sensitive photodiode, preferably a silicon photodiode. Advantageously the single
   detectors can be arranged in the occupation detector unit so that the chips or playing cards placed
   over them on the table cloth are arrange over at least two single detectors.
   [000207]The gaming apparatus may includes automatic means for discriminating colored
   markings or regions on the chips and for producing a bet output signal in accordance with the
                                                    38

   colored markings or regions and the number of chips having identical colored markings or
   regions,
   [000208] The gaming bet detector may include automatic means for discriminating between
   chips of different value in the game of chance and means for producing a bet output signal in
 5 accordance with the different values of the chips when the chips are bet by a player. In various
   embodiments the gaming bet detector includes a radio frequency transmitting and receiving
   station and the chips are each provided with a transponder responding to the transmitting and
   receiving station so that the transponder transmits the values of the bet chips back to the
   transmitting and receiving station.
10 [000209] The connection between the individual units of the gaming apparatus and the computer
   can be either a wireless connection or a cable connection.
           XIV. Following the Bets
   [000210] Various embodiments include a smart card delivery shoe that reads the suit and rank. of
15 each card before it is delivered to the various positions where cards are to be dealt in the play of
   the casino table card game. The cards are then dealt according to the rules of the game to the
   required card positions. Different games have diverse card distribution positions, different card
   numbers, and different delivery sequences that the hand identifying system of the invention must
   encompass. For example, in the most complex of card distribution games of blackjack, cards are
20 usually dealt one at a time in sequence around a table, one card at a time to each player position
   and then to the dealer position. The one card at a time delivery sequence is again repeated so that
   each player position and the dealer position have an initial hand of exactly two cards.
   Complexity in hand development is introduced because players have essentially unlimited
   control over additional cards until point value in a hand exceeds a count of twenty-one. Players
25 may stand with a count of 2 (two aces) or take a hit with a count of 21 if they are so inclined, so
   the knowledge of the count of a hand is no assurance of what a player will do. The dealer, on the
   other hand, is required to follow strict house rules on the play of the game according to the value
   of the dealer's hand. Small variances such as allowing or disallowing a hit on a "soft" seventeen
                                                     39

   count (e.g., an Ace and a 6) may exist, but the rules are otherwise very precise so that the house
   or dealer cannot exercise any strategy.
   [000211]Other cards games may provide equal numbers of cards in batches. Variants of stud
   poker played against a dealer, for example, would usually provide hands of five cards, five at a
 5 time to each player position and if competing against a dealer, to the dealer position. This card
   hand distribution is quite simple to track as each sequence of five cards removed from the dealer
   shoe is a hand.
   [000212] Other games may require cards to be dealt to players and other cards dealt to a flop or
   common card area. The system may also be programmable to cover this alternative if it is so
10 desired.
   [000213] Baccarat is closer to blackjack in card sequence of dealing, but has more rigid rules as
   to when hits may be taken by the player and the dealer, and each position may take a maximum
   of one card as a hit. The hand identification system of the invention must be able to address the
   needs of identifying hands in each of these types of games and especially must be able to identify
15 hands in the most complex situation, the play of blackjack.
   [000214] In various embodiments, where cameras are used to read cards, the light sensitive
   system may be any image capture system, digital or analog, that is capable of identifying the suit
   and rank of a card.
   [000215] In various embodiments, a first step in the operation is to provide a set of cards to the
20 smart delivery shoe, the cards being those cards that are going to be used in the play of a casino
   table card game. The set of cards (usually one or more decks) is provided in an already
   randomized set, being taken out of a shuffler or having been shuffled by hand. A smart delivery
   shoe is described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10/622,321, titled SMART DELIVERY
   SHOE, which application is incorporated heirin in its entirety by reference. Some delivery
25 systems or shoes with reading capability include, but are not limited to those disclosed in U.S.
   Pat. Nos. 4,750,743; 5,779,546; 5,605,334; 6,361,044; 6,217,447; 5,941,769; 6,229,536;
   6,460,848; 5,722,893; 6,039,650; and 6,126,166. In various embodiments, the cards are read in
   the smart card delivery shoe, such as one card at a time in sequence. Reading cards by edge
                                                     40

   markings and special codes (as in U.S. Pat. No. 6,460,848) may require special encoding and
   marking of the cards. The entire sequence of cards in the set of cards may thus be determined
   and stored in memory. Memory may be at least in part in the smart delivery shoe, but
   communication with a central processor is possible. The sequence would then also or solely be
 5 stored in the central computer.
   [000216] In various embodiments, the cards are then dealt out of the smart delivery shoe, the
   delivery shoe registering how many cards are removed one-at-a-time. This may be accomplished
   by the above identified U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10/622321 where cards are fed to the
   dealer removal area one at a time, so only one card can be removed by the dealer. As each card is
10 removed, a signal is created indicating that a specific card (of rank and suit) has been dealt. The
   computer and system knows only that a first card has been dealt, and it is presumed to go to the
   first player. The remaining cards are dealt out to players and dealer. In the play of certain games
   (e.g., stud variants) where specific numbers of cards are known to be dealt to each position, the
   shoe may be programmed with the number of players at any time, so hands can be correlated
15 even before they have been dealt. If the shoe is playing a stud variant where each player and the
   dealer gets three cards (Three Card PokerTM game), the system may know in advance of the deal
   what each player and the dealer will have as a hand. It is also possible that there be a signal
   available when the dealer has received either his first card (e.g., when cards are dealt in
   sequence, one-at-a-time) or has received his entire hand. The signal may be used to automatically
20 determine the number of player positions active on the table at any given time. For example, if in
   a hand of blackjack the dealer receives the sixth card, the system may immediately know that
   there are five players at the table. The signal can be given manually (pressing a button at the
   dealer position or on the smart card delivery shoe) or can be provided automatically (a card
   presence sensor at the dealer's position, where a card can be placed over the sensor to provide a
25 signal). Where an automatic signal is provided by a sensor, some physical protection of the
   sensor may be provided, such as a shield that would prevent accidental contact with the sensor or
   blockage of the sensor. An L-shaped cover may be used so a card could be slid under the arm of
   the L parallel to the table surface and cover the sensor under that branch of the L. The signal can
   also be given after all cards for the hand have been delivered, again indicating the number of
30 players, For example, when the dealer's two cards are slid under the L-shaped cover to block or
   contact the sensor, the system may know the total number of cards dealt on the hand (e.g., 10
                                                     41

   cards), know that the dealer has 2 cards, determine that players therefore have 8 cards, and know
   that each player has 2 cards each, thereby absolutely determining that there are four active player
   positions at the table (10-2-8 and then 8/2=4 players). This automatic determination may serve
   as an alternative to having dealers input the number of players each hand at a table or having to
 5 manually change the indicated number of players at a table each time the number changes.
   [000217] Once all active positions have been dealt to, the system may now know what cards are
   initially present in each player's hand, the dealer's hand, and any flop or common hand. The
   system operation may now be simple when no more cards are provided to play the casino table
   game. All hands may then be known and all outcomes may be predicted. The complication of
10 additional cards will be addressed with respect to the game of blackjack.
   [000218] After dealing the initial set of two cards per hand, the system may not immediately
   know where each remaining card will be dealt. The system may know what cards are dealt,
   however. It is with this knowledge and a subsequent identification of discarded hands that the
   hands and cards from the smart delivery shoe can be reconciled or verified. Each hand is already
15 identified by the presence of two specifically known cards, Hands are then played according to
   the rules of the game, and hands are discarded when play of a hand is exhausted. A hand is
   exhausted when 1) there is a blackjack, the hand is paid, and the cards are cleared; 2) a hand
   breaks with a count over twenty-one and the cards are cleared; and/or a round of the game is
   played to a conclusion, the dealer's hand completed, all wagers are settled, and the cards are
20 cleared. As is typically done in a casino to enable reconciling of hands manually., cards are
   picked up in a precise order from the table. The cards are usually cleared from the dealer's right
   to the dealer's left, and the cards at each position comprise the cards in the order that they were
   delivered, first card on the bottom, second card over the first card, third card over the second
   card, etc. maintaining the order or a close approximation of the order (e.g., the first two cards
25 may be reversed) is important as the first two cards form an anchor, focus, basis, fence, end point
   or set edge for each hand. For example, if the third player position was known to have received
   the 10 of hearts (10H) and the 9 of spades (9S) for the first two card, and the fourth player was
   known to receive the 8 of diamonds (8D) and the 3 of clubs (3C) for the first two cards, the
   edges or anchors of the two hands are 9S/1OH and 8D/3C. When the hands are swept at the
30 conclusion of the game, the cards are sent to a smart discard rack (e.g,, see U.S. patent
                                                      42

   application Ser. No. 10/622,388, which application is incorporated herein by reference in its
   entirety) and the hand with the 9S/I0H was not already exhausted (e.g., broken or busted) and
   the swept cards consist of 9S, 1OR, 8S, 8D and 3C (as read by the smart discard rack), the
   software of the processor may automatically know that the final hands in the third and fourth
 5 positions were a count of 19 (9S and 1OH) for the third hand and 19 (8D and 3C originally plus
   the 8S hit) for the fourth hand. The analysis by the software specifically identifies the fourth
   hand as a count of 19 with the specific cards read by the smart discard shoe. The information
   from reading that now exhausted hand is compared with the original information collected from
   the smart delivery shoe. The smart delivery shoe information when combined with the smart
10 discard rack information shall confirm the hands in each position, even though cards were not
   uniformly distributed (e.g., player one takes two hits for a total of four cards, player two takes
   three hits for a total of five cards, player three takes no hit for a total of two cards, player four
   takes one hit for a total of three cards, and the dealer takes two hits for a total of four cards).
   [000219] The dealer's cards may be equally susceptible to analysis in a number of different
15 formats. After the last card has been dealt to the last player, a signal may be easily and
   imperceptibly generated that the dealer's hand will now become active with possible hits. For
   example, with the sensor described above for sensing the presence of the first dealer card or the
   completion of the dealer's hand, the cards would be removed from beneath the L-shaped
   protective bridge, This type of movement is ordinarily done in blackjack where the dealer has at
20 most a single card exposed and one card buried face down. In this case, the removal of the cards
   from over the sensor underneath the L-cover to display the hole card is a natural movement and
   then exposes the sensor. This can provide a signal to the central processor that the dealer's hand
   will be receiving all additional cards in that round of the game. The system at this point knows
   the two initial cards in the dealer's hand, knows the values of the next sequence of cards, and
25 knows the rules by which a dealer must play. The system knows what cards the dealer will
   receive and what the final total of the dealer's hand will be because the dealer has no freedom of
   decision or movement in the play of the dealer's hand. When the dealer's hand is placed into the
   smart discard rack, the discard rack already knows the specifics of the dealer's hand even without
   having to use the first two cards as an anchor or basis for the dealer's hand. The cards may be
30 treated in this manner in some embodiments.
                                                       43

   [000220] When the hands are swept from the table, dealer's hand then players' hands from right
   to left (from the dealer's position or vice-versa if that is the manner of house play), the smart
   discard rack reads the shoes, identifies the anchors for each hand, knows that no hands swept at
   the conclusion can exceed a count of twenty-one, and the computer identifies the individual
 5 hands and reconciles them with the original data from the smart delivery shoe. The system
   thereby can identify each hand played and provide system assurance that the hand was played
   fairly and accurately.
   [000221] If a lack of reconciling by the system occurs, a number of events can occur. A signal
   can be given directly to the dealer position, to the pit area, or to a security zone and the cards
10 examined to determine the nature and cause of the error and inspect individual cards if necessary.
   When the hand and card data is being used for various statistical purposes, such as evaluating
   dealer efficiency, dealer win/loss events, player efficiency, player win/loss events, statistical
   habits of players, unusual play tactics or meaningful play tactics (e.g., indicative of card
   counting), and the like, the system may file the particular hand in a 'dump' file so that hand is
15 not used in the statistical analysis, this is to assure that maximum benefits of the analysis are not
   tilted by erroneous or anomalous data.
   [000222] Various embodiments may include date stamping of each card dealt (actual time and
   date defining sequence, with concept of specific identification of sequence identifier possibly
   being unique). The date stamping may also be replaced by specific sequence stamping or
20 marking, such as a specific hand number, at a specific table, at a specific casino, with a specific
   number of players, etc. The records could indicate variations of indicators in the stored memory
   of the central computer of Lucky 777 Casino, Aug. 19, 1995, 8:12:17 a.m., Table 3, position 3,
   hand 7S/4D/9S, or simply identify something similar by alphanumeric code as L7C-819-95-3-3
   073-7S/4D/9S (073 being the 73d hand dealt). This date stamping of hands or even cards in
25 memory can be used as an analytical search tool for security and to enhance hand identification.
   [000223] FIG. 1 shows a block diagram of the minimum components for the hand-reading
   system on a table 4 of the invention, a smart card-reading delivery shoe 8 with output 14 and a
   smart card-reading discard rack 12 with output 18. Player positions 6 are shown, as is a dealer's
   hand position sensor 10 without output port 16.
                                                       44

   [000224] The use of the discard rack acting to reconcile hands returned to the discard rack out-of
   order (e.g., blackjack or bust) automatically may be advantageous, in some embodiments. The
   software as described above can be programmed to recognize hands removed out-of-dealing
   order on the basis of knowledge of the anchor cards (the first two cards) known to have been
 5 dealt to a specific hand. For example, the software will identify that when a blackjack was dealt
   to position three, that hand will be removed, the feed of the third hand into the smart card discard
   tray confirms this, and position three will essentially be ignored in future hand resolution. More
   importantly, when the anchor cards were, for example, 9S/5C in the second player position and
   an exhausted hand of 8D/9SI5C is placed into the smart discard rack, that hand will be identified
10 as the hand from the second player position. If two identical hands happen to be dealt in the same
   round of play, the software will merely be alerted (it knows all of the hands) to specifically check
   the final order of cards placed into the smart discard rack to more carefully position the location
   of that exhausted hand, This is merely recognition software implementation once the concept is
   understood.
15 [000225] That the step of removal of cards from the dealer's sensor or other initiated signal
   identifies that all further cards are going to the dealer may be useful in defining the edges of play
   between rounds and in identifying the dealer's hand and the end of a round of play. When the
   dealer's cards are deposited and read in the smart discard rack, the central computer knows that
   another round of play is to occur and a mark or note may be established that the following
20 sequence will be a new round and the analytical cycle may begin all over again.
   [000226] The discard rack indicates that a complete hand has been delivered by absence of
   additional cards in the Discard Rack in-feed tray. When cards are swept from an early exhausted
   hand (blackjack or a break), they are swept one at a time and inserted into the smart discard rack
   one at a time. When the smart discard rack in-feed tray is empty, the system understands that a
25 complete hand has been identified, and the system can reconcile that specific hand with the
   information from the smart delivery shoe. The system can be hooked-up to feed strategy analysis
   software programs such as the SMI licensed proprietary BloodhoundTm analysis program.
   [000227] Various embodiments include a casino or cardroom game modified to include a
   progressive jackpot component. During the play of a Twenty-One game, for example, in addition
                                                      45

   to this normal wager, a player will have the option of making an additional wager that becomes
   part of, and makes the player eligible to win, the progressive jackpot. If the player's Twenty-One
   hand comprises a particular, predetermined arrangement of cards, the player will win all, or part
   of, the amount showing on the progressive jackpot. This progressive jackpot feature is also
 5 adaptable to any other casino or cardroom game such as Draw Poker, Stud Poker, Lo-Ball Poker
   or Caribbean StudTM Poker. Various embodiments include a gaming table, such as those used for
   Twenty-One or poker, modified with the addition of a coin acceptor that is electronically
   connected to a progressive jackpot meter. When player drops a coin into the coin acceptor, a
   light is activated at the player's location indicating that he is participating in the progressive
10 jackpot component of the game during that hand. At the same time, a signal from the coin
   acceptor is sent to the progressive meter to increment the amount shown on the progressive
   meter. At the conclusion of the play of each hand, the coin acceptor is reset for the next hand.
   When a player wins all or part of the progressive jackpot, the amount showing on the progressive
   jackpot meter is reduced by the amount won by the player. Any number of gaming tables can be
15 connected to a single progressive jackpot meter.
            XV. Card Shufflers
   [000228] Various embodiments include an automatic card shuffler, including a card mixer for
   receiving cards to be shuffled in first and second trays. Sensors detect the presence of cards in
20 these trays to automatically initiate a shuffling operation, in which the cards are conveyed from
   the trays to a card mixer, which randomly interleaves the cards delivered to the mixing
   mechanism and deposits the interleaved cards in a vertically aligned card compartment.
   [000229] A carriage supporting an ejector is reciprocated back and forth in a vertical direction by
   a reversible linear drive while the cards are being mixed, to constantly move the card ejector
25 along the card receiving compartment. The reversible linear drive is preferably activated upon
   activation of the mixing means and operates simultaneously with, but independently of, the
   mixing means. When the shuffling operation is terminated, the linear drive is deactivated thereby
   randomly positioning the card ejector at a vertical location along the card receiving
   compartment.
                                                       46

   [000230] A sensor arranged within the card receiving compartment determines if the stack of
   cards has reached at least a predetermined vertical height. After the card ejector has stopped and,
   if the sensor in the compartment determines that the stack of cards has reached at least the
   aforesaid predetermined height, a mechanism including a motor drive, is activated to move the
 5 wedge-shaped card ejector into the card receiving compartment for ejecting a group of the cards
   in the stack, the group selected being determined by the vertical position attained by the wedge
   shaped cant ejector.
   [000231] In various embodiments, the card ejector pushes the group of cards engaged by the
   ejector outwardly through the forward open end of the compartment, said group of cards being
10 displaced from the remaining cards of the stack, but not being completely or fully ejected from
   the stack.
   [000232] The card ejector, upon reaching the end of its ejection stroke, detected by a
   microswitch, is withdrawn from the card compartment and returned to its initial position in
   readiness for a subsequent shuffling and card selecting operation.
15 [000233] In various embodiments, a technique for randomly selecting the group of cards to be
   ejected from the card compartment utilizes solid state electronic circuit means, which may
   comprise either a group of discrete solid state circuits or a microprocessor, either of which
   techniques preferably employ a high frequency generator for stepping .a N-stage counter during
   the shuffling operation. When the shuffling operation is completed, the stepping of the counter is
20 terminated. The output of the counter is converted to a DC signal, which is compared against
   another DC signal representative of the vertical location of the card ejector along the card
   compartment.
   [000234] In various embodiments, a random selection is made by incrementing the N-stage
   counter with a high frequency generator. The high frequency generator is disconnected from the
25 N-stage counter upon termination of the shuffling operation. The N-stage counter is then
   incremented by a very low frequency generator until it reaches its capacity count and resets. The
   reciprocating movement of the card ejector is terminated after completion of a time interval of
   random length and extending from the time the high frequency generator is disconnected from
   the N-stage counter to the time that the counter is advanced to its capacity count and reset by the
                                                    47

   low frequency generator, triggering the energization of the reciprocating drive, at which time the
   card ejector carriage coasts to a stop.
   [000235] In various embodiments, the card ejector partially ejects a group of cards from the stack
   in the compartment. The partially displaced group of cards is then manually removed from the
 s compartment. In another preferred embodiment, the ejector fully ejects the group of cards from
   the compartment, the ejected cards being dropped into a chute, which delivers the cards directly
   to a dealing shoe. The pressure plate of the dealing shoe is initially withdrawn to a position
   enabling the cards passing through the delivery shoe to enter directly into the dealing shoe, and is
   thereafter returned to its original position at which it urges the cards towards the output end of
10 the dealing shoe.
   [000236] Various embodiments include a method and apparatus for automatically shuffling and
   cutting playing cards and delivering shuffled and cut playing cards to the dispensing shoe
   without any human intervention whatsoever once the playing cards are delivered to the shuffling
   apparatus. In addition, the shuffling operation may be performed as soon as the play of each
15 game is completed, if desired, and simultaneously with the start of a new game, thus totally
   eliminating the need to shuffle all of the playing cards (which may include six or eight decks, for
   example) at one time. Preferably, the cards played are collected in a "dead box" and are drawn
   from the dead box when an adequate number of cards have been accumulated for shuffling and
   cutting using the method of the present invention.
20 [000237] Various embodiments include a computer controlled shuffling and cutting system
   provided with a housing having at least one transparent wall making the shuffling and card
   delivery mechanism easily visible to all players and floor management in casino applications.
   The housing is provided with a reciprocally slidable playing card pusher which, in the first
   position, is located outside of said housing. A motor-operated transparent door selectively seals
25 and uncovers an opening in the transparent wall to permit the slidably mounted card pusher to be
   moved from its aforementioned first position to a second position inside the housing whereupon
   the slidably mounted card pusher is then withdrawn to the first position, whereupon the playing
   cards have been deposited upon a motorized platform which moves vertically and selectively in
   the upward and downward directions.
                                                     48

   [000238] The motor driven transparent door is lifted to the uncovered position responsive to the
   proper location of the motor driven platform, detected by suitable sensor means, as well as
   depression of a foot or hand-operated button accessible to the dealer.
   [000239] The motor driven platform (or "elevator") lifts the stack of playing cards deposited
 5 therein upwardly toward a shuffling mechanism responsive to removal of the slidably mounted
   card pusher and closure of the transparent door whereupon the playing cards are driven by the
   shuffling mechanism in opposing directions and away from the stack to first and second card
   holding magazines positioned on opposing sides of the elevator, said shuffling mechanism
   comprising motor driven rollers rotatable upon a reciprocating mounting device, the
10 reciprocating speed and roller rotating speed being adjustable. Alternatively, however, the
   reciprocating and rotating speeds may be fixed; if desired, employing motors having fixed output
   speeds, in place of the stepper motors employed in one preferred embodiment.
   [000240] Upon completion of a shuffling operation, the platform is lowered and the stacks of
   cards in each of the aforementioned receiving compartments are sequentially pushed back onto
15 the moving elevator by suitable motor-driven pushing mechanisms. The order of operation of the
   pushing mechanisms is made random by use of a random numbers generator employed in the
   operating computer for controlling the system. These operations can be repeated, if desired.
   Typically, new cards undergo these operations from two to four times.
   [000241] Guide assemblies guide the movement of cards onto the platform, prevent shuffled
20 cards from being prematurely returned to the elevator platform and align the cards as they fall
   into the card receiving regions as well as when they are pushed back onto the elevator platform
   by the motor-driven pushing mechanism.
   [000242] Upon completion of the plurality of shuffling and cutting operations, the platform is
   again lowered, causing the shuffled and cut cards to be moved downwardly toward a movable
25 guide plate having an inclined guide surface.
   [000243] As the motor driven elevator moves downwardly between the guide plates, the stack of
   cards engages the inclined guide surface of a substantially U-shaped secondary block member
   causing the stack to be shifted from a horizontal orientation to a diagonal orientation.
                                                    49

   Substantially simultaneously therewith, a "drawbridge-like" assembly comprised of a pair of
   swingable arms pivotally mounted at their lower ends, are swung downwardly about their pivot
   pin from a vertical orientation to a diagonal orientation and serve as a diagonally aligned guide
   path. The diagonally aligned stack of cards slides downwardly along the inclined guide surfaces
 5 and onto the draw bridge-like arms and are moved downwardly therealong by the U-shaped
   secondary block member, under control of a stepper motor, to move cards toward and ultimately
   into the dealing shoe.
   [000244] A primary block, with a paddle, then moves between the cut-away portion of the U
   shaped secondary block, thus applying forward pressure to the stack of cards. The secondary
10 block then retracts to the home position. The paddle is substantially rectangular-shaped and is
   aligned in a diagonal orientation. Upon initial set-up of the system the paddle is positioned above
   the path of movement of cards into the dealing shoe. The secondary block moves the cut and
   shuffled cards into the dealing shoe and the paddle is lowered to the path of movement of cards
   toward the dealing shoe and is moved against the rearwardmost card in the stack of cards
15 delivered to the dealing shoe. When shuffling and cutting operations are performed subsequent to
   the initial set-up, the paddle rests against the rearwardmost card previously delivered to the
   dealing shoe. The shuffled and cut cards sliding along the guide surfaces of the diagonally
   aligned arms of the draw bridge-like mechanism come to rest upon the opposite surface of the
   paddle which serves to isolate the playing cards previously delivered to the dispensing shoe, as
20 well as providing a slight pushing force urging the cards toward the outlet slot of the dispensing
   shoe thereby enabling the shuffling and delivering operations to be performed simultaneously
   with the dispensing of playing cards from the dispensing shoe.
   [000245] After all of the newly shuffled playing cards have been delivered to the rear end of the
   dispensing shoe, by means of the U-shaped secondary block the paddle which is sandwiched
25 between two groups of playing cards, is lifted to a position above and displaced from the playing
   cards. A movable paddle mounting assembly is then moved rearwardly by a motor to place the
   paddle to the rear of the rearmost playing card just delivered to the dispensing shoe; and the
   paddle is lowered to its home position, whereupon the motor controlling movement of the paddle
   assembly is then deenergized enabling the rollingly-mounted assembly supporting the paddle to
30 move diagonally downwardly as playing cards are dispensed from the dispensing shoe to provide
                                                       50

   a force which is sufficient to urge the playing cards forwardly toward the playing card dispensing
   slot of the dealing shoe. The force acting upon the paddle assembly is the combination of gravity
   and a force exerted upon the paddle assembly by a constant tension spring assembly. Jogging
   (i.e., "dither") means cause the paddle to be jogged or reciprocated in opposing forward and
 5 rearward directions at periodic intervals to assure appropriate alignment, stacking and sliding
   movement of the stack of playing cards toward the card dispensing slot of the dealing shoe.
   [000246] Upon completion of a game, the cards used in the completed game are typically
   collected by the dealer and placed in a dead box on the table. The collected cards are later placed
   within the reciprocally movable card pusher. The dealer has the option of inserting the cards
10 within the reciprocally slidable card pusher into the shuffling mechanism or, alternatively, and
   preferably, may postpone a shuffling operation until a greater number of cards have been
   collected upon the reciprocally slidable card pusher. The shuffling and delivery operations may
   be performed as often or as infrequently as the dealer or casino management may choose. The
   shuffling and playing card delivery operations are fully automatic and are performed without
15 human intervention as soon as cards are inserted within the machine on the elevator platform.
   The cards are always within the unobstructed view of the players to enable the players, as well as
   the dealer, to observe and thereby be assured that the shuffling, cutting and card delivery
   operations are being performed properly and without jamming and that the equipment is working
   properly as well. The shuffling and card delivery operations do not conflict or interfere with the
20 dispensing of cards from the dispensing shoe, thereby permitting these operations to be
   performed substantially simultaneously, thus significantly reducing the amount of time devoted
   to shuffling and thereby greatly increasing the playing time, as well as providing a highly
   efficient random shuffling and cutting mechanism.
   [000247] The system may be controlled by a microcomputer programmed to control the
25 operations of the card shuffling and cutting system. The computer controls stepper motors
   through motor drive circuits, intelligent controllers and an opto-isolator linking the intelligent
   controllers to the computer. The computer also monitors a plurality of sensors to assure proper
   operation of each of the mechanisms of the system.
                                                     51

            XV. Casino Countenneasures
   [000248] Some methods of thwarting card counters include using a large number of decks. Shoes
   containing 6 or 8 decks are common. The more cards there are, the less variation there is in the
   proportions of the remaining cards and the harder it is to count them. The player's advantage can
 s also be reduced by shuffling the cards more frequently, but this reduces the amount of time that
   can be devoting to actual play and therefore reduces the casino profits. Some casinos now use
   shuffling machines, some of which shuffle one set of cards while another is in play, while others
   continuously shuffle the cards. The distractions of the gaming floor environment and
   complimentary alcoholic beverages also act to thwart card counters. Some methods of thwarting
10 card counters include using varied payoff structures, such Blackjack payoff of 6:5, which is more
   disadvantageous to the player than the standard 3:2 Blackjack payoff.
            XVII. Video Wagerin2 Games
   [000249] Video wagering games air set up to mimic a table game using adaptations of table
15 games rules and cards.
   [000250] In one version of video poker the player is allowed to inspect five cards randomly
   chosen by the computer. These cards are displayed on the video screen and the player chooses
   which cards, if any, that he or she wishes to hold. If the player wishes to hold all of the cards,
   i.e., stand, he or she presses a STAND button. If the player wishes to hold only some of the
20 cards, he or she chooses the cards to be held by pressing HOLD keys located directly under each
   card displayed on the video screen. Pushing a DEAL button after choosing the HOLD cards
   automatically and simultaneously replaces the unchosen cards with additional cards which are
   randomly selected from the remainder of the deck. After the STAND button is pushed, or the
   cards are replaced, the final holding is evaluated by the game machine's computer and the player
25 is awarded either play credits or a coin payout as determined from a payoff table. This payoff
   table is stored in the machine's computer memory and is also displayed on the machine's screen.
   Hands with higher poker values are awarded more credits or coins. Very rare poker hands are
   awarded payoffs of 800-to- I or higher.
                                                    52

           XVIII. Apparatus for Playing Over a Communications System
   [000251] FIG. 2 shows apparatus for playing the game. There is a plurality of player units 40-1 to
   40-n which are coupled via a communication system 41, such as the Internet, with a game
   playing system comprising an administration unit 42, a player register 43, and a game unit 45.
 s Each unit 40 is typically a personal computer with a display unit and control means (a keyboard
   and a mouse).
   [000252] When a player logs on to the game playing system, their unit 40 identifies itself to the
   administration unit. The system holds the details of the players in the register 43, which contains
   separate player register units 44-1 to 44-n for all the potential players, i.e., for all the members of
10 the system.
   [000253] Once the player has been identified, the player is assigned to a game unit 45. The game
   unit contains a set of player data units 46-1 to 46-6, a dealer unit 47, a control unit 48, and a
   random dealing unit 49.
   [000254] Up to seven players can be assigned to the game unit 45. There can be several such
15 units, as indicated, so that several games can be played at the same time if there are more than
   seven members of the system logged on at the same time. The assignment of a player unit 40 to a
   player data unit 46 may be arbitrary or random, depending on which player data units 46 and
   game units 45 are free. Each player data unit 46 is loaded from the corresponding player register
   unit 44 and also contains essentially the same details as the corresponding player unit 40, and is
20 in communication with the player unit 40 to keep the contents of the player unit and player data
   unit updated with each other. In addition, the appropriate parts of the contents of the other player
   data units 46 and the dealer unit 47 are passed to the player unit 40 for display.
   [000255]The logic unit 48 of the game unit 45 steps the game unit through the various stages of
   the play, initiating the dealer actions and awaiting the appropriate responses from the player units
25 40. The random dealing unit 49 deals cards essentially randomly to the dealer unit 47 and the
   player data units 46. At the end of the hand, the logic unit passes the results of the hand, i.e., the
   wins and/or losses, to the player data units 46 to inform the players of their results. The
   administrative unit 42 also takes those results and updates the player register units 44
   accordingly,
                                                     53

   [000256] The player units 40 are arranged to show a display. To identify the player, the player's
   position is highlighted. As play proceeds, so the player selects the various boxes, enters bets in
   them, and so on, and the results of those actions are displayed. As the cards are dealt, a series of
   overlapping card symbols is shown in the Bonus box. At the option of the player, the cards can
 5 be shown in a line below the box, and similarly for the card dealt to the dealer. At the end of the
   hand, a message is displayed informing the player of the results of their bets, i.e., the amounts
   won or lost.
           XIX. Alternative Technologies
10 [0002571 It will be understood that the technologies described herein for making, using, or
   practicing various embodiments are but a subset of the possible technologies that may be used
   for the same or similar purposes. The particular technologies described herein are not to be
   construed as limiting. Rather, various embodiments contemplate alternate technologies for
   making, using, or practicing various embodiments,
15
           XX. References
   [000258] The following patents and patent applications are hereby incorporated by reference
   herein for all purposes: US patent 6,579,181, US patent 6,299,536, US patent 6,093,103, US
   patent 5,941,769, US patent 7,114,718, US patent application serial number 10/622,321, US
20 patent 4,515,367, US patent 5,000,453, US patent 7,137,630, and US patent 7,137,629.
           XXI.    Example Embodiments
   [000259] In some embodiments, one or more games may include one or more jackpots. A
   jackpot may include an award that may be provided for achieving a particular outcome through
   play of one or more games by one or more players.
25 [000260] A jackpot for example may include a highest payout from a game and/or an otherwise
   desirable result. Such a highest payout may be achieved by obtaining a particular outcome
   and/or a rarest outcome in a game. A jackpot may include another type of outcome other than
   the highest such as a rare, common large, small, and so on award from a game that may occur in
                                                    54

    response to one or more outcomes. For example, some games may include tiered jackpots (e.g..
   jackpots that get larger as the event that causes the jackpot to be awarded becomes rarer).
    [000261] Some non-limiting examples of outcomes that may result in a win of a jackpot may
    include slot machine outcomes of a royal flush, slot machine outcomes of all most rare symbols,
 5  a bad beat jackpot, a multi-wheel roulette outcome of selecting all correct numbers, a lottery win,
    a progressive blackjack bet, a megajackpots win, a millionaires club jackpot, a wheel of fortune
   jackpot, a Regis' cash club jackpot, a mega moolah jackpot, a deal or no deal jackpot, a
    monopoly jackpot, a Indiana Jones and the last crusade jackpot, and so on. Some more non
    limiting examples of outcomes that may result in the win of a jackpot such as a progressive
10 jackpot may include a royal flush at a video poker game, and/or five of the most valuable
    symbols (lemons, cherries, alligators, etc) on a slot machine.
    [000262] In some embodiments a jackpot may include an amount of money provided to a player
    in response to an outcome such as an award. Such as an amount of money provided to a player
    in response to winning a game, an amount of money provided to a player in response to a
15  particular hand occurring an a card game, an amount of money provided to a player in response
    to a outcome of a die roll, slot spin, roulette spin, and so on, and/or any other amount of money
    provided in response to any other outcome in any other game as desired. It should be recognized
    that while some embodiments may include providing money other embodiments may include
    providing any desired benefit to any player as desired (e.g., providing a car, providing, a trip,
20  providing points, crediting an account, giving any prize, and so on). Some embodiment may
    include other awards such as cars, rooms, trips, and so on.
    [000263] In some embodiments a jackpot may include a progressive jackpot. A progressive
   jackpot may include an award that may increase. For example, in some embodiments a
    progressive jackpot may include an amount of money that may increase after a number of games
25  are played (e.g., may increase by an amount after each game). In some embodiments, a
    progressive jackpot may increase after some amount of time passes (e.g., may increase by an
    amount after each hour passes). A progressive jackpot may increase in response to some amount
    of money being wagered (e.g., may increase by a percentage of each wager). It should be
    recognized that these are no-limiting examples of increases that may be used in some
                                                       55

   embodiments. A progressive jackpot need not be strictly increasing. In some embodiments,
   when a progressive jackpot is awarded to a player, the progressive jackpot may be reset to an
   initial state (e.g., 0, some other desired minimum amount). In some embodiments, when a
   progressive jackpot is won, a player may have an choice regarding how to proceed as is
 5 described elsewhere herein in more detail (e.g., a player may choose to accept award money, a
   player may choose to play for a larger award, etc.). A progressive jackpot may be funded by
   player wagers and/or a house in some embodiments (e.g. an initial funding amount may be
   provided from a house and additional funding may be provided by wagers).
   [000264]In some embodiments, a funding for a jackpot such as a progressive jackpot may in part
10 be based on gaming activity happening prior to the winning of the jackpot. For example in some
   embodiment at least a portion of at least some wagers made e.g., by one or more players on one
   or more games, game machines, sports, etc., in one or more venues may be added to a
   progressive jackpot or other jackpot amount. Accordingly, such wagers made may at least in
   part add to an eventual payout received by some player that wins the jackpot. In some
15 embodiments, certain wagers may have such funding effect, such as wagers that are eligible to
   win the jackpot, and others may not. In some embodiments, such wagers may have particular
   characteristics (e.g., be large enough, have enough lines, have a bonus bet, have a jackpot bet,
   have no limit, accept certain rules, and so on). In some embodiments all wagers may add to the
   progressive regardless of characteristic. In some embodiments, multiple progressive may be
20 funded in different ways as desired and discussed in more detail elsewhere herein.
   [000265] In some embodiments, an amount of a wager that is contributed to a jackpot may be
   relatively small. For example such an amount may be a small percentage such as 5%, 1% and so
   on, In some embodiments, a casino or other gaming operator may make such a contribution
   rather than taking such a contribution from a wager amount. In some embodiments, any desired
25 activity may contribute to a jackpot in any desired way. Such activity may include gaming
   activity. Such activity may include non-gaming activity, For example a player making a
   purchase, a player viewing an ad, a player booking a flight, a playing staying in a casino, a player
   seeing a show, and so on may as desired contribute to a jackpot. In some embodiments, such a
   contribution may cause a jackpot win, such an in an embodiment with a guaranteed jackpot. It
                                                    56

   should be recognized that any desired mechanisms for jackpot contribution may be used in
   various embodiments.
   [000266] In some embodiments, play of games, win of games, losses of games outcomes in
   games and so on may contribute to a progress of a jackpot happening in addition to and/or as an
 5 alternative to increasing and/or decreasing an amount of a jackpot. For example, in some
   embodiments, after a number of games played and/or an amount wagered, a jackpot may occur
   and/or become more likely to occur. Such progress may, in some embodiments, be considered
   contributing to a jackpot. In some embodiments, when a progress reaches a threshold level a
   jackpot may be won and/or more likely to be won. In some embodiments, determinant that a
10 jackpot has been won may be based on a progress towards a jackpot and/or an event such as an
   event related to a game such as a random event in a game, a outcome of a game, a happening in a
   game, and so on.
   [000267] In some embodiments, a jackpot such as a progressive jackpot may be associated with
   one or more entities as desired. For example, a progressive jackpot may be associated with a
15 plurality of players, a progressive jackpot may be associated with a single player, a progressive
   jackpot may be associated with a single game, a progressive jackpot may be associated with a
   bank of games, a progressive jackpot may be associated with all games in a venue, a progressive
   jackpot may be associated with a type of bet, a progressive jackpot may be associated with all
   bets, and so on in any combination as desired. In some embodiments linking together multiple
20 entities may allow an increase in a jackpot value. For example, in some embodiments linking
   multiple machines that each contribute to a progressive jackpot a percentage of each wager made
   on the machines may allow a progressive jackpot amount to increase faster than if only one such
   machine made such contributions to the progressive jackpot.
   [000268] In some embodiments, a particular bet may be placed to qualify for a jackpot such as a
25 progressive jackpot. For example, a max bet amount may be wagered in order for a player to
   qualify to win a particular jackpot. In some embodiments, there may be multiple tiers of possible
   jackpots that may be won based on a performed action such as an amount wagered. In some
   embodiments no extra action may be taken to qualify for a jackpot. In some embodiments only
   players who wager the maximum number of credits per play may qualify to win a jackpot. In
                                                   57

   some embodiments, only qualifying wagers may contribute to a jackpot. In some embodiments,
   wagers that do not qualify for a jackpot may contribute to the jackpot.
   [000269] In some embodiments, odds of winning a jackpot, funding elements, odds of winning
   other awards from a game, payout amounts of wins, payout amounts of jackpots, cost of wagers,
 5 and/or any other element of a game and/or jackpot may be determined by a gaming operator
   (e.g., a casino) as desired to provide a desired gaming experience, a desired house edge, and so
   on.
   [000270] In some embodiments, a high value of a jackpot compared to other possible winning
   options may be attractive to players. For example, players may like to know that the game they
10 are playing may result in a large payout of money for the player even if the chance of winning
   that amount may be low. In some embodiments an indication of a jackpot value may be
   provided to one or more players. For example, an indication may include a ticker, a meter, a
   number and so on. In response to a changing value of a jackpot, an indication may change or
   otherwise be provided.
15 [000271] In some embodiments, a jackpot may influence a best strategy of play and/or an actual
   play style of players. For example, a jackpot may influence players to bet more than normal for
   a chance to win the jackpot, to play a game more when the jackpot is high than when the jackpot
   is low, and so on.
   [000272] In some embodiments, a jackpot value may impact an optimal strategy for play of a
20 game. For example, in some embodiments, when a jackpot is high, some play decisions and/or
   bet amounts that qualify for and/or influence whether a jackpot may be won in a game may
   become more attractive in terms of an expected result than those action when a jackpot is low
   (e.g., in part because there may be an increase expected value of winnings associate with the
   large jackpot than with the small jackpot).
25 [000273] For example, in some games it may be possible for a player to determine an optimal
   and/or otherwise desirous strategy based on expected frequency of outcomes and/or events in a
   game and an expected payout related to those outcomes and/or events. As the payout for a
   jackpot increases in some embodiments, a point at which one action is more desirous than
                                                     58

   another may change. In some embodiments, a total expected result of playing a game may
   change from an expected loss to a break even and/or an expected benefit to a player when
   playing according to a particular strategy. In some embodiments, jackpot may include a jackpot
   that changes over time and/or has some affect on a desired strategy so that a play of a game
 5 during some times may have an expected loss, a break even, and/or an expected gain at least in
   part based on the value of the jackpot at the particular moment.
   [000274] It may not be possible for a player to determine such expected values in some games,
   such as slot games with unpublished reel information, and so on. It may be possible to determine
   such expected values in some games such as video poker games with published card information,
10 table games, such as blackjack with published deck and/or shuffling information and so on.
   [000275] In some embodiments such effects may result in some situations being advantageous
   for players to play a game and other situations being disadvantageous for players to play the
   same game in terms of expected value of play. Some players may be able to take advantage of
   such a situation and play games during the advantageous period but not during the
15 disadvantageous period. In some embodiments, a casino or other gaming provider may be
   indifferent to such players because a contribution to the jackpot may be made from prior play by
   other players, so the casino in the long term may still have an expected edge. In some
   embodiments, a casino or other gaming provider may prefer that such players not take such
   advantage of the advantageous periods without contributing to the jackpot during a
20 disadvantageous period. For example, when a house contributes to a jackpot, such restriction
   may be desired and/or when a casino desires to prevent players from claiming jackpots
   contributed to by other players.
   [000276] It is recognized that in some embodiments a player may prefer not to share a chance at
   a jackpot win with other players. For example, some players that only play during advantageous
25 period or high jackpot periods may be seen as "swooping in" to steal a jackpot that was made
   large through play by one or more players during a period when play was less advantageous
   and/or disadvantageous. Accordingly, a player may not want to share an ability to win a jackpot
   with all players.
                                                    59

   [000277] It is recognized that in some embodiments, a jackpot may be used to influence decision
   making of a player. For example, limitations and/or characteristics of ajackpot may be designed
   to have a particular effect on behavior of a player such as encouraging a player to continue
   playing to win a jackpot and/or influence at what levels of a jackpot a player desires to play a
 5 game. It is recognized that building a large jackpot quickly from an initial point may encourage
   play of a game and that a jackpot structure may be arraigned to encourage early play to build
   such a jackpot.
   [000278]In some embodiments a process 300 may be performed as illustrated in Figure 3. Such
   a process may be used for example, to encourage players to play during a disadvantageous time
10 and/or to eliminate worry by a player that plays during a disadvantageous time that another
   player may win the jackpot.
   [000279] In some embodiments, as indicated at 301, a determination may be made that a first
   player has played a first game. Such a detennination may be made in response to a first player
   playing a first game. Such a first game may be played during a first time period. Such a game
15 may be played on one or more machines tables and so on. In some embodiments, the first game
   may include a plurality of first games. The first games may be played on any number of
   different machines, on a same machine, any number of tables a single table, and so on. The first
   games may be a same game, different games and so on. The first games may be related to a
   same jackpot (e.g. feed into a same progressive jackpot). In some embodiments, the first player
20 may include any number of first players. Such first players may play any number of same and/or
   different games together and/or separately on same and/or different machines. Such games may
   relate to a same one or more jackpots. The first time may include a time when a game play
   strategy include a disadvantageous expected result to the player and/or a less advantageous result
   than another time.
25 [000280] In some embodiments, as indicated at 303, a determination of a contribution to a first
   jackpot based on play of the first game by the first player may be made. Such a determination
   may be made in response to the first player playing the first game, in response to a determination
   that the first player played the first game, and so on. Such a contribution may, for example,
   include an amount increased in a progressive jackpot. Such a progressive jackpot may include a
                                                     60

   jackpot related to a plurality of game machines, a plurality of games a plurality of players, a
    single player, a single game, a single game machine, and so on. In some embodiments, such a
    contribution may include a contribution towards an award of a jackpot. For example in some
    embodiments in addition to and/or as an alternative to increasing and/or decreasing a jackpot
 5  amount, a progress towards an award of the jackpot may be changed (e.g., a play counter for a
   jackpot that is won after some number of plays may be incremented). A contribution may
    include an increase and/or a decrease as desired. For example in some embodiments, after some
    number of games a jackpot may be won, after some number of games a jackpot likelihood may
    increase after some number of games a bonus round may be achieved and so on. A bonus round
10  may be considered a jackpot in some embodiments. So playing a game in such embodiments
    may contribute to the occurrence and/or likelihood of the jackpot. It should be recognized that
    some embodiments may include positive contributions, negative contributions, both, neutral
    contributions, and so on as desired. A contribution may include any effect on a jackpot, a
    likelihood of a jackpot, a time period for a jackpot win, a level of progress towards a win of a
15 jackpot, an amount of money added to a jackpot, an effect on an occurrence of a win of a
   jackpot, and so on.
    [000281] In some embodiments, as indicated at 305, a determination that a first threshold
    associated with the first jackpot has been reached may be made. Such a threshold may include,
    for example, a threshold related to an expected value of play of the game. For example, such a
20  threshold may include that a negative expected value has become non-negative. Some
    embodiments may not include such determination of the threshold and/or any other actions. In
    some embodiments, such a first threshold may include a point at which an expected value of
    game play has any desired characteristic, a point at which progress towards an occurrence of a
   jackpot reaches a particular level, and so on.
25  [000282] In some embodiments, as indicated at 307, a determination that a second player desires
    to play a second game for a chance to win the first jackpot may be made. Such a determination
    may be made in response to a player making a wager in the game. Such a determination may be
    made in response to a player logging into a game, and so on. In some embodiments, such a
    determination may be made after the threshold of 304 has been reached. Any number of players
                                                     61

   may desire to play the game at any time. Any number of players that have or have not
   contributed to a jackpot may desire to play a game.
   [000283] In some embodiments, as indicated at 309, a determination may be made as to whether
   the second player made a contribution related to the jackpot. In some embodiments, such a
 5 determination may include a determination as to whether the player made the contribution before
   the threshold of 304 has reached and/or during any other time. Such a determination may be
   made in response to determining that the player desires to play the game. In some embodiments,
   such a second player may include the first player. Such a second player may include any number
   of second players. In some embodiments, such a determination may be made before the second
10 player is eligible to win the jackpot. In some embodiments, such a determination may be made
   in response to determining that a threshold value of the jackpot has been reached. In some
   embodiments, such a determination may be made in response to progress towards a jackpot
   reaching a threshold level. In some embodiments, such a determination may be made in
   response to a player making a jackpot eligible wager. In some embodiments such a
15 determination may be made in response to an expected value of play based on the jackpot
   reaching a threshold level (e.g. a positive level). In some embodiments such a determination
   may be made after the first time period. For example, in some embodiments, when a threshold
   level of expected win or loss and/or expectation with respect to a jackpot reaches a certain level,
   a determination may be made as to whether a player making an otherwise jackpot eligible wager
20 had made a wager related to the jackpot in a prior period when the threshold had not been
   reached. In some embodiments, a first period of time may related to a time when any
   characteristic of related to jackpot and a determination may be made in response to such a
   characteristic changing in any desired way. Such a determination may be made based on gaming
   activity of the second player that may be determined based on player tracking means, such as
25 player tracking cards, video footage, records of game events, and so on.
   [000284] In some embodiments, if a determination is made that the second player did not
   contribute to the jackpot, then the second player may be prevented from accessing the jackpot, as
   indicated at 311. It should be recognized that any amount of contribution may be used in various
   embodiments as desired (e.g., a minimum amount, a minimum percentage, any amount, etc.) For
30 example such a second player may be prevented from making a wager (e.g., any wager, a jackpot
                                                     62

   qualifying wager), winning a jackpot, playing a game and so on. In some embodiments games
   played by such a player may contribute to a jackpot but not be eligible for a jackpot. In some
   embodiments, after the player contributes a threshold amount to the jackpot in a second time
   period the player may be eligible for the jackpot thereafter. Some embodiments may include any
 5 form of allowing a second player to contribute to the first jackpot in order to be granted access to
   the first jackpot. In some embodiments, the second player may contribute to another jackpot that
   is not at the threshold (e.g., a second jackpot may be started and any new players may begin to
   contribute to the new jackpot while old players play for the old jackpot). A player may be given
   access to the second jackpot in response to determining that they have not contributed to the first
10 jackpot. A player may choose which jackpot to play in relation to. In some embodiments, a
   player may be required to maintain some contribution minimum in order to be eligible for a
   jackpot. In some embodiments, rather than preventing all access, a partial access may be
   prevented. For example in some embodiments, a player may be eligible for only a portion of the
   jackpot based on an amount of contribution made. As contribution increases, eligibility may
15 increase. As contribution decreases eligibility may decrease. In some embodiments, there may
   be tiers of eligibility based on tiers of contribution. In some embodiments, a player may have
   access, but may contribute at a higher rate than other players that have a higher level of prior
   contribution.
   [000285] In some embodiments, if the second player did contribute to the jackpot, the player may
20 be allowed access to the jackpot, as indicated at 313. For example, the player may place wagers
   on the jackpot, may win the jackpot may play a game, and so on. In some embodiments the
   player may continue to contribute to the jackpot and play to win the jackpot. In some
   embodiments the player may choose to contribute to another jackpot instead and/or in addition to
   the jackpot. In some embodiments, a player may need to maintain a level of contribution to
25 maintain this access. In some embodiments, a player may no longer contribute or may contribute
   to a lower level after reaching a threshold level of contribution and further contribution may be
   made from a house and/or from players not yet at the level of contribution.
   [000286] In some embodiments, such a determination may be made based on various player
   tracking mechanisms. For example, in some embodiments a computing device may track player
30 wagers based on activity on a gaming device, player tracking cards video footage, and so on. In
                                                       63

   some embodiments a computing device may track jackpot related events such as contribution to
   a jackpot wins of a jackpot and so on based on activity at a gaming machine, and so on. In some
   embodiments, a comparison of these activities may be used to determine if a player has
   contributed to particular jackpot during any desired time period, a contribution level, and so on.
 5 [000287]In some embodiments, a player may win the jackpot, as indicated at 315. Such a player
   may be a first player and/or a player for which access to the jackpot has been granted (e.g., a
   player that meets a contribution requirement). In response to winning the jackpot, the jackpot
   may be reset, a new jackpot may be established, and so on. In some embodiments, the first
   player may win the jackpot. In some embodiments a second player that was determined to have
10 contributed to the jackpot may win the jackpot. In some embodiments a second player that had
   not been determined to contribute to the jackpot but that performed some allowed qualifying act
   (e.g. playing without the chance to win for a time period) may win the jackpot.
   [000288] In some embodiments rather than and/or in addition to preventing a player from
   accessing a jackpot based on any desired events and/or characteristic, a players degree of access
15 may be limited based on actions and/or characteristics. For example, in some embodiments, a
   player may be allowed only a percentage of a win of a jackpot based on an amount of play by the
   player during prior time periods. This may encourage players to keep a minimum play towards a
   jackpot. In some embodiments play or other contributions earned may decay over time so that a
   player may need to contribute to play, a player may need to maintain a percentage contribution
20 and so on to get a full win. In some embodiments, an advantage may be given to early players
   (e.g., the amount needed to be contributed to gain access may increase over time from the reset
   of a jackpot). Accordingly players may have an advantage to play early and thereby increase the
   jackpot drawing more players later. Various characteristics may be used to base access on such
   as time of play, amount wagered, number of plays, amount contributed and so on.
25 [000289] It should be recognized that the above process is given as a non-limiting example only.
   Various embodiments may include any desired actions in any desired order including additional,
   alternative and/ fewer, more, and so on action compared to process 300.
   [000290] In some embodiments, a process 400 may be performed as illustrated in Figure 4. Such
   a process may allow a person and/or a group of people to contribute and/or otherwise control a
                                                    64

   jackpot. Such a process may encourage such a person and/or group to continue playing for a
   particular jackpot. Such a process may protect progress earn related to the jackpot for the person
   and/or group.
   [000291] In some embodiments, as indicated at 401, a determination that a first player has played
 5 a game may be made. Such a determination may be made in response to a first player wagering
   in a first game. The wager may include any desired number of wagers in any number of games.
   The first game may include any number of same and/or different games. The games may be
   games of a same type, different games and so on. In some embodiments, such a game may
   include a game that qualifies for the jackpot as determined by a gaming provider. In some
10 embodiments for example, every game played by a person and/or group may qualify. In some
   embodiments only certain games may qualify. Any number and/or type of games governed by
   any number of same and/or different rules may be used (e.g., table games, electronic games and
   so on).
   [000292] In some embodiments, as indicated at 403, may include determining a contribution to a
15 first jackpot based on play of the first game, A contribution related to a jackpot may be made
   (e.g., a meter incremented, and so on) in response to such a determination. Such contribution
   may be based on the wager, game, and/or other activity by a player (e.g., buying something,
   viewing an ad going to a show, staying in a hotel, and so on). Such contribution may include a
   contribution to a jackpot amount, a progress towards an occurrence of a jackpot event and so on.
20 In some embodiments, a contribution made may depend on a wager amount an outcome of a
   game, and so on.
   [000293] In some embodiments, as indicated at 405, a determination that a second player has
   played a second game. Such a determination may be made in response to a second player
   playing a second game. Such play of a second game may have similar affects on a second
25 jackpot as play by the first player of the first game. Such play and/or effects may have no effect
   on the other jackpots. Such play may be on a same machine, of a same game, and so on in any
   way similar to play of the first game, but nonetheless may not affect a the first jackpot. Such
   play by a second player may be prevented from affecting the first jackpot. In such a way such a
   jackpot may be limited to only a particular first player and/or group as desired in some
                                                      65

   embodiments. A first and second jackpot related to same games and different people may exist
   at a same time without affecting one another in such a manner.
   [000294] In some embodiments, as indicated at 407, a second player may be prevented from
   accessing the first jackpot. The second player may play the same game as the first player, but
 5 may nonetheless have no access to the first jackpot. Instead as described, in 405, may have
   access to a second jackpot in some embodiments and/or no jackpot. In some embodiments such
   a second player may take some action to gain access to the first jackpot. The second player may
   include any number of second players. In some embodiments, preventing access to the first
   jackpot may include providing access to any number of respective second jackpots to any
10 number of second players. Such jackpots may include dedicated jackpots that other players do
   not have access to. In some embodiments, preventing access may be made in response to and/or
   include determining that each second player is not the first player and/or someone authorized
   and/or playing in a group with the first player.
   [000295] In some embodiments, as indicated at 409, a determination that the first player has won
15 the first jackpot may be made. Such a determination may be made in response to an action
   and/or event in a game. In some embodiments, such a jackpot may be won based on an action in
   a game, and/or any other action that may contribute to a jackpot. In some embodiments, a
   jackpot win may be a final win of a highest level jackpot. In such an embodiments, the jackpot
   may be provided to a player. Such a win by the first play may not affect a second jackpot
20 associated with the second player.
   [000296] In some embodiments, the jackpot may include an intermediate level jackpot, a final
   level jackpot, and/or a lone jackpot, In some embodiments, a player may win and/or reach an
   intermediate level jackpot. For example, in some embodiments, a game may be set up to have a
   multiple tiered jackpots based on varied events in the game and/or game play of the game. For
25 example, in some embodiments, a first jackpot won may qualify the player to continue playing
   for a second jackpot.
   [000297]In some embodiments, as indicated at 411, the first player may be given a choice
   between accepting a payout of an award for winning the first jackpot and access to a second
   jackpot (i.e., a different jackpot than the first jackpot and/or a jackpot that a second player is
                                                        66

   given access to).. Such a presenting may be made in response to a determination of a win of the
   first jackpot. Some embodiments may include receiving a selection of a choice, If a player takes
   a jackpot, a jackpot related progress (e.g., jackpot amount, progress made towards winning of a
   jackpot etc.) may be reset and the player may be awarded the jackpot as indicated at 413. If the
 5 player chooses not to take the jackpot, the jackpot may move to a next level which may include a
   large amount of award and the player may be able to continue playing for the next level of
   jackpot. A player that selects to have access to the second jackpot may be given access to the
   second jackpot in response to a receipt of the selection as indicated at 415. In some
   embodiments, even with a tiered jackpot system a player may be awarded for each level of
10 jackpot won. In some embodiments, a max level of jackpot may exist and when the player
   reaches that level the player may not be provided with the choice but may provided with the
   award. Any number of levels of tiers may be used in various embodiments.
   [000298] In some embodiments over time, a jackpot amount, and/or other progress related to a
   jackpot may decay. A determination if a player has made a contribution a jackpot in a time
15 period may be made. If the player has not, a jackpot may be reset and/or decayed in some
   manner. An amount of decay and/or time period may be determined as desired by a gaming
   provider to encourage play. Such decay may continue at any desired rate (e.g. steady increasing,
   etc.) as desired. Accordingly, players may be encouraged to continue playing.
   [000299] In some embodiments, a guaranteed jackpot based on play and/or wager amount may
20 be provided. For example, a player may be guaranteed that when a meter, play amount, won
   amount, lost amount, and so on reaches a threshold, a jackpot may be won. In some
   embodiments, a range may be used so that the guaranteed win happens at an unknown time but
   in some range of time, play amounts, wins, losses, etc. In some embodiments a happening of a
   win may be random.
25 [000300] In some embodiments, a single person may be assigned a jackpot in this manner. Play
   by the player at games qualifying games purchases, and so on may all contribute as desired to a
   jackpot. The player may be tracked as desired, such as by a credit card, by a player card, by
   video, by login, and so on. In some embodiments, a group, such as a family, friends and so on
   may form a group that all access such a jackpot. For example, a third player may be given
                                                     67

   access to the first jackpot if the third player is part of an allowed group with the first player. In
   response to receiving a selection to have access to a second jackpot after a win of a first jackpot
   by the first player, a third player may also be given access to the second jackpot.
   [000301] In some embodiments, progress related to a jackpot may be transferred from one person
 5 and/or group to another. Such transfer may be made through an exchange. Such a transfer may
   be made for a price. Such a transfer may be prohibited in some embodiments. In some
   embodiments, a system may allow bids and or offers of such jackpots to be placed on a system
   for view and/or matching auctioning, and other sales and/or transfer methods. Such a system may
   facilitate exchange. In some embodiments, such a system may depreciate a progress in some
10 manner. In some embodiments, such a system may take a commission.
   [000302] In some embodiments, a jackpot such as the guaranteed jackpot may return a portion of
   the players losses to the player when the jackpot is won (e.g., the jackpot may include a
   progressive jackpot funded at least in part by player losses). In some embodiments, such a
   portion may be a majority, most, all, some, a small potion and so on. In some embodiments, a
15 majority of money made through game play by a house may come not from the play when the
   jackpot is taken into account, but rather from people leaving a game behind without winning a
   next level of jackpot. For example in some embodiments, a player may be offered to increase a
   jackpot tier and take the offer. This may result in the player not taking the jackpot award at a
   lower level. However, before the player reaches a next level of jackpot, the player may stop
20 playing for the jackpot (e.g., leave a casino, go to work, end a vacation, and so on). This may
   result in the player loosing access to playing the game, the jackpot to decay, the player forgetting
   about the progress and so on. Accordingly, the game operator may make money based on the
   forfeited jackpot progress.
   [000303] It should be recognized that the above process is given as a non-limiting example only.
25 Various embodiments may include any desired actions in any desired order including additional,
   alternative and/ fewer, more, and so on action compared to process 400.
   [000304] It should be recognized that games, tracking, play, computing, determining, and so on
   may take place on any device as desired. For example, such play may take place on server based
   gaming devices such as mobile gaming devices, kiosk games, computers, and so on. Such play
                                                       68

   may take place on table games, slots, and so on. Determination may take place using player
   tracking cards used in play at any type of game in any venue, such as a casino. Or example, at a
   table game, a player wagers may be monitored by a camera, by a dealer, and so on. Such wagers
   may be entered into a system that then determines the progress towards the jackpot made based
 5 on the play. It should be recognized that embodiments may include any type of game in any
   venue played in any way and any determination made by any entity in any way.
   Multi Guess Progressive Examples
   [000305] Some embodiments may include a game that mimics elements of a lottery (e.g.,
10 guessing about an outcome of a random event). Some embodiments may include a game that is
   based on multiple random events (e.g., lottery drawings, rounds/hands of a game, games of
   baccarat, etc.). A game may be played for money and/or points. A game may be a game for fun
   or a game for a prize.
   [000306] Some embodiments may include a progressive game that is based on a series of binary
15 choices (e.g., yes or no outcomes). Such choices may take any form. Some examples may
   include a coin toss, a pass or don't pass bet in craps, a dealer or player choice in baccarat, and so
   on. In some embodiments, a player may guess a result of a string of such choices. Although some
   embodiments are described in terms of such a string of choices, it should be recognized that
   other embodiments are not limited thereto but rather may include non-consecutive choices and/or
20 a single choice. It should be recognized that while some examples are given in terms of a binary
   choice, that other games may be used in various embodiments as desired, A game or choice may
   be based on an event that is unique to an individual (e.g., the used flipping a virtual coin) and/or
   based on a community event (e.g., a lottery drawing). Each current choice may result in a payout
   to a player and/or may not result in such a payout. For example, in some embodiments, each
25 choice may be a game or possible payout in itself in addition to a progressive for multiple games.
   In other embodiments, prizes may be available for a progressive game but not the individual
   choices.
                                                     69

   [000307] Some embodiments may include a buy in to play a game. For example, to play a
   progressive game, a player may be required to pay a dollar. Such a buy in may be similar to the
   purchase of a lottery ticket. In some embodiments, different buy in levels may be available and
   may have corresponding different payout levels (e.g., high buy in for higher potential payout).
 5 Some embodiment may not have any buy in or may have a buy in based on points rather than
   money.
   [000308] Some embodiments may include receiving a plurality of guesses about the outcome of a
   plurality of outcomes of binary choice games from a player. For example, a player may choice
   heads, tails, heads as a sequence in a coin toss game; player, banker, player as a sequence in a
10 baccarat game; pass, pass, pass as a sequence in a craps game, and so on. Such choices may be
   received together with a buy in, together as a single sequence, separately before each event, and
   so on. A computing device may receive such choices, attribute the choices to a user, and track
   the outcome of events to determine if the choices are correct or incorrect. In some embodiments
   such a computing device may also determine the outcome of events (e.g., through a random
15 number generation, by monitoring input data, and so on).
   [000309] In some embodiments, a success at guessing all of the choices correctly may earn a
   player a progressive award. For example, a coin flip progressive may have 50 rounds and a user
   who guesses all 50 rounds correctly may win a progressive prize. A flipping coin may be the
   source of such game results. The coin may flip continually, periodically, on demand, etc. A new
20 sequence may start anytime a new player chooses to play the game. For example, a coin may flip
   each minute and any user that joins the game may be assigned a next flip as their first flip. In
   other embodiments, a flipping sequence may begin at a set time each day to create an event out
   of the game.
   [000310] A progressive award may be based on a current level of the player in a tiered
25 progressive program. Each level of a tiered progressive program may have a different award
   associated therewith. As levels increase, the value of an award may increase (e.g., linearly,
   exponentially, as desired, etc.). Awards may include anything that may be beneficial to a player.
   For example, in some embodiments, award levels may range from a free play (e.g., an ability to
   play one or more games without paying a buy in amount) to a large cash reward, In some
                                                     70

   embodiments, a player may not need to guess all choices correctly, but rather may guess one, a
   majority, and so on to earn a reward as desired.
   [000311]In some embodiments, a player may be given an option of foregoing a progressive
   award. In exchange for foregoing the progressive award, the player may be moved to the next
 5 progressive level. Some embodiments may not require such a foregoing but rather may allow a
   player to move to the next level and accept the award.
   [000312] In some embodiments, a player may accept a progressive award at a level of a
   progressive tier. Accepting the award may end the progressive game. Accepting the award may
   keep the player in the same progressive level. Accepting the award may reset the player to a first
10 progressive level. It should be recognized that any arrangement or effect may be caused by a
   player accepting or foregoing a progressive award. For example, in some embodiments when a
   player accepts a progressive award at a level, the player may win the game at that level and the
   game may end. The player may play another game (e.g., by making another buy in) but may start
   at the first level in that other game.
15 [000313] Some embodiments may include presenting a choice of accepting or foregoing a
   progressive award in response to a player successfully guessing a plurality of choices. Some
   embodiments may include receiving either an indication of a player accepting or an indication of
   a player foregoing the progressive award. In response to an accepting, some embodiments may
   include providing the player with the award (e.g., crediting an account) and/or ending a game. In
20 response to a foregoing, some embodiments may include moving a player to a next progressive
   level and/or continuing a game.
   [000314] Some embodiments may include funding a progressive award with portions of a buy in.
   Some embodiments may include determining a number of tier levels based on a percentage of
   the buy in that is used to fund the progressive award. For example, if a small percentage is used,
25 then a larger number of levels may be used so that the higher levels will be reached less
   frequently and thereby be allowed to reach a higher level to attract players. Players may thereby
   be incentivized to continue playing a game rather than accept a reward and walk away because
   they have a chance of achieving a higher reward. Each play of the game may increase the amount
   in the progressive tiers until the top tier and/or some other tier is won by a player, in similar
                                                      71

   fashion to a lottery. In some embodiments, a portion of each wager may be used to fund each
   reward level. In some embodiments some reward levels may be independently funded from a
   different source (e.g., lower level tiers may be funded from a house account). In some
   embodiments rewards levels may be seeded to begin with so that they have a minimum level.
 5 [0003 15]A player may continue playing a game in such a manner until the player loses (e.g.,
   does not guess the plurality of choices correctly) and/or wins a top level of a progressive tier. If
   the player incorrectly guesses a plurality of choices, then the player may lose the game and not
   win any award. If the player correctly guesses at a top level of a progressive tier, then the player
   may be awarded a top progressive prize thereby winning the progressive game. For example, a
10 method may loop back to receiving a next set of guesses by a player. Some embodiments may
   include loser prizes such as a prize for guessing all but one correctly, a prize for guessing the
   most in a day correctly, and so on. A computing device may track user guesses and outcomes to
   determine prize awards based on a prize award schedule for a game.
   [000316]As a non-limiting example, consider a game in the terms of a baccarat game. A player
15 may make a $1 wager (e.g., to buy in to a game). The player may be required to make three
   correct guesses in the next three outcomes of a baccarat game. The number of correct guesses
   can be adjusted to reflect the desired hold percentage (e.g., the more guesses the higher the hold
   percentage). The player may make those guesses at one time before any game starts, before each
   game starts, etc. as desired. A successful achievement of those guess, may result in the option to
20 take the reward for a level of a progressive tier. A successful achievement of those guesses, may
   result in an option to guess again for a next set of three outcomes of a baccarat game. Each
   successful guess (or string of guesses) may result in in a higher reward offer until a player either
   accepts an offered reward, wins a top tier progressive or fails in a set of guesses thereby losing a
   game. Some embodiments may require a buy in for-each set of guesses even if a player had
25 gotten the previous set correct, but some embodiments might not require that subsequent buy in.
   [000317] Some embodiments may include an interface through which information about a game
   may be displayed and/or information for play of a game may be entered. Such an interface may
   be in a form of a pyramid (traditional or inverted) or a ladder showing associated reward
   opportunities at one or more levels of a progressive tier and that identifies a current level of a
                                                     72

   player. As another example of such a prize display interface, some embodiments may include a
   coin or dollar in pieces. As the player moves up tiers, more pieces may be added so that at the
   top tier the dollar or coin is completely assembled.
   [000318] Such an interface may include an interface of a computing device, a mobile device, a
 5 kiosk, and so on. For example, some embodiments may include an interface of a smart phones,
   networked device such as tablets (e.g., iPad), a fixed terminal, and so on.
   [000319] Such games may allow for an exciting game element for players and a high hold
   percentage for a house by combining a unique progressive link to one or more games.
   [000320] Some embodiments may include one or more systems configured to facilitate play of a
10 game. For example, some embodiments may include mobile devices that interface with a central
   server. A central server may run a computer program that allows receive, transmission, and
   processing of information. For example the central server may maintain accounts, receive
   money, receive guesses, determine outcomes, determine if guesses are correct, identify outcomes
   to players, control tiers, control progressive jackpots, allocate funds, and so on in a manner to
15 allow the game to be played as described or otherwise. Games may be played live or may be
   electronic so that for example a central service may record games and/or transmit displays of
   games to remote devices (e.g., from a camera) and/or may determine outcomes of games using
   an electronic random number generator. It should be recognized that any arrangement of
   components, computing devices, modules, and so on may be used to perform one or more
20 aspects of an embodiments in any manner.
   [000321] Figure 5 illustrates an example method that may be performed in some embodiments to
   implement a binary choice progressive game. It should be recognized that this example is given
   as a non-limiting example only to illustrate some possible elements of some embodiments. It
   should be recognized that other embodiments may include other elements, fewer elements,
25 differently ordered elements, and so on. In some embodiments, such a method may be performed
   by a computing device that may communicate with user computing devices to receive and
   present information.
                                                     73

   [000322] As illustrated, some embodiments may include determining a plurality of outcomes of a
   plurality of binary choice events that take place over a period of time, For example, a coin may
   be flipped every minute throughout a day, and so on. A virtual coin may be determined, an actual
   coin may be flipped, and/or any other binary choice event outcomes may be determined.
 5 [000323] As illustrated, some embodiments may include during the period of time, after a first
   binary choice event and before a second binary choice event, receiving a first buyin for a
   progressive game from a first user. For example, a user may pay some money from an account
   while a coin is flipping. In other embodiments, the buyin may start a series of coins flipping.
   [000324] As illustrated, some embodiments may include receiving a first selection of first binary
10 outcomes from the first user. For example, a user may indicate through an interface of a
   computing device a sequence of head and/or tails. The user may do so with the buyin, before the
   sequence begins, per flip before the flip, and so on.
   [000325] As illustrated, some embodiments may include determining that a first next set of
   binary choice outcomes of the plurality of binary choice outcomes that occur after receiving. the
15 first buyin do not match the first selection of first binary outcomes. For example, a computing
   device may compare actual coin flip outcomes to guessed outcomes chosen by the user. A
   sequence may start when a user pays a buyin, selects a guess, chooses the sequence to begin, etc.
   In some embodiments, the sequence of outcomes may not be consecutive but rather may be any
   set for which the user makes a guess of an outcome before the outcome is determined.
20 [000326] As illustrated, some embodiments may include, in response to determining that the first
   next set of binary choice outcomes does not match the first selection of first binary outcomes,
   determining that the first user does not win the progressive game. A user may still win some
   prize in some embodiments. For example, a determination may be made that the user has more
   correct guesses for the day than anyone else and may be awarded a day prize.
25 [000327] As illustrated, some embodiments may include during the period of time, after the
   second binary choice event but before a third binary choice event, receiving a second buyin for
   the progressive game from a second user. It should be recognized that the ordering and timing of
                                                      74

   a first and second user is illustrative only. It should be recognized that any number of users may
   play such a game making any number of choices.
   [000328] As illustrated, some embodiments may include receiving a second selection of second
   binary outcomes from the second user. Such a choice may be received from a different
 5 computing device than a first set of choices from the first user.
   [000329] As illustrated, some embodiments may include determining that a second next set of
   binary choice outcomes of the plurality of binary choice outcomes that occur after receiving the
   second buyin do match the second selection of second binary outcomes. A selection may match
   if it is the same (e.g., heads match heads). Some embodiments may not include a progressive
10 winner. Rather the progressive may continue to grow.
   [000330] As illustrated, some embodiments may include, in response to determining that the
   second next set of binary choice outcomes does match the second selection of second binary
   choice outcomes, determining that the second user wins the progressive game.
   [000331] As illustrated, some embodiments may include, in response to determining that the
15 second user wins the progressive game, awarding a progressive pool to the second user. The user
   may be awarded a prize pool that includes portions of buyins from other players.
   [000332] In some embodiments, in order to facilitate a successive choice game, some
   embodiments may include card readers, coin readers, data feeds from sporting events and/or
   other readers that allow a computing device to determine outcomes. For example, in some
20 embodiments, a coin flipping machine may be controlled to periodically flip a coin, read the
   result and use the result as part of a binary choice game. It should again be realized that any
   element that may have two valid outcomes may be used as a binary choice basis (e.g., field goal
   kicks, baccarat games, coin flips, presidential elections, and so on).
             XXII. Embodiments
25 [000333] The following should be understood as embodiments, not as claims.
   [000334] A. A method comprising:
                                                       75

   [000335] determining, by a computing device, a plurality of outcomes of a plurality of binary
   choice events that take place over a period of time:
   [000336] during the period of time, after a first binary choice event and before a second binary
   choice event, receiving, by the computing device, a first buyin for a progressive game from a
 5 first user;
   [000337] receiving, by the computing device, a first selection of first binary outcomes from the
   first user;
   [000338] determining, by the computing device, that a first next set of binary choice outcomes of
   the plurality of binary choice outcomes that occur after receiving the first buyin do not match the
10 first selection of first binary outcomes;
   [000339] in response to determining that the first next set of binary choice outcomes does not
   match the first selection of first binary outcomes , determining, by the computing device, that the
   first user does not win the progressive game;
   [000340] during the period of time, after the second binary choice event but before a third binary
15 choice event, receiving, by the computing device, a second buyin for the progressive game from
   a second user;
   [000341]receiving, by the computing device, a second selection of second binary outcomes from
   the second user;
   [000342] determining, by the computing device, that a second next set of binary choice outcomes
20 of the plurality of binary choice outcomes that occur after receiving the second buyin do match
   the second selection of second binary outcomes;
   [000343] in response to determining that the second next set of binary choice outcomes does
   match the second selection of second binary choice outcomes, determining, by the computing
   device, that the second user wins the progressive game; and
25 [000344] in response to determining that the second user wins the progressive game, awarding,
   by the computing device, a progressive pool to the second user.
   [000345] A. 1. The method of claim A, in which each binary choice event includes an event that
   has two possibly valid outcomes where only one outcome of the two will occur.
   [000346] A.2. The method of claim A, in which each binary choice event includes a coin flip.
3o [000347] A.3. The method of claim A, in which each binary choice event includes a game
   outcome.
                                                     76

   [000348] A.4. The method of claim A, in which the first selection of first binary choice outcomes
   includes a selection of a plurality of coin flip outcomes made through a computer interface.
   [000349] A.5. The method of claim A, in which the second next set of binary choice outcomes
   matches the plurality of second selection of second binary outcomes because the two are the
 5 same.
   [000350] A.6. The method of claim A, in which the first buyin includes an amount of money.
   [000351]A.7. The method of claim A, in which the first buyin includes an amount of points.
   [000352] A.7. 1. The method of claim A.7, in which the progressive pool includes an amount of
   money.
10 [000353] A.8. The method of claim A, in which the second next set includes some but not all of
   the first next set.
   [000354] A.9. The method of claim A, comprising: allocating at least a portion of the first buyin
   to the progressive prize pool.
   [000355] A.10. The method of claim A, in which the first next set includes 50 binary choice
15 events,
   [000356] A. 11. The method of claim A, in response to determining that the second user wins the
   progressive game, offering the second user to forego the progressive pool to gain access to a
   higher level progressive game.
   [000357] A.12. The method of claim A, comprising: in response to determining that the second
20 user wins the progressive game, granting the second user access to a higher level progressive
   game.
   [000358] A.13. The method of claim A, in which determining the plurality of outcomes includes
   causing a physical coin to be flipped periodically.
   [000359] A. 14. The method of claim A, in which determining the plurality of outcomes includes
25 determining coin flip outcomes based on random number generations.
   [000360] B. An apparatus comprising;
   [000361]         a computing device; and
   [000362]         a non-transitory medium having stored thereon a plurality of instructions that
   when executed by the computing device cause the apparatus to:
30 [000363] determine a plurality of outcomes of a plurality of binary choice events that take place
   over a period of time;
                                                      77

   [000364] during the period of time, after a first binary choice event and before a second binary
   choice event. receive a first buyin for a progressive game from a first user;
   [000365]receive a first selection of first binary outcomes from the first user;
   [000366]deternine that a first next set of binary choice outcomes of the plurality of binary
 5 choice outcomes that occur after receiving the first buyin do not match the first selection of first
   binary outcomes;
   [000367] in response to determining that the first next set of binary choice outcomes does not
   match the first selection of first binary outcomes , determine that the first user does not win the
   progressive game:
10 [000368] during the period of time, after the second binary choice event but before a third binary
   choice event, receive a second buyin for the progressive game from a second user;
   [000369]receive a second selection of second binary outcomes from the second user;
   [000370]detenine that a second next set of binary choice outcomes of the plurality of binary
   choice outcomes that occur after receiving the second buyin do match the second selection of
is second binary outcomes:
   [000371]in response to determining that the second next set of binary choice outcomes does
   match the second selection of second binary choice outcomes, determine that the second user
   wins the progressive game; and
   [000372] in response to determining that the second user wins the progressive game, award a
20 progressive pool to the second user.
   [000373] What is claimed is:
                                                     78

                                                 CLAIMS
1.       A method comprising:
         determining, by a computing device, a plurality of outcomes of a plurality of binary
choice events that take place in a period of time;
          in the period of time, after a first binary choice event and before a second binary choice
event that is sequential to the first binary choice event, receiving, by the computing device, a first
buyin for a progressive game from a first user and a first selection of first binary outcomes from
the first user;
          determining, by the computing device, that a first next set of binary choice outcomes of
the plurality of binary choice outcomes that occur after receiving the first buyin do not match the
first selection of first binary outcomes;
          in response to determining that the first next set of binary choice outcomes does not
match the first selection of first binary outcomes, determining, by the computing device, that the
first user does not win the progressive game;
          in the period of time, after the second binary choice event but before a third binary
choice event that is sequential to the second binary choice event, receiving, by the computing
device, a second buyin for the progressive game from a second user and a second selection of
second binary outcomes from the second user;
          determining, by the computing device, that a second next set of binary choice outcomes
of the plurality of binary choice outcomes that occur after receiving the second buyin do match
the second selection of second binary outcomes, in which the second next set includes at least
one binary choice outcome of the first next set;
          in response to determining that the second next set of binary choice outcomes does
match the second selection of second binary choice outcomes, determining, by the computing
device, that the second user wins the progressive game; and
          in response to determining that the second user wins the progressive game, awarding, by
the computing device, a progressive pool to the second user.
2.       The method of claim 1, in which each binary choice event includes an event that has two
possibly valid outcomes where only one outcome of the two will occur.
                                                     79

3.      The method of claim 1, in which each binary choice event includes a coin flip.
4.      The method of claim 1, in which each binary choice event includes a game outcome.
5.      The method of claim 1, in which the first selection of first binary choice outcomes
includes a selection of a plurality of coin flip outcomes made through a computer interface.
6.      The method of claim 1, in which the second next set of binary choice outcomes matches
the plurality of second selection of second binary outcomes because the two are the same.
7.      The method of claim 1, in which the first buyin includes an amount of money.
8.      The method of claim 1, in which the first buyin includes an amount of points.
9.      The method of claim 8, in which the progressive pool includes an amount of money.
10.     The method of claim 1, in which the second next set includes some but not all of the first
next set.
11.     The method of claim 1, comprising: allocating at least a portion of the first buyin to the
progressive prize pool.
12.     The method of claim 1, in which the first next set includes 50 binary choice events.
13.     The method of claim 1, in response to determining that the second user wins the
progressive game, offering the second user to forego the progressive pool to gain access to a
higher level progressive game.
14.     The method of claim 1, comprising: in response to determining that the second user wins
the progressive game, granting the second user access to a higher level progressive game.
                                                   80

15.     The method of claim 1, in which determining the plurality of outcomes includes causing a
physical coin to be flipped periodically.
16.     The method of claim 1, in which determining the plurality of outcomes includes
determining coin flip outcomes based on random number generations.
17.    An apparatus comprising:
        a computing device; and
        a non-transitory medium having stored thereon a plurality of instructions that when
executed by the computing device cause the apparatus to:
        determine a plurality of outcomes of a plurality of binary choice events that take place in
a period of time;
        in the period of time, after a first binary choice event and before a second binary choice
event that is sequential to the first binary choice event, receive a first buyin for a progressive
game from a first user and receive a first selection of first binary outcomes from the first user;
        determine that a first next set of binary choice outcomes of the plurality of binary choice
outcomes that occur after receiving the first buyin do not match the first selection of first binary
outcomes;
        in response to determining that the first next set of binary choice outcomes does not
match the first selection of first binary outcomes, determine that the first user does not win the
progressive game;
        in the period of time, after the second binary choice event but before a third binary choice
event that is sequential to the second binary choice event, receive a second buyin for the
progressive game from a second user and receive a second selection of second binary outcomes
from the second user;
        determine that a second next set of binary choice outcomes of the plurality of binary
choice outcomes that occur after receiving the second buyin do match the second selection of
second binary outcomes, in which the second next set includes at least one binary choice
outcome of the first next set;
                                                    81

        in response to determining that the second next set of binary choice outcomes does match
the second selection of second binary choice outcomes, determine that the second user wins the
progressive game; and
        in response to determining that the second user wins the progressive game, award a
progressive pool to the second user.
                                                 82

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
