ABSTRACT
The present invention relates         to plants    of the Compositae family
exhibiting        a    reversible      genic     male      sterility      trait,
characterised       in  that   the genic   male  sterility     is   caused by   a
reduction      or    complete    absence    of  endogenous       jasmonic   acid
production, resulting from interference with one or more target
genes involved in endogenous jasmonic acid production, selected
from       the  group     consisting    of   lipoxygenase,        allene   oxide
synthase,      allene    oxide   cyclase   and  12-oxo-phytodienoic        acid
10,11-reductase, or their functional homologues.

                                    1
              REVERSIBLE GENIC MALE STERILITY IN COMPOSITAE
    FIELD OF THE INVENTION
               The present application is a divisional application
  5 of Australian Application No.  2014204875, which is
    incorporated in its entirety herein by reference.
               The present invention relates to Compositae plants
    exhibiting a reversible genic male sterility trait. The
    invention further relates to cells, seeds and progeny of such
 .0 plants,  and to propagation material for obtaining the plants.
    The invention also relates to markers and the use of the
    markers for identifying the presence of the reversible genic
    male sterility trait.
 .5 BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
               In commercial plant breeding the production of
    hybrid seed is very important. Plants grown from hybrid seed
    are generally very uniform, and they benefit from heterosis
     (hybrid vigour), which can lead to a significant increase in
20  yield and/or performance when compared to the parental lines
    of the hybrid, or to outcrossing   (open-pollinated) lines.
    Typically the parental lines used for hybrid seed production
    are inbred, which implies that their genomes are largely
    homozygous. The combination of two largely homozygous genomes
25  into a hybrid leads to a high degree of heterozygosity, if
    both parental lines were genetically unrelated or not closely
    related.
               Efficient hybrid seed production in plant  species
    that are able to self-fertilise requires adequate measures to
30  prevent self-fertilisation of the plants on which hybrid seeds

                                 la
  are to be produced. Various strategies have been developed to
  achieve this, and to obtain an efficient hybrid seed
  production setup. However, the complexity and amount of labour
  required for each of these strategies varies greatly.
5 A strategy that naturally occurs in certain plant species is
  the physical separation of male and female

                                  2
   reproductive organs in separate flowers, either on separate
   plants  (dioecious species) or on the same plant (monoecious
   species).  This system naturally promotes outcrossing, and it
   can be easily taken advantage of for hybrid seed production.
 5            Another natural strategy is self-incompatibility,
   which has e.g. been extensively studied in Brassica species.
   In this case, pollen is physically unable to fertilise egg
   cells from the same plant. The precise mechanism of the
   incompatibility interaction can differ. Either pollen
10 hydration or germination is prevented, or pollen tube growth
   through the style is inhibited by the female tissues, or the
   pollen tube is not attracted to ripe ovules, or the sperm
   nuclei are unable to merge with the egg cell nucleus to form
   a viable zygote. Again, this naturally occurring system is
15 very efficient and useful for preventing self-fertilisation,
   and for promoting outcrossing.
              Another method for preventing selfing, which is
   typically used in e.g. maize, is the mechanical elimination
   of all male flowers (detasseling). The only flowers
20 remaining on the plant are female, and these can be manually
   pollinated with pollen from a selected paternal line, in
   order to obtain ears with exclusively hybrid kernels.
              In plant species with hermaphroditic flowers
   (producing both ovules and pollen grains within the same
25 flower),  a common strategy for preventing selfing is
   emasculation by mechanical removal of anthers and/or pollen
   prior to anthesis. When the anthers are mechanically removed
   before the pollen grains are released from the loculi and/or
   before the filament has extended far enough to match the
30 height of the stigma, selfing is efficiently prevented.
   Subsequently the female reproductive parts of the
   emasculated flower are allowed to mature normally, after
   which pollen grains from a selected father plant can be

                                      3
   deposited on the stigma, in order to obtain exclusively
   hybrid seeds from the cross. Especially for commercial-scale
   applications this method is however very labour-intensive
   and not 100% reliable: if anthers are removed in a slightly
 5 too late developmental stadium or if one anther is
   accidentally not removed, this can lead to a mixed seed set,
   consisting of hybrid and maternal seeds. This results in
   non-uniformity of the commercial seed batch, which is
   undesired for customers who expect uniform and consistently
10 superior seeds,     and it brings inbred mother lines of hybrid
   varieties into commerce,     which is   undesired for the breeding
   company. A 100% reliable hybrid system is therefore
   desirable.
                Another approach is to induce male sterility by
15 means of chemicals. This so-called male gametocide can be
   achieved by treatment with e.g. gibberellins       (in rice and
   maize),    sodium methyl arsenate    (in rice), or maleic acid (in
   wheat and onion).     Disadvantages of this approach are the
   fact that this male sterility is not inheritable as it does
20 not result from a genetic determinant present in the plant's
   genome, and that chemical treatment is labour intensive and
   not 100% reliable.
                Another category of mechanisms through which
   selfing can be prevented, is termed genetic male sterility.
25 Here three different approaches can be distinguished:
   genetic-engineered male sterility (transgenic MS),
   cytoplasmic male sterility      (CMS) and genic male sterility
    (GMS).   Transgenic MS comprises all approaches that use a
   transgene to ensure that pollen grains are unable to
30 fertilise    ovules,  nd that either lead to the death of pollen
   grains prior to anthesis, or to the dysfunctionality of
   pollen grains at anthesis. A well-known example is the
   reversible Barnase/Barstar system, wherein the Barnase

                                  4
   enzyme is transgenically expressed in the tapetum, which
   leads to pollen sterility. However, when the Barstar protein
   is co-expressed in the tapetum, it blocks Barnase activity
   and restores pollen fertility (Mariani et al.,  1990, Nature
 5 347: 737-41).
             Cytoplasmic male sterility (CMS) is a type of
   sterility that is under control of extra-nuclear,
   cytoplasmic factors, more precisely of plastic origin.
   Usually mutations in the mitochondrial genome underlie CMS,
10 and they typically inherit in a maternal fashion. Routine
   hybrid seed production with CMS lines requires the use of
   maintainer and restorer lines, which complicates the process
   and increases the costs and time required for commercial
   hybrid seed production.
15           Genic male sterility (GMS) encompasses a nuclear
   influence on male fertility, in contrast to cytoplasmic
   influences which are caused by organellar factors. Due to
   e.g. a mutation in a nuclear gene the plant does not produce
   viable and/or functional pollen grains or male spores,
20 and/or it is unable to disperse its pollen due to e.g. non
   dehiscence of its anthers.
             The Asteraceae family - also known as the
   Compositae family - is one of the largest extant plant
   families. It comprises various commercially important crop
25 plants, such as sunflower  (Helianthus), lettuce (Lactuca),
   endive, witloof and radicchio (Cichorium), artichoke
   (Cynara), and many ornamental plants such as Chrysanthemum,
   Tagetes, Gerbera and Zinnia.
             In the Compositae family only few types of male
30 sterility have been developed for commercial exploitation
   and hybrid seed production. Emasculation is very difficult
   in this family, due to the composite nature of the
   inflorescences. In e.g. endive and witloof, self-pollinaton

                                 5
   is normally prevented by spraying an inflorescence with
   water, to flush away the pollen. Timing is crucial, because
   this spraying needs to be done immediately after opening of
   the anthers, before the stigma splits into two curving parts
 5 that protrude beyond the anthers. After spraying the
   inflorescence has to be blown dry and has to be allowed to
   develop further, before pollen grains from a selected father
   can be deposited onto the stigma. It is critical to choose
   the optimal moment for spraying with water: if pollen are
10 removed too late some self-pollination will already have
   occurred, and if pollen are removed before the anthers are
   fully opened, pollen grains will remain present and may
   cause self-pollination at a later stage. Every day there is
   only a limited time window during which this spraying can be
15 done, and its timing depends strongly on light and
   temperature conditions. The development of an efficient,
   reversible male sterility system in the Compositae family
   would thus greatly facilitate breeding in crop species
   belonging to this family.
20           Hybrid sunflowers are available and can be
   produced using various methods described above. However for
   e.g. endive a hybrid system is not yet available at all, and
   a major problem is the very limited genetic variation within
   this cultivated crop. If an efficient hybrid system would be
25 available for endive, this could be used to increase the
   genetic variation, as well as provide additional benefits
   through heterotic effects. Interspecific crosses with e.g.
   witloof (Cichorium intybus) are possible, and these could be
   used to introduce foreign genetic material into endive
30 germplasm, but this would lead to complications at the
   genetic level, namely the fact that the resulting progeny
   would no longer be purely endive, but a mixture of endive
   and witloof.

                                  6
             In witloof a recessive GMS trait has previously
   been created through a transposon insertion in a homologue
   of the DYT1 gene of Arabidopsis (Quillet et al.,   2011,
   Cloning and characterization of nuclear male sterility 1
 5 (nmsl) in chicory;
   http://www.eucarpia.org/03publications/proceedings%20LV2011.
   pdf). However, in practice it is very difficult to transfer
   this transposon-based trait to endive   (Cichorium endivia).
   Also, although the transposon may spontaneously be excised
10 from the DYT1 gene homologue and thus potentially restore
   fertility, a researcher is not able to easily, predictably
   and consistently reverse this male sterility trait in
   witloof whenever he wishes to do so.
             CMS has also been created in witloof, by combining
15 the nuclear genome from C. intybus with cytoplasm from
   sunflower (Helianthus annuus). However, again this is not a
   reversible male sterility, and the perpetuation of the trait
   requires maintainer and restorer lines.
             In lettuce, male sterility has been described in
20 the prior art, and pollination for obtaining hybrid seeds
   can e.g. be achieved with bees   (US patent nr. 7,569,743).
   Dominant GMS is available  (resulting from the MS7 mutation),
   as well as CMS (through combination of the nuclear genome of
   Lactuca sativa with the cytoplasm of sunflower).   However,
25 none of these traits is reversible, and it thus requires
   more efforts to maintain the male sterile mother lines in
   any of those cases.
             One could imagine a transgenic approach to obtain
   reversible male sterility in Compositae plants, e.g. with
30 the Barnase/Barstar system, but such transgenic plants would
   have a "regulated" status, which is undesired in e.g. the
   European market, and this would necessitate large extra
   deregulation expenses to obtain market approval. The cost

                                  7
   for bringing hybrid seeds resulting from the use of such a
   transgenic reversible male-sterile Compositae plant to the
   market would thus become quite high.
              It is therefore an object of the present invention
 5 to provide a reversible male sterility system in Compositae
   plants for the efficient and convenient production of hybrid
   seeds.
              In the research leading to the present invention
   it was found that Compositae plants can be rendered male
10 sterile through a loss-of-function mutation in the OPR3
   gene, and that this male sterility can be reversed by the
   application of methyl jasmonate   (MeJA) and/or jasmonic acid
   or other jasmonic acid derivatives to flower buds.
              The OPR3 gene encodes the 12-oxophytodienoic acid
15 reductase protein, which is a key enzyme in the biosynthesis
   of the phytohormone jasmonic acid. In the model plant
   species Arabidopsis thaliana jasmonic acid is required for
   male fertility, and mutations in the Arabidopsis OPR3 gene
   were reported to cause male sterility. Male fertility could
20 be restored by treating flower buds with methyl jasmonate
   (Stintzi and Browse, 2000; Proc. Natl. Acad. Sl. USA 97:
   10625-10630).  However, this observation in Arabidopsis is
   apparently not by definition valid for other plant species.
   In tomato, for example, jasmonic acid is required for the
25 maternal control of seed maturation, but not for male
   fertility (Li et al.,  2004; Plant Cell 16:  126-143). In
   maize, defects in jasmonate signalling and biosynthesis
   affect female fertility, not male fertility (Lyons et al.,
   2013; Plant Cell Rep. 32: 815-827).   These reports clearly
30 indicate that the jasmonic acid pathway regulates distinct
   developmental processes in different plant species.
              It is surprising that targeting functional
   homologues of the OPR3 gene in a plant family other than the

                                  8
   Brassicaceae actually leads to reversible male sterility,
   especially since from a phylogenetic point of view the
   Compositae family is closer related to the Solanaceae family
   (comprising tomato, in which jasmonic acid is not involved
 5 in male fertility) than to the Brassicaceae family
   (comprising Arabidopsis). Among the eudicots, the Compositae
   and Solanaceae families both belong to the Asterids clade,
   whereas the Brassicaceae family belongs to the Rosids clade.
   The skilled person would not be able to establish, without
10 undue burden, in which plant families other than the
   Brassicaceae or Solanaceae, which have been investigated in
   the prior art, the jasmonic acid pathway may or may not
   regulate male fertility.
             Reversible genic male sterility provides a great
15 advantage over non-reversible genic male sterility. When the
   genic male sterility trait performs in a reliable and
   consistent manner, a male-sterile mother plant will
   exclusively produce hybrid seeds, when pollinated with
   pollen from a selected father plant (e.g. through manual
20 pollination or insect pollination), without a need fox
   emasculation or other means to induce male sterility. In
   addition, it is very easy to propagate and maintain the male
   sterile mother plant: upon a specific treatment, the male
   sterility can be reversed and the mother plant becomes
25 entirely fertile, and it can thus self-fertilise to produce
   inbred seeds that are homozygous for the said genic male
   sterility trait. In cases of non-reversible genic male
   sterility this is not possible, and it is more difficult to
   maintain the genic male sterility trait from generation to
30 generation.

                                  9
   DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
             This invention relates to a plant of the
   Compositae family (also known as the Asteraceae family)
   exhibiting a reversible genic male sterility trait,
 5 characterised in that the genic male sterility trait is
   caused by the reduction or complete absence of endogenous
   jasmonic acid production, resulting from interference with
   one or more target genes involved in endogenous jasmonic
   acid production, selected from the group consisting of
10 lipoxygenase, allene oxide synthase, allene oxide cyclase
   and 12-oxo-phytodienoic acid-10,11-reductase  (OPR3), or
   their functional homologues.
             The aforementioned genes encode the enzymes that
   constitute the jasmonic acid biosynthetic pathway in plants.
15 Lipoxygenase converts a-linolenic acid to 13
   hydroperoxylinoleic acid, which is further converted to
   12,13-epoxyoctadecatrienoic acid by the action of allene
   oxide synthase. The latter molecule is the substrate of
   allene oxide cyclase, by which it is converted into
20 (9S,13S)-12-oxo-phytodienoic acid, which can be further
   processed into 3-oxo-2(2'[Z]-pentenyl)-cyclopentane-1
   octanoic acid by the enzymatic action of the 12-oxo
   phytodienoic acid-10,11-reductase  (OPR3) enzyme. Three
   cycles of B-oxidation are subsequently required to convert
25 the 3-oxo-2(2'[Z]-pentenyl)-cyclopentane-1-octanoic acid
   molecule into  (3R, 7S)-jasmonic acid.
             Functional homologues of the aforementioned genes
   are genes that encode proteins that perform essentially the
   same biological function as the proteins encoded by the
30 aforementioned genes, in the same organism or in another
   organism. A functional homologue that is present in the same
   organism as the gene to which a biological function has been
   ascribed (e.g. 12-oxo-phytodienoic acid-10,11-reductase

                                    10
   activity) may be regarded as a paralogous gene. Typically,
   such a functional homologue would have originated from the
   duplication of the entire genome, of a genome fragment or of
   a single gene, followed by its retention in the genome as an
 5 active gene. This situation at least initially       leads to
   functional redundancy of the two paralogous genes,       which may
   ultimately,  in  the course of evolution,    lead to the loss or
   elimination of one of the functionally redundant paralogues,
   or to e.g.  the acquisition of a new function by one of the
10 paralogues, eqg. by changes in its spatiotemporal expression
   profile during the organism's lifecycle.      In many plant
   species,  gene-  and/or genome-duplications     have resulted in
   the presence of multiple copies of genes.
              A functional homologue that is present in another
15 organism may be regarded as an orthologous gene. It performs
   essentially the same function in    the other organism,     when it
   functions in   the same biological process that has been
   conserved across the species-boundaries.      It  may of course
   also have one or more paralogues in     that other organism,
20 which may be completely or partly functionally redundant.
              Functional homology between genes may e.g.       be
   demonstrated by using a paralogous    or orthologous gene to
   genetically complement an organism carrying a loss-of
   function mutation in    the gene to which the paralogous and/or
25 orthologous gene is homologous. If the transgenic expression
   of the paralogous or orthologous gene      (under control of a
   suitable promoter,    e.g. the original,  endogenous promoter of
   the mutated gene)   is  sufficient to bypass or overcome the
   effects of the loss-of-function mutation,       this would
30 convincingly prove the functional homology between the
   original gene and its    paralogue or orthologue.    Another
   approach to demonstrate functional homology is       the in vitro
   assessment of protein functionality,     e.g.   by means of enzyme

                                  11
   assays. If two proteins can be shown to have essentially the
   same biological activity (e.g. enzyme activity, DNA-binding
   activity, etc),  they may be regarded as functional
   homologues.
 5            Functional paralogues and functional orthologues
   of the aforementioned target genes in members of the
   Compositae family, involved in endogenous jasmonic acid
   production  (such as 0PR3) or inherently suitable to fulfil
   such a function when expressed in suitable tissues at
10 suitable developmental time points, are also intended to
   fall under the scope of this invention.
              In one embodiment the male sterility in plants of
   the invention can be reversed by the application of one or
   more jasmonic acid derivatives, in particular methyl
15 jasmonate. Methyl jasmonate (MeJA) is a volatile derivative
   of jasmonic acid from which it can be converted in plant    in
   a reaction catalysed by the S-adenosyl-L-methionine:jasmonic
   acid carboxyl methyltransferase enzyme.
              In another embodiment jasmonic acid can be used.
20            Conditional and controlled reversibility of the
   male sterility phenotype is very useful, because it allows
   the easy maintenance of male sterile plants of the invention
   across successive generations. The application of one or
   more jasmonic acid derivatives, in particular methyl
25 jasmonate, renders the male sterile plants of the invention
   entirely fertile (both male- and female-fertile),   and
   capable of self-fertilisation. In this manner the male
   sterility trait of the invention can be conveniently
   transmitted to the next generation, without the need for
30 e.g. restorer or maintainer lines.
              The application of jasmonic acid and/or one or
   more jasmonic acid derivatives, in particular methyl
   jasmonate, can be done in various ways, such as spraying

                                   12
   them in an aqueous solution or directly applying them with a
   brush onto young flower buds in an aqueous solution, or on a
   regular basis adding them to the water or substrate provided
   to the plants, such that they are taken up by the plant and
 5 distributed therein in a systemic manner.
              In one embodiment the interfering with the one or
   more target genes involved in endogenous jasmonic acid
   production   (such as 0PR3) consists of preventing
   transcription thereof. Preventing transcription can for
10 example be achieved by means of RNA oligonucleotides, DNA
   oligonucleotides or RNAi molecules directed against the
   target gene promoter, or preferably by means of the
   expression of a negatively acting transcription factor
   acting on the target gene promoter.
15            In another embodiment the interfering with the one
   or more target genes involved in endogenous jasmonic acid
   production   (such as OPR3) consists of destabilising the
   target gene mRNA or transcript, preferably by means of
   nucleic acid molecules that are complementary to the target
20 gene mRNA or transcript, selected from the group consisting
   of antisense RNA, RNAi molecules, Virus-Induced Gene
   Silencing (VIGS) molecules, co-suppressor molecules, RNA
   oligonucleotides or DNA oligonucleotides. Such methods for
   destabilising mRNA or transcripts are well-known to the
25 person skilled in the art. For example, in the case of RNAi,
   which is generally mediated by dsRNA molecules of 21 and 22
   nucleotides, nucleic acid molecules of at least 38 base
   pairs that are complementary to    (part of) the target gene
   mRNA or transcript are recommended as a template for gene
30 silencing, although complementary fragments of at least 150
   or 200 base pairs are most commonly used as a template for
   gene silencing (Elbashir et al.,    Genes Dev. 2001; 15: 188
   200).

                                    13
              In another embodiment the interfering with the one
   or more target genes involved in endogenous jasmonic acid
   production   (such as OPR3) consists of inhibiting the target
   gene expression product, preferably by means of the
 5 expression product(s) of one or more dominant-negative
   nucleic acid constructs, or preferably by means of one or
   more chemical compounds.
              A dominant-negative mutation (or antimorphic
   mutation) typically changes the properties of the gene
10 product such that it antagonises the functioning of the
   wildtype version of the protein. Phenotypically the organism
   behaves as though it has a dominant or semi-dominant loss
   of-function mutation in the encoding gene, for example if
   the dominant-negative version of a protein prevents the
15 formation of functional protein complexes       (e.g. if due to a
   premature stop-codon one or more C-terminal domains are
   missing, that are important for interaction of the protein
   with other proteins),   or if it   irreversibly binds a
   substrate instead of converting it      to the normal reaction
20 product(s)   (e.g. in case of an enzyme),     or if its activity
   cannot be properly regulated by the cellular machinery (e.g.
   when the dominant-negative mutation destroys a
   phosphorylation site),   etc.
              Chemical compounds, on the other hand, may be used
25 to interfere with the normal functioning of a protein, for
   example by mimicking the substrate of an enzyme and
   irreversibly binding to the active site of the enzyme.
   Chemical inhibitors may occur in      nature,  or they may be
   identified by screening chemical libraries. Often chemical
30 inhibitors are structural analogues of the natural
   substrate(s) of the protein whose function they are intended
   to inhibit.

                                    14
              In yet another embodiment the interfering with the
   one or more target genes involved in endogenous jasmonic
   acid production    (such as OPR3) consists of the introduction
   of one or more mutations into the target gene, leading to
 5 perturbation of its biological function. The one or more
   mutations are preferably introduced randomly by means of one
   or more chemical compounds, such as ethyl methanesulphonate,
   nitrosomethylurea, hydroxylamine, proflavine, N-methyl-N
   nitrosoguanidine,    N-ethyl-N-nitrosourea,   N-methyl-N-nitro
10 nitrosoguanidine,    diethyl sulphate,  ethylene imine,  sodium
   azide,  formaline,   urethane, phenol and ethylene oxide,
   and/or by physical means, such as UV-irradiation, fast
   neutron exposure, X-rays, gamma irradiation, and/or by
   insertion of genetic elements, such as transposons, T-DNA,
15 retroviral elements. The one or more mutations may also be
   introduced specifically by means of homologous recombination
   or oligonucleotide-based mutation induction. The techniques
   for introducing mutations into a genome are well known in
   the art.
20            Examples of mutations that perturb the biological
   function of the one or more target genes involved in
   endogenous jasmonic acid production (such as OPR3) are
   mutations that give rise to premature stop-codons, frame
   shifts or amino acid changes in the encoded protein.
25 Premature stop-codons typically lead to the expression of a
   truncated version of the encoded protein. Depending on the
   mutation's position in the coding sequence, a truncated
   version of a protein may lack one or more domains that are
   essential to perform its    function and/or to interact with
30 substrates or with other proteins,     and/or it may lack the
   ability to fold properly into a functional protein.
              Frame shift mutations are caused by the
   introduction or deletion of one or more base pairs in a DNA

                                 15
   sequence encoding a protein. When the number of inserted or
   deleted base pairs at a certain position is not a multiple
   of 3, the triplet codons encoding the individual amino acids
   of the protein sequence become shifted relative to the
 5 original open-reading frame, and the encoded protein
   sequence changes dramatically. Protein translation will
   result in an entirely different amino acid sequence than
   that of the originally encoded protein, and often a frame
   shift also leads to a premature stop-codon in the open
10 reading frame. The overall result is that the encoded
   protein no longer has the same biological function as the
   originally encoded protein.
             Amino acid changes in an encoded protein sequence
   arise when the mutation of one or more base pairs in the
15 coding sequence results in an altered triplet codon,
   encoding a different amino acid. Due to the redundancy of
   the genetic code not all point mutations lead to amino acid
   changes. Such mutations are termed "silent mutations". Some
   amino acid changes are "conservative", i.e. they lead to the
20 replacement of one amino acid by another amino acid with
   comparable properties, such that the mutation is unlikely to
   dramatically change the folding of the mature protein, or
   influence its function. Especially non-silent, non
   conservative amino acid changes  (whereby an amino acid is
25 replaced by another amino acid with different properties) in
   domains that play a role in substrate-recognition, the
   active site of enzymes, interaction domains or in major
   structural domains (such as transmembrane helices) may
   partly or completely destroy the functionality of an encoded
30 protein, without thereby necessarily affecting the
   expression level of the encoding gene.
             Mutations in the promoter sequence of a target
   gene involved in endogenous jasmonic acid production  (such

                                  16
   as OPR3) may also perturb the biological function of the
   encoded protein, as they may lead to a complete lack of
   transcription of the gene, or to a significantly decreased
   and biologically inadequate level of transcription.
 5 Mutations in splice sites may also perturb the biological
   function of the encoded protein, because if a splice site is
   destroyed by a mutation, the amino acid sequence encoded in
   the mature mRNA transcribed from the gene will not be
   correct, and it may easily contain frame shifts and/or
10 premature stop-codons. In either case, the protein sequence
   translated from such an mRNA will not be identical to the
   originally encoded protein sequence, which will most likely
   have serious consequences for the biological functionality
   of the translated protein.
15           This invention also relates to plants of the genus
   Lactuca, exhibiting a reversible genic male sterility trait
   according to the present invention. In one embodiment, the
   plants belong to the species Lactuca sativa, and the
   reversible male sterility trait is caused by a genetic
20 determinant, the presence of which genetic determinant can
   be identified by a molecular marker characterised by SEQ ID
   No. 1, and wherein the said genetic determinant is as
   present in the genome of plants grown from seed of which a
   representative sample was deposited with the NCIMB under
25 accession number NCIMB 42060. Said genetic determinant is a
   single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP),  and the person skilled
   in the art is familiar with experimental methods to detect
   SNPs in a genome. Such methods include, among others, DNA
   sequencing, Taq:Man@, SNP-arrays, Invader®, KASPar TM etc.
30           This invention also relates to Lactuca plants
   exhibiting a reversible genic male sterility trait,
   obtainable by crossing a first Lactuca plant with a second
   Lactuca plant, wherein one of the said plants is grown from

                                 17
   seeds of which a representative sample was deposited with
   the NCIMB under accession number NCIMB 42060, or a progeny
   plant thereof, and selecting, preferably in the F2
   generation, for plants that exhibit a reversible genic male
 5 sterility trait.
             Alternatively, selection can already be done in
   the Fl generation by means of a molecular marker detecting
   the SNP of SEQ ID No. 1.
             This invention further relates to seed of a
10 Lactuca plant exhibiting a reversible genic male sterility
   trait, wherein the plant that can be grown from the seed
   comprises the genetic determinant that can be identified by
   a molecular marker characterised by SEQ ID No. 1, and
   wherein the said genetic determinant is as present in the
15 genome of plants grown from seed of which a representative
   sample was deposited under accession number NCIMB 42060.
             This invention further relates to progeny of a
   Lactuca plant exhibiting a reversible genic male sterility
   trait, comprising the genetic determinant that can be
20 identified by a molecular marker characterised by SEQ ID No.
   1, and wherein the said genetic determinant is as present in
   the genome of plants grown from seed of which a
   representative sample was deposited under accession number
   NCIMB 42060.
25           Such progeny can be produced by sexual or
   vegetative reproduction of a plant of the invention or a
   progeny plant thereof. The progeny plant displays the
   reversible genic male sterility trait in the same or in a
   similar way as the plant of which representative seed was
30 deposited under accession number NCIMB 42060. This means
   that such progeny has the same characteristics as claimed
   for lettuce plants of the invention.

                                 18
             As used herein, the word "progeny" is intended to
   mean the offspring or the first and all further descendants
   from a cross with a plant of the invention that shows the
   reversible genic male sterility trait. Progeny of the
 5 invention comprises descendants of any cross with a plant of
   the invention that carries the reversible genic male
   sterility trait. Such progeny is for example obtainable by
   crossing a first lettuce plant with a second lettuce plant,
   wherein one of the lettuce plants was grown from seeds of a
10 plant of the invention, representative seeds of which were
   deposited under NCIME accession number 42060, but it can
   also be the progeny of any other lettuce plant carrying the
   reversible genic male sterility trait as present in seeds of
   deposit NCIMB 42060.
15           It is understood that a parent plant that provides
   the trait of the invention is not necessarily a plant grown
   directly from the deposited seeds. The parent can also be a
   progeny plant from the seed, or a progeny plant from seeds
   that are identified to have  (or to have acquired) the trait
20 of the invention by other means. In one embodiment, the
   invention relates to lettuce plants that carry the trait of
   the invention and that have acquired the said trait by
   introduction of the genetic information that is responsible
   for the trait from a suitable source, either by conventional
25 breeding, or genetic modification, in particular by cis
   genesis or trans-genesis. Cis-genesis is genetic
   modification of plants with a natural gene, encoding an
   (agricultural) trait from the crop plant itself or from a
   sexually compatible donor plant. Trans-genesis is genetic
30 modification of a plant with a gene from a non-crossable
   species or with a synthetic gene.
             In one embodiment, the source from which the
   genetic information is acquired is formed by plants grown

                                  19
    from the deposited seeds, or by sexual or vegetative
    descendants therefrom.
              "Progeny" also encompasses plants that carry the
    trait of the invention which are obtained from other plants
 5  of the invention by vegetative propagation or
    multiplication.
              This invention also relates to propagation
   material suitable for producing a Lactuca plant exhibiting a
   reversible genic male sterility trait, comprising the
10 genetic determinant that can be identified by a molecular
   marker characterised by SEQ ID No. 1, and wherein the said
   genetic determinant is as present in the genome of plants
   grown from seed of which a representative sample was
   deposited under accession number NCIMB 42060.
15            In one embodiment, the propagation material is
   suitable for sexual reproduction. Such propagation material
   comprises for example microspores, pollen, ovaries, ovules,
   embryo sacs and egg cells. In another embodiment, the
   propagation material is suitable for vegetative
20 reproduction. Such propagation material comprises for
   example cuttings, roots, stems, cells, protoplasts, and
   tissue cultures of regenerable cells, parts of the plant
   that are suitable for preparing tissue cultures, in
   particular leaves, pollen, embryos, cotyledons, hypocotyls,
25 meristematic cells, root tips, anthers, flowers, seeds and
   stems.
              The invention further relates to a lettuce plant
    grown or regenerated from the said propagation material of a
    plant of the invention, which plant exhibits the reversible
30  genic male sterility trait of the invention.
              The invention further relates to a cell of a
    lettuce plant of the invention, which cell comprises a
    genetic determinant which leads to reversible genic male

                                 20
   sterility, wherein the said genetic determinant is as
   present in a lettuce plant, representative seeds of which
   were deposited under NCIMB accession number 42060. The said
   cell thus comprises the genetic information encoding the
 5 said reversible genic male sterility trait, in particular
   genetic information which is substantially identical,
   preferably completely identical to the genetic information
   encoding the said reversible genic male sterility trait of
   the lettuce plant, representative seeds of which were
10 deposited under NCIMB accession number 42060. Preferably,
   the cell of the invention is part of a plant or plant part,
   but the cell may also be in isolated form.
             The invention also relates to a cell of a lettuce
   plant of the invention, which cell comprises a genetic
15 determinant which leads to reversible genic male sterility,
   and which plant is obtained by transferring the reversible
   genic male sterility trait as found in seeds that were
   deposited under NCIMB accession number 42060 into an
   agronomically valuable lettuce plant.
20           The invention further relates to seed of the
   lettuce plant of the invention, which seed contain in their
   genome the genetic information that encodes the reversible
   genic male sterility trait of the invention.
             The invention also relates to the use of seeds
25 that were deposited under NCIMB accession number 42060 for
   transferring reversible genic male sterility into another
   agronomically valuable lettuce plant.
             The invention also relates to the use of a lettuce
   plant of the invention that exhibits reversible genic male
30 sterility due to the presence, in the genome of the plant,
   of the reversible genic male sterility trait as found in
   seeds that were deposited under NCIMB accession number 42060
   as a crop.

                                 21
             The invention further relates to the use of a
   lettuce plant of the invention that exhibits reversible
   genic male sterility due to the presence, in the genome of
   the plant, of the reversible genic male sterility trait as
 5 found in seeds that were deposited under NCIME accession
   number 42060 as a source of seed.
             The invention also relates to the use of a lettuce
   plant of the invention that exhibits reversible genic male
   sterility due to the presence, in the genome of the plant,
10 of the reversible genic male sterility trait as found in
   seeds that were deposited under NCIME accession number 42060
   as a source of propagating material.
             The invention also relates to the use of a lettuce
   plant of the invention that exhibits reversible genic male
15 sterility due to the presence, in the genome of the plant,
   of the reversible genic male sterility trait as found in
   seeds that were deposited under NCIMB accession number 42060
   for consumption.
             The invention also relates to harvested leaves of
20 lettuce plants of the invention, to food products comprising
   harvested leaves of lettuce plants of the invention, either
   in natural or in processed form, and to a container
   comprising one or more lettuce plants of the invention in a
   growth substrate for harvest of leaves from the lettuce
25 plant in a domestic environment.
             The invention further relates to the use of a
   lettuce plant of the invention in breeding to confer
   reversible genic male sterility.
             The invention also relates to the use of the
30 reversible genic male sterility trait as found in seeds that
   were deposited under NCIMB accession number 42060 for
   conferring reversible genic male sterility onto a Lactuca
   sativa plant.

                                  22
              The invention further relates to the use of a
    Lactuca sativa plant as a recipient of the reversible genic
    male sterility trait as found in seeds that were deposited
    under NCIMB accession number 42060.
 5            In one aspect the invention relates to a method
   for production of a Lactuca sativa plant which exhibits a
   reversible genic male sterility trait, comprising
           a) crossing a plant comprising a genetic determinant
   that leads to the trait with another plant;
10         b) selfing the resulting Fl for obtaining F2 plants;
           c) selecting plants that have the trait in the F2;
           d) optionally performing one or more additional
   rounds of selfing or crossing, and subsequently selecting
   for a plant comprising/showing the trait of the invention.
15            In one aspect, the invention relates to a method
   for production of a Lactuca sativa plant which exhibits a
   reversible genic male sterility trait, comprising
           a) crossing a plant comprising the genetic
   determinant that leads to the trait with another plant;
20         b) optionally backcrossing the resulting Fl with the
   preferred parent;
           c) selecting for plants that have the trait in the
   F2;
           d) optionally performing one or more additional
25 rounds of selfing or crossing, and subsequently selecting
   for a plant comprising the trait.
              The invention additionally provides a method of
   introducing another desired trait into a Lactuca sativa
   plant which exhibits the reversible genic male sterility
30 trait, comprising:
           a) crossing a Lactuca sativa plant that exhibits the
   reversible genic male sterility trait, representative seed
   of which were deposited under deposit number NCIMB 42060,

                                 23
   with a second Lactuca sativa plant that comprises a desired
   trait to produce Fl progeny;
           b) selecting an Fl progeny that comprises said
   reversible genic male sterility trait and the desired trait;
 5         c) crossing the selected Fl progeny with either
   parent, to produce backcross progeny;
           d) selecting backcross progeny comprising the
   desired trait and the reversible genic male sterility trait;
   and
10         e) optionally repeating steps c) and d) one or more
   times in succession to produce selected fourth or higher
   backcross progeny that comprises the desired trait and the
   reversible genic male sterility trait. The invention
   includes a Lactuca sativa plant produced by this method.
15           In one embodiment selection for plants exhibiting
   the reversible genic male sterility trait is done in the Fl
   or any further generation by using a molecular marker
   characterised by SEQ ID No. 1. In another aspect selection
   for the trait of the invention is started in the F2 of a
20 cross or alternatively of a backcross. Selection of plants
   in the F2 can be done phenotypically as well as by using the
   said marker which directly or indirectly detects the genetic
   determinant underlying the trait.
             In one embodiment selection for plants exhibiting
25 the reversible genic male sterility trait is started in the
   F3 or a later generation.
             In one embodiment the plant comprising the genetic
   determinant is a plant of an inbred line, a hybrid, a
   doubled haploid, or of a segregating population.
30           The invention further provides a method for the
   production of a Lactuca sativa plant exhibiting the
   reversible genic male sterility trait by using a doubled

                                 24
   haploid generation technique to generate a doubled haploid
   line comprising the said trait.
             The invention also relates to a method for the
   production of a Lactuca sativa plant exhibiting the
 5 reversible genic male sterility trait by using a seed that
   comprises a genetic determinant in its genome that leads to
   the reversible genic male sterility trait for growing the
   said Lactuca sativa plant. The seeds are suitably seeds of
   which a representative sample was deposited under deposit
10 number NCIMB 42060.
             The invention also relates to a method for seed
   production comprising growing Lactuca sativa plants from
   seeds of which a representative sample was deposited under
   deposit accession number NCIMB 42060, reversing the
15 reversible genic male sterility by the application of
   jasmonic acid and/or one or more jasmonic acid derivatives,
   in particular methyl jasmonate, allowing the plants to
   produce seeds, and harvesting those seeds. Production of the
   seeds is suitably done by crossing or selfing. Crossing can
20 e.g. be done by means of hand pollination or by employing
   suitable pollinating insects.
             In one embodiment, the invention relates to a
   method for the production of a Lactuca sativa plant
   exhibiting the reversible genic male sterility trait by
25 using tissue culture.
             The invention furthermore relates to a method for
   the production of a Lactuca sativa plant exhibiting the
   reversible genic male sterility trait by using vegetative
   reproduction.
30           In one embodiment, the invention relates to a
   method for the production of a Lactuca sativa plant
   exhibiting the reversible genic male sterility trait by
   using a method for genetic modification to introduce in

                                  25
   particular dominantly acting transgenes that cause the said
   trait into the Lactuca sativa plant, for example by means of
   RNAi, amiRNA or antisense, or dominant-negative versions of
   a target gene (such as OPR3),   or through mutation. Genetic
 5 modification comprises transgenic modification or
   transgenesis,  using a gene from a non-crossable   species or a
   synthetic gene,  and cisgenic modification or cisgenesis,
   using a natural gene, coding for an   (agricultural) trait,
   from the crop plant itself or from a sexually compatible
10 donor plant. The plant can also be genetically modified by
   mutation of a target gene   (such as OPR3) t.o exhibit the male
   sterility trait of the invention.
             The invention also relates to a breeding method
   for the development of Lactuca sativa plants that exhibit
15 the reversible genic male sterility trait wherein germplasm
   comprising said trait is used. Representative seed of said
   plant comprising the genetic determinant and being
   representative for the germplasm was deposited under deposit
   accession number NCIMB 42060.
20           In a further embodiment the invention relates to a
   method for the production of a Lactuca sativa plant
   exhibiting the reversible genic male sterility trait wherein
   progeny or propagation material of a plant comprising the
   genetic determinant conferring said trait is used as a
25 source to introgress the said trait into another Lactuca
   sativa plant. Representative seed of said plant comprising
   the genetic determinant was deposited under deposit
   accession number NCIMB 42060.
             The invention provides preferably a Lactuca sativa
30 plant exhibiting the reversible genic male sterility trait,
   which plant is obtainable by any of the methods herein
   described and/or familiar to the skilled person.

                                 26
             This invention also relates to the use of Lactuca
   sativa plants exhibiting a reversible genic male sterility
   trait as a female parent for the creation of hybrid Lactuca
   sativa seeds. The fact that Lactuca sativa plants of the
 5 invention are unable to self-fertilise due to male sterility
   (if they are not rendered male fertile by the application of
   one or more jasmonic acid derivatives, in particular methyl
   jasmonate) makes it possible to efficiently use Lactuca
   sativa plants of the invention as female parents for the
10 efficient creation of hybrid Lactuca sativa plants, using
   pollen from other Lactuca sativa plants. Pollination of the
   plants of the invention can e.g. be achieved by means of
   manual pollination, or by employing suitable pollinating
   insects, such as bumblebees, bees or flies and placing
15 reversible genic male sterile Lactuca sativa plants of the
   invention alongside male-fertile Lactuca sativa plants that
   will function as father plants of the hybrid Lactuca sativa
   seeds, by providing functional pollen grains for a
   successful fertilisation of the reversible genic male
20 sterile Lactuca sativa plants of the invention. This
   invention further relates to hybrid lettuce seeds,
   obtainable by the use of Lactuca sativa plants exhibiting a
   reversible genic male sterility trait as a female parent.
             According to a further aspect thereof the
25 invention also relates to plants of the genus Cichorium,
   exhibiting the reversible genic male sterility trait. The
   genus Cichorium comprises economically and agriculturally
   relevant crop species, such as Cichorium endivia (endive)
   and Cichorium intybus (witloof, radicchio), and also
30 Cichorium spinosum and Cichorium pumillum, which can all be
   crossed to each other.
             In one embodiment, the said plants belong to the
   genus Cichorium and in particular to the species Cichorium

                                  27
   endivia, and the reversible male sterility trait is caused
   by a genetic determinant, which is as present in the genome
   of plants grown from seed of which a representative sample
   was deposited under accession number NCIMB 42092, in which
 5 the presence of the genetic determinant can be identified by
   a molecular marker characterised by SEQ ID No. 2. Said
   genetic determinant is a single nucleotide polymorphism
   (SNP),  and the person skilled in the art is familiar with
   experimental methods to detect SNPs in a genome. Such
10 methods include, among others, DNA-sequencing, TaqMan@, SNP
   arrays,  Invader@, KASParM, etc.
              This invention also relates to Cichorium plants,
   in particular Cichorium endivia plants, exhibiting a
   reversible genic male sterility trait, obtainable by
15 crossing a first Cichorium plant, in particular a Cichorium
   endivia plant, with a second Cichorium plant, in particular
   a Cichorium endivia plant, wherein one of the said plants is
   grown from seeds of which a representative sample was
   deposited with the NCIMB under accession number NCIMB 42092,
20 or a progeny plant thereof, and selecting, preferably in the
   F2 generation, for plants that exhibit a reversible genic
   male sterility trait.
              This invention further relates to seed of a
   Cichorium plant, in particular a Cichorium endivia plant
25 exhibiting a reversible genic male sterility trait, which is
   as present in the genome of plants grown from seed of which
   a representative sample was deposited under accession number
   NCIMB 42092, in which the presence of the genetic
   determinant can be identified by a molecular marker
30 characterised by SEQ ID No. 2.
              This invention further relates to progeny of a
   Cichorium plant, in particular a Cichorium endivia plant,
   exhibiting a reversible genic male sterility trait,

                                  28
   comprising the genetic determinant, which is as present in
   the genome of plants grown from seed of which a
   representative sample was deposited under accession number
   NCIMB 42092, in which the presence of the genetic
 5 determinant can be identified by a molecular marker
   characterised by SEQ ID No. 2.
              Such progeny can be produced by sexual or
   vegetative reproduction of a plant of the invention or a
   progeny plant thereof. The progeny plant displays the
10 reversible genic male sterility trait in the same or in a
   similar way as the plant of which representative seed was
   deposited (NCIMB 42092).  This means that such progeny has
   the same characteristics as claimed for endive plants of the
   invention.
15            As used herein the word "progeny" is intended to
    mean the offspring or the first and all further descendants
    from a cross with a plant of the invention that shows the
    reversible genic male sterility trait. Progeny of the
    invention comprises descendants of any cross with a plant of
20  the invention that carries the reversible genic male
    sterility trait. Such progeny is for example obtainable by
    crossing a first endive plant with a second endive plant,
    wherein one of the endive plants was grown from seeds of a
    plant of the invention, representative seeds of which were
25  deposited under NCIMB accession number 42092, but it can
    also be the progeny of any other endive plant or another
    Cichorium plant carrying the reversible genic male sterility
    trait as present in NCIME 42092.
              It is to be understood that a parent plant that
30  provides the trait of the invention is not necessarily a
    plant grown directly from the deposited seeds. The parent
    can also be a progeny plant from the seed, or a progeny
    plant from seeds that are identified to have  (or to have

                                  29
    acquired) the trait of the invention by other means. In one
    embodiment, the invention relates to endive plants that
    carry the trait of the invention and that have acquired the
    said trait by introduction of the genetic information that
 5  is responsible for the trait from a suitable source, either
    by conventional breeding, or genetic modification, in
    particular by cis-genesis or trans-genesis. Cis-genesis is
    genetic modification of plants with a natural gene, encoding
    an  (agricultural) trait from the crop plant itself or from a
10  sexually compatible donor plant. Trans-genesis is genetic
    modification of a plant with a gene from a non-crossable
    species or with a synthetic gene.
              In one embodiment, the source from which the
    genetic information is acquired is formed by plants grown
15  from the deposited seeds, or by sexual or vegetative
    descendants therefrom. "Progeny" also encompasses plants
    that carry the trait of the invention which are obtained
    from other plants of the invention by vegetative propagation
    or multiplication.
20            This invention also relates to propagation
   material suitable for producing a Cichorium plant, in
   particular a Cichorium endivia plant exhibiting a reversible
   genic male sterility trait, comprising a genetic determinant
   which is as present in the genome of plants grown from seed
25 of which a representative sample was deposited under
   accession number NCIMB 42092, in which the genetic
   determinant can be identified by a molecular marker
   characterised by SEQ ID No. 2.
              In one embodiment, the propagation material is
30 suitable for sexual reproduction. Such propagation material
   comprises for example microspores, pollen, ovaries, ovules,
   embryo sacs and egg cells. In another embodiment, the
   propagation material is suitable for vegetative

                                  30
   reproduction. Such propagation material comprises for
   example cuttings, roots, stems, cells, protoplasts, and
   tissue cultures of regenerable cells, parts of the plant
   that are suitable for preparing tissue cultures, in
 5 particular leaves, pollen, embryos, cotyledons, hypocotyls,
   meristematic cells, root tips, anthers, flowers, seeds and
   stems.
              The invention further relates to a Cichorium plant
    grown or regenerated from the said propagation material of a
10  plant of the invention, which plant exhibiting the
    reversible genic male sterility trait of the invention.
              The invention further relates to a cell of an
    endive plant of the invention, which cell comprises a
    genetic determinant which leads to reversible genic male
15  sterility, wherein the said genetic determinant is as
    present in an endive plant, representative seeds of which
    were deposited under NCIMB accession number 42092, in which
    the genetic determinant can be identified by a molecular
    marker characterised by SEQ ID No. 2. The said cell thus
20  comprises the genetic information encoding the said
    reversible genic male sterility trait, in particular genetic
    information which is substantially identical, preferably
    completely identical to the genetic information encoding the
    said reversible genic male sterility trait of the endive
25  plant, representative seeds of which were deposited under
    NCIMB accession number 42092, in which the genetic
    determinant can be identified by a molecular marker
    characterised by SEQ ID No. 2. Preferably, the cell of the
    invention is part of a plant or plant part, but the cell may
30  also be in isolated form.
              The invention also relates to a cell of a
    Cichorium plant, in particular a Cichorium endivia plant of
    the invention, which cell comprises a genetic determinant

                                 31
   which leads to reversible genic male sterility, and which
   plant is obtained by transferring the reversible genic male
   sterility trait as found in seeds that were deposited under
   NCIMB accession number 42092 into an agronomically valuable
 5 endive plant.
             The invention further relates to seed of a
   Cichorium plant, in particular a Cichorium endivia plant of
   the invention, which seed contain in their genome the
   genetic information that encodes the reversible genic male
10 sterility trait of the invention.
             The invention also relates to the use of seeds
   that were deposited under NCIMB accession number 42092 for
   transferring reversible genic male sterility into another
   agronomically valuable endive plant.
15           The invention also relates to the use of a
   Cichorium plant, in particular a Cichorium endivia plant of
   the invention that exhibits reversible genic male sterility
   due to the presence, in the genome of the plant, of the
   reversible genic male sterility trait as found in seeds that
20 were deposited under NCIMB accession number 42092 as a crop.
             The invention further relates to the use of a
   Cichorlum plant, in particular a Cichorium endivia plant of
   the invention that exhibits reversible genic male sterility
   due to the presence, in the genome of the plant, of the
25 reversible genic male sterility trait as found in seeds that
   were deposited under NCIMB accession number 42092 as a
   source of seed.
             The invention also relates to the use of a
   Cichorium plant, in particular a Cichorium endivia plant of
30 the invention that exhibits reversible genic male sterility
   due to the presence, in the genome of the plant, of the
   reversible genic male sterility trait as found in seeds that

                                 32
   were deposited under NCIMB accession number 42092 as a
   source of propagating material.
             The invention also relates to the use of a
   Cichorium plant, in particular a Cichorium endivia plant of
 5 the invention that exhibits reversible genic male sterility
   due to the presence, in the genome of the plant, of the
   reversible genic male sterility trait as found in seeds that
   were deposited under NCIMB accession number 42092 for
   consumption.
10           The invention also relates to harvested leaves of
   a Cichorium plant, in particular a Cichorium endivia plant
   of the invention, to food products comprising harvested
   leaves of endive plants of the invention, either in natural
   or in processed form, and to a container comprising one or
15 more endive plants of the invention in a growth substrate
   for harvest of leaves from the endive plant in a domestic
   environment.
             The invention further relates to the use of a
   Cichorium plant, in particular a Cichorium endivia plant of
20 the invention in breeding to confer reversible genic male
   sterility.
             The invention also relates to the use of the
   reversible genic male sterility trait as found in seeds that
   were deposited under NCIMB accession number 42092 for
25 conferring reversible genic male sterility onto a Cichorium
   endivia plant.
             The invention further relates to the use of a
   Cichorium plant as a recipient of the reversible genic male
   sterility trait as found in seeds that were deposited under
30 NCIMB accession number 42092, in which the genetic
   determinant can be identified by a molecular marker
   characterised by SEQ ID No.  2.

                                  33
              In one aspect the invention relates to a method
    for production of a Cichorium plant, in particular a
    Cichorium endivia plant which exhibits a reversible genic
    male sterility trait, comprising
 5         a) crossing a plant comprising a genetic determinant
   that leads to the trait with another plant;
           b) selfing the resulting Fl for obtaining F2 plants;
           c) selecting plants that have the trait in the F2;
           d) optionally performing one or more additional
10 rounds of selling or crossing, and subsequently selecting
   for a plant comprising/showing the trait of the invention.
              It is clear that the parent that provides the
   trait of the invention is not necessarily a plant grown
   directly from the deposited seeds. The parent can also be a
15 progeny plant from the seed or a progeny plant from seeds
   that are identified to have the trait of the invention by
   other means.
              In one aspect, the invention relates to a method
   for production of a Cichorium plant, in particular a
20 Cichorium endivia plant, which exhibits a reversible genic
   male sterility trait, comprising
           a) crossing a plant comprising the genetic
   determinant that leads to the trait with another plant;
           b) optionally backcrossing the resulting F1 with the
25 preferred parent;
           c) selecting for plants that have the trait in the
   F2;
           d) optionally performing one or more additional
   rounds of selling or crossing, and subsequently selecting
30 for a plant comprising the trait.
              The invention additionally provides a method of
   introducing another desired trait into a Cichorium plant, in

                                 34
   particular a Cichorium endivia plant, which exhibits the
   reversible genic male sterility trait, comprising:
           a) crossing a Cichorium plant, in particular a
   Cichorium endivia plant, that exhibits the reversible genic
 5 male sterility trait, representative seed of which were
   deposited under deposit number NCIB 42092, with a second
   Cichorium plant, in particular a Cichorium endivia plant,
   that comprises a desired trait to produce Fl progeny;
           b) selecting an Fl progeny that comprises said
10 reversible genic male sterility trait and the desired trait;
           c) crossing the selected Fl progeny with either
   parent, to produce backcross progeny;
           d) selecting backcross progeny comprising the
   desired trait and the reversible genic male sterility trait;
15 and
           e) optionally repeating steps c) and d) one or more
   times in succession to produce selected fourth or higher
   backcross progeny that comprises the desired trait and the
   reversible genic male sterility trait. The invention
20 includes a Cichorium plant, in particular a Cichorium
   endivia plant, produced by this method.
             In one embodiment selection for plants exhibiting
   the reversible genic male sterility trait is done in the Fl
   or any further generation by using a molecular marker
25 characterised by SEQ ID No. 2. In another aspect selection
   for the trait of the invention is started in the F2 of a
   cross or alternatively of a backcross. Selection of plants
   in the F2 can be done phenotypically as well as by using the
   said marker which directly or indirectly detects the genetic
30 determinant underlying the trait.
             Phenotypic selection can be done based on the
   observation of male sterility (whereby only non-functional
   pollen grains are formed) and/or based on the observation of

                                 35
   flower colour. When the genetic determinant underlying the
   trait of the invention is present in a homozygous state,
   this correlates with a pale flower colour, when compared to
   plants not having the said genetic determinant, or to plants
 5 in which the said genetic determinant is present in a
   heterozygous state.
             In one embodiment selection for plants exhibiting
   the reversible genic male sterility trait is started in the
   F3 or a later generation.
10           In one embodiment the plant comprising the genetic
   determinant is a plant of an inbred line, a hybrid, a
   doubled haploid, or of a segregating population.
             The invention further provides a method for the
   production of a Cichorium plant, in particular a Cichorium
15 endivia plant, exhibiting the reversible genic male
   sterility trait by using a doubled haploid generation
   technique to generate a doubled haploid line comprising the
   said trait.
             The invention also relates to a method for the
20 production of a Cichorium plant, in particular a Cichorium
   endivia plant, exhibiting the reversible genic male
   sterility trait by using a seed that comprises a genetic
   determinant in its genome that leads to the reversible genic
   male sterility trait for growing the said a Cichorium plant,
25 in particular a Cichorium endivia plant. The seeds are
   suitably seeds of which a representative sample was
   deposited with the NCIMB under deposit number NCIMB 42092.
             The invention also relates to a method for seed
   production comprising growing Cichorium endivia plants from
30 seeds of which a representative sample was deposited under
   deposit number NCIMB 42092, reversing the reversible genic
   male sterility by the application of jasmonic acid and/or
   one or more jasmonic acid derivatives, in particular methyl

                                  36
   jasmonate, allowing the plants to produce seeds, and
   harvesting those seeds. Production of the seeds is suitably
   done by crossing or selfing. Crossing can e.g. be done by
   means of hand pollination or by employing suitable
 5 pollinating insects.
             In one embodiment, the invention relates to a
   method for the production of a Cichorium plant, in
   particular a Cichorium endivia plant, exhibiting the
   reversible genic male sterility trait by using tissue
10 culture.
             The invention furthermore relates to a method for
   the production of a Cichorium plant, in particular a
   Cichorium endivia plant, exhibiting the reversible genic
   male sterility trait by using vegetative reproduction.
15           In one embodiment, the invention relates to a
   method for the production of a Cichorium endivia plant
   exhibiting the reversible genic male sterility trait by
   using a method for genetic modification to introgress in
   particular dominantly acting transgenes that cause the said
20 trait into the Cichorium endivia plant, for example by means
   of RNAi, amiRNA or antisense, or dominant-negative versions
   of a target gene  (such as OPR3), or through mutation.
   Genetic modification comprises transgenic modification or
   transgenesis, using a gene from a non-crossable species or a
25 synthetic gene, and cisgenic modification or cisgenesis,
   using a natural gene, coding for an  (agricultural) trait,
   from the crop plant itself or from a sexually compatible
   donor plant. The plant can also be genetically modified by
   mutation of a target gene  (such as OPR3) to exhibit the male
30 sterility trait of the invention.
             The invention also relates to a breeding method
   for the development of Cichorium plants, in particular
   Cichorium endivia plants that exhibit the reversible genic

                                 37
   male sterility trait wherein germplasm comprising said trait
   is used. Representative seed of said plant comprising the
   genetic determinant and being representative for the
   germplasm was deposited with the NCIMB under deposit number
 5 NCIMB 42092.
             In a further embodiment the invention relates to a
   method for the production of a Cichorium plant, in
   particular a Cichorium endivia plant, exhibiting the
   reversible genic male sterility trait wherein progeny or
10 propagation material of a plant comprising the genetic
   determinant conferring said trait is used as a source to
   introgress the said trait into another Cichorium plant, in
   particular another Cichorium endivia plant. Representative
   seed of said plant comprising the genetic determinant was
15 deposited under deposit number NCIMB 42092.
             The invention provides preferably a Cichorium
   plant, in particular a Cichorium endivia plant, exhibiting
   the reversible genic male sterility trait, which plant is
   obtainable by any of the methods herein described and/or
20 familiar to the skilled person.
             This invention also relates to the use of
   Cichorium plants exhibiting a reversible genic male
   sterility trait as a female parent for the creation of
   hybrid Cichorium seeds. The fact that Cichorium plants of
25 the invention are unable to self-fertilise due to male
   sterility (if they are not rendered male-fertile by the
   application of jasmonic acid and/or one or more jasmonic
   acid derivatives, in particular methyl jasmonate) makes it
   possible to efficiently use Cichorium plants of the
30 invention as female parents for the efficient creation of
   hybrid Cichorium plants, using pollen from other Cichorium
   plants. Pollination of the plants of the invention can e.g.
   be achieved by means of manual pollination, or by employing

                                  38
   suitable pollinating insects, such as bumblebees, flies or
   bees, and placing reversible genic male sterile Cichorium
   plants of the invention alongside male-fertile Cichorium
   plants that will function as father plants of the hybrid
 5 Cichorium seeds, by providing functional pollen grains for a
   successful fertilisation of the reversible genic male
   sterile Cichorium plants of the invention. This invention
   further relates to hybrid Cichorium seeds, obtainable by the
   use of Cichorium plants exhibiting a reversible genic male
10 sterility trait as a female parent.
              This invention also relates to a food product,
   comprising edible parts of plants of the Compositae family,
   optionally in processed form, wherein the plants comprise
   the genetic determinant underlying the reversible genic male
15 sterility trait of the invention. These edible parts can be
   leaves  (e.g. in case of lettuce, endive, witloof and
   radicchio),  or seeds (e.g. in the case of sunflower), or
   flowers (e.g. in the case of artichoke).  The food products
   are preferably derived from lettuce and endive.
20            The word "trait" in the context of this
   application refers to the phenotype of the plant. In
   particular, the word "trait" refers to the trait of the
   invention, more in particular to the reversible genic male
   sterility trait. The term "genetic determinant" is used for
25 the genetic information in the genome of the plant that
   causes the trait of the invention. When a plant shows the
   trait of the invention, its genome comprises the genetic
   determinant causing the trait of the invention. The plant
   thus has the genetic determinant of the invention. The term
30 "genetic determinant" as used herein encompasses a gene or
   allele. These terms are used interchangeably. A genetic
   determinant can be identified by the use of a molecular
   marker. A genetic determinant can alternatively be

                                 39
   identified by the position on a genetic map, or by
   indication of the location on a linkage group or chromosome.
   When a genetic determinant is no longer linked to a specific
   molecular marker, but its position on a chromosome as
 5 defined on a genetic map is unaltered, this genetic
   determinant is still the same as when it was linked to the
   molecular marker. The genetic trait that it confers is
   therefore also still the same.
             The "genetic trait" is the trait or characteristic
10 that is conferred by the genetic determinant. The genetic
   trait can be identified phenotypically. However, also plant
   stages for which no phenotypic assay can be performed do
   carry the genetic information that leads to the genetic
   trait. "Trait" or "phenotypic trait" can be used instead of
15 "genetic trait".
             It is clear that the parent that provides the
   trait of the invention is not necessarily a plant grown
   directly from the deposited seeds. The parent can also be a
   progeny plant from the seed or a progeny plant from seeds
20 that are identified to have the trait of the invention by
   other means.
             This invention also relates to the use of plants
   of the Compositae family comprising the genetic determinant
   underlying the reversible genic male sterility trait of the
25 invention, or of plants produced from the seed of such
   plants or from propagation material of such plants, as
   germplasm in a breeding program for the development of
   Compositae plants exhibiting a reversible genic male
   sterility that can be reversed by the application of
30 jasmonic acid and/or one or more jasmonic acid derivatives,
   in particular methyl jasmonate.
   DEPOSITS

                                   40
              Seeds of Lactuca sativa comprising a genetic
   determinant of the invention which leads to reversible genic
   male sterility that can be reversed by the application of
   jasmonic acid and/or one or more jasmonic acid derivatives,
 5 in particular methyl jasmonate, were deposited with NCIMB
   Ltd, Ferguson Building, Craibstone 5 Estate, Bucksburn,
   Aberdeen AB21  9YA, UK on October     eth, 2012 under deposit
   accession number NCIMB 42060. All seeds of this deposit
   comprise the genetic determinant of the invention in a
10 homozygous state.
              Seeds of Cichorium endivia comprising a genetic
   determinant of the invention which leads to reversible genic
   male sterility that can be reversed by the application of
   jasmonic acid and/or one or more jasmonic acid derivatives,
15 in particular methyl jasmonate, were deposited with NCIMB
   Ltd, Ferguson Building, Craibstone 5 Estate, Bucksburn,
   Aberdeen AB21 9YA, UK on 21 December 2012 under deposit
   accession number NCIMB 42092. About 50%       of the seeds of this
   deposit comprise the genetic determinant of the invention in
20 a homozygous state, and about 50% of the seeds of this
   deposit comprise the genetic determinant of the invention in
   a heterozygous state.
   FIGURES
25            The invention will be further illustrated in the
   Examples that follow. In the Examples reference is made to
   the following figures:
              Figure 1: Reversible male sterility      in lettuce
   Panel A shows an inflorescence     from a wild-type lettuce
30 plant after flowering   (left-hand side),     as compared to an
   inflorescence from a lettuce plant of the invention after
   flowering  (right-hand side).   Neither of the plants has been
   pollinated with pollen from another lettuce plant.       The wild-

                                  41
   type lettuce plant is fully fertile, and it has produced
   seeds through selfing. The lettuce plant of the invention,
   in contrast, which has not been treated with jasmonic acid
   and/or one or more jasmonic acid derivatives, shows a
 5 complete absence of seeds in the inflorescence. This
   demonstrates that the presence of the reversible genic male
   sterility trait of the invention makes the plant completely
   self-sterile. Panel B illustrates the effect of treatment
   with jasmonic acid and/or jasmonic acid derivatives on the
10 fertility of a reversible genic male sterile lettuce plant
   of the invention. The inflorescence was treated with methyl
   jasmonate ("MeJA") during its development, and has produced
   seeds through selfing.
              Figure 2: Reversible male sterility in endive.
15 Panel A shows the flower and stamens of a wild-type endive
   plant  (upper 2 pictures), which has a blue colour (grey in
   the picture) and normal pollen production, as compared to a
   typical flower of a reversible genic male sterile endive
   plant of the invention, which has a pale flower colour
20 (white in the picture) and less pollen production (lower 2
   pictures).  The pollen grains produced by the endive plants
   of the invention were not functional. Panel B illustrates
   the effect of treatment with jasmonic acid and/or jasmonic
   acid derivatives on the fertility of a reversible genic male
25 sterile endive plant of the invention. The left-hand picture
   shows an untreated flower of a plant of the invention, which
   is white in colour and male-sterile. The right-hand picture
   shows a plant of the invention with in the centre a flower
   that has been treated with methyl jasmonate at an early
30 stage of its development. Its colour has changed to blue
   (grey in the picture),  and it has become male-fertile. The
   flower above the centre flower is not treated and is still
   pale (white in the picture).

                                  42
   SEQUENCE INFORMATION
   SEQ ID No.1: Genetic SNP marker that is able to identify the
   presence of the genetic determinant that underlies the trait
   of the invention in Lactuca sativa plants grown from seeds
 5 that are deposited under accession number NCIMB 42060. A
   genomic fragment of the lettuce OPR3 gene is presented,
   wherein the position of the SNP comprising a change from C
   to T [C/T]  is indicated as a T in bold and underlined. This
   SNP is present in plants grown from seeds of the said
10 deposit.
   ATGGCTGAAACACCGCCGTCTGCCCGACAATCCAACTCTCTTTTCTCCATTCAAGATGGGC
   AAGTTTAATCTCTCTCACAGGTCCGTTGTTTCTATCCTTTCTTCTCTTCACTTTCTAATC
   ATAAATCCGTCCCCCCTATAAAAGTCCTTCAGATTTTGAGCTTGATCCAGTCTTGACCGA
15 TCACTATACCGTGTTTTGGTTGTAGGGTGGTGTTAGCTCCGATGACGCGGTGTAGGGCGT
   TAAATAGCATACCGAATCAAGCTCTGGTGGAGTATTACCAGAGAGCAACCGCCGGTG
   GGTTTCTCATCACGGAGGGGACAATGATCTCTCCTACCTCCGCCGGGTAATTTCGCTATT
   CCTTTTGTTCTTCAAGGGTGTTTTAGTAAATCAACATTCCAACATAATTCACCGGGACAA
   ACCATATAAAACCGCCACGTGGCAATTCTTAGTTCCTTACATAGTGCTTTGTGGGACCTG
20 CAGTATAGACTATTATTAAAGTCACACCATTATTAAAGTCACATTCTCTTTATAACCACT
   TTATAAAGTCTTTATAACTAAAAAATGTGTTTTTTTCGTTGTACTTTATAGTTAGATTAG
   ATGCATAATGTGGATCTTATGAACCATTAAACAATGATACAAGCTACTTGTGTTCTAAAG
   TTAAAGATGCCATTTTGATTCTTAATTTAAAAAACCCATTTGGTTTAGGAATACCCCTTT
   ATTCATCGATCATTATAAAGCCCAAATTAACGATCTTTCTGGTAAAAAAAAACCCAATTT
25 GGTGATCAGGTTCCCTCACGTACCAGGTATATTTAATCAAGAACAAGTTGAAGCTTGGAA
   GAAAGTCGTGGATGCAGTTCATGAAAAAGGCGCTGTGATCTTTTGTTAATTATGGCATGT
   CGGCAGAGCATCCCACCAAGGTACGCTTTCTTCCATCTAAAAGTCTCAAAATCTCAACAT
   TTTGATTTTTGAACCTAAATTCGAATCGAAAGTGATCATTGTGTTGAACAAACAGTATAT
   CAACCTAATGGGGTTGCACCAATATCATCTACAAGCAAACCCATATCGAAAAAATGGAGA
30 ATTTTAATGCCCGATGGGACCCACGCTCAATATCCAAACCCTCGACCACTCGCTACCCAT
   GAAATACCAGAGGTGGTGGAAGACTATCGTCTGGCAGCAATTAACGCCATTGAAGCAGGT
   TTTGATGGAATCGAGATTCACGGAGCCCATGGTTATCTTCTCGATCAATTCATGAAAGAT
   GGCATCAATAATCGAACCGATGAATATGGTGGATCTTTAGCAAACCGATGCAAATTCTTA
   CTGAAAGTGGTGAAATCGATAGCTACAGCCATTGGTGCAGATAAAGTCGGTGTTAGAATC
35 TCACCAGCTATTGACCATTTAGACGCCATGGATTCTGACCCACGTAGCTTAGGGCTTGAA
   GTAATTGAAAGACTGAATAAACTTCAGGTTGAATTAGGGTCAAAGTTGACTTATCTTCAT
   GTGACTCAACCAAGGTACACGGCTTATGGTCAAACAGAAGCTGGAAGCCATGGAAGTGAA
   GAGGAAGTTGCTGAGTTGATGAAGATATGGAGAAGGGCATTTATGGGAACTTTTGTTTGT
   AGTGGTGGGTATACTAGAGAGCTTGGGATTGAAGCTCTGGCTAAAGGGGATGCTGATTTG
40 GTGGCTTATGGAAGGCTTTTTATATCGAATCCGGATTTGGTTTTGAGACTCAAGGTTAAT
   GCACCTTTGAATAGGTATGTTAGGGCTAGTTTTTATACACATGATCCTGTTGTAGGGTAC
   ACTGATTACCCTTCACTTGAGAA

                                   43
   SEQ ID No. 2: Genetic SNP marker that is able to identify
   the presence of the genetic determinant that underlies the
   trait of the invention in Cichorium endivia plants grown
   from seeds that are deposited under NCIMB number 42092. A
 5 genomic fragment of the endive OPR3 gene is presented,
   wherein the position of the SNP comprising a change from C
   to A  [C/A]  is indicated as A in bold and underlined. The SNP
   is present in plants grown from seeds of the said deposit.
   TCAACATCCAGATCTCCGATCCCAAGCAAATAATGGCTGAAACGACGCCGTCTGCCGACA
10 ATCCAACCCTCTTTTCTCCGTACAAGATGGGCAAGTTCAATCTCTCTCACAGGGTGATCA
   GTTACTTTACTTCGATCCATTGTTCTCGCAGCTTTCTGATCATACTTCATTCCCCCAGCA
   AAATAATTCAGAATTTGACCTTGATCCAATTCTGTTTTTAATTCTTTTACCGATTAGTTC
   ACCGTGTTTTGGTTGTAGGGTGGTGTTAGCTCAGATGACGAGATGCAGG
15
   EXAMPLES
   EXAMPLE 1
   Reversible male sterility in lettuce
               A mutant lettuce plant (Lactuca sativa), having a
20 mutated version of the OPR3 gene, was obtained by means of
   chemical mutagenesis and subsequent TILLING screening of
   about 3,000 M2 plants. DNA sequencing revealed the presence
   of a C to T mutation (CAA to TAA) in one M2 plant, leading
   at the protein level to the conversion of a Glutamine to a
25 premature stop codon at position 107, and hence to the
   presumed expression of a truncated version of the OPR3
   protein in this mutant plant.
               Phenotypically this mutant lettuce plant was
   indistinguishable from wild type lettuce plants, when the
30 mutation was present in a heterozygous state. However, when
   the plant was self-pollinated and allowed to produce seeds,
   the homozygous mutant plants of the next generation showed
   complete male sterility. The few pollen grains that
   developed in such homozygous mutants were not functional.
35 The homozygous mutant plants did not set seed when allowed
   to self-pollinate, but when used as the female parent in a

                                 44
   cross, the plants were able to set seed, which demonstrated
   that their female fertility was not impaired. In this manner
   the mutation could be maintained in subsequent generations
   through screening of progeny plants of the selfing of a
 5 heterozygous mutant plant with a molecular marker designed
   to identify the presence of the causal mutation, SEQ ID No.
   1, even though the homozygous mutant plants were male
   sterile and failed to set seed through self-pollination.
             The causal SNP mutation was detected by means of
10 DNA-sequencing of a PCR-fragment of the 0PR3 gene. First, a
   fragment of the lettuce OPR3 gene containing the SNP was
   amplified by PCR, using suitable PCR-primers that were
   designed based on the sequence information in SEQ ID No. 1.
   Subsequently, the DNA-sequence of the PCR product was
15 determined by means of Sanger sequencing, using the
   following oligonucleotide as forward sequencing primer:
   GCTTGGAAGAAAGTCGTGGATG. Of course various other techniques
   can also be used for the detection of the SNP in SEQ ID No.
   1.
20           Surprisingly, it was observed that spraying young
   flower buds with a 200 9M (0.2 mM) methyl jasmonate  (MeJA)
   aqueous solution (in water plus 0.025% Zipper surfactant)
   was sufficient to restore male fertility in these homozygous
   mutants. From the early bolting stage the inflorescences
25 were sprayed 5 times per week, for a total of 3 weeks. In
   contrast to mock-treated control plants - that were sprayed
   with an aqueous solution of 0.025% Zipper surfactant - the
   MeJA treated plants produced seeds in a subset of their
   flowers, being the flowers that had received an effective
30 MeJA dose at the appropriate developmental stage (Figure 1).
             The seeds that were produced by the homozygous
   mutant plants treated with MeJA were all homozygous for the

                                 45
   mutation, as could be demonstrated by use of a molecular
   marker detecting the causal mutation  (SEQ ID No. 1).
   EXAMPLE 2
 5 Transfer of the reversible male sterility trait to another
   lettuce plant
             Lettuce plants of the invention (of the deposit,
   NCIMB 42060) were crossed with wild type  (WT) lettuce
   plants, which do not carry the trait of the invention. The
10 resulting F1 plants from this cross had the same phenotype
   as the WT plant, i.e. they displayed normal fertility.
   Nevertheless, the presence of the trait of the invention in
   a heterozygous state could be detected in all Fl plants by
   means of a molecular marker. The Single Nucleotide
15 Polymorphism (SNP) that can be used for this purpose is
   presented as SEQ ID No. 1. This molecular marker can be used
   to identify the presence of the genetic determinant that
   underlies the trait of the invention in lettuce plants grown
   from seeds as deposited under NCIMB number 42060.
20           In the F2 generation the trait of the invention
   segregated in a manner that corresponds with a monogenic
   recessive inheritance. The trait of the invention could be
   introduced into a wild type lettuce plant by crossing the
   wild type plant with a plant of the invention and selecting
25 for the desired phenotype, by selection on male sterility
   and/or the presence of the molecular marker in a homozygous
   state. The latter method of detection has the advantage that
   plants of the invention can be identified at a young
   developmental stage, long before they start flowering. This
30 enables the confident selection of desired plants (carrying
   the trait of the invention) at the seedling stage, which
   allows for a more efficient use of plant growth facilities.

                                 46
             The wild type lettuce plant into which the trait
   of the invention can be introduced can be a lettuce plant of
   any leaf type, any form or any colour.
             In the F2 generation the male sterility trait was
 5 also reversible. The addition of jasmonic acid and/or one or
   more jasmonic acid derivatives, in particular methyl
   jasmonate, was sufficient to restore male fertility, as
   described in Example 1.
10 EXAMPLE 3
   Reversible male sterility in endive
           A mutant endive plant (Cichorium endivia), having a
   mutated version of the OPR3 gene, was obtained by means of
   chemical mutagenesis and subsequent TILLING screening of
15 about 10,000 M2 plants. DNA sequencing revealed the presence
   of a C to A mutation in exon 2 (CCG to CAG) in one M2 plant,
   leading at the protein level to a Proline to Glutamine amino
   acid change at position 76.
           Phenotypically this mutant endive plant was
20 indistinguishable from wild type endive plants, when the
   mutation was present in a heterozygous state. However, when
   the plant was self-pollinated and allowed to produce seeds,
   the homozygous mutant plants of the next generation showed
   male sterility, along with a pale flower colour (almost
25 white, compared to the blue colour of wild type flowers of
   this endive line). The pollen grains that developed in such
   homozygous mutants were unable to germinate and therefore
   dysfunctional. When used as the female parent in a cross,
   the plants were able to set seed, which demonstrated that
30 their female fertility was not impaired. In this manner the
   mutation could be maintained in subsequent generations, even
   though the homozygous mutant plants were male sterile and
   failed to set seed through self-pollination.

                                 47
             Surprisingly, it was observed that spraying young
   flower buds on a daily basis - throughout the entire
   flowering stage of the plant, which lasted about 3.5 months
   - with a MeJA solution had a dramatic effect on the mutant
 5 flowers that developed from the treated flower buds   (an
   aqueous solution of 200 gM (0.2 mM) MeJA with 0.025% Zipper
   surfactant). Instead of developing into flowers with a pale
   colour, as was the case for untreated or mock-treated flower
   buds (treated with an aqueous solution of 0.025% Zipper
10 surfactant), the treated flower buds developed into blue
   flowers. Blue was the wild type flower colour in this endive
   background. In addition, the flowers that developed from
   MeJA-treated flower buds produced viable, functional pollen
   and were able to set seed through self-pollination, whereas
15 control plants sprayed with an aqueous solution of 0.025%
   Zipper surfactant remained male sterile and hence devoid of
   seeds.
             Other application methods  (other than spraying) of
   jasmonic acid and/or one or more jasmonic acid derivatives,
20 in particular methyl jasmonate, had comparable effects, such
   as "painting" a MeJA solution onto the surface of young
   flower buds with a fine brush.
             This experiment demonstrated that the male
   sterility that was caused by the opr3 mutation in endive
25 could be overcome by the application of MeJA. The seeds that
   were produced by selfing of the homozygous mutant plants
   treated with MeJA were all homozygous for the mutation.
   Jasmonic acid or other derivatives thereof had the same
   effect.
30           The presence of the mutation could be detected by
   means of molecular markers  (the SNP marker that can be used
   for this purpose is presented as SEQ ID No. 2),  and in
   flowering plants one could also use the flower colour as a

                                  48
   visual marker. Homozygous mutants have very pale  (almost
   white) flowers than the flowers of wild type and
   heterozygous plants, which are blue  (Figure 2).
             The causal SNP mutation was detected by means of
 5 DNA-sequencing of a PCR-fragment of the OPR3 gene. First, a
   fragment of the endive OPR3 gene containing the SNP was
   amplified by PCR, using suitable PCR-primers that were
   designed based on the sequence information in SEQ ID No. 2.
   Subsequently, the DNA-sequence of the PCR product was
10 determined by means of Sanger sequencing, using the
   following oligonucleotide as forward sequencing primer:
   GGCAAGTTCAATCTCTCTCAC. Of course various other techniques
   can also be used for the detection of the SNP in SEQ ID No.
   2.
15
   EXAMPLE 4
   Transfer of the reversible male sterility trait to another
   Cichorium plant
             The deposited endive seeds harbouring the trait of
20 the invention (deposited as NCIMB number 42092) have been
   produced by allowing endive plants homozygous for the
   reversible male sterility trait to be pollinated by
   bumblebees, with pollen from endive plants heterozygous for
   the reversible male sterility trait. The latter plants are
25 fully male fertile. Of the seeds resulting from this cross
   about 50% were homozygous for the trait of the invention,
   and about 50% were heterozygous for the said trait.
             Endive plants of the invention were crossed with
   wild type  (WT) endive plants, which do not carry the trait
30 of the invention. Plants grown from seeds of the deposit
   were first selected (phenotypically on the basis of male
   sterility and/or a pale flower colour, and/or on the
   presence of the causal SNP mutation in the OPR3 gene in a

                                 49
   homozygous state), to ensure that the trait of the invention
   would be transferred to the Fl generation in 100%  of the
   cases. Alternatively, this selection can be done in the F2
   generation, although this is less efficient.
 5           The Fl plants resulting from this cross had the
   same phenotype as the wild type plant, i.e. they displayed
   normal fertility and a normal, blue flower colour.
   Nevertheless, the presence of the trait of the invention in
   a heterozygous state could be detected by means of a
10 molecular marker. The SNP that can be used for this purpose
   is presented as SEQ ID No. 2. This molecular marker can be
   used to identify the presence of the genetic determinant
   that underlies the trait of the invention in endive plants
   grown from seeds as deposited under NCIMB number 42092.
15           In the F2 generation the trait of the invention
   segregated in a manner that corresponds with a monogenic
   recessive inheritance. The trait of the invention could be
   introduced into a wild type endive plant by crossing the
   wild type endive plant with an endive plant of the invention
20 and after selfing selecting for the desired phenotype in the
   F2 generation, for example by selection on male sterility
   and/or the presence of the molecular marker in a homozygous
   state. The latter method of detection has the advantage that
   plants of the invention can be identified at a young
25 developmental stage, long before they start flowering.
             In the F2 generation the male sterility trait was
   also reversible. The addition of jasmonic acid and/or one or
   more jasmonic acid derivatives, in particular methyl
   jasmonate, was sufficient to restore male fertility, as
30 described in Example 3.
             In a similar manner the trait of the invention can
   also be introduced into e.g. witloof or radicchio plants
   (Cichorium intybus).

                               CLAIMS
             1. Plant of the Compositae family exhibiting a
   reversible genic male sterility trait, characterised in that
 5 the genic male sterility is caused by a reduction or
   complete absence of endogenous jasmonic acid production,
   resulting from interference with one or more target genes
   involved in endogenous jasmonic acid production, selected
   from the group consisting of lipoxygenase, allene oxide
10 synthase, allene oxide cyclase and 12-oxo-phytodienoic acid
   10,11-reductase, or their functional homologues.
             2. Plant as claimed in claim 1, wherein the male
   sterility can be reversed by the application of jasmonic
   acid and/or one or more jasmonic acid derivatives, in
15 particular methyl jasmonate.
             3. Plant as claimed in claim 1 or 2, wherein the
   interfering with the one or more target genes consists of
   preventing transcription thereof.
             4. Plant as claimed in claim 3, wherein
20 transcription is preferably prevented by means of RNA
   oligonucleotides, DNA oligonucleotides or RNAi molecules
   directed against the target gene promoter, or wherein
   transcription is preferably prevented by means of the
   expression of a negatively acting transcription factor
25 acting on the target gene promoter.
             5. Plant as claimed in claim 1 or 2, wherein the
   interfering with the one or more target genes consists of
   destabilising the target gene mRNA or transcript, preferably
   by means of nucleic acid molecules that are complementary to
30 the target gene mRNA or transcript, selected from the group
   consisting of antisense RNA, RNAi molecules, Virus-Induced
   Gene Silencing (VIGS) molecules, co-suppressor molecules,
   RNA oligonucleotides or DNA oligonucleotides, or wherein the

   interfering with the one or more target genes consists of
   inhibiting the target gene expression product, preferably by
   means of the expression product(s) of one or more dominant
   negative nucleic acid constructs, or preferably by means of
 5 one or more chemical compounds.
                  6. Plant as claimed in claim 1 or 2, wherein the
   interfering with the one or more target genes consists of
   the introduction of one or more mutations into the target
   gene, leading to perturbation of its biological function,
10 and wherein the one or more mutations are preferably
   introduced randomly by means of one or more chemical
   compounds, such as ethyl methanesulphonate,
   nitrosomethylurea, hydroxylamine, proflavine, N-methyl-N
   nitrosoguanidine,         N-ethyl-N-nitrosourea,   N-methyl-N-nitro
15 nitrosoguanidine,         diethyl sulphate,  ethylene  imine, sodium
   azide, formaline, urethane, phenol and ethylene oxide,
   and/or by physical means, such as UV-irradiation, fast
   neutron exposure, X-rays, gamma irradiation, and/or by
   insertion of genetic elements, such as transposons, T-DNA,
20 retroviral elements, and/or wherein the one or more
   mutations are introduced specifically by means of homologous
   recombination or oligonucleotide-based mutation induction.
                  7. Plant as claimed in any one of the claims 1-6,
   wherein the plant is a plant of the genus Lactuca.
25                8. Plant as claimed in claim 7, wherein the plant
   is  a plant of the species Lactuca sativa, and wherein the
   male sterility      trait    is  caused by a genetic determinant,
   which is     as present in      the genome of plants grown from seed
   of which a representative          sample was deposited with the
30 NCIMB under accession number NCIMB 42060, in which the
   presence of the said genetic determinant           can be identified
   by a molecular marker characterised by SEQ ID No. 1.

             9. Plant of the Compositae family as claimed in
   any one of the claims 1-6, wherein the plant is a plant of
   the genus Cichorium.
             10. Plant as claimed in claim 9, wherein the male
 5 sterility trait is caused by a genetic determinant, which is
   as present in the genome of plants grown from seed of which
   a representative sample was deposited with the NCIMB under
   accession number NCIMB 42092, in which the presence of the
   said genetic determinant can be identified by a molecular
10 marker characterised by SEQ ID No. 2.
             11. Plant as claimed in claims 9-10, wherein the
   homozygous presence of the genetic determinant underlying
   the male sterility trait can be identified by a pale flower
   colour, when compared to plants not having the said genetic
15 determinant, or to plants in which the said genetic
   determinant is present in a heterozygous state.
             12. Use of the plant of claims 7-8 as a female
   parent for the creation of hybrid Lactuca seeds.
             13. Use of the plant of claims 9-11 as a female
20 parent for the creation of hybrid Cichorium seeds.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
                                                               505420851_1
<removed-date>
                                   SEQUENCE LI STI NG
              <110> Ri j k Zwaan Zaadt eel t en Zaadhandel B. V.
              <120> REVERSI BLE GENI C MALE STERI LI TY I N COMPOSI TAE
              <130> L/ 2PP79/ KK/ 220
              <150> EP13151073. 7
              <151> 2013- 01- 11
<removed-apn>
              <160> 2
              <170> Bi SSAP 1. 2
              <210>   1
              <211>   1823
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Lact uca sat i va
              <220>
              <221> sour ce
              <222> 1. . 1823
              <223> / or gani sm=" Lact uca sat i va"
                    / mol _t ype=" unassi gned DNA"
              <400> 1
              at ggct gaaa caccgccgt c t gccgacaat ccaact ct ct t t t ct ccat t caagat gggc                   60
              aagt t t aat c t ct ct cacag gt ccgt t gt t t ct at cct t t ct t ct ct t ca ct t t ct aat c    120
              at aaat ccgt cccccct at a aaagt cct t c agat t t t gag ct t gat ccag t ct t gaccga             180
              t cact at acc gt gt t t t ggt t gt agggt gg t gt t agct cc gat gacgcgg t gt agggcgt            240
              t aaat agcat accgaat caa gct ct ggt gg agt at t acag gcagagagca accgccggt g                    300
              ggt t t ct cat cacggagggg acaat gat ct ct cct acct c cgccgggt aa t t t cgct at t               360
              cct t t t gt t c t t caagggt g t t t t agt aaa t caacat t cc aacat aat t c accgggacaa          420
              accat at aaa accgccacgt ggcaat t ct t agt t cct t ac at agt gct t t gt gggacct g               480
              cagt at agac t at t at t aaa gt cacaccat t at t aaagt c acat t ct ct t t at aaccact            540
              t t at aaagt c t t t at aact a aaaaat gt gt t t t t t t cgt t gt act t t at a gt t agat t ag   600
              at gcat aat g t ggat ct t at gaaccat t aa acaat gat ac aagct act t g t gt t ct aaag            660
              t t aaagat gc cat t t t gat t ct t aat t t aa aaaacccat t t ggt t t agga at acccct t t         720
              at t cat cgat cat t at aaag cccaaat t aa cgat ct t t ct ggt aaaaaaa aacccaat t t               780
              ggt gat cagg t t ccct cacg t accaggt at at t t aat caa gaacaagt t g aagct t ggaa               840
                                                             Page 1

                                                             505420851_1
<removed-date>
              gaaagt cgt g gat gcagt t c at gaaaaagg cgct gt gat c t t t t gt t aat t at ggcat gt      900
              cggcagagca t cccaccaag gt acgct t t c t t ccat ct aa aagt ct caaa at ct caacat           960
              t t t gat t t t t gaacct aaat t cgaat cgaa agt gat cat t gt gt t gaaca aacagt at at     1020
              caacct aat g gggt t gcacc aat at cat ct acaagcaaac ccat at cgaa aaaat ggaga             1080
              at t t t aat gc ccgat gggac ccacgct caa t at ccaaacc ct cgaccact cgct acccat            1140
<removed-apn>
              gaaat accag aggt ggt gga agact at cgt ct ggcagcaa t t aacgccat t gaagcaggt              1200
              t t t gat ggaa t cgagat t ca cggagcccat ggt t at ct t c t cgat caat t cat gaaagat       1260
              ggcat caat a at cgaaccga t gaat at ggt ggat ct t t ag caaaccgat g caaat t ct t a        1320
              ct gaaagt gg t gaaat cgat agct acagcc at t ggt gcag at aaagt cgg t gt t agaat c         1380
              t caccagct a t t gaccat t t agacgccat g gat t ct gacc cacgt agct t agggct t gaa         1440
              gt aat t gaaa gact gaat aa act t caggt t gaat t agggt caaagt t gac t t at ct t cat      1500
              gt gact caac caaggt acac ggct t at ggt caaacagaag ct ggaagcca t ggaagt gaa              1560
              gaggaagt t g ct gagt t gat gaagat at gg agaagggcat t t at gggaac t t t t gt t t gt      1620
              agt ggt gggt at act agaga gct t gggat t gaagct gt gg ct aaagggga t gct gat t t g        1680
              gt ggct t at g gaaggct t t t t at at cgaat ccggat t t gg t t t t gagact caaggt t aat    1740
              gcacct t t ga at aggt at gt t agggct agt t t t t at acac at gat cct gt t gt agggt ac    1800
              act gat t acc ct t cact t ga gaa                                                        1823
              <210>   2
              <211>   289
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Ci chor i um endi vi a
              <220>
              <221> sour ce
              <222> 1. . 289
              <223> / or gani sm=" Ci chor i um endi vi a"
                    / mol _t ype=" unassi gned DNA"
              <400> 2
              t caacat cca gat ct ccgat cccaagcaaa t aat ggct ga aacgacgccg t ct gccgaca               60
              at ccaaccct ct t t t ct ccg t acaagat gg gcaagt t caa t ct ct ct cac agggt gat ca       120
              gt t act t t ac t t cgat ccat t gt t ct cgca gct t t ct gat cat act t cat t cccccagca   180
                                                               Page 2

                                                           505420851_1
<removed-date>
              aaat aat t ca gaat t t gacc t t gat ccaat t ct gt t t t t a at t ct t t t ac cgat t agt t c   240
              accgt gt t t t ggt t gt aggg t ggt gt t agc t cagat gacg agat gcagg                           289
<removed-apn>
                                                                  Page 3

