     26317
    Abstract
    The present invention relates to a torque measuring apparatus for a
    planetary drive. The apparatus includes a torque measuring mechanism, an
    input gearbox housing and an output gearbox housing. The torque
 5  measuring mechanism is located between and operably connected to input
    and output stages of a gearbox adapted to be driven by a torque load. The
    input gearbox housing accommodates an input stage structure which
   generates a reaction torque in response to the torque load. The output
   gearbox housing accommodates an output stage structure to which the
10  reaction torque is transmitted via the torque measuring mechanism which
   is adapted to transform the reaction torque into a measurable linear force.
   The input gearbox housing is connected to and supported by at least part of
   the torque measuring mechanism thereby being independent of the input
   stage structure.
                                         12

/C
   4 CZ)

     26317
                              A Torque Measuring Apparatus
     Technical Field
     The present invention broadly relates to a torque measuring apparatus. In
  5  particular, the present invention relates to a torque measuring apparatus for
     load monitoring and controlling in planetary drives.
     Background of the Invention
     Planetary gearing, with its inherent in-line shafting and cylindrical casing, is
     often recognized as the compact alternative to standard pinion-and-gear
 10  reducers. Being suited for a wide range of applications - from electric
    screwdrivers to bulldozer power trains - these units are strong contenders
    when space and weight versus reduction and torque are chief concerns. Their
     planetary drive train makes them the ideal choice for all heavy duty
    applications. A typical application is a thickener drive for wet mineral
15   processing where rakes of the thickener is driven by the drive shaft. As the
    shaft turns the rakes will sweep the entire bed of the thickener thereby
    applying torque. The sweeping causes the concentrate that has settled onto
    the bottom of the thickener to be pulled into a discharge chamber at the
    centre of the thickener which is generally referred to as the 'cone'. It is from
20  this cone that the thickener underflow is taken.
    Conventional high ratio, low output speed planetary drives have an
    'intermediate flange' involving two separate gearbox shafts mounted with
    torque arms between them. The torque generated by the gearboxes are
    closely monitored by load cells which are associated with limit switches
25  adapted to trigger an alarm if and when there is an over torque. Such a
    traditional design, as illustrated in Figure 1 as prior art, requires an input
                                              1

   26317
   gearbox drive a male input shaft on the output gearbox. The alignment of
   these shafts and connections is critical to ensure that the drive runs
   smoothly with no oscillation. However, this is a mission impossible as there
   are always some site conditions and movement in the alignment of the
 5 input gearbox which cause oscillation. The traditional design therefore has
   a shortcoming that a slight wobble is often observed when the planetary
   drive is in operation. The wobble is believed to be caused by tolerances for
   the machined parts and the rotating gear train within the housing. The
   wobble is particularly significant and noticeable with the longer input
10 gearboxes and motor combination.
   It is an object of the present invention to provide a torque measuring
   mechanism which may overcome or at least ameliorate the above
   shortcoming or which will at least provide a useful alternative.
   Summary of the Invention
15 According to the present invention, there is provided a torque measuring
   apparatus for a planetary drive, the apparatus including:
   a torque measuring mechanism being located between and operably
   connected to input and output stages of a gearbox adapted to be driven by
   a torque load,
20 an input gearbox housing accommodating an input stage structure which
   generates a reaction torque in response to the torque load; and
   an output gearbox housing accommodating an output stage structure to
   which the reaction torque is transmitted via the torque measuring
   mechanism which is adapted to transform the reaction torque into a
25 measurable linear force;
   wherein the input gearbox housing is connected to and supported by at
                                           2

   26317
   least part of the torque measuring mechanism thereby being independent
   of the input stage structure.
   Preferably, the input stage structure includes selected elements of a
   planetary gearset. More preferably, the output stage structure includes
 5 further elements of the planetary gearset.
   Preferably, the input stage structure is connected to the output stage
   structure via shafting means. More preferably, the shafting means include a
   splined shaft which is adapted to engage the input stage structure and a
   splined sleeve which is affixed to the output stage structure.
10 In a preferred embodiment, the torque measuring mechanism includes:
   a first member being connected to the input gearbox housing and having a
   first collar and a first arm;
   a second member being connected to the output gearbox housing and
   having a second collar and a second arm;
15 a bearing means intermediate the first and second collars which are
   adapted to movably engage one another; and
   a load measuring means having one end joined to the first arm and another
   end joined to the second arm;
   wherein the bearing means is capable of facilitating rotation of the first
20 member relative to the second member whilst providing support to the
   input stage structure.
   In a preferred embodiment, the first and second members are concentric.
   The first member may rotate about a central axis of the second member
   whilst the second member remains stationary.
25 Preferably, the first member is in the form of a spindle. More preferably,
   the spindle is configured to provide both axial and radial support to the
                                          3

   26317
   input stage structure. Even more preferably, the second member is in the
   form of a hub.
   Preferably, the first and second collars extend in opposite directions
   confining the bearing means in a secured position.
 5 In operation, the reaction torque applied between the input and out stage
   structures causes the first and second arms to generate the linear force
   measurable by the loading measuring means.
   Preferably, the load measuring means is a load cell capable of providing a
   reading which enables calculation of the magnitude of the applied torque.
10 Preferably, the torque measuring mechanism includes an oil seal located
   between the first and second members. As such, oil may be supplied by the
   oil seal to both the input and output stage structures. The oil seal functions
   as a barrier which retains the lubricating oil where it is bound to be,
   prevents the oil from leaking outside even under high pressure of the oil
15 and prevents contamination of the oil by external entities.
   Preferably, the second member includes internal drainage holes adapted to
   prevent trapped air pockets during oil filling in a vertical configuration
   thereby ensuring adequate lubrication of the bearing means.
   Brief Description of the Drawings
20 The invention may be better understood from the following non-limiting
   description of the preferred embodiment, in which:
   Figure 1 is a perspective view of a planetary drive having a prior art torque
   measuring apparatus involving two separate gearbox shafts mounted with
   torque arms between them;
                                           4

   26317
   Figure 2 is a perspective view of a torque measuring apparatus of the present
   invention;
   Figure 3 is an exploded cross sectional view of the torque measuring apparatus
   of Figure 2;
 5 Figure 4 is an assembled cross sectional view of the torque measuring
   apparatus of Figure 2;
   Figure 5 is a cross sectional view of the torque measuring mechanism of the
   torque measuring apparatus of Figure 2;
   Figure 6 is a perspective view of a load measuring means of the torque
10 measuring mechanism of Figure 5;
   Figure 7 is a perspective view of the torque measuring apparatus of Figure 2 in
   operation; and
   Figure 8 is a cross sectional view illustrating the interior of the torque
   measuring apparatus in operation.
15 Detailed Description of the Drawings
   Referring to Figures 1 and 2, a torque measuring apparatus 10 for a
   planetary drive is shown. The torque measuring apparatus 10 has a torque
   measuring mechanism 12, an input gearbox housing 14 and an output
   gearbox housing 16. The torque measuring mechanism 12 is located
20 between and operably connected to input and output stages of a gearbox
   adapted to be driven by a torque load.
   As shown in Figures 2 and 3, the input gearbox housing 14 accommodates
   an input stage structure 18 which generates a reaction torque in response
   to the torque load. The output gearbox housing 16 accommodates an
25 output stage structure 20 to which the reaction torque is transmitted via
   the torque measuring mechanism 12 which is adapted to transform the
   reaction torque into a measurable linear force. The input gearbox housing
                                              5

   26317
    14 is connected to and supported by at least part of the torque measuring
   mechanism thereby being independent of the input stage structure 18. As
   such, during operation, the movement in and of the input stage structure
   18 with rotating drive train components does not impact on the input
 5 gearbox housing 14.
   As best shown in Figure 2, the input stage structure 18 has selected
   elements 22 of a planetary gearset. The output stage structure 20 has
   further elements 24 of the planetary gearset. The input stage structure
   18 is connected to the output stage structure 20 via shafting means 26.
10 In this embodiment, the shafting means 26 has a splined shaft 28 which
   engages the input stage structure 18 and a splined sleeve 30 which is
   affixed to the output stage structure 20.
   Turning now to Figures 4 and 5, the torque measuring mechanism 12 has a
   first member in the form of a spindle 34, a second member in the form of a
15 hub 32, a bearing means 36 and a load measuring means 38. The spindle 34
   has an upper portion 40 which takes the form of a tub defined by a
   circumferential flange 42 which is in contact with the input gearbox housing
   14. The spindle 34 also has a downwardly extending collar 44 and an arm
   46. The hub 32 is secured to the output gearbox housing 16 via fastening
20 means in the form of bolts 48. The hub 32 has an upwardly extending collar
   50 and an arm 52. The collars 44 & 50 extend in opposite directions thereby
   confining the bearing means 36 in a secured position. The bearing means
   36 intermediates the collars 44 & 50 which in operation are adapted to
   movably engage one another. The bearing means 36 is a double row
25 angular contact ball bearing which is capable of facilitating rotation of the
   spindle 34 relative to the hub 32 whilst providing both axial and radial
   support to the input stage structure 18. The spindle 34 and hub 32 are
   concentric functioning as a couple. The spindle 34 is capable of rotating
                                          6

   26317
   about a central axis of the hub 32 whilst the hub 32 remains stationary.
   Referring to Figures 5, 6 and 7, the load measuring means 38 having one
   end 54 joined to the arm 46 and another end 56 joined to the arm 52. In
   operation, the reaction torque applied between the input and out stage
 5 structures 18 & 20 causes the arms 46 & 52 to generate the linear force
   measurable by the loading measuring means 38. The load measuring means
   38 is a load cell 58 capable of providing a reading which enables calculation
   of the magnitude of the applied torque. The load measuring means 38 is
   capable of measuring torque in both directions and the override switch 62
10 (see Figures 4 and 6) also operates in both directions. The override switch is
   adjustable via springs changes.
   As best shown in Figure 5, the torque measuring mechanism 12 also has an
   oil seal 60 located between the spindle 34 and hub 32. As such, oil is
   supplied by the oil seal 60 to both the input and output stage structures 18
15 & 20. This offers the advantage of requiring on one oil reservoir providing
   common oil in the gearbox. The oil seal 60 functions as a barrier which
   retains the lubricating oil where it is bound to be, prevents the oil from
   leaking outside even under high pressure and prevents contamination of
   the oil by external entities. The hub 32 also has internal drainage holes (not
20 shown) which prevent trapped air pockets during oil filling in a vertical
   configuration thereby ensuring adequate lubrication of the bearing means
   36.
   Referring to Figure 8, the torque measuring apparatus 10 is shown with the
   gearboxes being physically connected through the collars 44 & 50 which are
25 in the shape of flanges via the bearing means 36. As the drive is connected
   internally, no oscillation is observed or detected during load testing.
                                            7

    26317
    Now that a preferred embodiment of the present invention has been
    described in some detail, it will be apparent to a skilled person in the art that
   the torque measuring apparatus of the present invention may offer at least the
   following advantages:
 5      1. it enables the input gearbox housing toe be supported independently of
           the rotating drive train components thereby eliminating any wobble or
           oscillation; and
        2. it enables the drive unit to have a single oil level monitoring point as a
           result of the oil seal between the spindle and the hub allowing the
10         upper and lower gearboxes to share oil.
   Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the invention described herein is
   susceptible to variations and modifications other than those specifically
   described. All such variations and modifications are to be considered within
   the scope and spirit of the present invention the nature of which is to be
15 determined from the foregoing description.
                                             8

   26317
   Claims
   1.    A torque measuring apparatus for a planetary drive, the apparatus
         including:
         a torque measuring mechanism being located between and operably
 5       connected to input and output stages of a gearbox adapted to be
         driven by a torque load,
         an input gearbox housing accommodating an input stage structure
         which generates a reaction torque in response to the torque load; and
         an output gearbox housing accommodating an output stage structure
10       to which the reaction torque is transmitted via the torque measuring
         mechanism which is adapted to transform the reaction torque into a
         measurable linear force;
         wherein the input gearbox housing is connected to and supported by
         at least part of the torque measuring mechanism thereby being
15       independent of the input stage structure.
   2.    The torque measuring apparatus of claim 1, wherein the input stage
         structure includes selected elements of a planetary gearset.
   3.    The torque measuring apparatus of either claim 1 or 2, wherein the
         output stage structure includes further elements of the planetary
20       gearset.
   4.    The torque measuring apparatus of any one of the preceding claims,
         wherein the input stage structure is connected to the output stage
         structure via shafting means.
   5.    The torque measuring apparatus of claim 4, wherein the shafting
25       means include a splined shaft which is adapted to engage the input
                                          9

   26317
         stage structure and a splined sleeve which is affixed to the output
         stage structure.
   6.    The torque measuring apparatus of any one of the preceding claims,
         wherein the torque measuring mechanism includes:
 5       a first member being connected to the input gearbox housing and
         having a first collar and a first arm;
         a second member being connected to the output gearbox housing and
         having a second collar and a second arm;
         a bearing means intermediate the first and second collars which are
10       adapted to movably engage one another; and
         a load measuring means having one end joined to the first arm and
         another end joined to the second arm;
         wherein the bearing means is capable of facilitating rotation of the
         first member relative to the second member whilst providing support
15       to the input stage structure.
   7.    The torque measuring apparatus of claim 6, wherein the first and
         second members are concentric.
   8.    The torque measuring apparatus of either claim 6 or 7, wherein the
         first member rotates about a central axis of the second member whilst
20       the second member remains stationary.
   9.    The torque measuring apparatus of any one of claims 6 to 8, wherein
         the first member is in the form of a spindle.
   10. The torque measuring apparatus of claim 9, wherein the spindle is
         configured to provide both axial and radial support to the input stage
25       structure.
                                             10

   26317
   11.    The torque measuring apparatus of any one of claims 6 to 10, wherein
          the second member is in the form of a hub.
   12.   The torque measuring apparatus of any one of claims 6 to 11, wherein
         the first and second collars extend in opposite directions confining the
 5        bearing means in a secured position.
   13.   The torque measuring apparatus of any one of claims 6 to 12, wherein
         the torque measuring mechanism includes an oil seal located between
         the first and second members.
   14.   The torque measuring apparatus of claim 11, wherein the hub includes
10       internal drainage holes adapted to prevent trapped air pockets during
         oil filling in a vertical configuration thereby ensuring adequate
         lubrication of the bearing means.
                                              11

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
