                                        ABSTRACT
There is disclosed a method of constructing a fire-protected building, comprising arranging
one or more building modules over an area of ground and securing the or each building
module to fire-resistant structural members whereby the structural members support the
building module(s) against collapse due to fire.

3/8
   I: \NZL\Interwovn\NRPortbl\DCC\NZL\15965057_l.DOC-6 /t12017
                       CONSTRUCTION OF FIRE-PROTECTED MODULAR BUILDINGS
    The present invention relates to a method of constructing a modular building which is
    compliant with fire protection requirements, e.g. regulatory fire protection requirements,
 5  and to a building constructed via such a method.
    The invention has a particularly advantageous application to buildings which comprise
    lightweight modules and require a fire-rated skeleton.
10  Modular buildings are particularly popular in schools, construction, mining and resources
    environments, and remote area accommodation facilities. Typically, such buildings can be
    erected far more quickly than in situ-constructed buildings, are relocatable and can be
    constructed with a relatively high degree of repeatability in terms of quality control.
15  Generally speaking, modular buildings, as distinct from prefabricated/modular in situ
    constructed buildings, comprise one or more modules in which fixtures and finishes have
   been applied in the factory, so that installation of the modular building mostly comprises
    merely anchoring, joining and weatherproofing building modules to form the building. (In
    the case of prefabricated/modular                          in situ-constructed buildings, which commonly
20  incorporate precast concrete floors, walls and columns defining the building skeleton, the
    fixtures and finishes are installed after the skeleton is formed and thus, necessarily,
    on-site.)
   Although modular buildings can be constructed from heavy or lightweight modules, the
25  latter, which typically have steel or timber load-bearing elements, are often preferable
   because they afford greater efficiency of speed and handling throughout factory
    manufacture of the modules, in transport of the modules to site and in final site installation
    of the modules.
30  Generally speaking, the modules must be designed such that the structural skeleton of the
   building is fire-protected, particularly where the building has more than one storey. In the
    interests of keeping module weight to a minimum, for transportation, handling and

   I: \NZL\Interwovn\NRPortbl\DCC\NZL\15965057_l.DOC-6 /t12017
                                                               -2
    installation, load-bearing elements of the modules (which are typically steel or timber) are
   typically coated or encased with fire proof of fire-retardant material, such as fire-rated
   plasterboard, sprayed vermiculite coatings and intumescent paints.        There are, however,
   problems associated with the application of such materials. In particular, it can be difficult
 5  or impossible to establish reliable continuity of fire rating to load-bearing elements across
   junctions between modules, e.g. between the ceiling of a lower module and floor of an
   upper module, in the building. Also, fire-protective coverings can deteriorate or dislodge
    in service, compromising the building's fire rating.
10 According to a first aspect of the present invention, there is provided a method of
    constructing a fire-protected building, comprising arranging, over an area of ground,
   building modules or stacks of building modules one-beside-another, such that there is at
    least one pair of adjacent modules or stacks, and securing each building module to fire
   resistant structural members whereby it is supported by those members against collapse
15  due to fire, wherein a gap separating the modules or stacks in the or each pair is bridged
    such that those modules or stacks are interconnected.
   In the method according to a preferred embodiment of the first aspect, the structural
   members to which each module is secured are arranged at spaced apart positions around
20 that module and secured to that module at those positions.            Preferably ones of said
    structural members are arranged at spaced apart positions around each module and secured
   to it at those positions.
    The method according to a preferred embodiment of the first aspect comprises installing
25 bridging elements across the gap(s) whereby the bridging of the gap(s) is effected.
   According to a second aspect of the present invention, there is provided a method of
    constructing a fire-protected building, comprising arranging one or more building modules
    over an area of ground and securing the or each building module to fire-resistant structural
30 members whereby the structural members support the building module(s) against collapse
    due to fire.

   I: \NZL\Interwovn\NRPortbl\DCC\NZL\15965057_l.DOC-6 /t12017
                                                                          -3
    The method according to a preferred embodiment of the second aspect comprises
    arranging plural said modules over the area of ground.
   In the method according to a preferred embodiment of the second aspect, the structural
 5 members are arranged at spaced apart positions around the module(s) and secured to the
   module(s) at those positions.
   In the method according to a preferred embodiment of the second aspect, ones or stacks of
    said modules are arranged one-beside-another over the area of ground. Preferably, said
10  ones or stacks are so arranged that adjacent ones thereof are separated by a respective gap
    and bridging elements are installed across the gap(s) to interconnect the adjacent modules
    or stacks.
   Preferably, the method of the invention includes stacking ones of said modules, thereby
15  forming at least one stack comprising a lowermost module and an uppermost module, and
   the modules in the or each stack are secured to common ones of the structural members.
   Advantageously, the structural members can thus define in the building a fire-resistant
    support skeleton in which there is continuity across junctions/joins between adjacent
   modules in the/each stack.                                  The or each stack may, for example, comprise only two
20 modules - an upper/uppermost one and a lower/lowermost one - or instead may comprise
   three or more modules - an uppermost one and a lowermost one and at least intermediate
    one therebetween. In a preferred embodiment of the invention, each of the modules in the
    or each stack forms part of a respective storey of the building.
25  Ones or stacks of said modules may be arranged side-by-side, end-to-end and/or end-to
    side so as to be disposed one-beside-another over the area of ground. Preferably, at least
    one said member is positioned to occupy the or each gap and is secured to the adjacent
   modules or stacks separated by that gap. Preferably, the or each gap-occupying member
    substantially bridges the gap it occupies. Preferably, plural said members are positioned at
30  spaced apart locations to occupy the or each gap.
    The or each gap may be bridged at a plurality of positions, which will usually include the

   I: \NZL\Interwovn\NRPortbl\DCC\NZL\15965057_l.DOC-6 /t12017
                                                                 -4
   parts of the gap at the exterior of the building.                       Said bridging elements may include
    sections of floor, sections of ceiling/roof, sections of wall and/or any of a range of other
    features, including a staircase.
 5 Preferably, the or each gap is sufficiently wide to provide access between the adjacent
   modules/stacks. In some embodiments of the invention, the gap may be sufficiently wide
   to accommodate a person. In such embodiments, the gap may have a width of 600mm to
    1200mm.
10  The modules may be deployed such that the or each gap extends between adjacent sides of
    the modules or stacks in adjacent pairs of modules/stacks. Preferably, deployment of each
    module includes engaging the exterior thereof with lifting means at each side thereof,
    operating the lifting means to deploy the module into the position it is to occupy in the
   building, then disengaging the lifting means from the module, the width of the gap(s) being
15  sufficient that the lifting means is not obstructed by any deployed modules during
    deployment of the module. In a preferred embodiment of the invention, the or each gap is
    of a width sufficient to provide a person access between adjacent modules of adjacent
    stacks to disengage the lifting means.                     Preferably, the or each module is bottom-lifted
   whereby to be deployed, i.e. the lifting means is engaged with the base of each module to
20  deploy it, whereby there is eliminated a need to form them in their entirety with heavy
    gauge structural members and high capacity connections, which would be required to
    allow them to be lifted if engaged by the lifting means at upper positions thereof and which
   would serve no other structural purpose thereafter.
25 Advantageously, owing to there being a gap between adjacent modules or stacks of
   modules in the preferred embodiments of the invention, the need to force either one of
    adjacent modules/stacks sideways to bring the modules together after deploying them can
   be eliminated; the position of each module after disengagement from the lifting means can
   be that at which it will remain. Moreover, misalignment between, and/or any distortion or
30  dimensional deviation in, adjacent modules will generally not interfere with the locating of
    each module in its appropriate position in the building. The formation of a deliberate gap
   between adjacent stacks/modules can allow each module/stack to be erected independently

   I: \NZL\Interwovn\NRPortbl\DCC\NZL\15965057_l.DOC-6 I/2017
                                                              -5
    of the other(s).
   Preferably, the bridging elements are prefinished before being installed. The or each gap
   may be used for access to fix the bridging elements in place. The bridging elements may
 5 be installed in a sequence which is such that access into the gap to fix them in place is
    optimised.
    The bridging elements - for example, infill floor and ceiling, wall and roof sections - may
   be constructed on-site. The elements may be deliberately "undersized" with respect to the
10  gap (i.e. in their "across-gap" dimension) to ensure they will be receivable in the gap and to
    facilitate installation, appropriate packing then being installed to fill out the remainder of
   the gap.
   In one embodiment of the invention, at least one non-uppermost module of a said stack is
15  secured to ones of said structural members, whereby to be supported thereby, before at
    least one further module of the stack is deployed atop the non-uppermost module. In such
    an embodiment, the or each non-uppermost module so secured may have a load-bearing
    capacity so low as to be insufficient for it to be able to support the module(s) deployed
    atop it if it were not secured to the structural members supporting it. More particularly,
20 timber or steel columns of the module shells/frames could, if desired, have a low load
   bearing capacity in such an embodiment.                       However, such columns will still confer
    structural support to the building.
   In another embodiment of the invention, at least one said stack of modules is formed
25 before securing of the modules in the stack to ones of said structural members. In such an
    embodiment, those ones of the structural members may be installed after formation of the
    stack.
    In a preferred embodiment of the invention, the method includes locating at least one said
30  module on one or more temporary foundations and removing said foundation(s) after the
   module has been secured to ones of said structural members, such that the or each module
   which was located on one or more temporary foundations is suspended aboveground by the

   I: \NZL\Interwovn\NRPortbl\DCC\NZL\15965057_l.DOC-6 /t12017
                                                                    -6
    structural members to which it is secured.                           The or each temporary foundation may
    comprise, for example, a dry block or pallet stile.
   In a preferred embodiment of the invention, the method comprises arranging at least one
 5  said module over the area of ground, fixing ones of said structural members thereto such
   that those structural members are supported from the module(s), and, thereafter, effecting
   the securing of the structural members to the ground.
   In a preferred embodiment of the invention, the method comprises arranging at least one
10  said lowermost module over the area of ground, fixing ones of said structural members
   thereto such that those structural members are supported from the lowermost module(s),
    and, thereafter, anchoring those structural members to the ground, e.g. by setting them in
   the ground via poured foundations or securing them to one or more precast foundations,
    concrete bases or pads, or pre-poured footings. Advantageously, ones of said modules can
15 thus be exploited to hold the columns in position such that they do not fall over when
    disengaged from a crane after being deployed. The fixing of the structural members may
   be permanent.                      Alternatively, said fixing may be temporary and later replaced with
   permanent fixing. Preferably, the method of this embodiment further includes arranging a
    further module atop the or each lowermost module after the fixing of ones of said
20  structural members to the lowermost module(s) and fixing the further module(s) to said
    ones of said structural members.                           The method of this embodiment may also comprise
    forming foundation voids in the ground and the arranging of ones of said structural
   members around the lowermost module(s) may comprise positioning those structural
   members such that lower ends of the members are located in the voids. The method may
25  further comprise securing the so arranged structural members to the lowermost module(s),
    so that those members are supported thereby, and thereafter pouring concrete into the voids
   to set those structural members in the ground.
   In a preferred embodiment of the invention, the structural members are arranged in grid
30  formation.
   In the preferred embodiments of the invention, the fire-resistant structural members are

   I: \NZL\Interwovn\NRPortbl\DCC\NZL\15965057_l.DOC-6 /t12017
                                                                  -7
    fire-rated.
   Preferably, the structural members are prefabricated. Installation may thus be faster than if
   the structural members were not prefabricated.
 5
   In one preferred embodiment of the invention, the structural members are formed from
   pre-cast concrete.                        In another preferred embodiment of the invention, the structural
   members are formed from masonry material.
10 Preferably, the fire-resistant structural members project upwardly from the area of ground.
    Preferably, the fire-resistant structural members are secured to the area of ground. The
    method may include positioning ones of the structural members such that lower ends
    thereof are located in foundation voids in the ground, and pouring concrete into the voids
15  to set those structural members in the ground. Alternatively, the method may include
    arranging one or more precast foundations, bases, pads or footings over the ground,
   positioning said members thereon and securing said members thereto. The foundation(s),
   base(s), pad(s) or footing(s) may be configured with locating and/or anchoring
    components/provisions which engage respective lower ends of the structural members to
20  facilitate location and/or effect anchorage of the structural members.
    Preferably, the structural members comprise columns.                      The columns may be concrete
    columns. Preferably, the concrete columns are precast. Alternatively, the columns may be
    masonry columns.
25
    Preferably, each structural member is formed from inherently fire-resistant or fire-rated
    material. It may then be unnecessary for that structural member to be provided with a fire
    resistant coating, whereby the fire-resistant properties of the member cannot deteriorate or
   be compromised by damage to the member while it is being installed or in service. In a
30 preferred embodiment, that material comprises concrete. Alternatively, that material may
    comprise masonry material, such as stone.

   I: \NZL\Interwovn\NRPortbl\DCC\NZL\15965057_l.DOC-6 /t12017
                                                                       -8
   In a preferred embodiment of the invention, each structural member is formed by
    interconnecting sections, preferably one atop another.                           The sections may be configured
   with           coupling             components/provisions           which   are  interengageable    to  effect the
    interconnection thereof.
 5
   Preferably, the structural members are arranged at spaced apart positions around the
   module(s) and secured to the module(s) at those positions.                                Preferably, ones of said
    structural members are arranged at spaced apart positions around the or each module and
    secured to it at those positions.
10
   Preferably, ones of said structural members are arranged adjacent respective corners of the
   module(s) and secured thereto.                              Alternatively or additionally, ones of said structural
   members may be arranged at positions intermediate opposite corners of the module(s).
15 Preferably, the or each module is substantially box-shaped or generally in the form of a
    rectangular prism, whereby to have four comers therearound.                                     In the preferred
    embodiments of the invention, the or each module comprises a base, opposed sides and
    opposed ends. In a preferred embodiment of the invention, the or each module is elongate
    in a direction between the opposed ends.
20
    Preferably, the or each building module is of lightweight construction. Typically, the or
    each module comprises a steel or timber frame and plywood and/or plasterboard wall,
    ceiling and floor panels, the frame and panels defining a shell of the module.
25  The modules may be formed with locating means whereby a said module received atop a
   previously deployed module in the formation of a said stack is located horizontally with
   respect to the previously deployed module during stacking.                               The locating means may
    comprise locating pins and holes which receive the pins such that the two modules are
    aligned. Preferably, the pins and holes are disposed adjacent opposite ends of the modules.
30
   According to a third aspect of the present invention, there is provided a fire-protected
   building constructed via a method as defined above.

   I: \NZL\Interwovn\NRPortbl\DCC\NZL\15965057_l.DOC-6 /t12017
                                                               -9
    The present invention will now be described, by way of non-limiting example only, with
   reference to the accompanying drawings, in which:
   Figure 1 depicts an arrangement of temporary foundations and foundation voids in a first
 5  stage of a building construction method according to a preferred embodiment of the
   present invention;
   Figure 2 shows side-by-side lowermost modules of the building landed on the temporary
    foundations in a second stage of the construction method;
10
   Figure 3 shows fire-rated structural support members arranged at corners of the side-by
    side lowermost modules such that lower ends thereof occupy the foundation voids, in a
   third stage of the construction method;
15 Figure 4 shows side-by-side upper modules, each of which is landed atop a respective one
    of the lowermost modules, to be supported by the columns/posts of that lowermost module,
    whereby side-by-side stacks of modules are formed, in a fourth stage of the construction
    method;
20  Figure 5 shows the finished building resulting from a fifth stage in the construction
   method, in which concrete is poured into the foundation voids, the modules are connected
   to the structural support members, the temporary foundations are removed and bridging
    elements are installed between adjacent modules;
25 Figure 6 shows details of interconnections between a module and fire-rated structural
    support members in the building;
   Figure 7 shows details of side-by-side modules in the building and a fire-rated structural
    support member to which they are fixed at a front side of the building; and
30
   Figure 8 shows details of side-by-side modules in the building and a fire-rated structural
    support member to which they are fixed at a rear side of the building.

   I: \NZL\Interwovn\NRPortbl\DCC\NZL\15965057_l.DOC-6 /t12017
                                                                - 10
   Referring firstly to Figures 4 and 5, construction of a multi-storey modular building 100 in
    accordance with a preferred embodiment of the present invention comprises deploying
    lower 20 and upper 40 building modules, each of which is a conventional, non-fire-rated,
    steel post module and includes a respective steel post or column 22 at each corner thereof,
 5  a floor section 24 (which includes a floor surface), from which the comer posts 22 project
   upwardly, and a ceiling section 26 fixed to the posts 22 so as to be supported by them.
   Each of the modules 20, 40, consistent with conventional modules, further comprises wall
    frames, linings/claddings, insulation, joinery and finishes, and may incorporate services
    infrastructure, such as electrical wiring and plumbing.
10
   Referring to Figure 1, the construction commences with arrangement of temporary
    foundations 3,                  e.g.       dry blocks or pallet  stiles, on an area of ground 5  and
    drilling/excavating foundation holes 7 in the ground, the foundations 3 and holes 7 forming
   respective grids over the ground area. Temporary covers 9 may, if appropriate, be placed
15  over the holes 7 for safety and to mitigate dirt/mud ingress resulting from weather
    conditions over the course of the installation.
   In the present embodiment, the permanent foundations to be formed at the foundation
   voids 7 comprise bored piers but, in an alternative embodiment of the invention, pad-type
20  foundations could instead be formed.
    The location of the perimeter of the building 100 is shown by broken line 11 in Figure 1.
   Referring now to Figure 2, building modules 20 are bottom-lifted by crane onto the
25 temporary foundations 3 such that they are supported by those foundations over the ground
    surface 5 in spaced apart, side-by-side relation, the bottom-lifting of the modules being
   possible owing to adjacent ones of the module 20 being separated by gaps G.                      More
   particularly, provided at spaced apart exterior positions on each long side of the base
    section of each module 20 are at least two lifting points (not shown), such as fixed or
30 removable lugs, for engagement with the lifting assembly of a crane, and, owing to the
    gaps G, the lifting points and slings/chains of the lifting assembly on the side of a given
   module as it is landed adjacent an already deployed module are clear of the already

   I: \NZL\Interwovn\NRPortbl\DCC\NZL\15965057_l.DOC-6 /t12017
                                                               - 11
    deployed module, so that the already deployed module does not interfere with placement
    of the module which is being landed.                       Moreover, each gap G, conveniently, provides
    access between the adjacent modules to decouple the slings/chains from the lifting points
    on the side of the newly deployed module which is adjacent the previously deployed
 5 module. Were the modules required to abut, bottom-lifting of them would necessitate,
    after disconnection of modules from the lifting assembly, shifting of them laterally to
    effect the abutment, creating complexity.
   Packers (not shown) are fitted, as and where required, between the modules 20 and
10 temporary foundations 3 so that the modules 20 are plumb and in true position.
   Next, referring to Figure 3, with footing hole covers 9 removed, precast concrete
    columns 30 are deployed and fixed to corners of the modules 20. More particularly, each
    column 30 is positioned, either in its entirety or in successive sections or "modules"
15  (arranged one atop another), by crane such that a lower end thereof is received in a
   respective foundation void 7, and thence fixed, in the case of it being adjacent a laterally
    outer corner of a laterally outermost module, to that corner, or, in the case of it being
   received between adjacent modules 20, to adjacent corners of the modules 20. Where each
    column 30 is defined by successive sections/modules, those sections/modules may be
20  configured with interengagable coupling components, such as keys and sockets, whereby
    adjacent ones of the modules/sections which are thus stacked to form a respective column,
    are interconnected. Each column 30 is secured, e.g. via angles, cast-in plates, bolts and/or
    site welds to the respective module(s). Each column 30 may, for example, be so secured to
   the post 22 or pair of adjacent posts 22, a module floor beam or pair of adjacent module
25  floor beams, and/or a module ceiling beam or pair of adjacent module ceiling beams, at the
    corner(s) adjacent to which it is positioned. As can be seen from Figure 3, the columns 30
   have widths substantially equal to the sizes of the gaps G, and the foundation voids 7 are
    formed at positions corresponding to those of the comers of the landed modules 20. Each
    column 30 or section/module thereof may instead be formed from another material, e.g.
30 masonry.
   Each column 30 is temporarily supported to sit at an appropriate height, plumbed into a

   I: \NZL\Interwovn\NRPortbl\DCC\NZL\15965057_l.DOC-6 /t12017
                                                               - 12
    correct position and then either temporarily or permanently fixed to the respective lower
   module comer(s) before being released from engagement with the crane whereby to be
    supported from the lower modules 20. Advantageously, owing to the concrete columns'
   being fixed to the modules 20, and thus supported in position thereby, construction of the
 5 building can continue notwithstanding that concrete has not yet been poured into the
    foundation voids 7 and allowed to harden so as to set the columns 30 in the ground 5.
   Pouring and setting the concrete is thus removed from the critical path of installation, and
    accurate position of the columns 30, particularly where the ground 5 is undulating and/or
   uneven, is facilitated.
10
   In an alternative embodiment of the invention, precast concrete footings (in place of
   poured foundations) may be arranged on the ground during the set-out phase shown in
   Figure 1 and the precast concrete columns 30 thereafter secured to such footings.
15 Next, upper building modules 40 are bottom-lifted by crane onto respective ones of the
    lower modules 20, so that respective side-by-side building module stacks are formed, each
    stack comprising a lower unit 20 and upper unit 40 landed atop the lower module 20.
   Each module 40, once disengaged from the crane, is supported by the module 20 below it,
20 much or all of the weight of each upper module 40 being borne through the posts 22 of the
    lower module 20, against the upper ends of which posts the base section 24 of the upper
   module 40 rests.                        The modules 20 may, if required, be temporarily connected to the
   modules 40, particularly if the site is vulnerable to heavy winds and/or the installation is
    carried out over a relatively long time period.
25
   Advantageously, because all of the modules in the building are bottom-lifted, they may (as
   will be appreciated by a person skilled in the art) have a somewhat lighter construction
   than would be required if they were to be top-lifted, since they can have comparatively low
    load-bearing capacity in tension and roof access and associated working-at-height
30 provisions, for the purposes of disengaging the crane lifting slings from the modules once
    landed in position are eliminated, contributing to speed, safety and cost savings.

   I: \NZL\Interwovn\NRPortbl\DCC\NZL\15965057_l.DOC-6 /t12017
                                                                        - 13
   Each upper module 40, once positioned atop a respective one of the lower modules 20, is
    secured, via permanent connections, such as bolted or welded connections, to the same
    columns 30 to which the module 20 below it is secured. The lower modules 20 are also
   permanently secured, via such connections, to the columns 30 if they have not already
 5 been.
   In the present embodiment, because all of the weight of each upper module 40 is bome by
   the module 20 below it, upon disengagement of the former with the crane and before
    securing of it to the respective columns 30, the modules 20, including in particular the
10 posts 30 thereof, are designed with sufficient load-bearing capacity to support the
   respective upper modules 40.                                However, in an alternative embodiment of the invention,
    securing of each upper module 40 to the respective columns 30 may be effected before
    disengagement of the upper module 40 from the crane, permitting the lower modules 20 to
   have lower load-bearing capacity and thus a lighter, less expensive, construction.
15
   In an alternative embodiment of the invention, positioning and anchorage of the
    columns 30, and securing of the modules 20, 40 to them, may be effected after the
   modules 40 are deployed atop the modules 20.
20 Referring               to Figures                1 and      3, construction   of the building   100  may include
    drilling/excavation of additional foundation voids 8 in the ground 5, each at a position
   between opposed front and rear foundation voids 7, and the provision of intermediate
    columns 31, as shown in Figure 4, the lower end of each of which is positioned in a
   respective one of the voids 8, and set in concrete poured into that void, the intermediate
25  columns 31 being fixed at upper ends thereof to the base sections 24 to provide
    supplementary support to the modules 20, at intermediate positions along their lengths.
    The intermediate columns can comprise either precast concrete, which is fire-rated, or
    steel, which is non-fire-rated, as appropriate.                           More generally, internal supports, which
   may not need to be fire-rated, can be installed in the gaps G to provide supplementary
30  support. In particular, each column 31 can be non-fire-rated and be provided purely for
   bracing and/or horizontal load resistance, independent of vertical load-bearing support to
    resist collapse under fire conditions.

   I: \NZL\Interwovn\NRPortbl\DCC\NZL\15965057_l.DOC-6 /t12017
                                                               - 14
   Referring to Figure 4, in each lower module 20, the ceiling section 26 is spaced below the
   upper ends of the posts 22, such that there is a space between that ceiling section 26 and
   the base section 24 of the respective upper module 40 which is landed atop the module 20.
   Each of the spaces can receive services (wiring, plumbing and the like), which may, for
 5  example, be installed from a position within a given gap G adjacent to it. Accordingly,
   there may be fewer constraints to the positioning of services within the floor plan layout,
    and thus more flexibility in the architectural layout of building detailing. Alternatively or
    additionally, fire proofing may be applied within the spaces. Additionally, connections
   between the modules 20, 40 and the fire-rated columns could be positioned in the gaps G
10 whereby to be concealed from view after architectural facades (discussed later) are
    installed.
    The size of the gap G/width of each column 30 will preferably be sufficient to permit
    access between each stack. Depending upon particular requirements, each gap G may be
15  sufficiently wide to accommodate a person, possibly to provide thoroughfare between the
    front and rear ends of the stacks (e.g. 600mm).
    Figure 6 is a cross-sectional view depicting details of exemplary interconnections between
    a given one of the modules 20, 40 and front and rear columns 30 in the building, each
20  interconnection 60 comprising a steel connecting plate/angle 62 and interengaging
    threaded fastener elements 64 via which the connecting plates/angles 62 are fixed to the
    respective columns 30.
    Shown in Figure 7 are details of side-by-side modules 40, separated by a gap G, a front one
25  of the columns 30 and connecting plates/angles 62 via which the modules 40 are secured to
    the column 30. Figure 7 also reveals the module floor section details (generally common
    to all of the modules 20, 40) and, in particular, floor joists 25 and side bearers 27, as well
    as sheet flooring 29 supported thereover. Also shown in Figure 7 are roof sheets 23 with
    which the lower modules 20 are provided for water leak protection access to pre-drilled
30  holes in a given bearer 27 of the respective module chassis can be gained through a gap
   beneath a balcony floor at the front of a building. The steel plate/angle brackets 62 can
    then be secured, via access through the gap G. The exact location of the column 30, as

   I: \NZL\Interwovn\NRPortbl\DCC\NZL\15965057_l.DOC-6 /t12017
                                                                         - 15
    shown in Figure 7, may vary along a forward-rearward axis. Figure 7 also shows support
   members 21, provided on adjacent sides of the modules, arranged to support infill flooring
   bridging elements.
 5 Figure 8 shows details, generally corresponding to those shown in Figure 7, at a rear side
    of the building. Hatches 17 may be formed in the floor 29 to provide access to the pre
    drilled bolt holes in the side bearers 27 adjacent the rears of the modules.                          The floor
    sheeting may comprise compressed fibre cement (CFC) sheeting and/or T&G plywood. In
    each of the modules 20, 40, a steel sheet pan 19 is secured to the undersides of the floor
10 joists 25.                   Insulation              (not shown) is arranged between the pan 19       and floor
   panelling/sheeting 29 in the floor/base section 24 of each module. Each rear column 30,
    like each of the front columns 30 (one of which is shown in Figure 7), can be deployed at
    variable positions along the forward-rearward axis.
15  Referring               now        to       Figure         5, following permanent interconnection between   the
    modules 20, 40 and columns 30, complexing material, comprising bridging elements, is
    installed between adjacent modules. The gaps G are thus bridged such that the adjacent
    stacks are incorporated into a unified structure. The gaps are bridged by bridging elements
    which include architectural facades 50, floor sections, roof infills/sections and ceiling
20  infills/sections, and may include any of numerous other elements, including staircases,
    wall sections, services ducts and personnel lifts.
    Stairs, ramps, skirting etc. are constructed/installed and concrete is poured to the
    foundation voids and, once it has hardened, the temporary foundations are removed.
25  Formation of the poured foundations in the voids 7 is a two-stage process comprising
    firstly pouring part of the foundation up to the level of the underside of the respective
    column lower end, thereby forming a partial foundation against which the lower end rests
   whereby the column is temporarily supported, and, in the final stage of construction shown
    in Figure 5, pouring further concrete into the voids to form the remainder of the final
30  foundations and, in so doing, socketing the column in place. Alternatively, each column
    may be suspended/supported via other independent propping means.

   I: \NZL\Interwovn\NRPortbl\DCC\NZL\15965057_l.DOC-6 /t12017
                                                                           - 16
   As mentioned previously, each of the columns 30 may be anchored to the ground via one
    or more precast foundations, concrete bases/pads or pre-poured footings, instead of via
    foundations poured into voids 8. The foundation(s), base(s), pad(s) or footing(s) may be
    configured with locating and/or anchoring components/provisions which engage respective
 5  lower ends of the columns 30 to facilitate location and/or effect anchorage of the columns
    30.
   With respect to arch fagade/appearance, the concrete columns 30 can be oriented to be
    flush either internally or externally, or can be fully concealed with dual-stud end walls,
10  affording greater architectural appeal and flexibility.
   Modules 20,40 in the building 100 thus constructed are supported from the fire-rated
    structural members 30 such that the steel posts 22 thereof, although they carry normal
    loads through the building 100 in service, including weight-bearing loads, floor loads and
15 horizontal wind loads, may be structurally redundant in terms of offering support against
    collapse of the building 100 due to fire.
   Erecting the modules/stacks such that there are gaps G therebetween offers a number of
    significant advantages. Firstly, some misalignment, along any translational axis and about
20  any rotational axis, between either of the adjacent sides of adjacent modules in a particular
    storey can be tolerated because it can be accommodated by appropriately configuring the
   bridging elements/structure.                                For example, if the adjacent upright front edges of adjacent
   modules in a storey are not quite parallel, the corresponding upright edges of a wall section
   used to interconnect those two edges can be configured accordingly.                                        In particular,
25  generally the bridging elements will be undersized by a nominal amount to account for the
    expected maximum tolerance and misalignment.                                        Moreover, any mismatch in level
   between the floors of side-by-side modules in a storey, which can affect storeys above the
    ground storey in particular because of height variations between adjacent modules in a
    lower storey, will manifest as a slight, usually unnoticeable, gradient in a section of floor
30  fixed between those two floors, instead of a step. The same applies for wall, ceiling and
   roof infills which define bridging elements.                                   It will be appreciated that tolerance on
   misalignment is essentially a three-dimensional problem, arising in practice from either as-

   I: \NZL\Interwovn\NRPortbl\DCC\NZL\15965057_l.DOC-6 /t12017
                                                               - 17
   manufactured errors or differential distortions arising from handling and transporting the
    individual modules separately. The gaps G provide for an ability to form joins in elements
    across the gap which are offset to reduce the apparentness of modular construction.
 5 In addition, the gaps G permit bottom-lifting of the modules, and the attendant advantages
    outlined above, with the elimination of any need for subsequent shifting of adjacent
   modules in a given storey - a particularly complicated matter for storeys above the ground
    storey.
10 In an alternative embodiment of the invention, the modules and columns may be deployed
    other than by crane-e.g. via a forklift truck, the gaps G contributing to their ability to be so
    deployed.
    The gaps G provide an opportunity to camouflage the complex joint defined by the exterior
15 bridging installed between adjacent stacks, which bridging may be formed from non
    specialised materials and components. In addition, the gaps G avail the building a larger
    area (e.g. living area or classroom area) without increasing module size/beam span, which
    is limited according to transportation regulations and constraints.
20 Also, each of the gaps G may be of a width sufficient to provide a person access between
    adjacent modules of adjacent stacks, e.g. for the purposes of disengaging modules from the
    crane and/or effecting each connection between adjacent modules across the gap G.
    Furthermore, since each of the stacks is erected spatially separately from the other, each
25  module can be manufactured independently of the module which occupies the position not
    only beside it in the adjacent stack but also above or below it in the same stack. Because
    the gap G allows the width of the one module in a pair of adjacent modules in a stack to be
    different from that of the other, the modules in that pair need not be constructed as a
    "matched pair". Accordingly, it may be possible, for example, to have one facility where
30  modules forming one storey are manufactured and another facility where modules forming
    another storey are manufactured.

   I: \NZL\Interwovn\NRPortbl\DCC\NZL\15965057_l.DOC-6 /t12017
                                                                         - 18
   It will be appreciated that the invention is applicable to construction of buildings having
   more than two storeys.                                It will also be appreciated that the invention is applicable to
   modular buildings comprising modules which are arranged side-by-side but are not
    stacked, i.e. single-storey modular buildings. The invention is also applicable to buildings
 5  in which modules are not arranged side-by-side; for example, the invention is applicable
    also to buildings in which modules are arranged end-to-end, either singularly or in stacks,
    and moving to a building comprising only a single module or a single stack of modules.
   Architectural facading and/or finishing is then applied if, and to the extent, appropriate
10  according to aesthetic requirements. A seamless, non-modular, appearance across module
   joints can, if required, be created.
   Advantageously, the columns 30 confer a "thermal" benefit to the building 100 in terms of
    energy compliance, replacing complex joins between modules which typically leak energy
15 the mass of steel forming part of the module shells adjacent those joins.
    The preferred embodiments of the invention, advantageously, provide the benefits afforded
   by proven materials, such as concrete and masonry, without construction suffering from
   heaviness-related drawbacks that would result from incorporation of such materials into
20 the         building modules when fabricated.                              Combining the    relatively light building
    components defined by modules 20,40, with the heavy building components, defined by
   the columns 30, at a relatively late stage in the construction process contributes
    significantly to efficiency, reliability and safety, and thus also to cost savings.
25 Also, in the case of conventional modular buildings, in which the principal structural
    support to the building in the event of fire is to be provided by steel columns forming part
    of stacked modules, reliance is often placed on the columns being located within wall
    cavities to which fire-rated claddings are applied, and an associated claim that there are
   thus controls/limits on the temperatures to which the thus concealed steel is exposed. The
30 preferred embodiments of the invention eliminate such reliance.
   While various embodiments of the present invention have been described above, it should

   I: \NZL\Interwovn\NRPortbl\DCC\NZL\15965057_l.DOC-6 /t12017
                                                               - 19
   be understood that they have been presented by way of example only, and not by way of
    limitation. It will be apparent to a person skilled in the relevant art that various changes in
    form and detail can be made therein without departing from the spirit and scope of the
    invention. Thus, the present invention should not be limited by any of the above described
 5  exemplary embodiments.
    Throughout this specification and the claims which follow, unless the context requires
    otherwise, the word "comprise", and variations such as "comprises" and "comprising", will
   be understood to imply the inclusion of a stated integer or step or group of integers or steps
10 but not the exclusion of any other integer or step or group of integers or steps.
    The reference in this specification to any prior publication (or information derived from it),
    or to any matter which is known, is not, and should not be taken as an acknowledgment or
    admission or any form of suggestion that that prior publication (or information derived
15  from it) or known matter forms part of the common general knowledge in the field of
    endeavour to which this specification relates.

   I: \NZL\Interwovn\NRPortbl\DCC\NZL\15965057_l.DOC-6 /t12017
                                                               - 20
    The claims defining the invention are as follows:
    1.             A method of constructing a fire-protected building, comprising arranging, over an
    area of ground, building modules or stacks of building modules one-beside-another, such
 5 that there is at least one pair of adjacent modules or stacks, and securing each building
   module to fire-resistant structural members whereby it is supported by those members
    against collapse due to fire, wherein a gap separating the modules or stacks in the or each
   pair is bridged such that those modules or stacks are interconnected.
10 2.              A method according to claim 1, wherein the structural members to which each
   module is secured are arranged at spaced apart positions around that module and secured to
   that module at those positions.
    3.             A method according to claim 2, wherein ones of said structural members are
15  arranged at spaced apart positions around each module and secured to it at those positions.
   4.              A method according to any one of the preceding claims, comprising installing
   bridging elements across the gap(s) whereby the bridging of the gap(s) is effected.
20  5.             A method of constructing a fire-protected building, comprising arranging one or
   more building modules over an area of ground and securing the or each building module to
    fire-resistant structural members whereby the structural members support the building
   module(s) against collapse due to fire.
25  6.             A method according to claim 5, comprising arranging plural said modules over the
    area of ground.
    7.             A method according to claim 5 or 6, wherein the structural members are arranged at
    spaced apart positions around the module(s) and secured to the module(s) at those
30 positions.
    8.             A method according to any one of claims 5 to 7, wherein ones or stacks of said

   I: \NZL\Interwovn\NRPortbl\DCC\NZL\15965057_l.DOC-6 /t12017
                                                               - 21
   modules are arranged one-beside-another over the area of ground.
    9.             A method according to claim 8, wherein said ones or stacks are so arranged that
    adjacent ones thereof are separated by a respective gap and bridging elements are installed
 5  across the gap(s) to interconnect the adjacent modules or stacks.
    10.            A method according to any one of claims 1 to 4 or claim 9, including stacking ones
    of said modules, thereby forming at least one stack comprising a lowermost module and an
   uppermost module, wherein the modules in the or each stack are secured to common ones
10  of the structural members.
    11.            A method according to claim 10, wherein the or each stack comprises only two
   modules - an upper/uppermost one and a lower/lowermost one.
15  12.            A method according to claim 10, wherein the or each stack comprises three or more
   modules - an uppermost one and a lowermost one and at least intermediate one
   therebetween.
    13.            A method according to any one of claims 10 to 12, wherein each of the modules in
20 the or each stack forms part of a respective storey of the building.
    14.            A method according to claim 13, wherein at least one respective said member is
   positioned to occupy the or each gap and is secured to the adjacent modules or stacks
    separated by that gap.
25
    15.            A method according to claim 14, wherein the or each gap-occupying member
    substantially bridges the gap it occupies.
    16.            A method according to claim 14 or 15, wherein plural said members are positioned
30  at spaced apart locations to occupy the or each gap.
    17.            A method according to any one of claims 13 to 16, wherein said bridging elements

   I: \NZL\Interwovn\NRPortbl\DCC\NZL\15965057_l.DOC-6 /t12017
                                                               - 22
    include sections of floor.
    18.            A method according to any one of claims 13 to 17, wherein said bridging elements
    include sections of ceiling and/or roof.
 5
    19.            A method according to any one of claims 13 to 18, wherein said bridging elements
    include sections of wall.
   20.             A method according to any one of claims 13 to 19, wherein a person occupies the
10  or each gap to carry out carry out one or more steps of the construction.
   21.             A method according to claim 20, wherein said one or more steps of the construction
    comprise installation of the bridging elements.
15 22.             A method according to any one of claims 13 to 21, wherein the modules are
    deployed such that the or each gap extends between adjacent sides of the modules or stacks
    in adjacent pairs of modules or stacks.
   23.             A method according to any one of claims 13 to 22, wherein deployment of each
20 module includes engaging the exterior thereof with lifting means at each side thereof,
    operating the lifting means to deploy the module into the position it is to occupy in the
   building, then disengaging the lifting means from the module, the width of the gap(s) being
    sufficient that the lifting means is not obstructed by any deployed modules during
    deployment of the module.
25
   24.             A method according to claim 23, wherein a person occupies the or each gap
   between adjacent modules to disengage the lifting means.
   25.             A method according to claim 24, wherein the or each module is bottom-lifted
30 whereby to be deployed.
   26.             A method according to any one of claims 13 to 25, wherein the bridging elements

   I: \NZL\Interwovn\NRPortbl\DCC\NZL\15965057_l.DOC-6 /t12017
                                                               - 23
    are prefinished before being installed.
   27.             A method according to any one of claims 10 to 26, wherein at least one
   non-uppermost module of a said stack is secured to ones of said structural members,
 5 whereby to be supported thereby, before at least one further module of the stack is
    deployed atop the non-uppermost module.
   28.             A method according to claim 27, wherein the or each non-uppermost module so
    secured has a load-bearing capacity so low as to be insufficient for it to be able to support
10 the module(s) deployed atop it if it were not secured to the structural members supporting
    it.
    29.            A method according to any one of claims 10 to 26, wherein at least one said stack
    of modules is formed before securing of the modules in the stack to ones of said structural
15  members.
    30.            A method according to claim 29, wherein said ones of the structural members are
    installed after formation of the stack.
20  31.            A method according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the structural
   members are prefabricated.
    32.            A method according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein each structural
   member is formed from inherently fire-resistant material.
25
    33.            A method according to claim 32, wherein said material comprises concrete.
    34.            A method according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the fire-resistant
    structural members are arranged so as to project upwardly from the area of ground.
30
    35.            A method according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein said structural
   members are secured to the area of ground.

   I: \NZL\Interwovn\NRPortbl\DCC\NZL\15965057_l.DOC-6 /t12017
                                                               - 24
    36.            A method according to any one of the preceding claims, including positioning ones
    of the structural members such that lower ends thereof are located in foundation voids in
   the ground, and pouring concrete into the voids to set those structural members in the
 5  ground.
    37.            A method according to any one of claims 1 to 35, including arranging one or more
   precast foundations, bases, pads or footings over the ground, positioning said members
   thereon and securing said members thereto.
10
    38.            A method according to claim 37, wherein the foundation(s), base(s), pad(s) or
    footing(s) are configured with locating and/or anchoring components/provisions into
    engagement with which respective lower ends of the structural members are brought such
   that location of the structural members is facilitated and/or anchorage of the structural
15 members is effected.
    39.            A method according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the structural
   members comprise columns.
20 40.             A method according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein each structural
   member is formed by interconnecting structural member sections.
   41.             A method according to claim 40, wherein the sections are interconnected one-atop
    another.
25
   42.             A method according to claim 40 or 41, wherein the sections are configured with
    coupling components/provisions interengagement of which is effected such that the
    structural member sections are interconnected.
30 43.             A method according to claim 42, wherein ones of said structural members are
    arranged at spaced apart positions around the or each module and secured to it at those
   positions.

   I: \NZL\Interwovn\NRPortbl\DCC\NZL\15965057_l.DOC-6 /t12017
                                                               -25
   44              A method according to claim 43, wherein ones of said structural members are
    arranged adjacent respective corners of the module(s) and secured thereto.
 5 45.             A method according to claim 43 or 44, wherein ones of said structural members are
    arranged at positions intermediate opposite corners of the module(s).
   46.             A method according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the or each
   module is of lightweight construction.
10
   47.             A method according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the or each
   module comprises a steel or timber frame and plywood and/or plasterboard wall, ceiling
    and floor panels, the frame and panels defining a shell of the module.
15 48.             A method according to any one of the preceding claims, including locating at least
    one said module on one or more temporary foundations and removing said foundation(s)
    after the module has been secured to ones of said structural members, such that the or each
    module which was located on one or more temporary foundations                       is suspended
    aboveground by the structural members to which it is secured.
20
    49.            A method according to claim 48, wherein the or each temporary foundation
    comprises a dry block or pallet stile.
    50.            A method according to any one of the preceding claims, comprising arranging at
25  least one said module over the area of ground, fixing ones of said structural members
   thereto such that those structural members are supported from the module(s), and,
   thereafter, effecting the securing of the structural members to the ground.
    51.            A method according to any one of the preceding claims, comprising arranging at
30  least one said lowermost module over the area of ground, fixing ones of said structural
   members thereto such that those structural members are supported from the lowermost
   module(s), and, thereafter, anchoring those structural members to the ground.

   I: \NZL\Interwovn\NRPortbl\DCC\NZL\15965057_l.DOC-6 /t12017
                                                               - 26
    52.            A method according to claim 51, including arranging a further module atop the or
    each lowermost module, after the fixing of ones of said structural members to the
    lowermost module(s), and fixing the further module(s) to said ones of said structural
   members.
 5
    53.            A method according to claim 51 or 52, comprising anchoring said members to the
    ground.
    54.            A method according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the structural
10 members are arranged in grid formation.
    55.            The fire-protected building constructed via a method according to any one of the
   preceding claims.
15  56.            A method of constructing a fire-protected building, comprising arranging, over an
    area of ground, building modules or stacks of building modules one-beside-another, such
    that there is at least one pair of adjacent modules or stacks, and securing each building
    module to fire-resistant structural members whereby it is supported by those members
    against collapse due to fire, wherein a gap separating the modules or stacks in the or each
20 pair is bridged such that those modules or stacks are interconnected, the method
    comprising installing bridging elements across the or each gap whereby the bridging of the
    gap(s) is effected.
    57.            A method according to claim 56, wherein the structural members to which each
25  module is secured are arranged at spaced apart positions around that module and secured to
    that module at those positions.
    58.            A method according to claim 56 or 57, including stacking ones of said modules,
    thereby forming at least one stack comprising a lowermost module and an uppermost
30  module, wherein the modules in the or each stack are secured to common ones of the
    structural members.

   I: \NZL\Interwovn\NRPortbl\DCC\NZL\15965057_l.DOC-6 /t12017
                                                               - 27
    59.            A method according to any one of claims 56 to 58, wherein at least one respective
    said member is positioned to occupy the or each gap and is secured to the adjacent
   modules or stacks separated by that gap.
 5  60.            A method according to claim 59, wherein the or each gap-occupying member
    substantially bridges the gap it occupies.
    61.            A method according to claim 59 or 60, wherein plural said members are positioned
    at spaced apart locations to occupy the or each gap.
10
    62.            A method according to any one of claims 56 to 61, wherein said bridging elements
    include sections of floor
    63.            A method according to any one of claims 56 to 62, wherein said bridging elements
15  include sections of ceiling and/or roof.
    64.            A method according to any one of claims 56 to 63, wherein said bridging elements
    include sections of wall.
20  65.            A method according to any one of claims 56 to 64, wherein a person occupies the
    or each gap to carry out one or more steps of the construction, the step(s) comprising
    installation of the bridging elements.
    66.            A method according to any one of claims 56 to 65, wherein the modules are
25  deployed such that the or each gap extends between adjacent sides of the modules or stacks
    in adjacent pairs of modules or stacks.
    67.            A method according to claim 66, wherein deployment of each module includes
    engaging the exterior thereof with lifting means at each side thereof, operating the lifting
30 means to deploy the module into the position it is to occupy in the building, then
    disengaging the lifting means from the module, the width of the gap(s) being sufficient that
   the lifting means is not obstructed by any deployed modules during deployment of the

   I: \NZL\Interwovn\NRPortbl\DCC\NZL\15965057_l.DOC-6 /t12017
                                                               -28
   module, wherein a person occupies the or each gap between adjacent modules to disengage
   the lifting means.
    68.            A method according to any one of claims 56 to 67, wherein at least one
 5 non-uppermost module of a said stack is secured to ones of said structural members,
   whereby to be supported thereby, before at least one further module of the stack is
    deployed atop the non-uppermost module, the or each non-uppermost module so secured
   having a load-bearing capacity so low as to be insufficient for it to be able to support the
   module(s) deployed atop it if it were not secured to the structural members supporting it.
10
    69.            A method according to any one of claims 56 to 68, wherein each structural member
    is formed from inherently fire-resistant material, said material comprising concrete.
    70.            A method according to any one of claims 56 to 69, wherein the structural members
15  comprise columns.
    71.            A method according to any one of claims 56 to 70, wherein each structural member
    is formed by interconnecting structural member sections one-atop-another.
20  72.            A method according to any one of claims 56 to 71, wherein ones of said structural
   members are arranged adjacent respective corners of the module(s) and secured thereto.
    73.            A method according to any one of claims 56 to 72, wherein the or each module
    comprises a steel or timber frame and plywood and/or plasterboard wall, ceiling and floor
25 panels, the frame and panels defining a shell of the module.
    74.            A method according to any one of claims 56 to 73, including locating at least one
    said module on one or more temporary foundations and removing said foundation(s) after
   the module has been secured to ones of said structural members, such that the or each
30 module which was located on one or more temporary foundations                       is suspended
    aboveground by the structural members to which it is secured.

I: \NZL\Interwovn\NRPortbl\DCC\NZL\15965057_l.DOC-6 /t12017
                                                            - 29
 75.            The fire-protected building constructed via a method according to any one claims
 56 to 74.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
