 Abstract: A system and method for providing a therapeutic plasma protein dosing
regime includes determining a pharmacokinetic profile of a patient using a Bayesian
model of pharmacokinetic profiles of sampled patients. The example system and
method also include determining a first dosing regime for a first specified dosing
interval including (i) a first dosage and (ii) a first therapeutic plasma protein level in
the patient over a time period based at least upon the pharmacokinetic profile and
determining a second dosing regime for a second specified dosing interval including
(i) a second dosage and (ii) a second therapeutic plasma protein level in the patient
over the time period based at least upon the pharmacokinetic profile. The example
system and method further include displaying the first dosing regime and the second
dosing regime on a client device such that the first dosing regime is displayed in
conjunction with the second dosing regime.

 WO 2015/006033                                                              PCT/US2014/043517
                                              TITLE
     PROVIDING A PHARMACOKINETIC DRUG DOSING REGIME
                                        BACKGROUND
        [0001] Clotting factor VIII is a blood-clotting protein that is activated in response to
an injury or bleed.      Individuals with relatively low levels of clotting factor VIII are
susceptible to internal or external episodes of prolonged bleeding resulting from an injury
and/or spontaneous bleeding without a cause.       While skin bleeds are not serious, internal
bleeding of joints, muscles, and organs can cause permanent damage, disfigurement, or even
death.
        [0002] Patients with hemophilia A have a genetic deficiency that causes low levels of
clotting factor VIII.    The amount of clotting factor VIII in a patient is expressed as a
percentage relative to a normal level.     Patients with 5 to 40% of clotting factor VIII are
considered to have a mild form of hemophilia A while patients with 1 to 5% of clotting factor
VIII are considered to have a moderate form of hemophilia A. Patients with less than 1% of
clotting factor VIII are considered to have a severe form of hemophilia A.
        [0003] Treatment of patients with hemophilia A (or patients that otherwise have low
levels of clotting factor VIII) includes providing these patients with periodic infusions of a
clotting factor concentrate (e.g., therapeutic plasma protein). The clotting factor concentrate
acts as a replacement or supplement for the patient's natural occurring clotting factor VIII.
One example of such a therapeutic plasma protein is Baxter Healthcare's ADVATE drug. In
some instances, patients receive the therapeutic plasma protein in response to having an
uncontrolled internal bleed.      Alternatively, patients may be prescribed a prophylactic
treatment regimen of the therapeutic plasma protein to reduce the possibility of future bleeds.
Oftentimes, this regimen requires that a patient visit a healthcare provider and/or self-infuse
the therapeutic plasma protein three or more times a week to receive treatments.
        [0004] The goal of a treatment regimen is to schedule patient visits such that the
clotting factor VIII, as provided by the therapeutic plasma protein, does not fall below a
predetermined threshold, such as one percent (1%).       However, the amount of therapeutic
plasma protein needed in a patient is dependent upon the dosing amount and metabolism of
the patient. Additionally, because there is a wide variability in the therapeutic plasma protein
metabolism in the population, many patients may not be dosed properly to maintain the
intended target trough. Thus, it is necessary to determine the individual patient's therapeutic

 WO 2015/006033                                                              PCT/US2014/043517
plasma protein metabolism, or pharmacokinetic profile to ensure the proper dose is infused
for the chosen time interval.
         [0005] To prescribe a treatment regimen, currently a healthcare provider determines
how an administered dose of a therapeutic plasma protein is metabolized by a patient over a
treatment time to identify a pharmacokinetic profile of the patient.            Oftentimes the
determination of a patient pharmacokinetic profile requires five or more blood draws to
determine a level or concentration of the therapeutic plasma protein within the patient at
different times from initial administration of the therapeutic plasma protein dose (e.g.,
determine how the therapeutic plasma protein is metabolized over time).         These multiple
blood draws require a patient to stay within a healthcare facility for a number of days or visit
the healthcare facility multiple times.     These multiple visits and/or multiple blood draws
place stress on the patient and the healthcare facility.
         [0006] To avoid any chance of a patient falling below a predetermined threshold,
many healthcare providers design treatment regimens that require patients to receive a
therapeutic plasma protein infusion every one, two, three, or more days. An every-one-day or
every-two-day regimen places stress on patients by requiring them to infuse relatively
frequently. The every-one-day and every-two-day regimes may also be unnecessary for some
patients. However, the every-one-day and every-two-day regimes make it easier and more
practical for a healthcare provider to maintain higher therapeutic plasma protein levels in a
patient above a specified peak therapeutic plasma protein level.
                                           SUMMARY
         [0007] An example system, method, and apparatus are disclosed that determine a
therapeutic plasma protein dosing regime for a patient. The example system, method, and
apparatus determine the dosing regime using a pharmacokinetic profile of the patient that is
derived from a pharmacokinetic model of a previously sampled patient population and/or
individual patient information. The pharmacokinetic profile of the patient may be refined or
modified based on previous therapeutic plasma protein treatments of the patient and/or
patient specific characteristics such as age, body weight, other plasma protein levels, physical
activity level, gender, disease state, etc.    The system, method, and apparatus provide a
graphical interface of the pharmacokinetic profile of the patient that enables a user to adjust
dosage, dosing interval, and a minimum acceptable concentration of the therapeutic plasma
protein within the patient to view how the dosing regime changes.          Such a configuration
                                                  2

 WO 2015/006033                                                               PCT/US2014/043517
enables a healthcare provider to determine an optimal dosing regime that reduces (or
prevents) a patient from risk of bleeds as a result of having low levels of clotting factor VIII.
        [0008] In an example embodiment, a method includes determining an estimated
pharmacokinetic profile of a patient using a Bayesian model of pharmacokinetic profiles of
sampled patients, the estimated pharmacokinetic profile based upon at least one of a body
weight or an age of the patient. The example method also includes determining a first dosing
regime for a first specified dosing interval including (i) a first dosage and (ii) a first
therapeutic plasma protein level in the patient over a time period based at least upon the
estimated pharmacokinetic profile and determining a second dosing regime for a second
specified dosing interval including (i) a second dosage and (ii) a second therapeutic plasma
protein level in the patient over the time period based at least upon the estimated
pharmacokinetic profile. The method further includes displaying the first dosing regime and
the second dosing regime on a client device such that the first dosing regime is displayed in
conjunction with the second dosing regime.
        [0009] In another example embodiment, an apparatus includes a model generator
configured to create a Bayesian model of pharmacokinetic profiles of sampled patients, the
Bayesian model including a (i) therapeutic plasma protein clearance and (ii) a volume of
distribution relationship for a therapeutic plasma protein based upon at least one of patient
age or body weight.       The example apparatus also includes a pharmacokinetic server
configured to determine an approximate pharmacokinetic profile of a patient based upon the
Bayesian model and at least one of an age of the patient or a weight of the patient and
determine a therapeutic plasma protein dosing regime including a dosage and a therapeutic
plasma protein level over a time period based upon the approximate pharmacokinetic profile
of the patient.    The pharmacokinetic server is also configured to modify the therapeutic
plasma protein dosing regime in response to receiving a dosing interval for applying the
dosage to the patient and transmit the modified therapeutic plasma protein dosing regime to a
client device.
        [0010] In yet another example embodiment, a machine-accessible                device has
instructions stored thereon that are configured, when executed, to cause a machine to at least
prompt a user to enter at least one of a patient weight or age and use a Bayesian model of
pharmacokinetic profiles of sampled patients to determine an approximate pharmacokinetic
profile of a patient based upon the Bayesian model and the at least one of entered patient
weight or age, the Bayesian model including (i) a therapeutic plasma protein clearance and
(ii) a volume of distribution relationship for a therapeutic plasma protein based upon the at
                                                   3

 WO 2015/006033                                                                PCT/US2014/043517
least one of entered patient weight or age. The example instructions also cause the machine
to determine a dosing regime for the patient based upon the approximate pharmacokinetic
profile of the patient, the dosing regime including a dosage and a dosage interval.           The
example instructions further cause the machine to modify the dosing regime in response to
receiving another dosing interval for applying the dosage to the patient and enable the dosing
regime and a time-varying therapeutic plasma protein level based on the dosing regime to be
displayed to a user.
         [0011] Aspects of the subject matter described herein may be useful alone or in
combination with one or more other aspect described herein. Without limiting the foregoing
description, in a first aspect of the present disclosure, a method for providing a therapeutic
plasma protein dosing regime includes determining, via a processor, an estimated
pharmacokinetic profile of a patient using a Bayesian model of pharmacokinetic profiles of
sampled patients, the estimated pharmacokinetic profile based upon at least one of a body
weight or an age of the patient, determining, via the processor, a first dosing regime for a first
specified dosing interval including (i) a first dosage and (ii) a first therapeutic plasma protein
level in the patient over a time period based at least upon the pharmacokinetic profile,
determining, via the processor, a second dosing regime for a second specified dosing interval
including (i) a second dosage and (ii) a second therapeutic plasma protein level in the patient
over the time period based at least upon the pharmacokinetic profile, and displaying the first
dosing regime and the second dosing regime on a client device such that the first dosing
regime is displayed in conjunction with the second dosing regime.
         [0012] In accordance with a second aspect of the present disclosure, which may be
used in combination with the first aspect, the method further includes adjusting, via the
processor, the estimated pharmacokinetic profile of the patient based upon previous
treatments of the patient.
         [0013] In accordance with a third aspect of the present disclosure, which may be used
in combination with any one or more of the preceding aspects, the second specified dosing
interval is longer than the first specified dosing interval.
         [0014] In accordance with a fourth aspect of the present disclosure, which may be
used in combination with any one or more of the preceding aspects, the first specified dosing
interval is 48 hours and the second specified dosing interval is 72 hours.
         [0015] In accordance with a fifth aspect of the present disclosure, which may be used
in combination with any one or more of the preceding aspects, the minimum threshold level
is less than 20%.
                                                    4

 WO 2015/006033                                                                PCT/US2014/043517
         [0016] In accordance with a sixth aspect of the present disclosure, which may be used
in combination with any one or more of the preceding aspects, the first dosage is determined
such that the first therapeutic plasma protein level in the patient over the time period does not
fall below the minimum threshold level.
         [0017] In accordance with a seventh aspect of the present disclosure, which may be
used in combination with any one or more of the preceding aspects, the first therapeutic
plasma protein level in the patient is based upon at least one of a minimum threshold level,
the first dosage, or the first specified dosing interval, and the second therapeutic plasma
protein level in the patient is based upon at least one of the minimum threshold level, the
second dosage, or the second specified dosing interval.
         [0018] In accordance with an eighth aspect of the present disclosure, which may be
used in combination with any one or more of the preceding aspects, the Bayesian model
includes a two-compartment model having a first compartment corresponding to a time to
metabolize the therapeutic plasma protein and a second compartment corresponding to a dose
for achieving a certain amount of the therapeutic plasma protein within the patient.
         [0019] In accordance with a ninth aspect of the present disclosure, which may be used
in combination with any one or more of the preceding aspects, an apparatus for providing a
therapeutic plasma protein dosing regime to a client device includes a model generator
configured to create a Bayesian model of pharmacokinetic profiles of sampled patients, the
Bayesian model including a (i) therapeutic plasma protein clearance and (ii) a volume of
distribution relationship for a therapeutic plasma protein based upon at least one of patient
age or body weight and a pharmacokinetic server configured to determine an approximate
pharmacokinetic profile of a patient based upon the Bayesian model and at least one of an age
of the patient or a weight of the patient, determine the therapeutic plasma protein dosing
regime including a dosage and a therapeutic plasma protein level over a time period based
upon the approximate pharmacokinetic profile of the patient, modify the therapeutic plasma
protein dosing regime in response to receiving a dosing interval for applying the dosage to
the patient, and transmit the modified therapeutic plasma protein dosing regime to the client
device.
         [0020] In accordance with a tenth aspect of the present disclosure, which may be used
in combination with any one or more of the preceding aspects, the dosing interval is a two
day dosing interval, and wherein the pharmacokinetic server is configured to further modify
the therapeutic plasma protein dosing regime in response to receiving a three-day dosing
interval in place of the two-day dosing interval.
                                                  5

 WO 2015/006033                                                               PCT/US2014/043517
         [0021] In accordance with an eleventh aspect of the present disclosure, which may be
used in combination with any one or more of the preceding aspects, the pharmacokinetic
server is configured to transmit a drug dosing tool to the client device, the drug dosing tool
being configured to determine the therapeutic plasma protein dosing regime and the modified
therapeutic plasma protein dosing regime.
         [0022]   In accordance with a twelfth aspect of the present disclosure, which may be
used in combination with any one or more of the preceding aspects, the pharmacokinetic
server is further configured to modify the therapeutic plasma protein dosing regime based on
daily activities of the patient.
         [0023] In accordance with a thirteenth aspect of the present disclosure, which may be
used in combination with any one or more of the preceding aspects, the pharmacokinetic
server is further configured to transmit the modified therapeutic plasma protein dosing regime
to an infusion pump for administering the therapeutic plasma protein to the patient.
         [0024] In accordance with a fourteenth aspect of the present disclosure, which may be
used in combination with any one or more of the preceding aspects, the approximate
pharmacokinetic profile is a first approximate pharmacokinetic profile determined for a first
therapeutic plasma protein treatment of the patient, and wherein the pharmacokinetic server is
further configured to determine a second approximate pharmacokinetic profile for the patient
for a second therapeutic plasma protein treatment of the patient based on the modified
therapeutic plasma protein dosing regime.
         [0025] In accordance with a fifteenth aspect of the present disclosure, which may be
used in combination with any one or more of the preceding aspects, the volume of
distribution relationship for the therapeutic plasma protein is a relationship for at least one of
clotting factor VIII and modified forms of clotting factor VIII.
         [0026] In accordance with a sixteenth aspect of the present disclosure, which may be
used in combination with any one or more of the preceding aspects, a machine-accessible
device has instructions stored thereon that are configured, when executed, to cause a machine
to at least prompt a user to enter at least one of a patient weight or age, use a Bayesian model
of pharmacokinetic        profiles  of   sampled    patients   to  determine    an   approximate
pharmacokinetic profile of a patient based upon the Bayesian model and the at least one of
entered patient weight or age, the Bayesian model including (i) a therapeutic plasma protein
clearance and (ii) a volume of distribution relationship for a therapeutic plasma protein based
upon the at least one of entered patient weight or age, determine a dosing regime for the
patient based upon the approximate pharmacokinetic profile of the patient, the dosing regime
                                                   6

 WO 2015/006033                                                              PCT/US2014/043517
including a dosage and a dosage interval, modify the dosing regime in response to receiving
another dosing interval for applying the dosage to the patient, and enable the dosing regime
and a time-varying therapeutic plasma protein level based on the dosing regime to be
displayed to a user.
         [0027] In accordance with a seventeenth aspect of the present disclosure, which may
be used in combination with any one or more of the preceding aspects, the machine
accessible device further comprises instructions stored thereon that are configured when
executed to cause the machine to determine a first dosing regime for a two-day dosing
interval, determine a second dosing regime for a three-day dosing interval, and enable the
display of the first dosing regime in conjunction with the second dosing regime.
         [0028] In accordance with an eighteenth aspect of the present disclosure, which may
be used in combination with any one or more of the preceding aspects, the machine
accessible device further comprises instructions stored thereon that are configured when
executed to cause the machine to display a graphical representation of a time-varying amount
of the therapeutic plasma protein within the patient, including at least one indication of a dose
of the therapeutic plasma protein being provided to the patient.
         [0029] In accordance with a nineteenth aspect of the present disclosure, which may be
used in combination with any one or more of the preceding aspects, the machine-accessible
device further comprises instructions stored thereon that are configured when executed to
cause the machine to display a graphical feature than enables a user to change at least one of
(i) a minimum concentration threshold, (ii) the dosage interval, or (iii) the dosage of the
therapeutic plasma protein.
         [0030] In accordance with a twentieth aspect of the present disclosure, which may be
used in combination with any one or more of the preceding aspects, the machine-accessible
device further comprises instructions stored thereon that are configured when executed to
cause the machine to modify the dosing regime in response to receiving a change of any one
of the items (i), (ii), or (iii).
         [0031] In accordance with a twenty-first aspect of the present disclosure, which may
be used in combination with any one or more of the preceding aspects, the machine
accessible device further comprises instructions stored thereon that are configured when
executed to cause the machine to display a graphical representation of a change in the amount
of the therapeutic plasma protein within the patient over time based on the change of any one
of the items (i), (ii), or (iii).
                                                 7

 WO 2015/006033                                                            PCT/US2014/043517
         [0032] In accordance with a twenty-second aspect of the present disclosure, which
may be used in combination with any one or more of the preceding aspects, the machine
accessible device further comprises instructions stored thereon that are configured when
executed to cause the machine to receive a minimum concentration threshold and to display
an amount of time the therapeutic plasma protein level is below the minimum concentration
threshold.
         [0033] In accordance with a twenty-third aspect of the present disclosure, which may
be used in combination with any one or more of the preceding aspects, the machine
accessible device further comprises instructions stored thereon that are configured when
executed to cause the machine to receive patient measurement blood laboratory data
including a concentration of the therapeutic plasma protein within the patient after a time
from when the therapeutic plasma protein was administered to the patient and modify the
approximate pharmacokinetic profile based on the patient measurement blood laboratory
data.
         [0034] In accordance with a twenty-fourth aspect of the present disclosure, any of the
structure and functionality illustrated and described in connection with FIGS. 1 to 31 may be
used in combination with any of the structure and functionality illustrated and described in
connection with any of the other of FIGS. 1 to 31 and with any one or more of the preceding
aspects.
                          BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE FIGURES
         [0035] FIG. 1 shows a diagram of an example pharmacokinetic drug dosing
environment, according to an example embodiment of the present disclosure.
         [0036] FIG. 2 shows a diagram of patient sample data for a number of patients with
hemophilia A, according to an example embodiment of the present disclosure.
         [0037] FIGS. 3 to 13 show diagram that include example user interfaces provided by
the drug dosing tool of FIG. 1 to determine a dosing recommendation and estimated
pharmacokinetic profile for a specific patient, according to an example embodiment of the
present disclosure.
         [0038] FIGS. 14 to 18 show diagrams that include user interfaces provided by the
drug dosing tool of FIG. 1 in a marketing tool embodiment, according to an example
embodiment of the present disclosure.
                                                  8

 WO 2015/006033                                                              PCT/US2014/043517
         [0039] FIGS. 19 and 20 show diagrams that include a flow diagram illustrating an
example procedure to determine a dosing regime, according to an example embodiment of
the present disclosure.
         [0040] FIGS. 21 and 22 show diagrams that include an example embodiment where a
pharmacokinetic profile for a specific patient is adjusted based on activity level.
         [0041] FIGS. 23 to 30 show diagrams of tables and graphs that correlate a
concentration of administered therapeutic plasma protein with bleed risk for different
patients, according to an example embodiment of the present disclosure.
         [0042] FIG. 31 shows a detailed block diagram of an example model generator,
server, and/or client device of the pharmacokinetic drug dosing environment of FIG. 1,
according to an example embodiment of the present disclosure.
                                   DETAILED DESCRIPTION
         [0043] The present disclosure relates in general to a method, system, and apparatus to
provide a drug dosing regime, and in particular, to provide a pharmacokinetic drug dosing
regime based upon a model of pharmacokinetic profiles of sampled patients.                  The
pharmacokinetic drug dosing regime described herein provides a cost-effective use of
therapeutic plasma protein, which may be tailored to an individual patient. As such, the
example pharmacokinetic drug dosing regime described herein provides healthcare providers
with a tool that enables relatively quick and accurate patient dosing recommendations without
having to determine a patient specific pharmacokinetic profile based (solely) upon blood
testing. The disclosure also contemplates, clotting factor FVIII products that are modified to
extend residence mean times in a patient beyond that of native FVIII through, for example,
the use of water soluble proteins or FC fusion technology, and dosing schemes/intervals
longer than three days.
         [0044] Presently, healthcare providers formulate a treatment regime for a patient with
low levels of naturally occurring clotting factor VIII by determining a patient specific
pharmacokinetic profile to identify how the patient metabolizes a therapeutic plasma protein
over time. To determine a patient's pharmacokinetic profile, a healthcare provider performs
an initial baseline blood draw before a patient is administered a therapeutic plasma protein.
This baseline blood draw is used to determine the amount of naturally occurring clotting
factor VIII in the body. The healthcare provider then administers the therapeutic plasma
protein and performs three or more blood draws over a 48-hour post-treatment period. Over
this time, the patient metabolizes the therapeutic plasma protein such that the concentration of
                                                  9

 WO 2015/006033                                                              PCT/US2014/043517
clotting factor VIII within the patient returns to the patient's own naturally occurring level.
The healthcare provider analyzes the patient's drawn blood via laboratory analyzers to
determine the amount of clotting factor VIII within the patient at each blood draw. This
analyzed blood laboratory data enables the healthcare provider to determine how quickly a
patient metabolizes the therapeutic plasma protein.
         [0045] As a general rule, most healthcare providers set a target threshold such that the
clotting factor VIII within a patient does not fall below 1%. Patients with less than 1% of
clotting factor VIII are considered susceptible to uncontrolled or spontaneous bleeds. While
this approach works some of the time, many patients have daily, weekly, or even monthly
variances in their metabolism and/or tendencies to bleed, and may need different clotting
factor FVIII levels to remain bleed free. These variances are oftentimes related to patient
weight, age, joint health, and physical activity level. The dosing regime determined for the
patient usually does not account for these variances, which potentially leaves the patient
exposed to bleeds if the clotting factor VIII falls below the generally accepted 1% natural
baseline threshold, and/or is lower than needed to prevent bleeds during periods of higher
risk/physical activity.
         [0046] The example method, system, and apparatus disclosed herein account for
patient pharmacokinetic variance by creating individual patient profiles based not only on the
patient's own intensive pharmacokinetic profiling, but rather a (Bayesian) model that uses
pharmacokinetic profiles of a set of sample representative patients and/or and a limited
number of patient blood sample data points in conjunction with minimal patient information.
The example method, system, and apparatus disclosed herein enable a healthcare provider to
refine the model based on a patient's previous treatments and/or an activity level of the
patient.   Such a configuration enables healthcare providers to create individualized dosing
regimes based on knowledge of a population of sampled patients that have similar
characteristics as the patient undergoing treatment, thereby reducing the effects of individual
pharmacokinetic variance of the patient and reducing (or preventing) the number of bleeds
experienced by the patient while on prophylaxis.
         [0047] The example disclosure includes two primary embodiments. A first primary
embodiment includes a drug dosing tool that uses previously collected patient data to
establish one or more pharmacokinetic models. The example method, system, and apparatus
use this model to determine how a therapeutic plasma protein changes over time in a patient
based upon the patient's physical attributes (e.g., age, weight, gender, activity level,
                                                 10

 WO 2015/006033                                                             PCT/US2014/043517
endogenous clotting factor VIII level, etc.) and previous dosing treatments.      A healthcare
provider may use the model to determine a drug dosage and dosing interval for the patient.
        [0048] A second primary embodiment includes a drug dosing tool, such as an
application ("App") operating on a mobile computer (e.g., a smart phone or a tablet
computer). The application is configured to enable a user (e.g., a drug sales representative) to
provide healthcare providers with a graphical interface that displays how a particular
therapeutic plasma protein (e.g., a clotting factor VIII such as Baxter's ADVATE) performs
under different conditions.       The example pharmacokinetic      drug tool of this second
embodiment uses a pharmacokinetic model of sampled patients to enable the user to highlight
the benefits of using, for example, an every-three-day dosing scheme, an every-four-day
dosing scheme, an every-five-day dosing scheme, etc. instead of an every-one-day or an
every-two-day dosing scheme for therapeutic plasma protein.              The drug tool uses
relationships between therapeutic plasma protein concentrations, therapeutic plasma protein
dosage levels, therapeutic plasma protein dosage times, and patient parameters to calculate
how the therapeutic plasma protein concentration changes over time for a theoretical patient.
        [0049] As used herein, the term "clotting factor VIII", "FVIII", or "rAHF" refers to
any FVIII molecule that has at least a portion of the B domain intact, and which exhibits
biological activity that is associated with native FVIII. In one embodiment of the disclosure,
the FVIII molecule is full-length FVIII. The FVIII molecule is a protein that is encoded by
DNA sequences capable of hybridizing to DNA encoding FVIII:C.             Such a protein may
contain amino acid deletions at various sites between or within the domains Al-A2-B-A3
C1-C2. The FVIII molecule may also be an analog of native clotting factor FVIII, wherein
one or more amino acid residues have been replaced by site-directed mutagenesis.
        [0050] The term "recombinant Factor VIII" (rFVIII) may include any rFVIII,
heterologous or naturally occurring, obtained via recombinant DNA technology, or a
biologically active derivative thereof. As used herein, "endogenous FVIII" includes FVIII
which originates from a mammal intended to receive treatment. The term also includes FVIII
transcribed from a transgene or any other foreign DNA present in the mammal. As used
herein, "exogenous FVIII" or therapeutic plasma protein includes clotting factor FVIII that
does not originate from a mammal.
        [0051] The FVIII molecule exists naturally and in therapeutic preparations as a
heterogeneous distribution of polypeptides arising from a single gene product. The term
"clotting factor VIII" as used herein refers to all such polypeptides, whether derived from
blood plasma or produced through the use of recombinant DNA techniques and includes, but
                                                  11

 WO 2015/006033                                                                PCT/US2014/043517
is not limited to FVIII mimetics, fc-FVIII conjugates, FVIII chemically modified with water
soluble polymers, and other forms or derivatives of FVIII. Commercially available examples
of therapeutic preparations containing FVIII include those sold under the trade names of
ADVATE,       HEMOFIL M, and RECOMBINATE (available from Baxter Healthcare
Corporation, Deerfield, Ill., U.S.A.).       Other preparations comprise primarily a single
subpopulation of FVIII molecules, which lack the B domain portion of the molecule.
         [0052] The FVIII molecules useful for the present disclosure include a full-length
protein, precursors of the protein, biologically active or functional subunits or fragments of
the protein, and/or functional derivatives thereof, as well as variants thereof as described
herein below. Reference to clotting factor FVIII is meant to include all potential forms of
such proteins and wherein each of the forms of FVIII has at least a portion or all of the native
B domain sequence intact.
         [0053] "Dosing interval," as used herein, means an amount of time that elapses
between multiple doses being administered to a patient.                The dosing interval for
administering a therapeutic plasma protein including clotting factor VIII may be at least
about every one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, ten, eleven, twelve, thirteen, or
fourteen    days or longer.      The dosing interval        may change based on changing
conditions/characteristics of a patient, changes to a minimally acceptable (e.g., target trough)
concentration of the therapeutic plasma protein within a patient, and/or changes to a dosage.
                          Pharmacokinetic Drug Dosing Environment
         [0054] FIG. 1 shows a diagram of an example pharmacokinetic drug dosing
environment 100 that may implemented in either one or both of the embodiments described
above. The environment 100 includes a model generator 102 that is configured to generate
one or more patient pharmacokinetic models 106 based upon sampled patient data 104. The
environment 100 also includes a pharmacokinetic ("PK") server 108 that is configured to
provide patients, healthcare providers, and/or sales representatives with a graphical
pharmacokinetic drug dosing tool 110 based upon the one or more pharmacokinetic models
 106. In the illustrated embodiment, the PK server 108 transmits the tool 110 to client devices
 112 via a network 114 (e.g., an Internet). In other embodiments, the PK server 108 hosts the
tool 110, which is accessible by the client devices 112. In these other embodiments, the PK
server 108 may include a single server, or alternatively, may be distributed within a cloud
computing framework.
                                                  12

 WO 2015/006033                                                            PCT/US2014/043517
        [0055] The example PK server 108 and/or the model generator 102 may be
communicatively coupled to a database 116 configured to store the patient pharmacokinetic
models 106.      The database 116 may include any type of computer-readable medium,
including RAM, ROM, flash memory, magnetic or optical disks, optical memory, or other
storage medium.       The example database 116 may also store information generated in
response to users using the tool 110 including, for example, patient information, dosing
regimes, etc. In some instances, the database 116 may be managed by a separate third-party
storage provider.
        [0056] In some instances, the PK server 108 and/or the model generator 102 may be
provided by the same server and/or processor and/or operated by the same entity. In these
instances, the functionality of the model generator 102 may operate in conjunction with the
functionality of the PK server 108. For instance, the model generator 102 may periodically
update pharmacokinetic models with therapeutic plasma protein dosing information and/or
patient information received in the PK server 108 via the tool 110.
        [0057] The example client devices 112a, 112b, and/or 112c may include any device
capable of displaying or otherwise operating the tool 110. Examples of the client devices 112
include a smartphone, a table computer, a laptop computer, a desktop computer, a
workstation, a server, a processor, smart eyewear, a smart watch, etc. In some instances the
tool 110 may be installed on the client device 112. In other instances, the tool 110 provides
an interface (e.g., a web browser) to functionality configured to reside at the PK server 108.
In these instances, the PK server 108 may include one or more application programmable
interfaces ("APIs") configured to enable the tool 110 to access the desired data and/or
functionality.
                                       Model Generator
        [0058] In the embodiments described herein, a pharmacokinetic model is used to
estimate or approximate pharmacokinetic profiles of patients because precise patient-specific
pharmacokinetic profiles are relatively complex or difficult to determine.       For instance,
current methods to determine a patient-specific pharmacokinetic profile for hemophilia A
include performing multiple blood tests. These blood tests include performing an initial
blood draw to determine a clotting factor VIII baseline in a patient. Then, after therapeutic
plasma protein is administered, five or more blood draws are performed over a 48-hour post
infusion period. As can be appreciated, such a procedure is especially taxing on a patient,
healthcare provider, and lab because of the numerous separate blood draws. Accordingly, the
                                                13

 WO 2015/006033                                                             PCT/US2014/043517
example model generator 102 is configured to generate relatively accurate pharmacokinetic
models based upon a sample of patients with varying ages, body weights, genders, and
activity levels. These models are then used to determine or approximate a pharmacokinetic
profile of a patient without having to subject a patient to all of the blood draws and
subsequent analysis.
        [0059] In an embodiment, the pharmacokinetic models 106 are determined using
patient samples 104 selected from one or more sets of patient data. The patient samples 104
may be, for example, selected among patients who have already been subscribed a
therapeutic dosing regime using the above described blood draw procedure.           The patient
samples 104 may also include patients specifically selected to go through the blood draw
procedure for the purpose of creating the models.       The patient samples 104 may include
patients from one hospital or medical system and/or patients associated from multiple
hospitals, medical systems, geographic regions, etc.
        [0060] The patient samples 104 include data for patients of varying ages, body
weights (or body mass index ("BMI"), medical conditions, clinical laboratory data, genders,
and/or activity levels. In the example described herein, sample patient ages vary between 2
and 100 years of age. In some embodiments, the data for the patients may be separated into
children and adult age brackets such that a separate model is generated for each bracket. The
patient data may additionally or alternatively be partitioned based on weight, gender, and/or
activity level.
        [0061] As mentioned, the example patient samples 104 include a determination of
clotting factor VIII before therapeutic plasma protein is infused into the patients. Then, post
infusion blood samples are collected from each patient after certain durations of time. It
should be appreciated that in other examples, the blood samples may be collected at different
times and/or the number of blood samples collected may be fewer or greater. For instance,
fewer blood samples may be collected from children.
        [0062] FIG. 2 shows a diagram of graph 200 including patient sample data 104 for
one-hundred, fifty-two patients with hemophilia A. The sample data 104 is shown as a level
of clotting factor VIII in international units ("IU") per deciliter ("dl"). The samples were
collected at pre-infusion (shown at time 0) and post-infusion at intervals of 15 minutes, 30
minutes, 1 hour, 3 hours, 6 hours, 9 hours, 24 hours, 28 hours, 32 hours, and 48 hours. It
should be appreciated that the amount of the clotting factor VIII provided by the therapeutic
plasma protein in the patient decreases over time as the patients metabolize the infused
therapeutic plasma protein.
                                                 14

 WO 2015/006033                                                               PCT/US2014/043517
         [0063] The example model generator 102 creates a pharmacokinetic patient model by
performing a Bayesian analysis that uses previous knowledge of clotting factor VIII in the
sampled patients over time after an infusion of the therapeutic plasma protein.          In some
instances, the model generator 102 is configured to analyze each patient's sampled dosing
history in conjunction with pre-infusion clotting factor VIII levels, so that washout data is not
needed to construct the pharmacokinetic models 106.            In other embodiments, the model
generator 102 may use patient washout data in conjunction with the post-infusion clotting
factor VIII levels to create one or more pharmacokinetic models 106. Patient washout data
corresponds to a baseline where the patient does not include the therapeutic plasma protein in
their system.
         [0064] The example model generator 102 creates the one or more pharmacokinetic
models 106 using, for example, the patient sample data shown in the graph 200. The model
generator 102 may combine the individual patient samples 104 into one or more population
profiles (e.g., age sets, weight sets, activity level sets, endogenous clotting factor VIII level,
etc.), which is then used as a basis for the respective pharmacokinetic model 106.            For
instance, the model generator 102 may group the patient samples 104 for different ages,
weights, and/or activity levels into different sets. The model generator 102 then performs
covariate and statistical modeling on the grouped patient samples 104 of each set to create a
population pharmacokinetic model 106 for that set, as described in a white paper titled
"Population     pharmacokinetics     of recombinant      factor   VIII  - the   relationships  of
pharmacokinetics to age and body weight", by Bj6rkman et al., the entirety of which is
incorporated herein by reference. It should be appreciated however, that the model generator
 102 may model the sampled data 104 using other Bayesian analysis techniques (e.g., a naive
Bayes classifier).
         [0065] In the illustrated example, the covariate model used by the model generator
 102 determines relationships between pharmacokinetic parameters (e.g., how quickly
therapeutic plasma protein is metabolized, endogenous clotting factor VIII level, etc.) and
patient characteristics (e.g., age, body weight, clinical laboratory data, gender, activity level,
etc.).    The model generator 102 uses a statistical model to determine variance in
pharmacokinetic parameters among the sampled patients in addition to residual variance as a
result of biological variability between patients, measurement errors, and errors within the fit
of the sampled data 104 to the pharmacokinetic model.
         [0066] The example model generator 102 is configured to perform the covariate and
statistical modeling using non-linear mixed effects modeling with a first-order integral
                                                   15

 WO 2015/006033                                                                PCT/US2014/043517
approximation method, as provided in SAS@ software (NLMIXED procedure).                       In the
illustrated example, the model generator 102 uses a two-compartment model.                 In other
examples, the model generator 102 may use a single compartment model or three or more
compartment models.        In the illustrated two-compartment example, the first compartment
includes pharmacokinetic parameters of clearance ("CL") and volume of distribution (VI).
         [0067] CL refers to the amount of time for a patient to metabolize the therapeutic
plasma protein in milliliters ("mL") per hour per kilogram ("kg"). In other words, clearance
is a measure of efficiency and rate at which a therapeutic plasma protein is removed or
eliminated from a patient. The model generator 102 uses example equation (1) to determine
CL, where BW denotes body weight, i denotes the specific sampled patient, and i denotes
statistical inter-patient variability.
            CL, (mL / h) =193* (BJTI )0-80 * (1- 0.0045 * (Age, -22)) * exp(q,CL)      (1)
                                    56
         [0068] VI refers to a theoretical volume that the therapeutic plasma protein would
have to occupy to provide the same concentration as it is currently in a patient's blood. This
theoretical volume provides an estimation for a dose to achieve a certain clotting factor VIII
level. The model generator 102 uses example equation (2) to determine VI. In the example
described herein, VI is about 0.04 L/kg.
                                              BW      9
                            V1, (L) =2.22 * (      )    * exp(q1)      (2)
                                               56
         [0069] The     second    component     of the illustrated    model   includes    an inter
compartmental clearance ("Q") and a second volume of distribution ("V2"), which does not
account for inter-patient variability. The model generator 102 uses example equation (3) to
determine    Q and  equation (4) to determine V2. The inter-compartmental clearance        Q is used
in conjunction with clearance CL to determine a scaling relation of the second volume of
distribution V2 to the first volume of distribution VI.              In this example, the inter
compartmental clearance      Q is not significantly related to body weight, indicating that VI and
V2 are cumulative for determining a volume of distribution at steady state. In other words,
the total volume of distribution is determined by adding VI and V2. In one implementation,
                                                     16

 WO 2015/006033                                                              PCT/US2014/043517
the average total volume of distribution of the patient samples was found to be about 0.053
L/kg.
                                      Q,(mL /h)=147        (3)
                                  V2,(L)=0.73 * B ) -0.76
                                                     56
        [0070] After generating the model 106 provided by example equations (1) to (4)
above, the example model generator 102 may verify the model by determining individual
values for CL,    Q, VI, V2, and Vl+V2 for each sampled patient and comparing the results to
the model. Such a comparison provides an indication as to the accuracy of the model. In
some examples, the model generator 102 may determine a statistical distribution of the
sampled patient data to determine whether the model is accurate. In instances in which the
model does not appear to be accurate, the model generator 102 may compile additional
patient samples 104 and/or perform other modeling techniques.
        [0071] Responsive to creating one or more pharmacokinetic models 106, the model
generator 102 provides the pharmacokinetic model(s) 106 to the PK server 108.                The
transmission may be over a private network, such as a local area network, or over a public
network, such as an Internet. The model generator 102 may also store the models 106 to the
database 116, which is also accessible by the PK server 108 via one or more interfaces. In
other instances, the model generator 102 may be integrated with the PK server 108.
        [0072] In addition to providing the pharmacokinetic models 106 based upon
equations (1) to (4) above as applied to samples of random patients, the example model
generator 102 may refine the models for each patient whose therapeutic plasma protein
dosing is calculated using the drug dosing tool. For instance, the PK server 108 may receive
patient specific information including, weight, age, gender, endogenous clotting factor VIII
level, and dosing level for previous treatments. The model generator 102 uses the previous
treatment information (e.g., dosing amounts, intervals, etc.) to refine or adjust the model such
that dosing recommendations and a pharmacokinetic profile are more aligned to the specific
patient but still account for potential patient variance. The model generator 102 transmits the
patient-specific model to the PK server 108.
                                                   17

 WO 2015/006033                                                              PCT/US2014/043517
        [0073] Alternatively, the PK server 108 may be configured to create patient-specific
models using the pharmacokinetic model 106 provided by the model generator 102 to
account for the patient-specific pharmacokinetic variance. In this manner, one or more base
models 106 are refined or adjusted by the PK server 108 responsive to receiving previous
treatment information for a specific patient. The PK server 108 may be configured to store
the patient-specific model to the database 116 for subsequent uses by the same healthcare
provider or other healthcare providers.
        [0074] In yet other embodiments, the example tool 110 may be configured to adjust
or refine a pharmacokinetic model based upon patient-specific treatment information. For
instance, the tool 110 may include fields for a user to provide previous treatment information.
The example tool 110 uses this previous treatment information when determining a
pharmacokinetic profile and dosing recommendations for a patient.               Additionally or
alternatively, the tool 110 may use treatment information from multiple patients to refine
and/or adjust the model 106.
                               Patient-Specific Tool Embodiment
        [0075] As discussed above, the PK server 108 can be configured to provide different
embodiments of the drug dosing tool 110. FIGS. 3 to 13 include diagrams of example user
interfaces provided by the drug dosing tool 110 to determine a dosing regime and
estimated/approximate pharmacokinetic profile for a specific patient using one or more
pharmacokinetic models 106.        It should be appreciated that the user interfaces may be
modified in appearance and/or function based upon the configuration of the drug dosing tool
 110. For instance, the graphical elements of the user interfaces may be modified based upon
a type of client device 112 (e.g., a smart phone display, a tablet display, a personal computer
display).
        [0076] FIG. 3 includes a diagram of a user interface 300 that includes user
registration fields to enable a healthcare provider to access the drug dosing tool 110. The
interface 300 includes data fields for user information (e.g., name, practice, address, contact
information).    In addition, the user interface 300 includes a field for a drug enforcement
administration ("DEA") number, which is used by the PK server 108 to validate that the user
is an authorized healthcare professional. In instances in which a healthcare professional does
not have a DEA number, the professional may contact customer support to manually setup an
account to use the tool 110.
                                                 18

 WO 2015/006033                                                           PCT/US2014/043517
        [0077] Responsive to receiving the user-provided information in FIG. 3 (including a
proper DEA number), the example PK server 108 is configured in the illustrated embodiment
to create a user account, which includes a user dashboard. FIG. 4 includes a diagram of user
interface 400 for a patient information portion of the dashboard.     The user interface 400
provides user management of patients under care of the user. A user uses the user interface
400 to add a new patient, reactivate a current patient, open a report providing details
regarding previous treatments (including previous determined pharmacokinetic profile and
dosing recommendation), or open a report of patient information. To add a patient, drug
dosing tool 110 may provide another user interface that prompts a user for patient
information including name, address, insurance information, age, gender, body weight (or
BMI), medical conditions, clinical laboratory data, etc.
        [0078] For any patient, the drug dosing tool 110 enables a user to determine an
estimated/approximate pharmacokinetic profile and dosing recommendation. FIG. 5 includes
a diagram of a user interface 500 associated with a new patient visit. In this illustrated
example, user interface 500 includes fields for patient information regarding the infusion of
therapeutic plasma protein. In instances in which the patient is already registered with the
tool 110, at least some of the fields may be pre-populated. Additionally, the 'Dose for PK
infusion' field may be populated by the tool 110 responsive to the user progressing through
the steps to determine an estimated pharmacokinetic profile and dosing recommendation for
the patient.
        [0079] The example drug dosing tool 110 may also be configured to warn a user if
information provided exceeds a predetermined threshold. For example, the tool 110 may be
configured to provide a warning message if the pre-infusion level exceeds 20 rU/kg. This
warning provides an indication to a user that the entered value is not typical for that field.
However, a user may nevertheless continue to use the tool 110 with the information that
caused the warning to be generated. Alternatively, the tool 110 may be configured to only
accept information within the predetermined range.
        [0080] After providing a patient name, body weight, birth date, infusion date, and
washout or pre-infusion level information, the example drug dosing tool 110 prompts a user
to progress to the next step.    FIG. 6 includes a diagram of a user interface 600 that is
displayed subsequent to a user's provision of information into the user interface 500 of FIG.
5.
        [0081] The example user interface 600 provides a review of previous patient
treatments and/or samples including pre-infusion (or washout) information and dosage (i.e.,
                                                19

 WO 2015/006033                                                              PCT/US2014/043517
PK Infusion). A user can select to use the data from one or more previous treatments and/or
samples with the tool 110 to refine or adjust the pharmacokinetic model 106 for a patient. A
user makes this selection by toggling the 'On/Off buttons on the right-hand side of the
interface 600. For instance, a user may deactivate previous treatments and/or samples that
occurred over three years in the past. As a result of this selection, the tool 110 only uses the
activated previous treatments and/or samples in refining the pharmacokinetic model 106.
This configuration of the tool 110 thereby enables a user to refine a pharmacokinetic model
as desired using only specified previous patient treatments and/or samples.            In some
instances, the user may select to deactivate all previous treatments and/or samples, thereby
causing the tool 110 to use the pharmacokinetic model 106 as provided by the model
generator 102.
         [0082] In the illustrated embodiment, three patient samples are shown for a treatment
with a therapeutic plasma protein. Each of the samples corresponds to a blood draw of the
patient at a time from an infusion treatment of the therapeutic plasma protein. For instance,
the first sample was collected 6 hours after the infusion, the second sample was collected 24
hours after the infusion, and the third sample was collected 30 hours after the infusion. The
sample information includes a determination of a concentration of clotting factor VIII within
the patient's blood at the time the sample was collected. It should be appreciated that the use
of the pharmacokinetic model 106 in conjunction with certain selected patient samples may
refine a determined patient pharmacokinetic profile to be specific for a patient while also
compensating for patient variation common within a sampled population.
         [0083] After selecting which treatments and/or samples are to be included within
pharmacokinetic model 106, the drug dosing tool 110 prompts a user to select a 'Next Step'
button, causing the example tool 110 to display user interface 700 of FIG. 7. The example
user interface 700 provides a review of which previous treatments and/or samples are to be
included in the determination of the estimated pharmacokinetic              profile and dosing
recommendation for the patient.      The selected previous treatments and/or samples may be
used to provide a weight to a dosing regime based upon previous provided doses. The user
interface 700 prompts the user to select the 'Calculate' button to cause the drug dosing tool
 110 (or the PK server 108) to apply the patient specific information to the pharmacokinetic
model 106 to determine an estimated or approximate pharmacokinetic profile and dosing
recommendation for the patient.        In some instances, the tool 110 may not make the
'Calculate' button available until a user has provided at least a predetermined number of
(e.g., three) previous treatments and/or samples to ensure that the resulting determination is
                                                 20

 WO 2015/006033                                                              PCT/US2014/043517
more specific to the patient. It should be appreciated that the tool 110 and/or the PK server
 108 selects a pharmacokinetic model of available pharmacokinetic models that best matches
the patient information provided within the user interface 500 and/or other user interfaces that
prompt a user for patient-specific information. For instance, the pharmacokinetic model may
be selected based on a patient's age, weight, gender, and/or activity level.
        [0084] FIG. 8 includes a diagram of the user interface 700 of FIG. 7, which now
displays the determined pharmacokinetic profile of the patient after calculation by the tool
 110 and/or the PK server 108. The 'Theoretical' fields correspond to data that is based solely
on the pharmacokinetic model 106 without the previous patient treatments and/or samples.
The 'Adjusted' fields correspond to pharmacokinetic profile data specific to the patient based
upon the pharmacokinetic model 106 adjusted with the previous treatment and/or sample
information.     The 'Offset'    fields correspond to differences between the respective
'Theoretical' and 'Adjusted' fields. In the illustrated example, the pharmacokinetic profile
data includes a clearance of the therapeutic plasma protein, volume of distribution (vdBeta),
maximum concentration that the therapeutic plasma protein may achieve after dosing
(CMax/Peak), half-life of the therapeutic plasma protein (FVIII half-life), and a time to a
minimum (or lower) pre-specified threshold of the concentration of the therapeutic plasma
protein within the patient.   It should be appreciated that in other embodiments, the user
interface 700 can include fewer fields or additional fields for the pharmacokinetic profile
including VI and V2 and/or assay type.
        [0085] In some instances, the example tool 110 may provide a warning and/or alert if
any of the pharmacokinetic profile data is outside of a certain percentage of a sampled patient
population used for creating the pharmacokinetic model 106. For instance, the tool 100 may
indicate that the adjusted clearance value is outside of 95% of clearance values of sampled
patients within the same population set as the patient undergoing treatment. The warning
and/or alert may be used as a trigger by a user to verify entered patient information. The
warning and/or alert may also be used as an indication that the dosing regime is abnormal or
outside of dosing regimes for sampled patients with similar characteristics as the patient
undergoing treatment.
        [0086] In addition to providing the pharmacokinetic profile data shown in FIG. 8, the
example tool 110 also provides a graphical representation of the estimated pharmacokinetic
profile and a dosing recommendation. FIGS. 9 and 10 include diagrams of user interfaces
900 and 1000 that display dosing and pharmacokinetic information (e.g., time-varying
therapeutic plasma protein level in the patient (e.g., CL)) for a specific patient.         The
                                                21

 WO 2015/006033                                                             PCT/US2014/043517
therapeutic plasma protein level is shown as a concentration percentage relative to a normal
level of clotting factor VIII within a patient. However, in other embodiments, the therapeutic
plasma protein level may be shown as a unit of measure.
         [0087] FIG. 9 includes a diagram of the user interface 900 that graphically displays an
estimated or approximate pharmacokinetic profile of a patient 902.                The example
pharmacokinetic profile 902 shows how a therapeutic plasma protein is metabolized in a
patient over time starting at a time when the therapeutic plasma protein is administered. The
pharmacokinetic profile of the patient 902 is denoted by the solid line. The example user
interface 900 also includes a comparison of the pharmacokinetic profile of the patient 902 to
a pharmacokinetic profile of sample patients 904 used to create the pharmacokinetic model
 106, which is denoted by the dashed line. The user interface 900 also includes a shaded band
906 that represents  20% of the pharmacokinetic profile of sample patients 904.
         [0088] Moreover, the example user interface 900 includes a graphical representation
of patient samples 908 and 910 in instances where the patient received one or more blood
tests after an infusion of the therapeutic plasma protein. Patient sample 908 corresponds to a
sample not selected to be included within the determination of the pharmacokinetic profile of
a patient 902 and patient samples 910 correspond to selected samples for inclusion in the
determination of the pharmacokinetic profile of a patient 902. The blood tests are performed
to determine an amount of therapeutic plasma protein in the patient after an initial infusion
and may be performed to further refine the pharmacokinetic profile of a patient 902. For
instance, instead of performing five or more blood draws after an infusion, the example PK
server 108 and/or tool 110 may be used to create the pharmacokinetic profile of a patient 902
using the data from fewer blood draws in conjunction with the pharmacokinetic profile of
sample patients 904 based on the pharmacokinetic model 106.
         [0089] The example user interface 1000 of FIG. 10 enables a user to graphically view
dosing changes based upon changes to dosing interval and/or a minimum (lower) specified
threshold of the concentration of the therapeutic plasma protein (e.g., target trough) based on
the pharmacokinetic profile of a patient 902 shown in FIG. 9. For instance, FIG. 10 shows a
graph of a dosing regime that visually indicates how an administered therapeutic plasma
protein is metabolized based upon the patient's estimated pharmacokinetic profile 902. The
dosing regime includes a dosing interval of 72 hours such that the concentration of the
therapeutic plasma protein does not fall below a target trough of 30%. The example drug
dosing tool 110 uses this information to calculate an estimated dosage (e.g., 48.0 IU or 0.76
IU/kg) that is to be administered every 72 hours. The example tool 110 also calculates an
                                                 22

 WO 2015/006033                                                               PCT/US2014/043517
amount of time that the therapeutic plasma protein level exceeds (e.g., is below) the target
trough. In other instances, the tool 110 may provide an indication of time that the therapeutic
plasma protein level is below the target trough, which corresponds to an amount of time that
a patient is unprotected by the therapeutic plasma protein and susceptible to bleeds.
         [0090] The example tool 110 is configured to enable a user to adjust the interval and
target trough via the interface 1000 and accordingly change the dosing regime including the
dosage and therapeutic plasma protein level over time. It should be appreciated that changing
either the interval or the target trough does not change the estimated pharmacokinetic profile
of the patient 902. Instead, the example tool 110 applies the selected interval or target trough
to the determined pharmacokinetic profile of the patient 902.
         [0091] The interface 1000 configuration of example tool 100 enables a healthcare
provider to determine how dosing changes based upon changes to the interval or target
trough. For instance, a healthcare provider can compare dosing regimes for an every-two-day
dosing interval and an every-three-day dosing interval (or additional intervals such as an
every-day dosing interval) to determine whether a dosing interval can be extended (or
reduced) for a patient, thereby requiring fewer visits to a healthcare facility and/or fewer self
treatments.   The target trough enables the healthcare provider to determine how a dosing
regime is affected by a desired minimum therapeutic plasma protein level in the patient. For
instance, a healthcare provider may determine that a 10% target trough is acceptable for a
(relatively active) patient and accordingly sets the target trough on the user interface 1000 to
 10%.    Responsive to receiving the selection of the target trough, the example tool 110
determines an estimated dosage such that the concentration of clotting factor VIII does not
fall below the 10% threshold while maintaining an every-three-day dosing interval.            The
healthcare provider accordingly uses the tool 110 to determine whether an every-three-day
dosing regime is appropriate for a 10% target trough such that the dosage or CMax does not
exceed a safety threshold.
         [0092] The example drug dosing tool 110 also provides the graphical therapeutic
plasma protein level over time and dosage based upon a schedule (e.g., a week, month, year,
etc.). For instance, a user can select the 'Schedule' button in the interface 1000, causing the
tool 110 to display available days for dosing. A user selects which days a dosage is to be
provided to a patient, causing tool 110 to determine a dosage and therapeutic plasma protein
level over time such that the therapeutic plasma protein level does not fall below the target
trough. For example, FIG. 11 shows a diagram of an example user interface 1100 that enables
a user to select particular days (and/or times) for providing a dosage of the therapeutic plasma
                                                  23

 WO 2015/006033                                                             PCT/US2014/043517
protein. For example, a user may enter into the tool 110 that a 1753 IU dosage of therapeutic
plasma protein is to be provided to a patient on Monday, Wednesday, Friday, and Sunday
using a 48 hour dosing interval. A user may select anywhere on concentration line 1102 to
view the date/time and specific concentration of clotting factor VIII within the patient.
         [0093] FIG. 12 shows a diagram of a user interface 1200 that enables a user to view
amounts of time where the amount of clotting factor VIII is above a specified concentration
and below a specified concentration. For instance, a user may select a 'time below' to be 3%
and a 'time above' to be 10%. In response to this information, the example tool 110 and/or
the PK server 108 determines an amount of time the amount of clotting factor VIII is above
 10% and below 3%. The example tool 110 also graphically displays this time within the
graph of the user interface 1200. This information shows, for example, an amount of time
below 3% where a patient may be left unprotected and is susceptible to bleeds and an amount
of time where the patient is fully protected.
         [0094] The example drug dosing tool 110 also enables a user to store to the database
 116 (and/or a local memory of the client device 112) patient pharmacokinetic profiles in
conjunction with dosing and therapeutic plasma protein level data. For instance, a user can
select the 'Save' button in interface 1000 of FIG. 10, causing the drug dosing tool 110 to save
to a data storage the information described in conjunction with FIGS. 5 to 12.             The
information may also be saved as a report. FIG. 13 includes a diagram of a report 1300 of the
saved information described in conjunction with FIGS. 5 to 12. A healthcare provider may
view report 1300 to determine how a dosing regime of therapeutic plasma protein was
calculated for a patient.
         [0095] In addition to providing patient dosing information, the example tool 110 may
be configured in conjunction with the PK server 108 to transmit the dosing information to a
hospital information system and/or to an infusion pump 120. For example, returning to FIG.
 1, a healthcare provider may use the tool 110 on client device 1 12c to determine dosing
information for a patient. The tool 110 may be configured to transmit the dosing information
to the PK server 108. The healthcare provider may also identify an infusion pump that will
be providing the dosing. Responsive to receiving the dosing information, the PK server 108
transmits the dosing information to an infusion pump and/or a hospital information system.
Alternatively, the PK server 108 may retain the dosing information until requested by an
infusion pump.     In instances in which a pump is not specified, the hospital information
system determines which pump is to provide the infusion to the patient and causes the dosage
information to be transmitted to the appropriate pump.
                                                 24

 WO 2015/006033                                                               PCT/US2014/043517
         [0096] Alternatively, the example tool 110 on the client device 112c may
communicate the dosage information directly to the infusion pump 120 (e.g., via near field
communication, Bluetooth@, etc.). For instance, the tool 110 may be configured to cause the
client device 112c to establish a communication session or to locate a proximately located
pump.     Upon establishing communication with the pump 120, the tool 110 transmits the
dosing information to program the infusion pump.
         [0097] Additionally or alternatively, the tool 110 may be used directly with a patient.
For instance, the example tool 110 may be configured to transmit a schedule to a patient after
a healthcare provider has selected a dosing regime. For example, the tool 110 may transmit a
dosing regime or schedule to the client device 112 of a patient that instructs the patient how
much therapeutic plasma protein to infuse and when to infuse.              The dosing regime or
schedule indicates (and may include reminders) the specific days (and/or times) of a week,
month, year, etc. that the patient is to receive a dosage of the therapeutic plasma protein.
Further, tool 110 may be available to a patient to enable the patient to view previous
treatments and to compare how a dosing regime changes based upon a change in dosing
interval.
                                    Marketing Tool Embodiment
         [0098] In the previous embodiment, a healthcare provider uses the example tool 110
to determine a dosing regime to administer a therapeutic plasma protein to a patient. In a
second embodiment, the example tool 110 may instead be configured to provide a
generalized dosing regime (e.g., a dosing regime for a theoretical patient) to demonstrate to a
healthcare provider the capabilities of a therapeutic plasma protein as part of a sales or
marketing presentation.      For example, a sales representative may demonstrate how the
therapeutic plasma protein ADVATE drug performs under every-two-day and every-three
day dosing regimes.        The example tool 110 may also compare how a first brand of
therapeutic plasma protein performs for a theoretical patient compared to a second brand of
therapeutic plasma protein.
         [0099] FIGS. 14 to 18 display user interfaces provided by the drug dosing tool 110 in
this marketing tool embodiment. The user interfaces show theoretical patient data that a sales
representative may use to demonstrate to a healthcare provider how therapeutic plasma
protein can be prescribed based upon a pharmacokinetic profile of a theoretical patient taking
into account the theoretical patient's weight and half-life time. The half-life time is the time
it takes for a drug to reach half its original concentration in a patient.
                                                   25

 WO 2015/006033                                                              PCT/US2014/043517
         [00100]       In particular, the example tool 110 enables a sales representative to
demonstrate to a healthcare provider how therapeutic plasma protein performs when the
dosing is performed every two days versus every three days for a specified theoretical patient.
It should be appreciated that the user interfaces shown in FIGS. 14 to 18 are only example
embodiments. In other examples, the layout and/or functionality of the user interfaces may
change based upon requirements of sales representatives.
         [00101]       FIG. 14 includes a diagram of user interface 1400 that is provided by
the drug dosing tool 110 on the client device 112 of FIG. 1. The interface 1400 is configured
to prompt a user to provide a current dosing regime specified for an actual patient or a
theoretical patient. In this illustrated embodiment, a theoretical patient is specified to weigh
60 kg and have a drug half-life of 12 hours. Further, a user specifies a dosing regime of 2300
IU every 48 hours. Moreover, a user selects a trough threshold (e.g., a minimum or lower
threshold) to be 1% using scroll bar 1401. The trough is shown within the user interface
 1400 as line 1402.
         [00102]       In response to providing the patient and drug parameters, the drug
dosing tool 110 uses a pharmacokinetic model (e.g., the pharmacokinetic model 106
described above) to determine a pharmacokinetic profile of the theoretical patient. The drug
doing tool 110 uses this profile to determine a dosing regime (e.g., dosage and interval). The
tool 110 graphically displays the dosing regime as a concentration of therapeutic plasma
protein within the theoretical patient over a time period (shown as line 1404). For example,
at time '0', 2300 IU of the drug is shown to be dispensed to the theoretical patient, resulting
in a 76.7% concentration of the therapeutic plasma protein in the patient. The concentration
of the therapeutic plasma protein decreases over the next 48 hours based upon the determined
pharmacokinetic profile of the theoretical patient.
         [00103]       FIG. 15 shows the user interface 1400 of FIG. 14 after a user has
selected the '2 days' button. Selection of this button causes the tool 110 to determine an
every-two-day dosing regime based upon the pharmacokinetic profile of the theoretical
patient. This regime includes a dose (e.g., 600 IU) and a graphical display of the therapeutic
plasma protein concentration within the theoretical patient over the time period (shown as
line 1406). The example tool 110 determines a dose amount for the two day dosing interval
such that the concentration of the therapeutic plasma protein does not fall below the specified
 1% target trough.
         [00104]       The user interface 1400 of FIG. 15 also provides a comparison of the
dosing regime initially provided by a user and the dosing regime determined by the tool 110.
                                                 26

 WO 2015/006033                                                                 PCT/US2014/043517
In the illustrated example, tool 110 graphically indicates that the user only has to prescribe
600 IU instead of 2300 IU every 48 hours. In other words, the tool 110 indicates that the user
had overestimated the dosage required such that the concentration of the therapeutic plasma
protein does not fall below the 1% target trough.
         [00105]        FIG. 16 shows the user interface 1400 of FIG. 14 after a user has
selected the '3 days' button. Selection of this button causes the tool 110 to determine an
every-three-day dosing regime based upon the pharmacokinetic profile of the theoretical
patient. This regime includes a dose (e.g., 2600 IU) and a graphically display of the time
varying therapeutic plasma protein concentration within the theoretical patient (shown as line
 1408). The tool 110 determines the regime so that the concentration does not fall below the
specified 1% target trough.
         [00106]        The user interface 1400 of FIG. 16 also displays a comparison of the
dosing regime initially provided by a user and the dosing regime determined using tool 110.
In the illustrated example, the tool 110 graphically indicates that a healthcare provider has to
prescribe 2600 IU every 72 hours such that the concentration does not fall below 1% during
any time between doses. A sales representative can use this graphical comparison to show a
healthcare provider that a dosage only has to be increased slightly from a current dosage
provided every 48 hours to achieve the same protection from bleeds while increasing the
amount of time between doses. It should be appreciated that the extension of the dosing
interval places less stress on the patient (e.g., less trips to the healthcare provider) and on the
healthcare provider (e.g., fewer doses to administer).
         [00107]        A sales representative uses the graphs displayed in FIGS. 15 and 16 to
graphically illustrate to a healthcare provider how a dosing regime changes for the same
theoretical patient using an every-two-day dosing interval and an every-three-day dosing
interval. The sales representative can also use the tool to graphically highlight the benefits of
using an every-three-day interval by showing that the therapeutic plasma protein can be
administered to a patient every three days without violating the 1% threshold. The sales
representative may display concurrently the every-three-day interval and the every-two-day
interval by selecting the 'Both' button included within the user interface 1400.
         [00108]        In addition to providing graphical displays of differences between the
every-two-day and every-three-day dosing regimes, the example drug dosing tool 110 also
graphically shows how long a theoretical patient is left unprotected based upon specified
parameters.     For example, the user interface 1400 of FIG. 17 shows an indication 1410
displayed by the tool 110 responsive to determining that the time-varying therapeutic plasma
                                                   27

 WO 2015/006033                                                               PCT/US2014/043517
protein concentration within the theoretical patient (e.g., the line 1404) falls below the target
trough line 1402. In this embodiment, a user raises the scroll bar 1401 such that the target
trough is increased to 13%. The example tool 110 determines a duration of time that the
therapeutic plasma protein concentration is below 13% and shows this duration at indication
 1410.   The example tool 110 may also determine a new dosing regime (e.g., an interval
and/or dose) so that the therapeutic plasma protein concentration does not fall below the 13%
target trough.
         [00109]        FIG. 18 includes a diagram of user interface 1800 that displays an
indication 1802 as to how long a theoretical patient was left unprotected by a therapeutic
plasma protein.     Indication 1802 is based upon the duration of time that the therapeutic
plasma protein concentration resides below the 13% target trough, as determined in
conjunction with FIG. 17. The example tool 110 also predicts a number of bleeds a year
based upon the duration of time that the therapeutic plasma protein concentration resides
below the target trough. In the illustrated example, the indication 1802 includes a graph
showing that a theoretical patient would be left unprotected for 39 hours a week, which could
result in 2.3 bleeds a year. A sales representative can use the information presented in FIGS.
 17 and 18 to show healthcare providers how an every-three-day dosing regime reduces (or
eliminates) times at which a patient is unprotected from the benefits of the therapeutic plasma
protein.
                  Flowchart of Example Drug Dosing Tool Usage Embodiment
         [00110]        FIGS. 19 and 20 show a flow diagram illustrating example procedure
 1900 to determine a dosing regime for a patient (or theoretical patient), according to an
example embodiment of the present disclosure. The example procedure 1900 may be carried
out by, for example, the PK server 108 and/or drug dosing tool 110 described in conjunction
with FIGS. 1 to 18. Although the procedure 1900 is described with reference to the flow
diagram illustrated in FIGS. 19 and 20, it should be appreciated that many other methods of
performing the functions associated with the procedure 1900 may be used. For example, the
order of many of the blocks may be changed, certain blocks may be combined with other
blocks, and many of the blocks described are optional.
         [00111]        Procedure 1900 begins when drug dosing tool 110 receives an
indication that a user (e.g., a healthcare provider, sales representative, patient, etc.) desires to
determine a dosing regime (block 1902). The indication can coincide with operating the drug
dosing tool 110 on a client device 112 and/or accessing the drug dosing tool on the PK server
 108. Responsive to receiving the request for the dosing regime, the drug dosing tool provides
                                                  28

 WO 2015/006033                                                             PCT/US2014/043517
a prompt for patient information (e.g., body weight, gender, age, activity level, etc.) (block
 1904). The patient information can correspond to an actual or theoretical patient.
         [00112]        The example drug dosing tool 110 also provides a prompt for previous
therapeutic plasma protein treatments for the patient (block 1908). In some embodiments, the
drug dosing tool 110 may access the previous treatment information from a stored data
structure (e.g., the database 116). The example drug dosing tool 110 accesses and refines a
pharmacokinetic model (e.g., the pharmacokinetic model 106) based upon the previous
treatments and/or samples (block 1910).       It should be appreciated that previous treatment
information may not be available or provided to the drug dosing tool 110.              In these
embodiments,      drug dosing tool     110 uses the pharmacokinetic model          106 without
modification. It should also be appreciated that in this procedure 1900 the pharmacokinetic
model 106 has already been created and provided to the PK server 108 and/or the tool 110.
In other examples, the pharmacokinetic model 106 may be created from patient from the
samples 104 anytime during and/or before the steps specified in blocks 1902 to 1910).
         [00113]        The example drug dosing tool 110 uses the (refined or modified)
pharmacokinetic model and the patient information to determine a (estimated or approximate)
pharmacokinetic profile for the patient (block 1912). The drug dosing tool 110 then provides
a prompt for a dosing interval and/or a target trough (block 1914). In some instances, the
dosing tool 110 may use a default target trough (e.g., 1%) when a trough is not provided or
specified by a user. The drug dosing tool 110 next determines a dose of therapeutic plasma
protein and an estimation of a concentration of the therapeutic plasma protein in the patient
over a specified time period (block 1916). The drug dosing tool 110 graphically provides to
the user a dosing regime including the determined dosing and concentration over time (block
 1918).
         [00114]        After providing the dosing regime, the drug dosing tool 110 in the
illustrated embodiment determines if the user has selected a different dosing interval (block
 1920). For instance, a user could select to view an every-two-day and an every-three-day
dosing interval. If the user provides a different interval, the example drug dosing tool 110
returns to block 1916 and determines a new dosing regime based upon the selected interval.
         [00115]        However, if the user does not select a different interval, the example
drug dosing tool 110 determines whether the user selected a different target trough (block
 1922). If the user selects a different trough, the example drug dosing tool 110 determines a
duration of time in which the therapeutic plasma protein concentration is less than the trough
level (block 1924). The drug dosing tool 110 then provides to the user a graphical indication
                                                  29

 WO 2015/006033                                                              PCT/US2014/043517
of this duration (block 1926). The drug dosing tool 110 next determines if the user selects for
the dosing tool 110 to determine a dosing regime based upon the newly provided target
trough (block 1928). If the user desires a dosing regime based upon the new trough, the
example procedure 1900 returns to block 1916 and the drug dosing tool 110 determines a
new regime.
         [00116]        However, if a user does not desire to view a new dosing regime, the
example drug dosing tool 110 provides a prompt to store the current dosing regime (block
 1930).    Responsive to storing the dosing regime, the example procedure 1900 ends.
Alternatively, (e.g., as selected by the user) the example procedure 1900 returns to block
 1902 to determine a dosing regime for another patient and/or a dosing regime for the same
patient for another visit to the healthcare provider.
                           Patient Activity Level Example Embodiment
         [00117]        FIGS. 21 and 22 are diagrams that show an example embodiment
where a pharmacokinetic profile for a specific patient is adjusted based on activity level.
FIG. 21 shows a data structure 2100 that includes a normal dosing regime in a first column
(i.e., Prophylaxis (IU)), an activity level for a patient in a second column, and an adjustment
to the dosing regime in a third column. Each row in the data structure 2100 corresponds to a
day of a week.
         [00118]        An estimated      or approximate pharmacokinetic profile and the
corresponding normal dosing regime is determined for a specific patient (e.g., Hem A) using
the procedures discussed above in conjunction with FIGS. 3 to 13. In this embodiment, the
example PK server 108 of FIG. 1 is configured to adjust the normal dosing regime based on
activities of a patient. This adjustment compensates for increases in risk for bleeding as a
result of an increased activity level, which increases the need to maintain the therapeutic
plasma protein level in the patient above a higher threshold. As discussed above, the amount
or concentration of therapeutic plasma protein within a patient is dependent on the patient's
metabolism.
         [00119]        To compensate for these temporary increases in risk, the example PK
server 108 may prompt a patient or healthcare provider for a weekly schedule of activities. In
other instances, the PK server 108 may receive a schedule via an electronic calendar or
activity log managed by a patient.         In this embodiment, the activities are classified by
intensity such that with lower intensity activities separated from activities with relatively
greater intensities. The intensity may also be based on a duration of the activity. The PK
                                                   30

 WO 2015/006033                                                              PCT/US2014/043517
server 108 may include a data structure that relates different activities with a corresponding
intensity level (with adjustments made for duration).
         [00120]         The example PK server 108 uses the activities and associated
intensities to adjust the normal pharmacokinetic profile of the patient to determine a modified
pharmacokinetic profile based on temporary periods of increased bleeding risk. The PK
server 108 then compares the modified pharmacokinetic profile to determine if there is a time
period in which the calculated therapeutic plasma protein concentration falls below a target
trough.    If a time period is determined in which the concentration falls below the target
trough, the PK server 108 determines when and how much of an extra dosage of therapeutic
plasma protein is to be provided to the patient. In other instances, the PK server 108 and/or
the tool 110 may use a pharmacokinetic model 106 that includes sample patients with similar
active lifestyles as the patient under care.
         [00121]         In the example of FIGS. 21 and 22, the PK server 108 determines that
an activity planned for Monday (e.g., Mountain Biking) is relatively intense, which increases
the need to keep the concentration of the therapeutic plasma protein above a target trough
level (e.g., 3%). The PK server 108 accordingly determines that an extra dosage of 1000 IU
is to be administered to the patient on Monday so that the concentration of the therapeutic
plasma protein does not fall below 3%.
         [00122]         FIG. 22 shows a graph 2200 of the modified pharmacokinetic profile
based on temporary changes in activity related bleed risk. The graph 2200 shows that before
the first Tuesday (before the extra dosage is applied), the concentration of therapeutic plasma
protein in the patient falls below 3%. The graph 2200 also shows that before the second
Tuesday, 1000 IU is provided to the patient on Monday.           This extra dosage causes the
concentration of therapeutic plasma protein to remain above the 3% target trough. In this
manner, the example PK server 108 reduces the chances of a bleed for relatively active
patients.
                       Therapeutic plasma protein Comparison Embodiment
         [00123]         The example model generator 102, the PK server 108, and the drug
dosing tool 110 were described in conjunction with determining a dosing regime for one
particular type of therapeutic plasma protein.      However, in some examples, the model
generator 102 may generate pharmacokinetic models for multiple types or brands of
therapeutic plasma protein. This enables, for example, a user (e.g., a sales representative) to
                                                 31

 WO 2015/006033                                                              PCT/US2014/043517
compare how the concentrations of the different therapeutic plasma proteins differ for the
same patient for the same or different dosing intervals.
         [00124]        For example, a user may provide to the tool 110 patient information.
The patient information is incorporated by the tool 110 into a first pharmacokinetic model for
a first brand of therapeutic plasma protein and a second pharmacokinetic model for a second
brand of therapeutic plasma protein. The user may then enter into the tool 110 a prescribed
dosing regime for the first therapeutic plasma protein and a prescribed dosing regime for the
second therapeutic plasma protein, which causes the tool 110 to display concurrently within a
user interface a concentration of the first therapeutic plasma protein and the second
therapeutic plasma protein over a time period for the patient. The example tool 110 may also
enable the dosing intervals and/or doses to be modified (to the extent allowed or
recommended by the manufacturer therapeutic plasma protein) to show how changes affect
the concentration.
         [00125]        In particular, a user may use the tool 110 to show that the first brand of
therapeutic plasma protein may be provided at three day dosing intervals with a dosage of
2600 IU while remaining above a target trough of 3% between doses. In comparison, the tool
 110 shows the second brand of therapeutic plasma protein has to be provided every two days
with a dosage of 2000 IU to remain above the same 3% target trough. In this instance, the
first brand of the therapeutic plasma protein may be the better alternative to administer to a
patient to reduce the number of infusions required per week while keeping the patient safe
from bleeds.
                                      Treatment Embodiment
         [00126]        As discussed above, the example drug dosing tool 110 and/or the PK
server 108 determines an amount of therapeutic plasma protein (e.g., clotting factor VIII) to
administer to a patient. To administer the therapeutic plasma protein to a patient, in one
aspect, the therapeutic plasma protein includes one or more pharmaceutically acceptable
carriers.    The phrases "pharmaceutically" or "pharmacologically" acceptable refer to
molecular entities and compositions that are stable, inhibit protein degradation such as
aggregation and cleavage products, and in addition, do not produce allergic, or other adverse
reactions when administered using routes well-known in the art.               "Pharmaceutically
acceptable carriers" include any and all clinically useful solvents, dispersion media, coatings,
antibacterial and antifungal agents, isotonic and absorption delaying agents and the like.
                                                  32

 WO 2015/006033                                                                PCT/US2014/043517
         [00127]        The pharmaceutical formulations are administered orally, topically,
transdermally, parenterally, by inhalation spray, vaginally, rectally, or by intracranial
injection. The term parenteral as used herein includes subcutaneous injections, intravenous,
intramuscular, intracisternal injection, or infusion techniques. Administration by intravenous,
intradermal,     intramusclar,   intramammary,       intraperitoneal,   intrathecal,   retrobulbar,
intrapulmonary injection and or surgical implantation at a particular site is contemplated as
well. Generally, compositions are essentially free of pyrogens, as well as other impurities
that could be harmful to the recipient.
         [00128]        Single or multiple administrations of the therapeutic plasma protein are
carried out with the dose levels and pattern being selected by a healthcare provider. As
discussed, the dosage regimen for the therapeutic plasma protein is based on various
characteristics of the patient including age, gender, body weight, condition, activity level,
diet, etc. The dosing regime may also be based on a type of disease to be treated, the severity
and course of the disease, whether the therapeutic plasma protein is administered for
preventive or therapeutic purposes, previous therapy, a patient's clinical history and response
to the therapeutic plasma protein, and the discretion of the healthcare provider. By way of
example, a typical dose of a recombinant clotting factor FVIII therapeutic plasma protein is
approximately 30 IU/kg to 50 IU/kg.
         [00129]        In one embodiment, a clotting factor FVIII therapeutic plasma protein
may be administered by an initial bolus followed by a continuous infusion to maintain
therapeutic circulating levels of the therapeutic plasma protein. In another embodiment, the
inventive compound may be administered as a one-time dose. Those of ordinary skill in the
art will readily optimize effective dosages and administration regimens as determined by
good medical practice and the clinical condition of the individual patient in conjunction with
the results provided by the example tool 110. The frequency of dosing may depend on the
pharmacokinetic parameters of the agents and the route of administration. The final dosage
regimen is determined by the healthcare provider, considering various factors which modify
the action of drugs, e.g. the drug's specific activity, the severity of the damage and the
responsiveness of the patient, the age, condition, body weight, gender, and diet of the patient,
the severity of any infection, time of administration and other clinical factors.
         [00130]        Preferably, an effective dose of the therapeutic plasma protein is 15-85
IU/kg (15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, 30, 31, 32, 33, 34, 35, 36, 37,
38, 39, 40, 41, 42, 43, 44, 45, 46, 47, 48, 49, 50, 51, 52, 53, 54, 55, 56, 57, 58, 59, 60, 61, 62,
62, 64, 65, 66, 67, 68, 69, 70, 71, 72, 73, 74, 75, 76, 77, 78, 79, 80, 81, 82, 83, 84, or 85
                                                  33

 WO 2015/006033                                                               PCT/US2014/043517
IU/kg) and the dosing interval is once every 1-5, 2-5, 3-5, 3-6, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, or 8 or more days,
or three times per week, or no more than three times per week. Additional therapeutic doses
that may be used are about 10 to about 150 IU/kg, more specifically, about 100-110, 110-120,
 120-130, 130-140, 140-150 IU/kg, and more specifically, about 110, 115, 120, 125, 130, 135,
 140, 145, or 150 IU/kg. The dose should be high enough to experience efficacy, but not too
high to avoid severe adverse effects. This therapeutic window is different for each patient,
given environmental and genetic factors.
        [00131]         The relationship between patient and treatment-related variables
including average Cmax, time below a target trough, and time spent above a specified
threshold, for example, 5, 10, 20, 30% and 40% of a concentration of the therapeutic plasma
protein within a patient, and risk for bleeding on prophylaxis are indices that may be used to
optimize a dosing regimen.      In this manner, individualized regimens with hemostatically
effective, non-hemophilic FVIII ranges and with increased prophylactic efficacy are created
and implemented. In various embodiments, annual bleeding rates ("ABR") decrease by at
least 50, 60, 70, 80, 81, 82, 83, 84, 85, 86, 87, 88, 89, 90, 91, 92, 93, 94, 95, 96, 97, 98 or
99% when, for example, a PK-guided dosing regimen as described above is followed as
compared to on-demand dosing regimen.
        [00132]         Increasing time with a therapeutic plasma protein concentration below
 1 IU dL(-1) is associated with increased total hemorrhages and hemarthroses in severe
hemophilia A patients treated with regular prophylaxis regimens. Targeting trough levels at
>1% above baseline using PK-guided dosing at 72h intervals has been demonstrated to be an
effective treatment strategy. While targeting FVIII trough at >1% above baseline is generally
effective, this strategy alone may not be suitable for all patients, especially those with a
recent history of high ABRs on on-demand therapy. Such patients may require alternative
dosing regimens including higher doses and/or shorter dose intervals to achieve higher
troughs and /or more frequent peaks of therapeutic plasma protein concentration.
        [00133]         In one embodiment, patients using a PK-guided dosing regime
experienced a median ABR of 2.0 (range 0-17.1) representing a      9 6 % reduction   in ABR from
on-demand therapy. The individual FVIII therapeutic plasma protein half-lives (median: 11.7
hr; range: 7.3-30.7; IQR: 10.1-13.6; 5-95% percentiles: 7.7-21.4), and therefore, the FVIII
therapeutic plasma protein dose/infusion (median 41.3 (IU/kg), range 18.9-84.9) varied
widely in the study cohort. This enabled examination of the role of treatment- and patient
related variables other than FVIII therapeutic plasma protein troughs in achieving low ABRs
in patients using individualized regimens.
                                                 34

WO 2015/006033                                                               PCT/US2014/043517
         [00134]        Data from patients prescribed PK-guided dosing given every third day
(n=34) were examined. Average Cmax for these patients was estimated using individual IVR
values for each patient and their average dose per prophylactic infusion. The concentration
of the therapeutic plasma protein and time spent above 5, 10, 20, 30, or 40% therapeutic
plasma protein FVIII levels (i.e., within hemostatically effective, non-hemophilic range) in
each patient were extrapolated using parameters from individual PK profiles and actual
infusion records. A negative binomial multivariate regression model was used for analysis
with age and BMI as covariates.
         [00135]        The estimate for average Cmax ranged from 24.3 to 167.5% (median
70.9%) in patients on PK-guided dosing with an every-three-day infusion schedule.           As
shown in graph 2300 of FIG. 23, a significant relationship between lower Cmax and
increased risk for bleeding was seen. FIG. 24 includes a table 2400 that provides average
Cmax and risk for bleeding. Time spent above a 20% concentration of the therapeutic plasma
protein FVIII (joint bleeding only), time spent above a 30% concentration of the therapeutic
plasma protein FVIII, and time spent above a 40% concentration of the therapeutic plasma
protein showed a significant relationship with lower ABR. FIG. 25 shows a graph 2500 of a
percent of total time spent above a 30% concentration of the therapeutic plasma protein FVIII
in relation to bleeding risk. FIG. 26 shows a table 2600 of time spent in a non-hemophilic
range in relation to a bleeding risk.
         [00136]        Similar significant relationships were found in all therapeutic plasma
protein concentration variables tested (e.g., above 5%, 10%, and 20%).        However, the co
efficient   variable   decreased    with   increasing   average  therapeutic   plasma   protein
concentrations over the course of a week. FIG. 27 includes a diagram of a graph 2700 of
average therapeutic plasma protein concentrations over the course of a week ("AUC") in
relation to the bleed rate over the course of a year. FIG. 28 includes a table 2800 that shows
average therapeutic plasma protein concentrations over the course of a week in relation to a
risk for patient bleeding. As shown in FIG. 29, average Cmax, Time above % and weekly
AUC variables were all strongly correlated.
         [00137]        A substantial reduction in ABR during prophylaxis was seen in each
patient. However many patients with higher ABR on prophylaxis appeared to have had more
bleeding episodes during the preceding on-demand period and had a lower % ABR reduction
on prophylaxis, as shown in graph 3000 of FIG. 30. These results demonstrate a relationship
between higher Cmax values and/or time spent within "hemostatically effective", non
hemophilic FVIII range and better prophylactic efficacy in patients on PK-guided dosing
                                                  35

 WO 2015/006033                                                               PCT/US2014/043517
given every third day. Conversely, increasing time spent within the lower FVIII therapeutic
plasma protein range increased risk for bleeding. While targeting FVIII therapeutic plasma
protein trough at >1% above baseline is generally effective, this strategy alone may not be
suitable for all patients, especially those with a recent history of high ABRs on on-demand
therapy. Such patients may require alternative dosing regimens including higher doses and/or
shorter dose intervals to achieve higher troughs and /or more frequent peaks.
                                             Processor
         [00138]        A detailed block diagram of electrical systems of an example
computing device (e.g., the model generator 102, PK server 108, and/or the client device 112)
is illustrated in FIG. 31. In this example, the devices 102, 108, and/or 112 include a main
unit 3102, which preferably includes one or more processors 3104 communicatively coupled
by an address/data bus 3106 to one or more memory devices 3108, other computer circuitry
3110, and one or more interface circuits 3112.        The processor 3104 may be any suitable
processor, such as a microprocessor from the INTEL PENTIUM@ or CORETM family of
microprocessors. The memory 3108 preferably includes volatile memory and non-volatile
memory. Preferably, the memory 3108 stores a software program that interacts with the other
devices in the environment 100, as described above. This program may be executed by the
processor 3104 in any suitable manner. In an example embodiment, memory 3108 may be
part of a "cloud" such that cloud computing may be utilized by devices 102, 108, and/or 112.
The memory 3108 may also store digital data indicative of documents, files, programs,
webpages, patient samples, pharmacokinetic models, patient pharmacokinetic profiles, etc.
retrieved from (or loaded via) devices 102, 108, and/or 112.
         [00139]        The example memory devices 3108 store software instructions 3123,
patient samples/ pharmacokinetic models 3124, application interfaces 3126, user interface
features, permissions, protocols, identification codes, content information, registration
information, event information, and/or configurations. The memory devices 3108 also may
store network or system interface features, permissions, protocols, configuration, and/or
preference information 3128 for use by the devices 102, 108, and/or 112.              It will be
appreciated that many other data fields and records may be stored in the memory device 3108
to facilitate implementation of the methods and apparatus disclosed herein. In addition, it
will be appreciated that any type of suitable data structure (e.g., a flat file data structure, a
relational database, a tree data structure, etc.) may be used to facilitate implementation of the
methods and apparatus disclosed herein.
                                                   36

 WO 2015/006033                                                              PCT/US2014/043517
         [00140]        The interface circuit 3112 may be implemented using any suitable
interface standard, such as an Ethernet interface and/or a Universal Serial Bus (USB)
interface. One or more input devices 3114 may be connected to the interface circuit 3112 for
entering data and commands into the main unit 3102. For example, the input device 3114
may be a keyboard, mouse, touch screen, track pad, track ball, isopoint, image sensor,
character recognition, barcode scanner, microphone, and/or a speech or voice recognition
system.
         [00141]        One or more displays, printers, speakers, and/or other output devices
3116 may also be connected to the main unit 3102 via the interface circuit 3112. The display
may be a cathode ray tube (CRTs), a liquid crystal display (LCD), or any other type of
display. The display generates visual displays generated during operation of the device 102,
 108, and/or 112. For example, the display may provide a user interface and may display one
or more webpages received from the device 102, 108, and/or 112.           A user interface may
include prompts for human input from a user of the devices 102, 108, and/or 112 including
links, buttons, tabs, checkboxes, thumbnails, text fields, drop down boxes, etc., and may
provide various outputs in response to the user inputs, such as text, still images, videos,
audio, and animations.
         [00142]        One or more storage devices 3118 may also be connected to the main
unit 3102 via the interface circuit 3112. For example, a hard drive, CD drive, DVD drive,
and/or other storage devices may be connected to the main unit 3102. The storage devices
3118 may store any type of data, such as identifiers, identification codes, registration
information, patient      samples, patient    information, pharmacokinetic      models,   patient
pharmacokinetic profiles, treatment regimes, statistical data, security data, etc., which may be
used by the devices 102, 108, and/or 112.
         [00143]        The computing device 102, 108, and/or 112 may also exchange data
with other network devices 3120 via a connection to a network 3121 (e.g., the Internet) or a
wireless transceiver 3122 connected to the network 3121.          Network devices 3120 may
include one or more servers, which may be used to store certain types of data, and
particularly large volumes of data which may be stored in one or more data repository. A
server may process or manage any kind of data including databases, programs, files, libraries,
identifiers, identification codes, registration information, content information, patient
samples, patient information, pharmacokinetic models, patient pharmacokinetic profiles,
treatment regimes, statistical data, security data, etc. A server may store and operate various
applications relating to receiving, transmitting, processing, and storing the large volumes of
                                                  37

 WO 2015/006033                                                              PCT/US2014/043517
data. It should be appreciated that various configurations of one or more servers may be used
to support, maintain, or implement the devices 102, 108, and/or 112 of the environment 100.
For example, servers may be operated by various different entities, including operators of the
PK server 108, hospital systems, patients, drug manufacturers, service providers, etc. Also,
certain data may be stored in one of the devices 102, 108, and/or 112 which is also stored on
a server, either temporarily or permanently, for example in memory 3108 or storage device
3118. The network connection may be any type of network connection, such as an Ethernet
connection, digital subscriber line (DSL), telephone line, coaxial cable, wireless connection,
etc.
         [00144]        Access to the devices 102, 108, and/or 112 can be controlled by
appropriate security software or security measures.          An individual third-party client or
consumer's access can be defined by the device 102, 108, and/or 112 and limited to certain
data and/or actions. Accordingly, users of the environment 100 may be required to register
with one or more computing devices 102, 108, and/or 112.
                                            Conclusion
         [00145]        It will be appreciated that all of the disclosed methods and procedures
described herein can be implemented using one or more computer programs or components.
These components may be provided as a series of computer instructions on any conventional
computer-readable medium, including RAM, ROM, flash memory, magnetic or optical disks,
optical memory, or other storage media. The instructions may be configured to be executed
by a processor, which when executing the series of computer instructions performs or
facilitates the performance of all or part of the disclosed methods and procedures.
         [00146]        It should be understood that various changes and modifications to the
example embodiments described herein will be apparent to those skilled in the art. Such
changes and modifications can be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the
present subject matter and without diminishing its intended advantages.           It is therefore
intended that such changes and modifications be covered by the appended claims.
                                                   38

 WO 2015/006033                                                             PCT/US2014/043517
                                            CLAIMS
         The invention is claimed as follows:
         1.      A method for providing a therapeutic plasma protein dosing regime
comprising:
         determining, via a processor, an estimated pharmacokinetic profile of a patient using a
Bayesian     model    of pharmacokinetic      profiles of sampled patients,      the estimated
pharmacokinetic profile based upon at least one of a body weight or an age of the patient;
         determining, via the processor, a first dosing regime for a first specified dosing
interval including (i) a first dosage and (ii) a first therapeutic plasma protein level in the
patient over a time period based at least upon the estimated pharmacokinetic profile;
         determining, via the processor, a second dosing regime for a second specified dosing
interval including (i) a second dosage and (ii) a second therapeutic plasma protein level in the
patient over the time period based at least upon the estimated pharmacokinetic profile; and
         displaying the first dosing regime and the second dosing regime on a client device
such that the first dosing regime is displayed in conjunction with the second dosing regime.
         2.      The method of Claim 1, further comprising adjusting, via the processor, the
estimated pharmacokinetic profile of the patient upon previous treatments of the patient.
         3.      The method of Claim 1, wherein the second specified dosing interval is longer
than the first specified dosing interval.
         4.      The method of Claim 1, wherein the first specified dosing interval is 48 hours
and the second specified dosing interval is 72 hours.
         5.      The method of Claim 1, wherein the minimum threshold level is less than
20%.
         6.      The method of Claim 1, wherein the first dosage is determined such that the
first therapeutic plasma protein level in the patient over the time period does not fall below
the minimum threshold level.
                                                  39

 WO 2015/006033                                                              PCT/US2014/043517
         7.      The method of Claim 1, wherein the first therapeutic plasma protein level in
the patient is based upon at least one of a minimum threshold level, the first dosage, or the
first specified dosing interval, and the second therapeutic plasma protein level in the patient is
based upon at least one of the minimum threshold level, the second dosage, or the second
specified dosing interval.
         8.      The method of Claim 1, wherein the Bayesian model includes a two
compartment model having a first compartment corresponding to a time to metabolize the
therapeutic plasma protein and a second compartment corresponding to a dose for achieving a
certain amount of the therapeutic plasma protein within the patient.
         9.      An apparatus for providing a therapeutic plasma protein dosing regime to a
client device, the apparatus comprising:
         a model generator configured to create a Bayesian model of pharmacokinetic profiles
of sampled patients, the Bayesian model including a (i) therapeutic plasma protein clearance
and (ii) a volume of distribution relationship for a therapeutic plasma protein based upon at
least one of patient age or body weight; and
         a pharmacokinetic server configured to:
                 determine an approximate pharmacokinetic profile of a patient based upon the
Bayesian model and at least one of an age of the patient or a weight of the patient;
                 determine the therapeutic plasma protein dosing regime including a dosage
and a therapeutic plasma protein level over a time period based upon the approximate
pharmacokinetic profile of the patient;
                 modify the therapeutic plasma protein dosing regime in response to receiving
a dosing interval for applying the dosage to the patient; and
                 transmit the modified therapeutic plasma protein dosing regime to the client
device.
         10.     The apparatus of Claim 9, wherein the dosing interval is a two-day dosing
interval, and wherein the pharmacokinetic server is configured to further modify the
therapeutic plasma protein dosing regime in response to receiving a three-day dosing interval
in place of the two-day dosing interval.
                                                  40

 WO 2015/006033                                                            PCT/US2014/043517
         11.    The apparatus of Claim 9, wherein the pharmacokinetic server is configured to
transmit a drug dosing tool to the client device, the drug dosing tool being configured to
determine the therapeutic plasma protein dosing regime and the modified therapeutic plasma
protein dosing regime.
         12.    The apparatus of Claim 9, wherein the pharmacokinetic server is further
configured to modify the therapeutic plasma protein dosing regime based on daily activities
of the patient.
         13.    The apparatus of Claim 9, wherein the pharmacokinetic server is further
configured to transmit the modified therapeutic plasma protein dosing regime to an infusion
pump for administering the therapeutic plasma protein to the patient.
         14.    The apparatus of Claim 9, wherein the approximate pharmacokinetic profile is
a first approximate pharmacokinetic profile determined for a first therapeutic plasma protein
treatment of the patient, and wherein the pharmacokinetic server is further configured to
determine a second approximate pharmacokinetic profile for the patient for a second
therapeutic plasma protein treatment of the patient based on the modified therapeutic plasma
protein dosing regime.
         15.    The apparatus of Claim 9, wherein the volume of distribution relationship for
the therapeutic plasma protein is a relationship for at least one of clotting factor VIII and
modified forms of clotting factor VIII.
         16.    A machine-accessible      device having instructions stored thereon that are
configured, when executed, to cause a machine to at least:
         prompt a user to enter at least one of a patient weight or age;
         use a Bayesian model of pharmacokinetic profiles of sampled patients to determine an
approximate pharmacokinetic profile of a patient based upon the Bayesian model and the at
least one of entered patient weight or age, the Bayesian model including (i) a therapeutic
                                                   41

 WO 2015/006033                                                             PCT/US2014/043517
plasma protein clearance and (ii) a volume of distribution relationship for a therapeutic
plasma protein based upon the at least one of entered patient weight or age;
        determine     a dosing     regime   for the patient based      upon   the  approximate
pharmacokinetic profile of the patient, the dosing regime including a dosage and a dosage
interval;
        modify the dosing regime in response to receiving another dosing interval for
applying the dosage to the patient; and
        enable the dosing regime and a time-varying therapeutic plasma protein level based
on the dosing regime to be displayed to a user.
         17.     The machine-accessible device of Claim 16, further comprising instructions
stored thereon that are configured when executed to cause the machine to:
        determine a first dosing regime for a two-day dosing interval;
        determine a second dosing regime for a three-day dosing interval; and
        enable the display of the first dosing regime in conjunction with the second dosing
regime.
         18.     The machine-accessible device of Claim 16, further comprising instructions
stored thereon that are configured when executed to cause the machine to display a graphical
representation of a time-varying amount of the therapeutic plasma protein within the patient,
including at least one indication of a dose of the therapeutic plasma protein being provided to
the patient.
         19.     The machine-accessible device of Claim 16, further comprising instructions
stored thereon that are configured when executed to cause the machine to display a graphical
feature than enables a user to change at least one of:
        (i) a minimum concentration threshold;
        (ii) the dosage interval; or
        (iii) the dosage of the therapeutic plasma protein.
                                                  42

 WO 2015/006033                                                              PCT/US2014/043517
        20.    The machine-accessible device of Claim 19, further comprising instructions
stored thereon that are configured when executed to cause the machine to modify the dosing
regime in response to receiving a change of any one of the items (i), (ii), or (iii).
        21.    The machine-accessible device of Claim 20, further comprising instructions
stored thereon that are configured when executed to cause the machine to display a graphical
representation of a change in the amount of the therapeutic plasma protein within the patient
over time based on the change of any one of the items (i), (ii), or (iii).
        22.    The machine-accessible device of Claim 20, further comprising instructions
stored thereon that are configured when executed to cause the machine to receive a minimum
concentration threshold and to display an amount of time the therapeutic plasma protein level
is below the minimum concentration threshold.
        23.    The machine-accessible device of Claim 16, further comprising instructions
stored thereon that are configured when executed to cause the machine to:
        receive patient measurement blood data laboratory including a concentration of the
therapeutic plasma protein within the patient after a time from when the therapeutic plasma
protein was administered to the patient; and
        modify the approximate pharmacokinetic profile based on the patient measurement
blood laboratory data.
                                               43

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
