                                                 ABSTRACT
  The Refrigerated Air Delivery Technology (RADT) system provides top-down air delivery and unique
  spread of refrigerated air throughout a cargo bay which significantly increases the efficiency of air
  distribution within the cargo region. The system includes a rear mounted air curtain across the rear
5 doors to restrict cold air dumping during loading / unloading. The air curtain design is available for
  rear folding doors and sliding door installations. The system delivers air throughout a ceiling mounted
  ducting system from the front of the cargo bay to the rear and disperses air in a downward motion
  over the cargo. Return air travels through pallets to a return air vent in the forward refrigeration unit.

         Editorial Note
          <removed-apn>
There is one page of description only

                      SPECIFICATIONS RADT SYSTEM
                      Refrigerated Air Delivery Technology
                  Including the addition of inventions B.D GRAY.
RADT, unlike any other conventional refrigerated air delivery in the market
place, this system offers a unique method of air delivery, by distributing a
volume of refrigerated air to all points throughout the road or rail pans.
Specifications: RADT:
....Full detailed CAD drawings of every aspect of the technology.
....Ceiling mounted ducting with a pattern of air flow throughout the length
    and breath of pan and cargo.
....Rear mounted air curtain which restricts 'air dumping' when the rear doors
    are opened.
....Available with dual air curtain installations for rear double doors or sliding
    door.
....Installations in 12-24 pallet vans, or top delivery pans or marine reefers.
....Maintenance and service free.
....Installations can be dismantled and reinstalled in another pan.
....Installations in any van with conventional from top delivery refrigeration
     units installed.
....Durable construction with light weight 2mm aluminium sheeting.
....Repairs should fork lift damage occur simply carried out.
....Cost effective over the lifetime of 20-25 years.
The temperature date, time, data logged with graphs were carried out to
substantiate the success of the technology.
OPTION: "slides" introduced into the systems vents offers complete control
over the air delivery within the container, should the operator wish to multi
use the container for frozen-chilled and even dry good in a single load.
Sections can be blocked off or air flow restricted depending upon the
configuration. ie frozen , chilled and even dry good cargo.
     INVENTIONS BY BD GRAY: IN ADDITION TO THE DESIGN
....The air discharge control slides in both ducting and air curtain duct.
.... The suspended rear air curtain ducting and ducting connection to the
     ceiling mounted ducting when the rear tilt door installation is
     incorporated within


        Editorial Note
        <removed-apn>
There are two pages of claims only

RADT SUMMARY
Summary of the refrigerated air delivery system, (RADT).
The following summary describes the technology, supported by CAD drawings prepared from the
specifications.
SUMMARY:
Unique design:
The system was invented in South Africa and extensively tested.
Patents applications cover Australasia and USA.
Two Patents expired on 26 September 2017 and since the expiree, the technology owner and all
intellectual rights have been transferred by the owner Henry Tondowski to BD Gray, and the
technology since improved upon by BD Gray through R&D.
BD Gray signed a Technology Licensing Agreement on 13th August 1999 to market, manufacture and
distribute the technology throughout Australia, New Zealand and Australasia.
The RADT system of top air delivery and unique spread of refrigerated air throughout the cargo bay,
significantly increases the efficiency of air distribution within the cargo region, and has the added
advantage in the design of an air curtain across the rear doors to restrict cold air dumping during
loading / unloading.
The RADT unique system delivers air throughout a ducting system front to rear of the cargo bay and
disperses air in a downward motion over the cargo.
Return air travels through the pallets to the return air vent in the forward refrigeration unit.
Detailed CAD drawings are confidential together with full fabrication specifications and installation
instructions.
The innovation patent being applied for, covers any fabricated ducting method that converts
delivered refrigerated air from any forward mounted transport pan/rail or shipping container
Such refrigerated air being distributed horizontally or vertically to form a vertical air drop across the
entire cargo area.
Such ducting method covers any portion of the roof/ceiling within the refrigerated transport pan,
rail or shipping container.
TESTING 1999-2000:
Over a considerable period of testing of the RADT, the following procedure was carried out.
Extensive testing was carried out in South Africa by the original inventor and installations spread
across the cold chain industry.
Temperature monitoring sensors were place strategically throughout the length and breadth of
cargo and the pans/container, including within the pallet produce and on the walls of the container.
These sensors were numbered and when activated, recorded the range of temperatures and time
date throughout any given period during deliver journeys.
The statistics were downloaded and graphed to show alarming advantageous results, almost without
acceptation, when compared with the conventional deliver method.
Similar testing was carried out by BD Gray within Australia between 1999 and 2000.

PAGE TWO
For performance comparison, sensor testing was carried out in refrigerated transport with the
conventional air discharge method..
An additional test carried out, used a coloured gas where an orange coloured gas was introduced
into the air supply and the container was brightly light form observation.
RADT supplies a pattern of refrigerated air through the whole of the container, with the addition of
an AIR CURTAIN inside the container rear door, adding to the control of the air dumping when the
doors are open at the dock. ( described in a video)
This air curtain design is available for rear folding doors and sliding door installations.
The RADT distribution was not introduced into the cold chain delivery by a major perishable food
marketing company after Australian testing, because of a payment dispute over ongoing system
fabrication and installation could NOT be agreed upon between the transport contractor and the
client.
Yours Faithfully
Barry D Gray
E barrvdgrav@bigpond.com
M 0408957784

                 Editorial Note
<removed-date>
                  <removed-apn>
              There is one page of drawings only
<removed-apn>

<removed-apn>         <removed-date>
  RADT SYSTEM
  24 PALLAT
  14.5M PAN
  EXAMPLE OF AIR FLOW
  DISTRIBUTION

