                                             Abstract
Spray drift reductants for agrochemical formulations and methods for reducing spray drift in
agrochemical formulations are disclosed. An agrochemical formulation may comprise at least
one spray drift reductant comprising a fatty acid ester of a C3 to C8 polyol, or an oligomer
thereof having from 2 to 5 repeat units.          The formulation also comprises at least one
agrochemical active and/or nutrient, and optionally, a clathrate compound.         A sprayable
agrochemical formulation may comprise 0.01 wt.% to 1.0 wt.% of a spray drift reductant that
is non-ionic, non-self-emulsifiable, has a hydrophilic-lipophilic balance of less than 7, and is
capable of reducing spray drift by at least 10%, and also comprises at least on agrochemical
active and/or nutrient, and optionally, a clathrate compound.

                                                                                          P/00/011
                                                                                     Regulation 3.2
                                         AUSTRALIA
                                        Patents Act 1990
                     COMPLETE SPECIFICATION
                           FOR A DIVISIONAL PATENT
                                         ORIGINAL
Name of Applicant:        CRODA, INC.
Actual Inventor(s):       LINDNER, Gregory James
                          PENFIELD, Kevin Wade
Address for Service:      Houlihan 2 , Level    1, 70 Doncaster Road, Balwyn North, Victoria
                          3104, Australia
Invention Title:          Spray Drift Reduction
The following statement is a full description of this invention, including the best method of
performing it known to the Applicant:-

                                         Spray Drift Reduction
   The present Application is a Divisional Application from Australian Patent Application No.
   2014306973. The entire disclosures of Australian Patent Application No. 2014306973 and its
   corresponding International Patent Application No. PCT/US2014/048609, are incorporated
 5 herein by reference.
   This application is related to, and claims the benefit of priority of, U.S. Provisional Application
   No. 61/865,753, entitled SPRAY DRIFT REDUCTION, filed on 14 August 2013, the contents
   of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety for all purposes.
   The present invention relates       to spray drift reductants for agrochemical        formulations,
10 particularly for use in spray drift reduction, and more especially for use as spray drift
   reductants and a method of reducing spray drift in agrochemical formulations comprising said
   compounds with one or more agrochemical actives and/or nutrients.
   Many agricultural pesticides, including insecticides, fungicides, herbicides, miticides, and plant
   growth regulators, are applied in the form of a liquid composition. In addition to the pesticide,
15 such liquid compositions typically include one or more compounds intended to improve one or
   more properties of the liquid composition, such as for example, storage stability, ease of
   handling, and/or pesticide efficacy against target organisms.
   The field of agricultural spray drift has been active for several decades with significant
   findings published on the importance of agriculture spray mixture composition and properties
20 on the potential for small droplet formation and the impact of this effect on drift potential. In
   the overwhelming majority of circumstances for the citations reviewed herein relating to
   ground level boom sprayer applications, although the inability to identify or describe a single
   predictive model using the spectrum of properties measured for the spray mixture was
   reported, there was significant agreement across researchers throughout the past 20 years that
25 the effectiveness of any drift reduction technology (DRT) is a function not only of the spray
   system design and operating parameters, but that each selection of design and engineering
   parameters (nozzle type, fluid pressure, flow rate or orifice size, and spray angle) is influenced,
   in many cases differently, by the composition and properties of the spray mixture applied.
   As has been captured by the summarised research in great detail, each spray mixture evaluated
30 is different and is composed of a formulated pesticide active ingredient and more frequently
   several actives appearing in different formulations.       Each pesticide formulation would be

                                                   ~3~
   expected to exert an independent effect on droplet size and spray quality when applied
   separately since they contain independent arrays of formulants, many of which are surface
   active or contribute to the concentration of dispersed phases in the spray mixture. The research
   is clear in the importance of each of these materials to the final properties of the mixture and
 5 also to the droplet size distribution and spray quality produced by the mixture when applied
   through a series of nozzles and under differing spray conditions.
   When these formulations are combined into a single application, it is reasonable to conclude
   that the number of component interactions will increase and that the types and strength of these
   interactions will change based on changes in relative dilution rates and the components and
10 concentrations appearing in the final spray mixture. Added to this will be the influence exerted
   by other spray modifiers or adjuvants which are also contributing components and effects that
   are a function of their independently selected formulants where each of which has a differing
   effect on droplet size and spray quality. Frequently, the component and effect contributions
   from the adjuvants used can dominate spray properties, notably when the adjuvant is selected
15 for materials and compositions known to strongly influence the droplet size distribution and
   spray quality of a mixture.     To illustrate how sophisticated this research understanding has
   become, detailed descriptions of these spray component influences appeared over a decade ago
   to the point of describing differences in effect on critical droplet size criteria observed within a
   continuous series of analogous surfactant materials.
20 In light of this clearly demonstrated fact, the performance of a nozzle alone as the sole
   technology applied in the stated capacity to reduce pesticide drift (one either already certified
   or in pursuit of certification as a Drift Reduction Technology) cannot be certified for
   application using data developed with water as the spray mixture. This practice is now well
   recognized to be misplaced and has been inappropriately oversimplified, especially when (1) a
25 solution pesticide containing significant amounts of surfactant adjuvant is present and (2) other
   materials purposefully added to modify spray droplet size, pattern, or quality have been added.
   The research cited clearly describes the capacity of a technology applied to reduce pesticide
   drift to be more accurately defined using a combination of the contribution from spray system
   design and operating parameters with the contribution from an appropriately representative
30 admixture of diluted materials in the model spray mixtures. This mixture should in all cases
   include a suitable pesticide or pesticides along with a representative adjuvant system.         The

   parties assessing the US EPA Drift Reduction Technology certification testing protocol need to
   consider and include this relevant research in the final adopted methodology.
   There has been an interest in reducing drift of spray applied pesticides and the addition of high
   molecular weight water soluble polymers to spray compositions as a tank mix to increase
 5 droplet size and thereby reduce drift of pesticides in known, see, for example, US 5,874,096
   and US 6,214,771.       Such polymeric drift control additives tend to perform best within a
   relatively narrow range of concentration, for example, in spray compositions comprising from
   about 0.05 to 0.15 wt.% of such polymer. More recently other approaches, such as the use of
   certain "self- emulsifiable" esters as drift control agents, see US 2010/0113275, have been
10 described.
   There is a continuing interest in developing compounds for controlling drift of spray applied
   pesticides that exhibit high performance when present in a spray composition in low amount
   and that are relatively insensitive to the amount of adjuvant in the spray composition.
   The agricultural non-ionic (NIC) adjuvant market in North America is typically dominated by
15 nonylphenol ethoxylates with sales of around 10,000 tonnes per year.
   Additional benefits suitable for adding value include improvements in limiting or reducing the
   formation of driftable fine droplets under select spray conditions.
   The traditional approach for agrochemical formulations is addition of oils or polymers.
   However, these components are known to cause increases in droplet fines when the
20 formulation is sprayed, and this is undesirable.
   The present invention seeks to provide the use of compounds in agrochemical compositions in
   combination with one or more agrochenical active and/or nutrient, where the compounds may
   provide comparable (i.e. by not degrading the spray pattern) or improved properties with
   regard to spray drift compared to formulations used without spray drift reductants, or in
25 comparison to existing spray drift reductants.
   The present invention also seeks to provide the use of agrochemical concentrates and dilute
   formulations comprising said spray drift reductants. Additionally, the present invention seeks
   to provide a method of reducing spray drift, and a method of treating vegetation for pests or to
   provide nutrients.
30 According to a first aspect of the present invention there is provided a sprayable agrochemical
   formulation comprising;

           i) at least one spray drift reductant comprising a fatty ester of a C3 to Cs polyol, or an
   oligomer thereof having from 2 to 5 repeat units;
           ii) at least one agrochemical active and/or nutrient; and
           iii) optionally a clathrate compound.
 5 According to a second aspect of the present invention there is provided a concentrate
   formulation suitable for making a sprayable agrochemical formulation of the first aspect, said
   concentrate comprising a spray drift reductant of a fatty ester of a C3 to Cs polyol, or an
   oligomer thereof having from 2 to 5 repeat units.
   According to a third aspect of the present invention there is provided a sprayable agrochemical
10 formulation comprising;
           i) in the range of from 0.01 wt.% to 1.0 wt.% spray drift reductant, wherein the
   reductant is non-ionic, non-self-emulsifiable, has a hydrophilic-lipophilic balance (HLB), as
   calculated by Griffin's method, of less than 7, and is capable of reducing spray drift by at least
    10 %; and
15         ii) at least one agrochemical active and/or nutrient; and
           iii) optionally a clathrate compound.
   According to a fourth aspect of the present invention there is provided the use of a fatty ester of
   a C 3 to Cs polyol, or an oligomer thereof having from 2 to 5 repeat units, as spray drift
   reductant in an agrochemical formulation comprising at least one agrochemical active and/or
20 nutrient, and optionally a clathrate compound.
   According to an fifth aspect of the present invention there is provided a method of reducing
   spray drift by using an agrochemical formulation of the first or third aspects, and/or a diluted
   concentrate formulation of the second aspect.
   According to a sixth aspect of the present invention there is provided a method of treating
25 vegetation to control pests and/or to provide nutrients, the method comprising applying a
   formulation of the first or third aspects, and/or a diluted concentrate formulation of the second
   aspect, either to said vegetation or to the immediate environment of said vegetation.
   It has been found that fatty ester of a C3 to Cs polyol or polyol oligomer comprising
   agrochemical formulations, and in particular use of these compounds, provides for comparable
30 (i.e. by not degrading the spray pattern), or improved drift control during spraying of said

   formulation. In particular, use of the fatty ester of a C3 to Cs polyol or oligomer provides for
   better spray patterns and gives fewer driftable particles.
   As used herein, the terms 'for example,' 'for instance,' 'such as,' or 'including' are meant to
   introduce examples that further clarify more general subject matter.             Unless otherwise
 5 specified, these examples are provided only as an aid for understanding the applications
   illustrated in the present disclosure, and are not meant to be limiting in any fashion.
   It will be understood that, when describing the number of carbon atoms in a substituent group
   (e.g.  'C1 to C 6 alkyl'), the number refers to the total number of carbon atoms present in the
   substituent group, including any present in any branched groups.               Additionally, when
10 describing the number of carbon atoms in, for example fatty acids, this refers to the total
   number of carbon atoms including the one at the carboxylic acid, and any present in any
   branch groups.
   As used herein, the term 'drift' refers to off-target movement of droplets of an agrochemical
   composition that is applied to a target pest or environment for the pest or to provide nutrients.
15 Spray applied compositions typically exhibit decreasing tendency to drift with decreasing
   relative amount, typically expressed as a volume percentage of total spray applied droplet
   volume, of small size spray droplets, that is, spray droplets having a droplet size below a given
   value, typically a droplet size of less than 150 micrometers.         Spray drift of pesticides in
   particular can have undesirable consequences such as, for example, unintended contact of
20 phytotoxic pesticides with non-pest pest plants like crops or ornamental plants along with
   damage to such non-pest plants.
   As used herein, the term 'spray drift reductant' refers to compounds which when added to a
   sprayable agrochemical formulation may provide a reduction in observed spray drift when
   compared to the formulation not comprising said agent.
25 The fatty ester of a C3 to C8 polyol, or oligomer thereof, may have a general structure (I):
                                  P -LRl                     (I)
                                     |_       m
   wherein:
            P is the residue of a C3 to Cs polyol, or residue of an oligomer thereof having from 2 to
   5 repeat units, each said polyol having m active hydrogen atoms, where m is an integer in the
   range from 2 to 7;

           each R 1 independently represents hydrogen, a C1 to C28 hydrocarbyl, or an alkanoyl
                                    2
   group represented by -C(O)R        wherein R 2 represents a Cs to C2s hydrocarbyl; and
           wherein at least one R1 group is or comprises an alkanoyl group represented by
   C(O)R2
 5 The fatty ester of a C3 to Cs polyol, or oligomer thereof having from 2 to 5 repeat units, is
   preferably non-ionic.
   The term polyol is well known in the art, and refers to an alcohol comprising more than one
   hydroxyl group. The term 'active hydrogen' refers to the hydrogen atoms present as part of the
   hydroxyl groups of the C3 to Cs polyol P. Therefore, it will be understood that the integer m,
10 being the number of active hydrogens in said C 3 to C8 polyol, is equivalent to the number of
   hydroxyl groups present for each C3 to C8 polyol.
   The term 'polyol residue' as used herein, unless otherwise defined, refers to an organic radical
   derived from polyol by removal of m active hydrogen atoms, each hydrogen atom being from
   one of the hydroxyl groups present.
15 The polyol residue is a C3 to Cs polyol residue, i.e. formed from a C3 to C8 polyol. More
   preferably, a C 3 to C7 polyol residue, particularly C 3 to C 6 polyol residues.
   The polyol residue may also be a residue of an oligomer of a C3 to Cs polyol, said oligomer
   having from 2 to 5 repeat units of the monomer polyol. Preferably, said oligomers have from 2
   to 4 repeat units. More preferably, from 2 to 3 repeat units.
20 Where the polyol is a residue of an oligomer of a C 3 to Cs polyol, the oligomer may be a
   homogeneous oligomer formed from identical monomer polyol units, or may be heterogeneous
   being formed from a number of different C3 to Cs polyol monomer units.
   Particularly   suitable polyol     oligomers    may be      selected   from diglycerol,    triglycerol,
   tetraglycerol, dierythritol, trierythritol, tetraerythritol, di-1,3-propanediol, tri-1,3-propanediol,
25 di(trimethylolpropane), or tri(trimethylolpropane).       Preferably, said oligomer is selected from
   diglycerol, triglycerol, tetraglycerol, di(trimethylolpropane), or tri(trimethylolpropane). More
   preferably, said oligomer is selected from diglycerol, triglycerol, di(trimethylolpropane), or
   tri(trimethylolpropane).        Most    preferably,    said   oligomer    may    be    diglycerol    or
   di(trimethylolpropane).

   It will be understood that features detailed with regard to polyols, such as the values of m and
   groups R1 , will apply to the oligomeric polyols and be multiplied up by the relevant number of
   repeat units of said oligomer, whilst accounting for moles of removed water or ether bridges.
   The polyol may be linear, branched, partially cyclic, or cyclic.
                                                                                                        2
 5 The index m is a measure of the alcohol functionality of the polyol, and the fatty ester -C(O)R
   will replace some or all of the active hydrogen atoms (dependent on the reaction conditions).
   It is possible that esterification at a particular site may be restricted or prevented by steric
   hindrance.
   The polyols used in the present invention have a value of m active hydrogen atoms in the range
10 from 2 to 7. Preferably, the value of m is in the range from 2 to 6. More preferably, in the
   range from 3 to 5.
   As the number of hydroxyl groups present on the polyol is equivalent to the number of m
   active hydrogen atoms, the preferred numbers of hydroxyl groups present will be the same as
   listed for the preferred numbers of m active hydrogen atoms.
15 The polyol residue may be homogeneous in that it comprises only one specific polyol residue
   and is formed from one specific polyol.          In an alternative embodiment, the polyol residue
   starting material may be heterogeneous in that it comprises a mixture of a number of different
   polyols have different values of m selected from those listed above, and therefore the polyol
   residue formed therefrom may be heterogeneous.
20 The polyol may be selected from diols, triols, tetrols, pentols, hexols, heptols, or octols.
   Preferably, the polyol may be selected from triols, tetrols, pentols, hexols, or heptols. More
   preferably, the polyol may be selected from triols, tetrols, or hexols.
   Suitable specific polyols may be selected from ethylene glycol, isosorbide, 1,3-propanediol,
   propylene glycol, trimethylolpropane, trimethylolethane,            glycerol, triglycerol, erythritol,
25 threitol, pentaerythritol, sorbitan, arabitol, xylitol, ribitol, fucitol, mannitol, sorbitol, sucrose,
   maltose. galactitol, iditol, inositol, volemitol, isomalt, maltitol, or lactitol.
   In one particular embodiment, polyols obtainable from natural sources may be preferred.             In
   particular, sugar alcohols may be used to form the polyol residue. In this specification the
   terms 'sugars' and 'sugar alcohols' refer to a group of saccharide derived polyols having from
30 4 to 7 hydroxyl groups.        Examples of preferred sugars and sugar alcohols may include
   monosaccharides and disaccharides having from 4 to 7 hydroxyl groups.                    Residues of

   monosaccharide, more preferably of glucose, fructose or sorbitol, and particularly of sorbitol or
   sorbitan, may be preferred as polyols obtained from natural sources.
   Particularly preferred polyol residues are those wherein m represents a value of 3, 4, or 6, and
   where said residues are C3 to C6 polyol residues. Most preferably, the polyol residue is formed
 5 from glycerol, sorbitol, sorbitan, or oligomers thereof.
   The C 1 to C 2s hydrocarbyl may preferably be selected from a C 1 to C2 8 alkyl or a C 1 to C 2 8
   alkenyl.
   The term 'alkyl' as used herein, unless otherwise defined, refers to saturated hydrocarbon
   radicals being straight chain, branched, or combinations thereof, containing from 1 to 28
10 carbon atoms.     Preferably, the alkyls each contain from 5 to 26 carbon atoms.           More
   preferably, 10 to 24 carbon atoms. Most preferably, 16 to 22 carbon atoms.
   Examples of alkyl radicals may be independently selected from methyl, ethyl, propyl, butyl,
   pentyl, hexyl, heptyl, octyl, nonyl, decyl, undecyl, dodecyl, tridecyl, tetradecyl, pentadecyl,
   hexadecyl, heptadecyl, octadecyl, nonadecyl, eicosyl, henicosyl, docosyl, tricosyl, tetracosyl,
15 pentacosyl, hexacosyl, heptacosyl, octacosyl, or branched variants thereof.
   The alkyl radicals may preferably be selected from dodecyl, tridecyl, tetradecyl, pentadecyl,
   hexadecyl, heptadecyl, octadecyl, nonadecyl, eicosyl, or branched variants thereof.
   The term 'alkenyl' as used herein, unless otherwise defined, refers to hydrocarbon radicals
   having at least one or a plurality, preferably no more than four, double bonds. The alkenyl
20 radicals may be straight chain, or branched moieties, or combinations thereof.
   The alkenyl radicals may each contain from 2 to 28 carbon atoms.        Preferably, the alkenyls
   each contain from 5 to 26 carbon atoms.        More preferably, 10 to 24 carbon atoms.      Most
   preferably, 16 to 22 carbon atoms.
   Examples of alkenyl radicals may be independently selected from ethyl, propenyl, butenyl,
25 pentenyl, hexenyl, heptenyl, octenyl, nonenyl, decenyl, undecenyl, dodecenyl, tridecenyl,
   tetradecenyl, pentadecenyl, hexadecenyl, heptadecenyl, octadecenyl, nonadecenyl, eicosenenyl
   henicosenyl, docosenyl, tricosenyl, tetracosenyl, pentacosenyl, hexacosenyl, heptacosenyl,
   octacosenyl, or branched variants thereof.
   The alkenyl radicals may preferably be selected from dodecenyl, tridecenyl, tetradecenyl,
30 pentadecenyl, hexadecenyl, heptadecenyl, octadecenyl, nonadecenyl, eicosenyl, or branched
   variants thereof.

                                                   ~ 10~
   At least one of the R' groups present in the spray drift reductant represents an alkanoyl group
   represented by -C(O)R     2 in which R 2 will represent a Cs to C28 hydrocarbyl.      Said alkanoyl
   group may preferably be a residue of a fatty acid.
   The Cs to C2s hydrocarbyl is preferably selected from a Cs to C28 alkyl or C8 to C2s alkenyl.
 5 More preferably, a Cs to C 14 alkyl or C 12 to C24 alkenyl. Most preferably, a Cs to C 12 alkyl or
   C 16 to C 20 alkenyl.
   Said Cs to C2s alkyl or Cs to C2s alkenyls may be selected from the alkyl radicals and alkenyl
   radicals as listed herein having 8 to 28 carbon atoms. Said Cs to C2s alkyl or C8 to C2s alkenyls
   may also be selected such that the resulting ester is in a liquid state at room temperature and
10 pressure. The chain lengths may be selected so that the viscosity of the spray drift reductant is
   kept low and within desired values and the resulting is not a waxy solid.
   The term 'residue of a fatty acid' as used herein refers to the moiety that is the resulting
   product of the fatty acid in a particular reaction scheme or subsequent formulation or chemical
   product, regardless of whether the moiety is actually obtained from the specified chemical
15 species. A 'fatty acid residue' thereby refers to the moiety which results when a fatty acid
   participates in a particular reaction (i.e. the residue is a fatty alkanoyl group RC(O)-).       The
   fatty acid residue is therefore 'derived' from the respective fatty acid. It is understood that this
   moiety can be obtained by a reaction with a species other than the specified fatty acid per se,
   for example, by a reaction with an unsaturated fatty acid chloride, ester, or anhydride.
20 The fatty acids used in the present invention are preferably selected from C1o to C30 fatty acids,
   more preferably C12 to C24 fatty acids, particularly C 14 to C22 fatty acids, further preferably C16
   to C22 fatty acids. Especially Cis fatty acids may be preferred.
   The fatty acids may be selected from linear or branched fatty acids. The fatty acids may be
   selected from saturated or unsaturated fatty acids.
25 Where unsaturated fatty acids are present, these may be selected from unsaturated fatty acids
   comprising at least one unsaturated carbon-carbon double bond.           Particularly preferred are
   unsaturated fatty acids having in the range from 1 to 3 carbon-carbon double bonds.            Most
   preferred are mono-unsaturated or di-unsaturated fatty acids residues.          The carbon-carbon
   double bond(s) of the fatty chain may be present either in a cis or a trans configuration.

                                                   - 11~
   Preferably, the fatty acids residues used are derived from linear mono-unsaturated or di
   unsaturated fatty acids, The preferred fatty acids may also comprise some tri-unsaturated fatty
   acids as it has been found that addition may improve cold liquid stability properties.
   Iodine values are understood to represent the average amount of unsaturation of fats or oils,
 5 and is expressed in terms of the number of centigrams of iodine absorbed per gram of sample
   (% iodine absorbed).      Where unsaturated fatty acids are present, said fatty acids may be
   selected such that the iodine value is greater than 70. Preferably, said iodine value is greater
   than 90. More preferably, said iodine value is greater than 100. Most preferably, said iodine
   value is greater than 110.
10 Suitable saturated fatty acids may be selected from caprylic acid, capric acid, lauric acid,
   myristic acid, palmitic acid, stearic acid, arachidic acid, behenic acid, or lignoceric acid.
   Preferred saturated fatty acids may be selected from caprylic acid, capric acid, lauric acid, or
   myristic acid.
   Suitable unsaturated fatty acids may be selected from myristoleic acid, palmitoleic acid,
15 sapienic acid, oleic acid, elaidic acid, vaccenic acid, linoleic acid, linoelaidic acid, arachidonic
   acid, eicosapentaenoic acid, erucic acid, or docosahexaenoic acid. Preferred unsaturated fatty
   acids may be selected from oleic acid, linoleic acid, linolenic acid, palmitoleic acid, or elaidic
   acid.   Particularly preferred unsaturated fatty acids may be oleic acid, linoleic acid, and
   mixtures thereof.
20 The fatty acids may be unsaturated fatty acid mixtures obtained from natural fats and oils, e.g.
   canola oil, sunflower oil, soybean oil, olive oil, cotton seed oil, grape seed oil, peanut oil,
   rapeseed oil, safflower oil, cottonseed oil, or tall oil.      Preferably canola oil, safflower oil,
   soybean oil, or tall oil.
   In an alternative embodiment, the fatty acid used may be purified prior to use in the present
25 invention. Purification may be undertaken to raise the levels of desired fatty acid chains and
   reduce the level of undesired fatty acid chains in order to modify the iodine values, titre values,
   or pour points.
   Particularly suitable fatty esters of C 3 to C8 polyols or oligomers thereof include glycerol,
   diglycerol, or sorbitan esters of oleic acid, elaidic acid, linoleic acid, or erucic acid
30 The fatty esters of C3 to Cs polyols or oligomers of the present invention may be esterified at
   any of the m active hydrogen sites on the polyol thereby providing mono ester or poly

                                                   -  12~
   esterified polyols. Said polyols may therefore be partially or fully esterified. Preferably, said
   polyols are partial esters which remain insoluble in water.
   The fatty esters of C3 to C8 polyols or oligomers of the present invention may be esterified at
   between 25 to 75% of the m active hydrogen sites on the polyol. Preferably, 35 to 65% of the
 5 m active hydrogen sites. More preferably, 40 to 60% of the m active hydrogen sites. Most
   preferably, around 50% of the m active hydrogen sites.
   The fatty esters of C3 to C8 polyol used in the present invention preferably comprise a mixture
   of mono-, di-, tri-, and optionally tetra-, esters. The concentration of monoesters is suitably at
   least 20%, preferably at least 25%, more preferably at least 30%, particularly at least 35%, and
10 especially at least 40% by weight based upon the total concentration of fatty esters of C3 to CS
   polyol. The concentration of the combination of monoesters and diesters is suitably at least
   50%, preferably at least 65%, more preferably at least 75%, particularly at least 80%, and
   especially at least 85% by weight based upon the total concentration of fatty esters of C3 to Cs
   polyol. Correspondingly, the concentration of tri- and tetra-esters is suitably not more than
15 50%, preferably not more than 35%, more preferably not more than 25%, particularly not more
   than 20%, and especially not more than 15% by weight based upon the total concentration of
   fatty esters of C3 to Cs polyol.    In particular, the preferred amounts of mono-, di-, tri-, and
   optionally tetra-, esters may preferably be for monomeric polyol esters.
   The fatty esters of C3 to C8 polyol or oligomers thereof preferably have a HLB value, as
20 calculated by Griffin's method, of less than 10, more preferably less than 8, and most
   preferably less than 7. The fatty esters of C3 to Cs polyol component suitably has a HLB value
   in the range from I to 8, preferably 2 to 6, more preferably 3 to 5.
   In particular, the HLB of the spray drift reductant may be in the range 4 to 5 where the fatty
   esters of C3 to Cs polyol or oligomer thereof is based on C6 sugar alcohols. In an alternative
25 embodiment where the fatty esters of C3 to Cs polyol or oligomer thereof is based on C3
   polyols, the HLB may be less than 4.
   Specific preferred examples of fatty esters of C3 to Cs polyol or oligomers thereof may be
   selected from sorbitan mono-oleate, glycerol mono-oleate, sorbitan sesquioleate, sorbitan di
   oleate, sorbitan tri-oleate, glycerol ester of tall oil or diglycerol ester of tall oil, glycerol ester
30 of canola oil or diglycerol ester of canola oil, glycerol ester of safflower oil or diglycerol ester
   of safflower oil, glycerol ester of soy oil or diglycerol ester of soy oil, di- glycerol oleate, tri
   glycerol oleate, di-glycerol isostearate, or tri-glycerol isostearate.

                                                  - 13~
   The spray drift reductants may preferably be liquid at room temperature and pressure.       Most
   preferably, the spray drift reductants are liquid and remain as liquid and free from suspended
   solids in the sprayable agrochemical formulation at temperatures down to 0 0 C for at least 24
   hours.
 5 The spray drift reductants may also have low or no aquatic toxicity, and be acceptable for food
   use.   Specifically, the reductants may be selected from those which avoid classification as
   hazardous under the Globally Harmonized System (GHS), that are acceptable for organic
   production as defined by the USDA National Organic Program, and/or that are acceptable for
   use as additives to food as defined by the US Food and Drug Administration, the UN WHO
10 Joint Expert Committee on Food Additives (JECFA) or related EU food safety regulations.
   The spray drift reductant may preferably be non-self-emulsifiable.         Said reductant may
   therefore need to be emulsified, and said emulsification may be achieved by mechanical action,
   such as homogenisation, or by addition of an emulsifier compound.
   The term 'clathrate' as used herein, unless otherwise defined, refers to a chemical substance
15 which comprises a lattice that traps or contains the relevant molecules, in this case fatty esters
   of a C3 to C8 polyol or oligomer thereof having from 2 to 5 repeat units. Said spray drift
   reductants, when comprised in said lattice will be understood as being in a 'clathrated' form.
   Clathrates which may be used for the present invention include in particular urea clathrates or
   thiourea clathrates. Preferably, urea clathrates are used.
20 It will be understood that the spray drift reductants which are comprised in the clathrated are
   the fatty esters of a C3 to Cs polyol or oligomer thereof having from 2 to 5 repeat units as
   already defined herein.
   In particular, when including a clathrate in the agrochemical formulation, the spray drift
   reductant may be selected from mono and diglycerol esters comprised within urea clathrates.
25 Clathrates may be preferably included in the agrochemical formulation when including
   nutrients, especially where the agrochemical formulation is in the form of dry, water soluble,
   or water dispersible solid.
   The spray drift reductant of the present invention may be obtainable by esterifying a C3 to C8
   polyol. Preferably, the fatty esters of C3 to Cs polyol may be obtained by esterifying a C3 to Cs
30 polyol by any suitable method.

                                                   -  14~
   Alternatively, the respective polyglyceride (for example triglyceride) may be trans-esterified to
   provide a mixture of mono and poly esterified polyol. The method may be adapted to provide
   higher concentrations of more preferred components.
   Where oligomers of C3 to C8 polyols are use, the oligomers may be first formed by
 5 oligomerising the respective polyol monomer units, and the oligomer may then be esterified.
   The step of esterification of the polyol or polyol oligomer may be undertaken by techniques
   well known in the art, for example by reacting the polyol or oligomer with the required
   amounts of fatty acid source under acidic or basic conditions. The polyol or oligomer therefore
   undergoes an esterification reaction with fatty acid. Preferably, the spray drift reductant of the
10 present invention may be obtained by directly esterifying a polyol or oligomer.
   The method of forming the C3 to C8 polyol or oligomer esters may comprise using biologically
   derived fatty acids and polyols or oligomers.         It can be seen that the components may be
   derived from biological materials, but the spray drift reductant itself is formed by a chemical
   synthesis. This may result in greater reproducibility and more consistent product with greater
15 purity. Synthesising the reductants in this way allows for improved control of the process, and
   therefore improved control of the resultant properties such as viscosity and freezing point.
   It can be seen that, depending on the particular reaction conditions, the polyol or oligomer may
   be partially or fully esterified. At least one of the active hydrogens m of the polyol or oligomer
   is esterified. Preferably, at least I or 2 of the active hydrogens m of the polyol or oligomer are
20 esterified.
   In a suitable embodiment of the invention, on average in the range from 1 to 2.5 of the R 1
   groups comprise an alkanoyl group represented by -C(O)R 2 . Preferably, on average in the
   range from, 1.2 to 1.8. Said average being measured across a bulk amount of the formed spray
   drift reductant.
25 The clathrate comprising a spray drift reductant may be used when preparing dry, solid
   agrochemical formulations, preferably when preparing a nutrient comprising formulation. The
   method of forming the clathrate comprising the reductant includes the steps of heating, if
   necessary melting, the reductant to an appropriate temperature, then adding in urea to form a
   mixture. Preferably the clathrate compound is added at an amount of above 40 wt.% of the
30 mixture, more preferably around 50 wt.%.           The mixture is then recrystallised by either i)

                                                    15~
   pouring in to slabs and producing particles by grinding, ii) pastilating it, or iii) spraying of the
   clathrate to give fine granular solid.
   The molecular weight (weight average) of the spray drift reductant is preferably in the range
   from 200 to 2200, more preferably 250 to 1900, particularly 330 to 1500, further preferably,
 5 350 to 1270, and especially 370 to 950.
   The agrochemical formulation         according to the present invention may also contain
   components, such as surfactant materials which form part of the emulsifier system.             Said
   surfactants may include surfactant dispersants.
   Suitable surfactants include relatively hydrophilic surfactants, e.g. having a HLB value of
10 greater than 10, preferably greater than 12.     The surfactants may alternatively be relatively
   hydrophobic surfactants which are not fatty esters of C3 to Cs polyol or oligomers thereof
   having 2-5 repeat units, and may have HLB values of less than 10, preferably less than 8.
   Relatively hydrophilic surfactants include alkoxylate surfactants with an average in the range
   from about 10 to about 100 alkylene oxide, particularly ethylene oxide, residues; and relatively
15 hydrophobic surfactants include alkoxylate surfactants preferably with an average in the range
   from about 3 to about 10 alkylene oxide, particularly ethylene oxide, residues.
   Other suitable surfactants may be selected from those which may be emulsifying, readily
   miscible, non-gelling, readily dilutable, and/or dispersible.
   One example of suitable surfactants may include polysorbates, for example poly alkoxylated
20 sugar alcohol esters.    Suitable examples of such surfactants may include typically non-ionic
   polymeric ether surfactants.     The most commonly used examples are polysorbates such as
   polysorbate 20 and polysorbate 80 (sold under the Tween brand).
   In particular a surfactant comprising non-ionic alkoxylate, preferably an alkoxylated fatty
   alcohol, may be included.
25 In a one embodiment the non-ionic alkoxylate component is an alkoxylated alcohol of the
   general formula:
                                        R 3-O-(AO)X-H          (11)
   wherein
           R3 is a straight or branched chain, saturated or unsaturated, substituted or unsubstituted
30 hydrocarbon group having from 4 to 30 carbon atoms;

                                                   ~16 ~
            AO is an oxyalkylene group; and
            x represents an integer in the range from 1 to 30.
   The oxyalkylene groups (AO) may be selected from groups of the formula -(CyH 2yO)- where
   y is an integer selected from 2, 3, or 4. Preferably, y is 2 or 3.
 5 The oxyalkylene group AO may be selected from oxyethylene, oxypropylene, oxybutylene, or
   oxytetramethylene.      Preferably, the oxyalkylene group is selected from oxyethylene (EO)
   and/or oxypropylene (PO).
   Where the oxyalkylene chain is homopolymeric, homopolymers of ethylene oxide or propylene
   oxide are preferred.      More preferably, homopolymers of ethylene oxide are particularly
10 preferred.
   Where there is more than one oxyalkylene group present (i.e. where x is 2 or more) and at least
   two are part of the same oxyalkylene chain, the oxyalkylene groups may be the same or may be
   different along said oxyalkylene chain. In this embodiment, the oxyalkylene chain may be a
   block or random copolymer of differing oxyalkylene groups.
15 Where the viscosity of the formulation needs to be lowered, block or random copolymer of
   differing oxyalkylene groups in the alkoxylated fatty alcohol may be particularly preferred.
   The number of oxyalkylene groups in each oxyalkylene chain (i.e. the value of the each
   parameter x) will be in the range from I to 30. Preferably, in the range from 2 to 25. More
   preferably, in the range from 3 to 10. Further preferably, in the range from 4 to 7.
20 The C 4 to C 30 hydrocarbyl may preferably be selected from a C 4 to C 30 alkyl or a C 4 to C 30
   alkenyl.
   The term 'alkyl' as used herein, unless otherwise defined, refers to saturated hydrocarbon
   radicals being straight chain, branched, or combinations thereof, containing from 4 to 30
   carbon atoms.      Preferably, the alkyls each contain from 6 to 24 carbon atoms.          More
25 preferably, 8 to 22 carbon atoms. Most preferably, 10 to 20 carbon atoms.
   Examples of alkyl radicals may be independently selected from methyl, ethyl, propyl, butyl,
   pentyl, hexyl, heptyl, octyl, nonyl, decyl, undecyl, dodecyl, tridecyl, tetradecyl, pentadecyl,
   hexadecyl, heptadecyl, octadecyl, nonadecyl, eicosyl, henicosyl, docosyl, tricosyl, tetracosyl,
   pentacosyl, hexacosyl, heptacosyl, octacosyl, or branched variants thereof.

                                                   -  17~
   The alkyl radicals may preferably be selected from dodecyl, tridecyl, tetradecyl, pentadecyl,
   hexadecyl, heptadecyl, octadecyl, nonadecyl, eicosyl, or branched variants thereof.
   The term 'alkenyl' as used herein, unless otherwise defined, refers to hydrocarbon radicals
   having at least one or a plurality, preferably no more than four, double bonds. The alkenyl
 5 radicals may be straight chain, or branched moieties, or combinations thereof.
   The alkenyl radicals may each contain from 4 to 30 carbon atoms. Preferably, the alkenyls
   each contain from 5 to 26 carbon atoms.           More preferably, 10 to 24 carbon atoms.       Most
   preferably, 16 to 22 carbon atoms.
   Examples of alkenyl radicals may be independently selected from ethyl, propenyl, butenyl,
10 pentenyl, hexenyl, heptenyl, octenyl, nonenyl, decenyl, undecenyl, dodecenyl, tridecenyl,
   tetradecenyl, pentadecenyl, hexadecenyl, heptadecenyl, octadecenyl, nonadecenyl, eicosenenyl
   henicosenyl, docosenyl, tricosenyl, tetracosenyl, pentacosenyl, hexacosenyl, heptacosenyl,
   octacosenyl, or branched variants thereof.
   The alkyl radicals may preferably be selected from dodecenyl, tridecenyl, tetradecenyl,
15 pentadecenyl, hexadecenyl, heptadecenyl, octadecenyl, nonadecenyl, eicosenyl, or branched
   variants thereof.
   More preferably, R3 may be derived from, and the residue of a fatty alcohol.
   Where R3 is derived from a fatty alcohol, R 3 represents an alkoxy group (R-O-) being a
   residue of a fatty alcohol.
20 The term 'residue of a fatty alcohol' as used herein refers to the moiety that is the resulting
   product of the fatty alcohol in a particular reaction scheme or subsequent formulation or
   chemical product, regardless of whether the moiety is actually obtained from the specified
   chemical species. A 'fatty alcohol residue' thereby refers to the moiety which results when a
   fatty alcohol participates in a particular reaction (i.e. the residue is a fatty alkoxy group R-O-).
25 The fatty alcohol residue is therefore 'derived'         from the respective fatty alcohol.     It is
   understood that this moiety can be obtained by a reaction with a species other than the
   specified fatty alcohol per se, for example, by a reaction with an unsaturated fatty alcohol
   chloride, ester, or anhydride.
   The fatty alcohols may preferably be selected from C4 to C30 fatty alcohols, more preferably C6
30 to C 24 fatty alcohols, particularly Cio to C2 2 fatty alcohols, further preferably C10 to C16 fatty
   alcohols, and especially C12 fatty alcohols.

                                                  ~ is
   The fatty alcohols may be selected from linear or branched fatty alcohols. The fatty alcohols
   may be selected from saturated or unsaturated fatty alcohols.
   Where unsaturated fatty alcohols are present, these may be selected from unsaturated fatty
   alcohols comprising at least one unsaturated carbon-carbon double bond.                 Particularly
 5 preferred are unsaturated fatty alcohols having in the range from 1 to 3 carbon-carbon double
   bonds.    Most preferred are mono-unsaturated fatty alcohols residues.          The carbon-carbon
   double bond of the fatty chain may be present either in a cis or a trans configuration.
   Preferably, the fatty alcohols residues used are derived from linear saturated fatty alcohols.
   Suitable saturated and unsaturated fatty alcohols in particular may be selected from capryl
10 alcohol pelargonic alcohol, capric alcohol, undecyl alcohol, lauryl alcohol, tridecyl alcohol,
   myristyl alcohol, pentadecyl alcohol, cetyl alcohol, palmitoleyl alcohol, heptadecyl alcohol,
   stearyl alcohol, nonadecyl alcohol, arachidyl alcohol, heneicosyl alcohol, or behenyl alcohol,
   oleyl alcohol, elaidyl alcohol, linoleyl alcohol, linolenyl alcohol, or erucyl alcohol.
   In particular, unsaturated and saturated C10 to C16 fatty alcohols may be preferred. The fatty
15 alcohols may preferably be selected from capric alcohol, lauryl alcohol, or myristyl alcohol.
   Suitable non-ionic alkoxylates having utility in the context of the present invention may be
   selected from lauryl alcohol (4 EO) ethoxylate, lauryl alcohol (5 EO) ethoxylate, lauryl alcohol
   (6 EO) ethoxylate, oleyl (3 EO) ethoxylate, oleyl (5 EO) ethoxylate, or oleyl (10 EO)
   ethoxylate.
20 The non-ionic alkoxylates may in particular be selected from those which are miscible with the
   spray drift reductant.
   Agrochemically active compounds, in particular systemic insecticides and fungicides, or
   nutrients require a formulation which allows the active compounds or nutrients to be taken up
   by the plant/the target organisms.
25 The term 'agrochemical formulation' as used herein refers to compositions including an active
   or nutrient agrochemical, and is intended to include all forms of compositions, including
   concentrates and spray formulations. If not specifically stated, the agrochenical formulation
   of the present invention may be in the form of a concentrate, a diluted concentrate, or a
   sprayable formulation.
30 The spray drift reductant may be combined with other components in order to form an
   agrochemical formulation comprising at least one agrochemical active and/or nutrient.

                                                   - 19~
   Accordingly,     agrochemical    active compounds      may be formulated as an emulsifiable
   concentrate (EC), emulsion concentrate (EW), suspension concentrate (SC), soluble liquid
   (SL), as an oil-based suspension concentrate (OD), and/or suspoemulsions (SE).
   In an EC formulation and in an SL formulation, the active compound may be present in
 5 dissolved form, whereas in an OD, SC, or SE formulations the active compound may be
   present as a solid or emulsified liquid.
   It is envisaged that the spray drift reductant of the present invention will particularly find use in
   a SC, OD, or SE formulation.
   The agrochemical formulation of the present invention may be in the form of a concentrate, a
10 diluted concentrate, or a sprayable formulation.
   Agrochemical concentrates are agrochemical compositions, which may be aqueous or non
   aqueous, and which are designed to be diluted with water (or a water based liquid) to form the
   corresponding spray formulations.       Said compositions include those in liquid form (such as
   solutions, emulsions, or dispersions) and in solid form (especially in water dispersible solid
15 form) such as granules or powders.
   Spray formulations are aqueous agrochemical formulations including all the components which
   it is desired to apply to the plants or their environment. Spray formulations can be made up by
   simple dilution of concentrates containing desired components (other than water), or by mixing
   of the individual components, or a combination of diluting a concentrate and adding further
20 individual components or mixtures of components. Typically such end use mixing is carried
   out in the tank from which the formulation is sprayed, or alternatively in a holding tank for
   filling the spray tank. Such mixing and mixtures are typically termed tank mixing and tank
   mixtures.
   A spray drift reductant may therefore be incorporated into the formulation of the agrochemical
25 active or nutrient compound (in-can formulation) or be added after dilution of the concentrated
   formulation of the spray liquor (tank-mix). To avoid dosage errors and to improve user safety
   during application of agrochemical products, it is advantageous to incorporate the spray drift
   reductants into the formulation. This also avoids the unnecessary use of additional packaging
   material for the tank-mix products.
30 According to the needs of the customer, concentrates thus formed may comprise typically up to
   95 wt.% agrochemical actives or nutrients. Said concentrates may be diluted for use resulting

                                                    - 20~
   in a dilute composition having an agrochemical active or nutrient concentration of about 0.5
   wt.% to about 1 wt.%. In said dilute composition (for example, a spray formulation, where a
   spray application rate may be from 10 to 500 1.ha- 1) the agrochemical active or nutrient
   concentration may be in the range from about 0.001 wt.% to about I wt.% of the total
 5 formulation as sprayed.
   The spray drift reductant of the formula (I) will typically be used either in an amount
   proportional to the amount of the active agrochemical or nutrient in the formulation, or more
   preferably in an amount proportional to the volume of spray solution to be applied.                 In
   agrochemical formulation concentrates, the proportion of spray drift reductant will depend on
10 the solubility of the components in the liquid carrier.       Typically, the concentration of spray
   drift reductant in such a concentrate will be from 1 wt.% to 99 wt.%. Preferably, from 1 wt.%
   to 70 wt.%. More preferably, from 3 wt.% to 50 wt.%. Further preferably, from 5 wt.% to 30
   wt.%. Most preferably, from 7 wt.% to 20 wt.%.
   Upon dilution to form, for example, a spray formulation, the spray drift reductant will typically
15 be present at a concentration of from 0.01 wt.% to 2 wt.%, more usually from 0.03 wt.% to 0.5
   wt.% of the spray formulation. Further preferably, from 0.12 wt.% to 0.4 wt.% of the spray
   formulation.
   When concentrates (solid or liquid) are used as the source of active agrochemical and/or spray
   drift reductant, the concentrates will typically be diluted to form the spray formulations. The
20 dilution may be with from 1 to 10,000, particularly 10 to 1,000, times the total weight of the
   concentrate of water to form the spray formulation.
   Where the agrochemical active is present in the aqueous end use formulation as solid particles,
   most usually it will be present as particles mainly of active agrochemical. However, if desired,
   the active agrochemical can be supported on a solid carrier e.g. silica or diatomaceous earth,
25 which can be solid support, filler or diluent material as mentioned above.
   Where the dispersed phase is a non-aqueous liquid, said liquid will typically be an oil. The oil
   may be or include a mineral oil, including aliphatic (paraffin) mineral oils and aromatic
   mineral or synthetic oils, such as those sold under the trade name Solvesso; an optionally
   hydrogenated vegetable oil, such as an optionally hydrogenated cotton seed oil, linseed oil,
30 mustard oil, neem oil, niger seed oil, oiticica oil, olive oil, palm oil, palm kernel oil, peanut oil,
   perilla oil, poppy seed oil, rape seed oil, safflower oil, sesame oil, or soybean oil; an ester oil (a
   synthetic ester oil), especially a C 16 ester of a C8 to C22 fatty acid, especially a C12 to C1s fatty

                                                  ~21~
   acid, or a mixture of esters, such as methyl laurate, 2-ethylhexyl laurate, heptadecanoate,
   heptadecenoate, heptadecadienoate, stearate or oleate, and in particular methyl laurate and
   oleate; N-methylpyrrolidone; or an isoparaffin; or a mixture of such oils.
   The spray formulations will typically have a pH within the range from moderately acidic (e.g.
 5 about 3) to moderately alkaline (e.g. about 10), and particular near neutral (e.g. about 5 to 8).
   More concentrated formulations will have similar degrees of acidity/alkalinity, but as they may
   be largely non-aqueous, pH is not necessarily an appropriate measure of this.
   The agrochemical formulation may include solvents (other than water) such as monopropylene
   glycol, oils which can be vegetable or mineral oils such as spray oils (oils included in spray
10 formulations as non-surfactant adjuvants), associated with the reductant. Such solvents may be
   included as a solvent for the spray drift reductant and/or as a humectant, e.g. especially
   propylene glycol. When used such solvents will typically be included in an amount of from 5
   wt.% to 500 wt.%, desirably 10 wt.% to 100 wt.%, by weight of the spray drift reductant. Such
   combinations can also include salts such as ammonium chloride and/or sodium benzoate,
15 and/or urea especially as gel inhibition aids.
   The agrochemical formulation may also include;
           preservatives and/or anti-microbials such as organic acids, or their esters or salts such
   as ascorbic e.g. ascorbyl palmitate, sorbic e.g. potassium sorbate, benzoic e.g. benzoic acid and
   methyl and propyl 4-hydroxybenzoate, propionic e.g. sodium propionate, phenol e.g. sodium
20 2-phenylphenate;      1,2-benzisothiazolin-3-one;     or   formaldehyde     as    such    or   as
   paraformaldehyde; or inorganic materials such as sulphurous acid and its salts, typically in
   amounts of 0.01 wt.% to 1 wt.% of the composition; and/or
           antifoam agents e.g. polysiloxane antifoam agents, typically in amounts of 0.005 wt.%
   to 1 wt.% of the composition.
25 Other adjuvants, particularly surfactant adjuvants, may be included in the compositions and
   formulations of and used in this invention. Examples include linear alcohol alkoxylates (as
   may be present in materials made for use in this invention derived from linear alcohols in the
   starting materials); alkylpolysaccharides (more properly called alkyl oligosaccharides); fatty
   amine ethoxylates e.g. coconut alkyl amine 2EO; sorbitan and sorbitol ethoxylate derivatives,
30 such as those sold under the trade names Atlox and Tween by Croda Europe Limited; and

                                                  ~22~
   derivatives of alk(en)yl succinic anhydride, in particular those described in PCT applications
   WO 94/00508 and WO 96/16930.
   The agrochemical formulations may also include other components including:
       -   binders, particularly binders which are readily water soluble to give low viscosity
 5         solutions at high binder concentrations, such as polyvinylpyrrolidone; polyvinyl
           alcohol; carboxymethyl cellulose; gum arabic; sugars e.g. sucrose or sorbitol; starch;
           ethylene-vinyl acetate copolymers, sucrose and alginates,
       -   diluents, absorbents or carriers such as carbon black; talc; diatomaceous earth; kaolin;
           aluminium,     calcium   or magnesium      stearate;    sodium  tripolyphosphate;  sodium
10         tetraborate; sodium sulphate;      sodium, aluminium and mixed sodium-aluminium
           silicates; and sodium benzoate,
       -   disintegration agents, such as surfactants, materials that swell in water, for example
           carboxy     methylcellulose,   collodion,   polyvinylpyrrolidone     and   microcrystalline
           cellulose swelling agents; salts such as sodium or potassium acetate, sodium carbonate,
15         bicarbonate or sesquicarbonate,       ammonium       sulphate and dipotassium hydrogen
           phosphate;
       "   wetting agents such as alcohol ethoxylate and alcohol ethoxylate/propoxylate wetting
           agents;
       -   dispersants such as sulphonated naphthalene formaldehyde condensates and acrylic
20         copolymers such as the comb copolymer having capped polyethylene glycol side chains
           on a polyacrylic backbone;
       -   emulsifiers such as alcohol ethoxylates, ABA block co polymers, or castor oil
           ethoxylates;
       -   antifoam agents, typically at a concentration of from 1 to 10% by weight of the granule;
25         and
       -   viscosity modifiers such as commercially available water soluble or miscible gums, e.g.
           xanthan gums, and/or cellulosics, e.g. carboxy- methyl, ethyl or propylcellulose.
   Suitable agrochemical actives for use in the formulations according to the invention are all
   agrochemically active compounds, preferably those which are solid at room temperature. It is

                                                  - 23~
   envisaged that the spray drift reductant of the present invention would have broad applicability
   to all types of agrochemical actives.
   Agrochemical actives refer to biocides which, in the context of the present invention, are plant
   protection agents, more particular chemical substances capable of killing different forms of
 5 living organisms used in fields such as medicine, agriculture, forestry, and mosquito control.
   Also counted under the group of biocides are so-called plant growth regulators.
   Biocides for use in agrochemical formulations of the present invention are typically divided
   into two sub- groups:
       -    pesticides., including fungicides,   herbicides, insecticides,   algicides, moluscicides,
10          miticides and rodenticides, and
       -    antimicrobials, including germicides, antibiotics, antibacterials, antivirals, antifungals,
            antiprotozoals and antiparasites.
   In particular, biocides selected from insecticides, fungicides, or herbicides may be particularly
   preferred.
15 The term 'pesticide' will be understood to refer to any substance or mixture of substances
   intended for preventing, destroying, repelling, or mitigating any pest. A pesticide may be a
   chemical substance or biological agent (such as a virus or bacteria) used against pests including
   insects, plant pathogens, weeds, mollusks, birds, mammals, fish, nematodes (roundworms) and
   microbes that compete with humans for food, destroy property, spread disease or are a
20 nuisance. In the following examples, pesticides suitable for the agrochemical compositions
   according to the present invention are given.
   A fungicide is a chemical control of fungi.        Fungicides are chemical compounds used to
   prevent the spread of fungi in gardens and crops.       Fungicides are also used to fight fungal
   infections. Fungicides can either be contact or systemic. A contact fungicide kills fungi when
25 sprayed on its surface.      A systemic fungicide has to be absorbed by the fungus before the
   fungus dies.
   Examples for suitable fungicides, according to the present invention, encompass the following
   species: (3-ethoxypropyl)mercury bromide, 2-methoxyethylmercury chloride, 2-phenylphenol,
   8-hydroxyquinoline sulphate, 8-phenylmercuri oxyquinoline, acibenzolar, acylamino acid
30 fungicides, acypetacs, aldimorph, aliphatic nitrogen fungicides, allyl alcohol, amide fungicides,
   ampropylfos,      anilazine,  anilide fungicides,  antibiotic  fungicides,   aromatic    fungicides,

                                                    -24~
   aureofungin,   azaconazole,     azithiram,    azoxystrobin,    barium    polysulphide,     benalaxyl-M,
   benodanil,   benomyl,      benquinox,    bentaluron,     benthiavalicarb,    benzalkonium        chloride,
   benzamacril,    benzamide     fungicides,    benzamorf, benzanilide        fungicides,   benzimidazole
   fungicides,   benzimidazole      precursor     fungicides,   benzimidazolylcarbamate         fungicides,
 5 benzohydroxamic acid, benzothiazole fungicides, bethoxazin, binapacryl, biphenyl, bitertanol,
   bithionol,   blasticidin-S,    Bordeaux     mixture,    boscalid,    bridged     diphenyl    fungicides,
   bromuconazole, bupirimate, Burgundy mixture, buthiobate, butylamine, calcium polysulphide,
   captafol, captan, carbamate fungicides, carbamorph, carbanilate fungicides, carbendazim,
   carboxin,   carpropamid,     carvone,    Cheshunt      mixture,   chinomethionat,      chlobenthiazone,
10 chloraniformethan, chloranil, chlorfenazole, chlorodinitronaphthalene, chloroneb, chloropicrin,
   chlorothalonil, chlorquinox,     chlozolinate, ciclopirox,      climbazole, clotrimazole,        conazole
   fungicides, conazole fungicides (imidazoles), conazole fungicides (triazoles), copper(II)
   acetate, copper(II) carbonate, basic, copper fungicides, copper hydroxide, copper naphthenate,
   copper oleate, copper oxychloride, copper(II) sulphate, copper sulphate, basic, copper zinc
15 chromate, cresol, cufraneb, cuprobam, cuprous oxide, cyazofamid, cyclafuramid, cyclic
   dithiocarbamate      fungicides,    cycloheximide,      cyflufenamid,      cymoxanil,      cypendazole,
   cyproconazole,    cyprodinil, dazomet, DBCP, debacarb, decafentin,                 dehydroacetic     acid,
   dicarboximide      fungicides,     dichlofluanid,      dichlone,    dichlorophen,       dichlorophenyl,
   dicarboximide fungicides, dichlozoline, diclobutrazol, diclocymet, diclomezine, dicloran,
20 diethofencarb,     diethyl    pyrocarbonate,      difenoconazole,      diflumetorim,       dimethirimol,
   dimethomorph, dimoxystrobin, diniconazole, dinitrophenol fungicides, dinobuton, dinocap,
   dinocton, dinopenton, dinosulphon, dinoterbon, diphenylamine, dipyrithione, disulphiram,
   ditalimfos, dithianon, dithiocarbamate fungicides, DNOC, dodemorph, dodicin. dodine,
   donatodine, drazoxolon, edifenphos, epoxiconazole, etaconazole,etem, ethaboxam, ethirimol,
25 ethoxyquin,     ethylmercury      2,3-dihydroxypropyl        mercaptide,       ethylmercury       acetate,
   ethylmercury     bromide,     ethylmercury      chloride,   ethylmercury      phosphate,     etridiazole,
   farnoxadone, fenamidone, fenaminosulph, fenapanil, fenarimol, fenbuconazole, fenfuram,
   fenhexamid, fenitropan, fenoxanil, fenpiclonil, fenpropidin, fenpropimorph, fentin, ferbam,
   ferimzone,   fluazinam, fludioxonil,      flumetover, fluopicolide,       fluoroimide, fluotrimazole,
30 fluoxastrobin,   fluquinconazole,     flusilazole,   flusulphamide,     flutolanil,  flutriafol,   folpet,
   formaldehyde, fosetyl, fuberidazole, furalaxyl, furametpyr, furamide fungicides, furanilide
   fungicides, furcarbanil, furconazole, furconazole-cis, furfural, furmecyclox, furophanate,
   glyodin,   griseofulvin,    guazatine,   halacrinate,    hexachlorobenzene,       hexachlorobutadiene,

                                                    -25~
   hexachlorophene,       hexaconazole,     hexylthiofos,      hydrargaphen,         hymexazol,        imazalil,
   imibenconazole, imidazole fungicides, iminoctadine, inorganic fungicides, inorganic mercury
   fungicides, iodomethane, ipconazole, iprobenfos, iprodione, iprovalicarb,                   isoprothiolane,
   isovaledione, kasugamycin, kresoxim-methyl, lime sulphur, mancopper, mancozeb, maneb,
 5 mebenil, mecarbinzid, mepanipyrim, mepronil, mercuric chloride, mercuric oxide, mercurous
   chloride, mercury fungicides, metalaxyl, metalaxyl-M, metam, metazoxolon, metconazole,
   methasulphocarb, methfuroxam, methyl bromide, methyl isothiocyanate,                        methylmercury
   benzoate, methylmercury        dicyandiamide, methylmercury pentachlorophenoxide,                  metiram,
   metominostrobin, metrafenone, metsulphovax, milneb, morpholine fungicides, myclobutanil,
10 myclozolin,     N-(ethylmercury)-p-toluenesulphonanilide,            nabam,    natamycin,      nitrostyrene,
   nitrothal-isopropyl,    nuarimol,    OCH,      octhilinone,     ofurace,    organomercury       fungicides,
   organophosphorus       fungicides,    organotin    fungicides,       orysastrobin,    oxadixyl,      oxathiin
   fungicides, oxazole fungicides, oxine copper, oxpoconazole,                   oxycarboxin, pefurazoate,
   penconazole,       pencycuron,       pentachlorophenol,           penthiopyrad,        phenylmercuriurea,
15 phenylmercury acetate, phenylmercury chloride, phenylmercury derivative of pyrocatechol,
   phenylmercury nitrate, phenylmercury salicylate, phenylsulphamide fungicides, phosdiphen,
   phthalide,    phthalimide   fungicides,    picoxystrobin,       piperalin,   polycarbamate,       polymeric
   dithiocarbamate fungicides, polyoxins, polyoxorim, polysulphide fungicides, potassium azide,
   potassium polysulphide,       potassium thiocyanate, probenazole,             prochloraz,    procymidone,
20 propamocarb,       propiconazole,     propineb,      proquinazid,       prothiocarb,      prothioconazole,
   pyracarbolid, pyraclostrobin, pyrazole fungicides, pyrazophos, pyridine fungicides, pyridinitril,
   pyrifenox, pyrimethanil, pyrimidine fungicides, pyroquilon, pyroxychlor, pyroxyfiir, pyrrole
   fungicides, quinacetol, quinazamid, quinconazole, quinoline fungicides, quinone fungicides,
   quinoxaline fungicides,      quinoxyfen,     quintozene, rabenzazole,          salicylanilide,   silthiofam,
25 simeconazole, sodium azide, sodium orthophenylphenoxide, sodium pentachlorophenoxide,
   sodium     polysulphide,   spiroxamine,     streptomycin,      strobilurin fungicides,      sulphonanilide
   fungicides, sulphur, sultropen, TCMTB, tebuconazole, tecloftalam, tecnazene, tecoram,
   tetraconazole,    thiabendazole,    thiadifluor,   thiazole      fungicides,    thicyofen,    thifluzamide,
   thiocarbamate fungicides, thiochlorfenphim, thiomersal, thiophanate, thiophanate-methyl,
30 thiophene    fungicides,   thioquinox,    thiram,    tiadinil,    tioxymid,    tivedo,   tolclofos-methyl,
   tolnaftate, tolylfluanid, tolylmercury acetate, triadimefon, triadimenol, triamiphos, triarimol,
   triazbutil, triazine fungicides, triazole fungicides, triazoxide, tributyltin oxide, trichlamide,
   tricyclazole, trifloxystrobin, triflumizole, triforine, triticonazole, unclassified fungicides,

                                                   -26~
   undecylenic     acid,  uniconazole,   urea   fungicides,    validamycin,   valinamide    fungicides,
   vinclozolin, zarilamid, zinc naphthenate, zineb, ziram, zoxamide, and mixtures thereof.
   An herbicide is a pesticide used to kill unwanted plants.         Selective herbicides kill specific
   targets while leaving the desired crop relatively unharmed. Some of these act by interfering
 5 with the growth of the weed and are often based on plant hormones. Herbicides used to clear
   waste ground are non-selective and kill all plant material with which they come into contact.
   Herbicides are widely used in agriculture and in landscape turf management. They are applied
   in total vegetation control (TVC) programs for maintenance of highways and railroads. Smaller
   quantities are used in forestry, pasture systems, and management of areas set aside as wildlife
10 habitat.
   Suitable herbicides may be selected from the group comprising: aryloxycarboxylic acid e.g.
   MCPA,       aryloxyphenoxypropionates      e.g.    clodinafop,   cyclohexanedione     oximes     e.g.
   sethoxydim, hydroxybenzonitriles       e.g. bromoxynil,      sulphonylureas    e.g.  nicosulphuron,
   triazolopyrimidines e.g. penoxsulam, triketiones e.g. mesotriones, triazine herbicides such as
15 metribuzin, hexaxinone, or atrazine; sulphonylurea herbicides such as chlorsulfuron; uracils
   such as lenacil, bromacil, or terbacil; urea herbicides such as linuron, diuron, siduron, or
   neburon; acetanilide herbicides such as alachlor, or metolachlor; thiocarbamate herbicides such
   as benthiocarb, triallate; oxadiazolone herbicides such as oxadiazon; isoxazolidone herbicides,
   phenoxyacetic acids; diphenyl ether herbicides such as fluazifop, acifluorfen, bifenox, or
20 oxyfluorfen; dinitro aniline herbicides such as trifluralin; organophosphonate herbicides such
   as glufosinate salts and esters and glyphosate salts and esters; and/or dihalobenzonitrile
   herbicides such as bromoxynil, or ioxynil, benzoic acid herbicides, dipyridilium herbicides
   such as paraquat.
   Particularly preferred herbicides may be selected from 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D),
25 atrazine, dicamba as benzoic acid. glyphosate, glufosinate, imazapic as imidazolinone,
   metolachlor as chloroacetamide, picloram, clopyralid, and triclopyr as pyridinecarboxylic acids
   or synthetic auxins, their respective water soluble salts and esters, and mixtures thereof.
   An insecticide is a pesticide used against insects in all developmental forms, and include
   ovicides and larvicides used against the eggs and larvae of insects. Insecticides are used in
30 agriculture, medicine, industry and the household.
   Suitable insecticides may include those selected from: chlorinated insecticides such as, for
   example, Camphechlor, DDT, Hexachloro- cyclohexane, gamma-Hexachlorocyclohexane,

                                                   -27~
   Methoxychlor,     Pentachlorophenol,     TDE,      Aldrin,    Chlordane,      Chlordecone,     Dieldrin,
   Endosulphan, Endrin, Heptachlor, Mirex and their mixtures; organophosphorous compounds
   such as, for example., Acephate, Azinphos-methyl, Bensulide, Chlorethoxyfos, Chlorpyrifos,
   Chlorpyriphos-methyl, Diazinon, Dichlorvos (DDVP), Dicrotophos, Dimethoate, Disulphoton,
 5 Ethoprop, Fenamiphos, Fenitrothion, Fenthion, Fosthiazate, Malathion, Methamidophos,
   Methidathion,    Methyl-parathion,     Mevinphos,       Naled,     Omethoate.,   Oxydemeton-methyl,
   Parathion, Phorate, Phosalone, Phosmet, Phostebupirim, Pirimiphos-methyl,                   Profenofos,
   Terbufos, Tetrachlorvinphos, Tribufos, Trichlorfon and their mixture; carbamates such as, for
   example,    Aldicarb,     Carbofuran,     Carbaryl,      Methomyl,       2-(1-   Methylpropyl)phenyl
10 methylcarbamate and their mixtures; pyrethroids such as, for example, Allethrin, Bifenthrin,
   Deltamethrin, Permethrin, Resmethrin, Sumithrin, Tetramethrin, Tralomethrin, Transfluthrin
   and their mixtures; plant toxin derived compounds such as, for example, Derris (rotenone),
   Pyrethrum, Neem (Azadirachtin), Nicotine, Caffeine and their mixture; neonicotinoids such as
   imidacloprid; abamectin e.g. emamactin; oxadiazines such as indoxacarb; and/or anthranilic
15 diamides such as rynaxypyr.
   Miticides are pesticides that kill mites. Antibiotic miticides, carbamate miticides, formamidine
   miticides, mite growth regulators, organochlorine, permethrin and organophosphate miticides
   all belong to this category.     Molluscicides are pesticides used to control mollusks, such as
   moths, slugs and snails.    These substances include metaldehyde, methiocarb and aluminium
20 sulphate.  A nematicide is a type of chemical pesticide used to kill parasitic nematodes (a
   phylum of worm).
   Particular preference is given to active compounds from the classes of the azole fungicides
   (azaconazole,   bitertanol,  bromuconazole,      cyproconazole,     diclobutrazole,    difenoconazole,
   diniconazole,   diniconazole-M,      epoxiconazole,      etaconazole,     fenarimol,    fenbuconazole,
25 fluquinconazole,     flurprimidol,    flusilazole,     flutriafol,   furconazole,     furconazole-cis,
   hexaconazole,    imazalil,   imazalil   sulphate,     inibenconazole,      ipconazole,    metconazole,
   myclobutanil, nuarimol, oxpoconazole, paclobutrazole, penconazole, pefurazoate, prochloraz,
   propiconazole,    prothioconazole,    pyrifenox,     simeconazole,     tebuconazole,     tetraconazole,
   triadimefon, triadimenol,     triflumizole,  triforin, triticonazole,     uniconazole,    voriconazole,
30 viniconazole), strobilurin fungicides (azoxystrobin, dimoxystrobin, fluoxastrobin, kresoxim
   methyl, metominostrobin, orysastrobin, picoxystrobin, pyraclostrobin, trifloxystrobin), the
   SDH fungicides, the chloronicotinyl insecticides (clothianidin, dinotefuran, imidacloprid,
   thiamethoxam, nitenpyram, nithiazin, acetamiprid, nitenpyram, thiacloprid), the insecticidal

                                                    -28
   ketoenols (spirodiclofen,     spiromesifen,     spirotetramate), fiproles (fiprole, ethiprole) and
   butenolides, and also pymetrozine, fluopicolid, N-(3',4'-dichloro-5-fluoro-1,1'-biphenyl-2-yl)
   3-(difluoromethyl)-1-methyl-1H-pyrazole-4-carboxamide                  and          N-{2-[3-chloro-5
   (trifluoromethyl)-2-pyridinyl] ethyl 1-2- (trifluoromethyl)benzamide.      Particular  preference   is
 5 also given to herbicides, in particular sulphonylureas, triketones and herbicidal ketoenols, and
   also safeners.
   In an alternative embodiment the spray drift reductant may be used in formulation comprising
   nutrients in addition to, or as an alternative to, pesticide actives.      In such formulations the
   nutrient is typically in a dry form. The spray drift reductant may preferably also be in a dry
10 form comprised in a clathrate, with the clathrate admixed with the nutrient.
   Nutrients refer to chemical elements and compounds which are desired or necessary to
   promote or improve plant growth. Suitable nutrients generally are described as macronutrients
   or micronutrients.    Micronutrients typically refer to trace metals or trace elements, and are
   often applied in lower doses.       Macronutrients typically refer to those comprising nitrogen,
15 phosphorus, and potassium, and include fertilisers such as ammonium sulphate, and water
   conditioning agents.
   Suitable nutrients for use in the formulations according to the invention are all nutrient
   compounds, preferably those which are solid at room temperature.             It is envisaged that the
   spray drift reductant of the present invention would have broad applicability to all types of
20 nutrients. In particular, the spray drift reductants of the present invention when comprised in a
   clathrate may find particular use with fertilisers, more preferably fertilisers in solid anhydrous
   form.
   Suitable micronutrients include trace elements selected from zinc, boron, chlorine, copper,
   iron, molybdenum, and manganese. The micronutrients may be in a soluble form or included
25 as insoluble solids, and may be salts or chelated.
   Suitable macro nutrients include fertilisers and other nitrogen, phosphorus, potassium, calcium,
   magnesium, sulphur containing compounds, and water conditioning agents.
   Suitable fertilisers include inorganic fertilisers that provide nutrients such as nitrogen,
   phosphorus, potassium or sulphur. Examples of such fertilisers include:
30          for nitrogen as the nutrient: nitrates and or ammonium salts such as ammonium nitrate,
   including in combination with urea e.g. as uran type materials, calcium ammonium nitrate,

                                                   ~29~
   ammonium sulphate nitrate, ammonium phosphates, particularly mono-ammonium phosphate,
   di-ammonium phosphate and ammonium polyphosphate, ammonium sulphate, and the less
   commonly used calcium nitrate, sodium nitrate, potassium nitrate and ammonium chloride;
            for potassium as the nutrient: potassium chloride, sulphate e.g. as mixed sulphate with
 5 magnesium,      phosphates,   particularly  potassium   dihydrogen    phosphate   and potassium
   polyphosphate and less commonly potassium nitrate;
            for phosphorus as the nutrient: acidic forms of phosphorus such as phosphoric,
   pyrophosphoric or polyphosphoric acids, but more usually salt forms such as ammonium
   phosphates,     particularly  mono-ammonium        phosphate,    di-ammonium     phosphate,   and
10 ammonium        polyphosphate,    potassium    phosphates,  particularly  potassium   dihydrogen
   phosphate and potassium polyphosphate;
            for sulphur as the nutrient: ammonium sulphate and potassium sulphate, e.g. the mixed
   sulphate with magnesium.
   Fertilisers may be included in diluted formulations at relatively low concentrations or as more
15 concentrated solutions, which at very high levels may include solid fertiliser as well as
   solution.
   It is envisaged that inclusion of the nutrient would be dependent upon the specific nutrient, and
   that micronutrients would typically be included at lower concentrations whilst macronutrients
   would typically be included at higher concentrations.
20 When present, the proportion of nutrient in the total concentrate formulation is typically from 5
   wt.% to 40 wt.%, more usually, 10 wt.% to 35 wt.%, particularly 15 wt.% to 30, % by weight
   based on the concentrate.
   The invention further includes a method of treating or providing nutrients to plants using spray
   formulations including at least one dispersed phase agrochemical and a spray drift reductant of
25 the first aspect.   The agrochemical may be one or more phytoactives, for example growth
   regulators and/or herbicides, and/or pesticides, for example insecticides, fungicides or
   acaricides, or may be a nutrient.
   Accordingly the invention further includes methods of use including:
            a method of killing or inhibiting vegetation by applying to the vegetation, or the
30          immediate environment of the vegetation e.g. the soil around the vegetation, a spray

                                                   - 30~
            formulation including at least one dispersed phase agrochemical and a spray drift
            reductant of the first aspect;
        -   a method of killing or inhibiting pests of plants by applying to the plants or the
            immediate environment of the plants e.g. the soil around the plants, a spray
 5          formulations including at least one dispersed phase agrochemical which is one or more
            pesticides, for example insecticides, fungicides or acaricides, and a spray drift reductant
            of the first aspect; and
        -   a method of providing nutrients to vegetation by applying to the vegetation, or the
            immediate environment of the vegetation e.g. the soil around the vegetation, a spray
10          formulation including at least one nutrient and a spray drift reductant of the first aspect.
   Spray drift reductants refer to materials that reduce the amount of undesired small spray
   droplets (driftable fines) and/or the amount of undesired large droplets, both in a commercially
   significant and desirable manner.        It is understood that the modification of spray drift
   characteristics is achieved through the modification of the size and size distribution of droplets
15 in the spray.
   Spray applied formulations typically exhibit decreasing tendency to drift when a decreased
   amount of small size spray droplets are formed, that is spray droplets having a droplet size
   below typically 150pm. This amount of small driftable droplets may be expressed as a volume
   percentage of the droplet volume of the total spray applied. There is a desire to reduce the
20 amount of spray drift when compared to formulations either comprising alternative non-ionic
   surfactants or no spray drift reductant.         Spray drift of pesticides can have undesirable
   consequences which include unintended contact of phytotoxic pesticides with non-pest pest
   plants causing damage to these non-pest plants, such as crops or ornamental plants.
   In addition, use of the spray drift reductants of the present invention results in no or few
25 extremely large droplets being created which might otherwise be expected when using polymer
   surfactants in agrochemical formulations. Large undesired droplets would typically be those
   having a droplet size greater than 500 micrometers
   The present invention will be understood to improve spray droplet characteristics with none or
   little degradation of spray pattern.
30 It will be understood that all values of particle and droplet size stated herein are with reference
   to the AIXR 11004 spray nozzle with glyphosate and ammonium sulphate based formulations,

                                                   - 31 ~
   where the spray angle is 1100 and the flow rate is 0.4 gallons per minute. Values for spray
   drift reduction are with reference to spray formulations comprising 0.25 wt.% of the reductant.
   Fluid pressure for spray testing is stated at 40psi unless stated otherwise.
   Droplet size and spray measurement values may be readily determined by laser light scattering,
 5 image analysis, or phase doppler laser measurement. Droplet size measurements as used in the
   present application are with reference to measurement by laser light scattering using a
   Sympatec Helos Vario KF laser sizing system.           The spray plume was directed down and
   traversed across the instrument laser beam; data was averaged over the spray plume.
   Preferably the spray drift reductant decreases the volume of driftable fine droplets (fines). In
10 particular, driftable fine droplets are those which are of size less than 150 pm, where this is
   understood by ASTM 1519 to represent the droplet size below which the droplets are driftable.
   The reduction in spray drift will be therefore understood as a reduction in the volume
   percentage of droplets having a droplet size of less than 150 pm compared to an analogous
   agrochemical formulation which does not comprise the spray drift reductant of the present
15 invention.
   The spray drift reductant of the present invention may provide a percentage reduction of
   droplets having a size of less than 150pm of at least 10% at a spray pressure of 30 psi. More
   preferably, at least 20%. Further preferably, at least 30%. Most preferably, at least 40%.
   The spray drift reductant of the present invention may provide a percentage reduction of
20 droplets having a size of less than 150pm of at least 10% at a spray pressure of 40 psi. More
   preferably, at least 20%. Further preferably, at least 30%. Most preferably, at least 40%.
   The spray drift reductant of the present invention may provide a percentage reduction of
   droplets having a size of less than 150pm of at least 10% at a spray pressure of 60 psi. More
   preferably, at least 20%. Further preferably, at least 30%. Most preferably, at least 40%.
25 Further reduction of particularly small droplets, those having a size of less than 105pm is
   provided by the present invention.
   The spray drift reductant of the present invention may provide a percentage reduction of
   droplets having a size of less than 105pm of at least 10% at a spray pressure of 30 psi. More
   preferably, at least 20%. Further preferably, at least 30%. Most preferably, at least 40%.

                                                 - 32~
   The spray drift reductant of the present invention may provide a percentage reduction of
   droplets having a size of less than 105pm of at least 10% at a spray pressure of 40 psi. More
   preferably, at least 20%. Further preferably, at least 30%. Most preferably, at least 40%.
   The spray drift reductant of the present invention may provide a percentage reduction of
 5 droplets having a size of less than 105pm of at least 10% at a spray pressure of 60 psi. More
   preferably, at least 20%. Further preferably, at least 30%. Most preferably, at least 40%.
   In the form of a distribution of particle sizes, the spray droplet would have a median volume
   particle/droplet diameter value. It will be understood that the median volume particle diameter
   refers to the equivalent spherical diameter corresponding to the point on the distribution which
10 divides the population exactly into two equal halves. It is the point which corresponds to 50%
   of the volume of all the particles, read on the cumulative distribution curve relating volume
   percentage to the diameter of the particles i.e. 50% of the distribution is above this value and
   50% is below. This value is referred to as the 'D(v,0.5)' value and is determined as described
   herein.
15 Preferably the spray drift reductant increases the D(v,0.5) value. The increase in the D(v,0.5)
   of the spray will be therefore understood as an increase in the spray droplet median volume
   particle/droplet diameter value compared to an analogous agrochemical formulation which
   does not comprise the spray drift reductant of the present invention.
   The spray drift reductant of the present invention may provide a percentage increase of the
20 D(v,0.5) value of at least 2% at a spray pressure of 40 psi. More preferably, at least 5%. Most
   preferably, at least 10%.
   The addition of spray drift reductants of the present invention also provide for fewer undesired
   large droplets, and specifically fewer large droplets in comparison to use of polymer based
   spray drift reductants. Large undesired droplets will be understood to have a size of greater
25 than 500 microns.
   The spray drift reductant of the present invention may provide a percentage reduction of
   droplets having a size of greater than 500pm of at least 5% at a spray pressure of 30 psi. More
   preferably, at least 10%.
   The spray drift reductant of the present invention may provide a percentage reduction of
30 droplets having a size of greater than 500pm of at least 5% at a spray pressure of 40 psi. More
   preferably, at least 10%.

                                                  - 33~
   The spray drift reductant of the present invention may provide a percentage reduction of
   droplets having a size of greater than 500pm of at least 5% at a spray pressure of 60 psi. More
   preferably, at least 10%.
   The spray drift reductant of the present invention, by reducing the amount of undesired small
 5 and large droplets, may change the droplet size distribution of a sprayed formulation.
   The width of the droplet size distribution may be defined as the 'span' which is a measure of
   the width of the distribution based on the 10%, 50% and 90% quantile. Span (measured in pm)
   may be defined as follows:
                                        Span = D(v,0.9) - D(v,0. 1)
10 and relative span (unitless) may be defined as follows:
                                               D(v,0.9) - D(v,0. 1)
                                                     D(v,0.5)
   The volume median diameter D(v,0.5) is the as defined herein.           'D(v,0.9)' and 'D(v,0.1)'
   values are the equivalent spherical diameter corresponding to 90% or 10% respectively of the
   volume of all the particles, read on the cumulative distribution curve relating volume
15 percentage to the diameter of the particles., i.e. they are the points where 10% or 90% of the
   distribution is above this value and 90% or 10% are below the value respectively.
   The relative span value represents the width of the particle size distribution of the spray
   droplets, and therefore how defined the distribution is around the median particle size value. It
   has been found that using the spray drift reductant of the present invention spray droplet size
20 distribution is more narrowly defined around the desired range.
   The spray drift reductant of the present invention may provide for a narrower relative span in
   comparison to a sprayed agrochemical formulation not comprising reductant. The percentage
   reduction in relative span is at least 4% at a spray pressure of 30 psi. More preferably, at least
   8%. Further preferably, at least 10%. Most preferably, at least 12%.
25 The percentage reduction in relative span is at least 4% at a spray pressure of 40 psi. More
   preferably, at least 8%. Further preferably, at least 10%. Most preferably, at least 12%.
   The percentage reduction in relative span is at least 4% at a spray pressure of 60 psi. More
   preferably, at least 8%. Further preferably, at least 10%. Most preferably, at least 12%.

                                                 - 34~
   All of the features described herein may be combined with any of the above aspects, in any
   combination.
   In order that the present invention may be more readily understood, reference will now be
   made, by way of example, to the following description.
 5 It will be understood that all tests and physical properties listed have been determined at
   atmospheric pressure and room temperature (i.e. 20'C), unless otherwise stated herein, or
   unless otherwise stated in the referenced test methods and procedures.
   Compounds as used in the following examples are identified as follows:
           Al- adjuvant combination of first adjuvant (mixture of mono and di oleate esters of
10 diglyceride) at 30 wt.%, and co-adjuvant (lauryl alcohol (4 EO) ethoxylate) at 70 wt.%.
           A2 - adjuvant combination of first adjuvant (mixture of mono and di oleate esters of
   diglyceride) at 50 wt.%, and co-adjuvant (lauryl alcohol (4 EO) ethoxylate) at 50 wt.%.
           A3 - adjuvant combination of first adjuvant (mixture of mono and di oleate esters of
   diglyceride) at 70 wt.%, and co-adjuvant (lauryl alcohol (4 EO) ethoxylate) at 30 wt.%.
15         Cl-   polyoxyethylene     (20)  sorbitan    monolaurate  (polysorbate   20)   surfactant
   comparative example.
           C2 - comparison non-ionic surfactant adjuvant nonoxynol-9.
           C3 - control solution, no adjuvant added.
   The following test method was used to determine performance of the adjuvant compositions
20         Spray parameters - Base solutions were prepared of I wt.% AMS (0.85 lbs/10 gal) and
   1 wt.% glyphosate (Roundup PowerMax, 22 oz/10 gal) in tap water.          Spray measurements
   were made using a Sympatec Helos Vario KF laser sizing system. The spray plume was
   directed down and traversed across the instrument laser beam, and data was averaged over the
   spray plume. Measurements were made at pressures of 30 psi and 60 psi, using four TeeJet
25 nozzles: XR11004 (flat fan extended range), All 1004 (air induction), TT11004 (Turbo flat
   fan), and AIXR 11004 (air induction extended range).
   Base solutions of 1 wt.% AMS (0.85 lbs/10 gal) and 1% glyphosate (Roundup PowerMax, 22
   oz/10 gal) in tap water were made up, and the adjuvants noted were added. The following
   sprayable adjuvant formulations were formed for further evaluation.
30

                                             - 35~
  Table 1. - Formulations
                                        p    nAmount             Added to Base
                  Example no.        Adjuvant              Solution (% v/v)
                        I               Al                       0.125
                        2               A2                       0.125
                        3               A3                       0.125
                        4               Al                       0.250
                        5               A2                       0.250
                        6               A3                       0.250
                        7               Al                       0.500
                        8               A2                       0.500
                        9               A3                       0.500
                       10               C2                       0.250
                        11              C1                       0.250
                        12              C3                        N/A
  Spray Drift Results
  The formulations of Examples 1 to 17 were spray tested using a variety of nozzles. Spray
  characterisation tests were performed using a XRI 1004 nozzle, AIXRI 1004 nozzle, and
5 ULD 11004 nozzle, and results are shown in Tables 2, 3, and 4 respectively.

                                              - 36~
  Table 2. - Spray using a XR1 1004 nozzle
                                                   Particles Relative Change in particles
   Example      D(v,0.1)  D(v,0.5)   D(v,0.9)<15m()           Sa<15m%)
                                                <105pm ()     Span      <105pm ()
        1         116       246        416            7.5      1.21         -24.4
       2          126       253        421           5.43      1.17         -45.3
       3          134       261        423           4.48      1.11         -54.8
       4          139       266        430           3.86       1.1         -61.1
       5          139       266        420           3.91      1.06         -60.6
       6          141       267        421           3.76      1.05         -62.1
       7          136       258        411           4.15      1.07         -58.2
       8          137       261        415           3.98      1.06         -59.9
       9          139       263        413           3.77      1.04         -62.0
       10         109       238        413           9.02      1.28          -9.1
       11          91       219        406           13.7      1.44          38.4
       12         105       244        458           9.92      1.44           0.0
   relative to control example 12 with no adjuvant
  Table 3. - Spray using a AIXR 11004 nozzle
                                                   Particles Relative Change in particles
   Example      D(v,0.1)  D(v,0.5)   D(v,0.9)<15m()           Sa<15m              %)
                                                <105pm ()     Span      <105pm ()
        1         204       427        685           1.27      1.13         -18.6
       2          223       447        703            0.7      1.07         -55.1
       3          234       454        702           0.54      1.03         -65.4
       4          235       455        688           0.55        1          -64.7
       5          225       438        679           0.59      1.04         -62.2
       6          231       444        680           0.55      1.01         -64.7
       7          228       437        687           0.54      1.05         -65.4
       8          231       439        679           0.55      1.02         -64.7
       9          230       437        684           0.55      1.04         -64.7
       10         206       429        686           1.19      1.12         -23.7
       11         178       395        664           2.46      1.23          57.7
       12         202       433        708           1.56      1.17           0.0
   relative to control example 12 with no adjuvant
5

                                                  - 37~
   Table 4. - Spray using a ULD 11004 nozzle
                                                      Particles      Relative Change in particles
    Example       D(v,0.1)   D(v,0.5)    D(v,0.9)<15m%)               Sa<05m()
                                                    <105pm ()         Span          <105pm (%)"
          1         325        627         915           0.09         0.94               -25.0
         2          343        653         973           0.09         0.97               -25.0
         3          347        656         983           0.08         0.97               -33.3
         4          349        663         983           0.09         0.96               -25.0
         5          332        637         963            0.1         0.99               -16.7
         6          332        635         969            0.1            1               -16.7
         7          338        656         1095          0.01          1.15              -91.7
         8          331        633         971           0.11          1.01               -8.3
         9          327        658         978           0.11          1.04               -8.3
         10         340        658         1002           0.1          1.01              -16.7
         11         300        584          873          0.29         0.98               141.7
         12         338        656         995           0.12            1                 0.0
     relative to control example 12 with no adjuvant
   The drift reduction potential of Al-A3 was compared to polysorbate 20. The above results
   show that the reductants of the present invention provided drift reduction compared to the
 5 control and polysorbate formulations. Additionally, this spray drift reduction was provided at
   low concentrations of between 0.125% and 0.5% (v/v), and across a variety of nozzles.
   The performance of the adjuvants of the present invention (Al-A3) which was found to
   provide for significant reductions in small droplets, and therefore reductions in spray drift,
   using the nozzles selected. Additionally, good spray drift reduction was observed even when
10 using Ultra Low Drift nozzle ULDI 1004 Nozzle. In contrast, a commonly available adjuvant
   polysorbate 20 was actually detrimental to spray drift, and increased the production of fine
   droplets under specific spray conditions.
   Where the terms "comprise", "comprises", "comprised" or "comprising" are used in this
   specification, they are to be interpreted as specifying the presence of the stated features,
15 integers, steps or components referred to, but not to preclude the presence or addition of one or
   more other feature, integer, step, component or group thereof.
   It is to be understood that the invention is not to be limited to the details of the above
   embodiments, which are described by way of example only. Many variations are possible.

                                                 -  38~
   The claims defining the invention are as follows:
   1.     A sprayable agrochemical formulation comprising;
          i)   at least one spray drift reductant comprising a fatty ester, wherein the fatty ester
               has a general structure (I):
                                P - R'                      (I)
                                     L_      m
 5             wherein:
               P is the residue of a C3 to C8 polyol, or residue of an oligomer thereof having from
               2 to 5 repeat units, each said polyol having m active hydrogen atoms, where m is
               an integer in the range from 2 to 7;
               each R1 independently represents a hydrogen, a C1 to C28 hydrocarbyl, or an
10             alkanoyl group represented by -C(O)R         2   wherein R2 represents a CS to C28
               hydrocarbyl; and
               wherein at least one R' group is or comprises an alkanoyl group represented by
               C(O)R 2;
          ii)  at least one surfactant selected from non-ionic alkoxylates and alkoxylated fatty
15             alcohol, wherein the non-ionic alkoxylate is an alkoxylated alcohol of the general
               formula:
                             R'-0-(AO)x-H          (II)
               wherein:
               R3 is a straight or branched chain, saturated or unsaturated, substituted or
20             unsubstituted hydrocarbon group having from 4 to 30 carbon atoms;
               AO is an oxyalkylene group; and
               x represents an integer in the range from 1 to 30;
          iii) at least one agrochemical active and/or nutrient; and
          iv) optionally a clathrate compound.
25
   2.     The formulation according to claim 1, wherein the polyol residue is a C3 to C6 polyol
          residue.
   3.     The formulation according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein said oligomer
30        has from 2 to 4 repeat units.

                                                -  39~
   4.  The formulation according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the polyol
       oligomer is selected from diglycerol, triglycerol, tetraglycerol, dierythritol, trierythritol,
       tetraerythritol,  di-1,3-propanediol,      tri-1,3-propanediol,     di(trimethylolpropane),    or
       tri(trimethylolpropane).
 5
   5.  The formulation according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the polyol has a
       value of m active hydrogen atoms in the range from 2 to 6.
   6.  The formulation according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the polyol is
10     selected   from ethylene       glycol, isosorbide,       1,3-propanediol, propylene       glycol,
       trimethylolpropane,     trimethylolethane,       glycerol,   triglycerol,   erythritol,  threitol,
       pentaerythritol, sorbitan, arabitol, xylitol, ribitol, fucitol, mannitol, sorbitol, sucrose,
       maltose, galactitol, iditol, inositol, volemitol, isomalt, maltitol, or lactitol.
15 7.  The formulation according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the C1 to C28
       hydrocarbyl comprising group R' is selected from a Ci to C28 alkyl or a C1 to C2 8
       alkenyl.
   8.  The formulation according to claim 7, wherein the C1 to         C28  alkyl or a C1 to C28 alkenyl
20     is selected from dodecyl, tridecyl, tetradecyl, pentadecyl, hexadecyl, heptadecyl,
       octadecyl, nonadecyl, eicosyl, or branched variants thereof, and the alkenyl radicals are
       selected    from dodecenyl,       tridecenyl,     tetradecenyl,   pentadecenyl,     hexadecenyl,
       heptadecenyl, octadecenyl, nonadecenyl, eicosenyl, or branched variants thereof.
25 9.  The formulation according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein said alkanoyl
       group represented by -C(O)R 2 is a residue of a fatty acid.
   10. The formulation according to claim 9, wherein the fatty acid is selected from a Cio to
       C30 fatty acids.
30
   11. The formulation according to claim 9 or claim 10, wherein the fatty acid is selected
       from caprylic acid, capric acid, lauric acid, myristic acid, palmitic acid, stearic acid,
       arachidic acid, behenic acid, lignoceric acid, myristoleic acid, palmitoleic acid, sapienic

                                                ~40~
       acid, oleic acid, elaidic acid, vaccenic acid, linoleic acid, linoelaidic acid, arachidonic
       acid, eicosapentaenoic acid, erucic acid, or docosahexaenoic acid.
   12. The formulation according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the fatty esters
 5     of C3 to Cs polyols or oligomers thereof are selected from glycerol, diglycerol, or
       sorbitan esters of oleic acid, elaidic acid, linoleic acid, or erucic acid.
   13. The formulation according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the fatty esters
       of C3 to C8 polyol or oligomers thereof have an HLB value of less than 7.
10
   14. The formulation according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the clathrates
       are urea clathrates or thiourea clathrates.
   15. The formulation according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the molecular
15     weight (weight average) of the spray drift reductant is in the range from 200 to 2,200.
   16. The formulation according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the oxyalkylene
       group AO is selected from oxyethylene (EO) and/or oxypropylene (PO).
20 17. The formulation according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein R3 is the residue
       of a fatty alcohol selected from capryl alcohol pelargonic alcohol, capric alcohol,
       undecyl alcohol, lauryl alcohol, tridecyl alcohol, myristyl alcohol, pentadecyl alcohol,
       cetyl alcohol, palmitoleyl alcohol, heptadecyl alcohol, stearyl alcohol, nonadecyl
       alcohol, arachidyl alcohol, heneicosyl alcohol, behenyl alcohol, oleyl alcohol, elaidyl
25     alcohol, linoleyl alcohol, linolenyl alcohol, or erucyl alcohol.
   18. The formulation according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the formulation
       is in the form of a suspension concentrate (SC), an oil-based suspension concentrate
       (GD), or a suspoemulsions (SE).
30
   19. The formulation according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the spray drift
       reductant is present at a concentration of from 0.01 wt.% to 2 wt.%.

                                                 ~41~
   20. A sprayable agrochemical formulation comprising;
       i) in the range of from 0.01 wt.% to 1.0 wt.% spray drift reductant, wherein the
             reductant is non-ionic, non-self-emulsifiable, has a HLB of less than 7, and is
             capable of reducing spray drift by at least 10 %; and
 5     ii) at least one surfactant selected from non-ionic alkoxylates and alkoxylated fatty
             alcohol, wherein the non-ionic alkoxylate is an alkoxylated alcohol of the general
             formula:
                            R 3-0-(AO)x-H         (II)
             wherein:
10           R3 is a straight or branched chain, saturated or unsaturated, substituted or
             unsubstituted hydrocarbon group having from 4 to 30 carbon atoms;
             AO is an oxyalkylene group; and
             x represents an integer in the range from 1 to 30;
       iii) at least one agrochemical active and/or nutrient; and
15     iv) optionally a clathrate compound.
   21. A concentrate formulation suitable for making a sprayable agrochemical formulation in
       accordance with any one of claims 1 to 19, said concentrate comprising a spray drift
       reductant of a fatty ester of a C3 to Cs polyol, or an oligomer thereof having from 2 to 5
20     repeat units.
   22. Use of a fatty ester of a C3 to Cs polyol, or an oligomer thereof having from 2 to 5
       repeat units, as spray drift reductant in an agrochemical formulation comprising: (i) at
       least one surfactant selected from non-ionic alkoxylates and alkoxylated fatty alcohol,
25     wherein the non-ionic alkoxylate is an alkoxylated alcohol of the general formula: R
       O-(AO)x-H       (11), wherein R 3 is a straight or branched chain, saturated or unsaturated,
       substituted or unsubstituted hydrocarbon group having from 4 to 30 carbon atoms, AO
       is an oxyalkylene group, and x represents an integer in the range from 1 to 30; (ii) at
       least one agrochemical active and/or nutrient; and optionally (iii) a clathrate compound.
30
   23. Use according to claim 22, wherein the spray drift reductant provides:
       a)    a percentage reduction of spray droplets having a size of less than 150pm of at
             least 10% at a spray pressure of 40 psi; or

                                              - 42~
       b)   a percentage reduction of spray droplets having a size of less than 105pm of at
            least 10% at a spray pressure of 40 psi; or
       c)   a percentage reduction of spray droplets having a size of less than 500pm of at
            least 5% at a spray pressure of 40 psi; or
 5     d)   a percentage reduction in relative span is at least 4% at a spray pressure of 40 psi.
   24. A method of reducing spray drift by using an agrochemical formulation in accordance
       with any one of claims 1 to 20, and/or a diluted concentrate formulation in accordance
       with claim 21.
10
   25. A method of treating vegetation to control pests and/or to provide nutrients, the method
       comprising applying a formulation in accordance with any one of claims 1 to 20, and/or
       a diluted concentrate formulation in accordance with claim 21, either to said vegetation
       or to the immediate environment of said vegetation.
15

