ABSTRACT
             A surgical system is disclosed. The surgical system can include a tray and a
vacuum-fitted cover covering at least a portion of the tray. The surgical system can
comprise a tray and a drape at least partially vacuum-fitted to the tray. A surgical
drape is also disclosed. The surgical drape can comprise a cover including an
opening and an interior cavity defined by a flexible wall which is configured to receive
a support surface. The surgical drape can further comprise a closable portion
configured to close the opening and seal at least a portion of the support surface
within the interior cavity. The surgical drape can further include a valve in fluid
communication with the interior cavity, wherein the valve is configured to enable the
suction of air from the interior cavity and draw the flexible wall inwardly to closely
envelop at least a portion of the support surface.
507857835_1\

                                                 TITLE
                                         SURGICAL SYSTEM
                       CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
 5                 The present application claims the benefit of and priority to U.S.
   Provisional Patent Application Serial No. 61/808,837, entitled DRAPE FOR
   SURGICAL OBJECT AND METHOD, which was filed on April 5, 2013, and U.S.
   Nonprovisional Patent Application Serial No. 13/678,843, entitled SURGICAL TRAY
   SYSTEM, which was filed on November 16, 2012, the entire disclosures of which are
 0 incorporated by reference herein.
                                                 FIELD
                The present invention relates to surgical systems for at least partially covering
   an object in an operating room, for instance. In various instances, the surgical
   system can include a tray and a vacuum-fitted cover covering at least a portion of the
 5 tray. In certain instances, the surgical system can include a tray and a drape at least
   partially vacuum-fitted to the tray. The present invention also relates to methods for
   using the surgical systems disclosed herein.
                                            BACKGROUND
20              A conventional operating room setup typically includes various fixtures
   including a back table. A back table is often a sterilized table which is used to hold
   instrumentation needed during a surgical procedure. In order to maintain a sterile
   environment, the table is usually sterilized, covered, and/or disposable It is typically
   located laterally with respect to and separately from the patient operating bed. As a
25 result of this arrangement, it can be inconvenient for a surgeon to move between the
   patient bed and the back table. Furthermore, items may be dropped and/or
   otherwise compromised when they are being moved between the back table and the
   patient bed.
                                                    1
   507857835_1\

                Typical back tables may also require various items and configurations which
   are selected based on the procedure being performed and/or the preferences of the
   surgeon. Often, a bowl with sterile fluid is used during a procedure and is placed on
   the back table. This bowl typically must be disposed of after use, and can be
 5 susceptible to spilling. Mayo Stand type tables have been proposed for use to allow
   a tray to overhang a bed; however, various limitations often make the use of such
   devices inconvenient, as described below.
                A number of conventional back tables or stands have been proposed and
   used in the industry; however, they lack various helpful configurations. For example,
 0 U.S. Patent No. 3,738,405, entitled MAYO STAND COVER, issued to Ericson, the
   entire disclosure of which is incorporated by reference herein, discloses a Mayo
   Stand with a cover. The stand can be moved over a bed; however, its configuration
   results in a very limited range of positioning options. More specifically, the stand can
   block light and be in the way of the surgeon if it were used over an operating bed.
 5 Moreover, any containers or bowls positioned thereon may be loosely placed on the
   stand and may be susceptible to being spilled.
                U.S. Patent No. 5,170,804, entitled MAYO-STAND DISPOSABLE DRAPE,
   issued to Glassman, the entire disclosure of which is incorporated by reference
   herein, discloses a Mayo Stand with a disposable drape. The drape can hold a kit of
 0 instruments which can be laid out on the stand. However, the same limitations with
   positioning, blocking light, and obstructing access to the patient apply to this design
   as well.
                Another Mayo Stand cover is disclosed by U.S. Patent No. 5,411,036, entitled
   MAYO STAND COVER, issued to Wilkes, the entire disclosure of which is
25 incorporated by reference herein. Configurations such as these address the issue of
   covering the stand; however, the cover is inconvenient to apply, and it does not
   address the various issues raised above. The various conventional cover or drape
   systems give rise to numerous problems, including drapes not conforming closely to
   the underlying tables, and having the risk of sliding off of surfaces, which can
30 compromise sterility of surfaces and supplies.
                Another Mayo Stand cover is disclosed in U.S. Patent No. 5,871,015, entitled
   MAYO STAND COVER, issued to Lofgren et al., and a further surgical table cover is
   disclosed in U.S. Patent No. 7,104,201, entitled STERILE SURGICAL TABLE
   COVER, issued to Comeaux et al., the entire disclosures of which are incorporated
                                                   2
   507857835_1\

   by reference herein. Other cover systems and Mayo Stands exist; however, none of
   these devices overcome the problems of bowls being spilled, requiring bowls to be
   disposed of, limitations in range of positioning, light blockage, etc.
                In U.S. Patent No. 6,142,152, entitled COVER FOR AN OPERATING ROOM
 5 BACK TABLE, issued to Gawarecki, the entire disclosure of which is incorporated by
   reference herein, a cover for an operating room back table is disclosed. This cover is
   unwrapped to supply a kit of supplies and cover the stand. An air permeable section
   of the cover helps enable the cover to be unwrapped quickly. The same limitations
   as discussed above apply.
 0              Surgeons often find it convenient to have compartments available where
   items can be placed or stored during a procedure. U.S. Patent No. 6,874,505,
   entitled SURGICAL DRAPE SYSTEM WITH POUCH, issued to Fenwick et al., the
   entire disclosure of which is incorporated by reference herein, discloses a surgical
   drape system which covers the patient. The drape includes a pouch which can be
 5 accessed during the procedure. However, this is highly inconvenient for a number of
   procedures as portions of the patient's body may be blocked from access.
   Furthermore, this drape clearly does not replace the need for a tray or table top for
   further supplies.
                Various drape covers exist; however, they either involve loosely placing a
 O drape over the top of a surface, or covering the object similar to a pillow case,
   however, there is no close conformity to the surface of the object, which can cause
   problems in certain instances. Furthermore, disposing of such drapes after use can
   be messy and cumbersome, and may require additional bags or containers.
                It is an object of the present invention to overcome or ameliorate at least one
25 of the disadvantages of the prior art, or to provide a useful alternative.
                Thus, an object of an embodiment of the invention is to provide an improved
   surgical system exists.
                Any discussion of the prior art throughout the specification should in no way
   be considered as an admission that such prior art is widely known or forms part of
30 common general knowledge in the field.
                The foregoing discussion is intended only to illustrate various aspects of the
   related art in the field of the invention at the time, and should not be taken as a
   disavowal of claim scope.
                                                      3
   507857835_1\

   STATEMENTS OF THE INVENTION
                According to a first aspect, the present invention provides a surgical tray
   system, comprising:
                a tray, comprising:
 5                      an upper surface; and
                        a lower surface; and
                a vacuum-fitted cover covering at least a portion of said tray.
                According to a second aspect, the present invention provides a surgical
   system, comprising:
 0              a tray; and
   a drape at least partially vacuum-fitted to said tray.
                According to a third aspect, the present invention provides a surgical drape,
   comprising:
                a cover, comprising:
 5                      an interior cavity configured to receive a support surface, wherein said
   interior cavity is defined by a flexible wall;
                        an opening;
                a closable portion configured to close said opening and enclose at least a
   portion of the support surface within said interior cavity; and
 0              a valve in fluid communication with said interior cavity, wherein said valve is
   configured to enable the suction of air from said interior cavity and draw said flexible
   wall inwardly to closely envelop at least a portion of the support surface.
                According to a fourth aspect, the present invention provides a method of
   covering a surgical room object comprising the steps of:
25              enveloping the object in a drape cover adapted to conform to the object;
                substantially sealing the drape cover about the object; and
                suctioning air out of an interior area of the drape cover to create a close
   conformity between the drape cover and the object.
                Unless the context clearly requires otherwise, throughout the description and
30 the claims, the words "comprise", "comprising", and the like are to be construed in an
   inclusive sense as opposed to an exclusive or exhaustive sense; that is to say, in the
   sense of "including, but not limited to".
                                                      4
   507857835_1\

   DESCRIPTION OF THE FIGURES
                The features and advantages of this invention, and the manner of attaining
   them, will become more apparent and the invention itself will be better understood by
   reference to the following description of embodiments of the invention taken in
 5 conjunction with the accompanying drawings, wherein:
                FIG. 1 is a perspective view of a surgical tray system in accordance with at
   least one embodiment.
                FIG. 2 is a perspective view of the surgical tray system of FIG. 1 positioned
   over a patient in accordance with at least one embodiment.
 0              FIG. 3 is a perspective view of the surgical tray system of FIG. 1 positioned
   over a patient in accordance with at least one embodiment.
                FIG. 4 is a perspective view of the surgical tray system of FIG. 1 positioned
   over a patient in accordance with at least one embodiment.
                FIG. 5 is a perspective view of another surgical tray system in accordance
 5 with at least one embodiment.
                FIG. 6 is a perspective view of another surgical tray system in accordance
   with at least one embodiment.
                FIG. 7 is a perspective view of a container for receiving portions of a surgical
   tray system in accordance with at least one embodiment.
 o              FIG. 8 is a perspective view of another surgical tray system in accordance
   with at least one embodiment.
                FIG. 9 is a perspective view of another surgical tray system in accordance
   with at least one embodiment.
                FIG. 10 is a perspective view of another surgical tray system in accordance
25 with at least one embodiment.
                FIG. 11 is a perspective view of another surgical tray system in accordance
   with at least one embodiment.
                FIG. 12 is a perspective view of a surgical drape in accordance with at least
   one embodiment.
30              FIG. 13 is a cross-sectional view of a surgical drape including a valve in
   accordance with at least one embodiment.
                FIG. 14 is an exploded detail view of the valve of FIG. 13.
                FIG. 15 is a perspective view of a surgical drape in accordance with at least
   one embodiment.
                                                     5
   507857835_1\

                FIG. 16 is a perspective view of the surgical drape of FIG. 15 in an extended
   configuration.
                FIG. 17 is a perspective view of the surgical drape of FIG. 15 in an inverted
   configuration.
 5              FIG. 18 is a perspective view of several surgical tray systems being utilized in
   an operating room.
                FIG. 19 is an elevational view of the surgical tray system of FIG. 11.
                FIG. 20 is a top perspective view of the surgical tray system of FIG. 11.
                FIG. 21 is a bottom perspective view of the surgical tray system of FIG. 11.
 0              FIG. 22 is a perspective view of the tray of the surgical tray system of FIG. 11.
                FIG. 23 is a perspective view of a surgical drape covering the tray of FIG. 22.
                FIG. 24 is a perspective view illustrating a vacuum source being attached to a
   valve of the surgical drape of FIG. 23.
                FIG. 25 is a perspective view of the surgical drape of FIG. 23 vacuum-fitted to
 5 the tray of FIG. 22.
                FIG. 26 is a perspective view of a modular channel assembled to the tray of
   FIG. 22.
                FIG. 27 is a perspective view of a surgical tray system in accordance with at
   least one embodiment.
 0                                     DETAILED DESCRIPTION
                A surgical tray system 10 is illustrated in FIG. 1. Among other things, the
   system 10 includes a tray 20. The tray 20 can have any suitable shape. In various
   instances, the tray 20 can be substantially planar, for example. In certain instances,
   the tray 20 can include an upper surface and a lower surface, for example. For the
25 purposes of at least this embodiment, referring generally to FIG. 2, the lower surface
   of the tray 20 can comprise a surface that faces toward a patient while the upper
   surface of the tray 20 can comprise a surface that faces away from the patient. The
   tray 20 can further comprise one or more indentations, such as indentation 30, for
   example, defined therein. In various instances, the indentation 30 may be bowl
30 shaped. A bowl-shaped indentation 30 can include a recess defined in the upper
   surface of the tray 20 and/or protrusion extending downwardly from the lower surface
   of the tray 20, for example. The indentation 30 can comprise a container, such as
                                                      6
   507857835_1\

   open-sided container, for instance, configured to receive and support a surgical
   instrument therein, for instance.
                The tray 20 can comprise at least one aperture defined therein. Such an
   aperture can permit a clinician to observe a patient, or a surgical site in the patient,
 5 through the tray 20. In various instances, the aperture can comprise a through-hole
   extending between the upper surface and the lower surface of the tray 20. In various
   instances, the tray 20 can comprise at least one window. A window can include a
   clear, transparent, substantially clear, substantially transparent, and/or translucent
   material, such as glass and/or polycarbonate, for example, which can be positioned
 0 within an aperture defined in the tray 20. Such a window can permit a clinician to
   observe a patient, or a surgical site in the patient, through the tray 20. In various
   instances, the window can be integrally formed with the tray. In certain instances,
   the window can be removably assembled to the tray. In certain instances, the tray
   20 can include at least one magnification element, such as magnification element 90,
 5 for example. Such a magnification element can magnify an area below the lower
   surface of the tray 20 when viewed from above the tray 20 and permit a clinician to
   more easily observe a patient, or a surgical site in the patient, through the tray 20. In
   various instances, the magnification element can comprise a lens, for example. In
   some instances, the tray 20 can include a camera, such as a digital camera, for
 0 example, and/or an electronic display, such as a video screen, for example,
   configured to display a magnified image. A video screen 298 of a surgical tray
   system 210 is depicted in FIG. 9. In various instances, referring again to FIG. 1, the
   tray 20 can include a plurality of cameras and/or a plurality of electronic displays. In
   such instances, the tray 20 can include one or more power sources, such as a
25 battery, for example, which can be configured to supply power to the camera(s)
   and/or monitor(s). In any event, a magnification element can be integrally formed
   with the tray 20. In certain instances, a magnification element can be removably
   assembled to the tray 20.
                Further to the above, the tray system 10 can include a magnification element
30 96. Magnification element 96 can extend from an edge of the tray 20, for instance,
   and, similar to the above, magnification element 96 can be positioned and adapted
   to magnify an area below the lower surface of the tray 20 when viewed from above
   the tray 20. Various other magnification elements are also contemplated. In various
   instances, a cover positioned over and/or surrounding the tray 20 can include at
                                                    7
   507857835_1\

   least one magnification element. For example, a magnification element 92 may be
   integral with and/or attached to a drape 40, for example. In certain instances, the
   drape 40 can include a magnification element, such as a flap 94, for example, which
   can comprise an extension of the drape 40. The flap 94 may either be integral with
 5 the drape 40 and/or removably affixed to the drape 40, for example. In various
   instances, the drape 40 can include one or more cameras attached thereto. In
   certain circumstances, the drape 40 can include one or more power sources and/or
   one or more wireless transmitters which can permit the camera(s) to communicate
   wirelessly with the electronic display(s) in the tray 20, discussed above, for example.
 0              The tray 20 can be comprised of any suitable material. For instance, the tray
   20 can be comprised of resin, plastic, fiber re-enforced plastic, a carbon fiber
   material, aluminum, and/or stainless steel, for example. In various instances, the
   tray 20 can be at least partially comprised of a clear, transparent, substantially clear,
   substantially transparent, and/or translucent material, such as glass and/or
 5 polycarbonate, for example. In certain instances, the tray 20 can be entirely
   comprised of a clear, transparent, substantially clear, substantially transparent,
   and/or translucent material, such as glass and/or polycarbonate, for example. Such
   materials can permit a clinician to observe a patient, or a surgical site in the patient,
   through the tray 20, for instance. Moreover, such materials can permit light to pass
 0 through the tray 20. In certain circumstances, light can pass through the tray 20 and
   illuminate the patient and/or the surgical site in the patient, for example.
                In various embodiments, the tray system 10 may also include at least one
   light source, such as light source 80, for example. The light source 80 can comprise
   any suitable light source, such as an incandescent bulb and/or a light emitting diode
25 (LED), for example. The light source 80 can be mounted to the tray 20 and, in
   various instances, the light source 80 can be adapted and positioned to illuminate an
   area beneath the tray 20. In certain instances, the light source 80 can be fixedly
   mounted to the tray 20. In some instances, the light source 80 can be removably
   mounted to the tray 20. In various instances, the light source 80 can be mounted
30 relative to and/or onto the lower surface of the tray 20. In certain instances, the light
   source 80 can be configured to project light from the lower surface of the tray 20.
   The light source 80 may also be adjustable. For instance, the intensity of the light
   source 80 may be adjustable and/or the orientation of the light source 80 may be
   adjustable. In such instances, a clinician can be configured to control the amount of
                                                   8
   507857835_1\

   light that the light source 80 projects onto a desired area. The tray system 10 can
   further comprise at least one battery, for example, and/or any other suitable power
   source configured to supply power to the light source 80. In various instances, the
   drape 40, for instance, can include at least one light source. In certain instances, the
 5 drape 40 can include at least one power source, such as a battery, for example.
                In various instances, the tray 20 can be comprised of a single, unitary piece of
   material. In other instances, the tray 20 can be comprised of a plurality of portions
   which have been assembled together. In at least one such instance, the tray 20 can
   be comprised of modular portions which have been assembled together. In certain
 0 instances, the tray 20 can be comprised of a first modular portion and a second
   modular portion which have been selected from three or more modular portions. The
   modular portions of the tray 20 can include interlocking connectors, for instance,
   which can secure the modular portions together. In various instances, the modular
   portions of the tray 20 can be secured together utilizing one or more fasteners, for
 5 example.
                Referring again to FIG. 1, the surgical tray system 10 can further include a
   cover, such as drape 40, for example. In various instances, the drape 40 can
   comprise a bag. In certain instances, the drape 40 can comprise a flexible wall
   which defines an interior cavity and an opening. The opening can be sized and
 0 configured to permit at least a portion of the tray 20 to be positioned within the
   interior cavity. In various instances, the interior cavity can be sized and configured to
   receive the entirety of tray 20. In certain instances, a cover can include a plurality of
   interior cavities and one or more openings in communication with each interior
   cavity. In any event, the drape 40 can further comprise at least one sealing element
25 which can be configured to close the opening and seal, or at least substantially seal,
   the tray 20 in the interior cavity of the drape 40. For instance, the drape 40 can
   include a closable end and a sealing element 41 which can be configured to close
   and seal the closable end. For the purposes of at least this embodiment, and/or any
   other suitable embodiment, the drape 40 can be substantially sealed if a vacuum can
30 be induced within the interior cavity. In such instances, as described in greater detail
   below, the vacuum created within the interior cavity can draw the flexible wall of the
   drape 40 inwardly to vacuum fit the drape 40 around the tray 20. The vacuum
   created within the interior cavity need not be an absolute vacuum; in fact, the
   vacuum can have a vacuum pressure which is less than the pressure of the
                                                    9
   507857835_1\

   atmosphere surrounding the drape 40. In various instances, the sealing element 41
   can comprise any suitable sealing element such as, for example, a tongue and
   groove system, a draw string, an adhesive strip such as with a pull away adhesive
   cover, a clamp, a plurality of clamps, and/or any other suitable means.
 5              Referring again to FIG. 1, the drape 40 can include at least one valve, such as
   valve 50, for example, which can be in fluid communication with the interior cavity of
   the drape 40. Further to the above, the valve 50 can be utilized to generate a
   vacuum within the interior cavity. In various instances, the valve 50 can comprise a
   one-way valve and can comprise a first port and a second port. The first port can be
 0 configured such that a vacuum source can be attached to and/or sealed to the valve
   50 while the second port can be in communication with the interior cavity. A vacuum
   source 549 and a vacuum conduit 548 are depicted in FIG. 24. The one-way valve
   can permit the flow of air from the second port toward the first port when the vacuum
   is applied to the first port. When the vacuum is not being applied to the first port, the
 5 one-way valve can prohibit the flow of air between the first port and the second port,
   thereby creating a seal within the valve 50. In certain instances, the valve 50 can
   comprise a two-way valve and can comprise a first port and a second port. The first
   port of the two-way valve can be configured such that a vacuum source can be
   attached to and/or sealed to the valve 50 while the second port can be in
 0 communication with the interior cavity. The two-way valve can permit the flow of air
   from the second port toward the first port when the vacuum is applied to the first port.
   The two-way valve can also permit the flow of air from the first port toward the
   second port when the vacuum is applied to the second port. As will be described in
   greater detail below, this particular function of the two-way valve may be useful when
25 the drape 40 has been inverted during a disposal process, for example. When the
   vacuum is not being applied to the first port or the second port, the two-way valve
   can prohibit the flow of air between the first port and the second port, thereby
   creating a seal within the valve 50. In various instances, any suitable valve can be
   utilized.
30              As discussed above, the valve 50 can be utilized to draw the drape 40
   inwardly around the tray 20. In various instances, the drape 40 can be vacuum-fitted
   around the tray 20 such that the drape 40 closely fits around the surface of the tray
   20. In certain instances, the drape 40 can be form-fitted into the indentation 30 of
   the tray 20, for example. In various instances, the tray 20 can include one or more
                                                   10
   507857835_1\

   through-holes, for example, configured to permit air to flow through the tray 20
   toward the valve 50 when a vacuum is created within the interior cavity of the drape
   40. Turning now to FIG. 8, a surgical tray system 110 is disclosed which includes a
   tray 120 and a drape 140. The tray 120 and the drape 140 can be similar to the tray
 5 20 and the drape 40 in many respects. For instance, the drape 140 can include a
   valve 150 and the tray 120 can include a bowl-shaped indentation 130, a light 180,
   and a magnification element 190, for example. The tray 120 can also include an air
   flow aperture, or vent, 122 in fluid communication between the upper side and the
   lower side of the tray 120. In various instances, the air flow aperture 122 can be
 0 aligned, or at least substantially aligned, with the valve 150. In many instances, as a
   result of the above, air pockets within the drape 40 can be reduced and/or
   eliminated.
                As the reader will appreciate, the drape 40 and/or the drape 140 can be
   sufficiently flexible such that it conform, or at least substantially conform, around the
 5 tray 20 and/or the tray 120, for example. In some circumstances, the drape 40
   and/or the drape 140 can be comprised of a thin-wall material, for example. A thin
   wall material can comprise any suitable material which can deflect inwardly toward
   the tray, for example. The drape 40 and/or the drape 140 may be formed of any
   suitable material, including but not limited to woven material, non-woven material,
 0 plastic, latex, and/or latex-free material, for example. In various instances, the drape
   40 and/or the drape 140 can be comprised of, or at least partially comprised of, a
   clear, transparent, substantially clear, substantially transparent, and/or translucent
   material, for example. Such embodiments can be especially useful in combination
   with embodiments including a tray which is comprised of, or at least partially
25 comprised of, a clear, transparent, substantially clear, substantially transparent,
   and/or translucent material, for example. Such embodiments can permit a clinician
   to view an area below the lower surface of the tray when viewed from above the tray
   and permit a clinician to more easily observe a patient, or a surgical site in the
   patient, through the tray and the drape.
30              As the reader will appreciate from the above, a cover can be vacuum-fitted, or
   at least substantially vacuum-fitted, around a surgical tray. In various instances, as
   outlined above, the tray 20 can be completely encapsulated by the drape 40, as
   depicted in FIG. 1. In certain instances, referring to FIG. 2, the tray 20 can be
   supported by an arm 70 which can permit the surgical tray system 10 to be movably
                                                    11
   507857835_1\

   mounted above a patient bed 60, for example. In certain circumstances, the tray 20
   may be mounted to an arm 70 which is attached to a bed frame member. In various
   instances, arm 70 can comprise one or more articulation joints that can be
   configured to allow a range of positioning options for the tray system 10. In certain
 5 instances, as a result, the tray 20 can be moved side to side, front to back, and up
   and down. In various instances, a travel limiting safety feature can be included to
   prevent the tray 20 from moving too far down toward the patient. In certain
   embodiments, referring to FIG. 3, an arm 70 may mount the tray system 10 to a
   monitor system such as those typically used in an operating room. In certain
 0 embodiments, referring to FIG. 4, an arm 70 may mount the tray system 10 to a
   ceiling fixture. In various embodiments, the tray system 10 could be mounted to the
   arm of a da Vinci surgical robot manufactured by Intuitive Surgical, Inc., for example.
   In any event, an arm 70 would allow the tray 20 to be positioned in a range of
   suitable positions.
 5              In various circumstances, further to the above, a tray may include at least one
   mounting portion which can be attached to the arm 70, for example. In certain
   instances, the mounting portion may extend from the drape 40 and/or the arm 70
   may extend into the drape 40, for example. In such circumstances, a seal can be
   created between the drape 40 and the tray mounting portion and/or the arm 70.
 0 Various suitable sealing elements may be used. For example, the end portion of the
   drape 40 may include separated tapered portions which may be sealed against the
   arm, such as by an adhesive, a drawstring, elastic, a clamp, a plurality of clamp
   elements, and/or any other suitable component or set of components. In certain
   embodiments, clamp sections may serve a dual purpose in that they may be used to
25 package a kit including the drape 10.
                In certain embodiments, referring to FIG. 18, a surgical tray system can be
   supported by a floor-supported stand 170, for example. The stand 170 can include a
   frame 172 and one or more support arms 171 extending therefrom. In various
   instances, the surgical tray system can include one or more supports extending from
30 the tray 120, for example. A surgical tray system 310 is depicted in FIG. 10 which
   includes a first support 322 extending from tray 120 while a surgical tray system 410
   is depicted in FIG. 11 which includes a first support 322 and a second support 424,
   for example. Referring again to FIG. 18, the first support 322 of the surgical tray
   system 410 can be supported by a first support arm 171 while the second support
                                                    12
   507857835_1\

   424 can be supported by a second support arm 171. As the reader will appreciate
   from FIG. 18, the first support 322 and/or the second support 424 can include a
   trough configured to receive one or more instruments therein and/or configured to
   support the anatomy of a patient, for example. As the reader will further appreciate,
 5 the stand 170 can include one or more wheels, such as casters 173, for example,
   which can facilitate the movement and positioning of the stand 170.
                In various instances, a cover, or drape, may be vacuum-fitted around only a
   portion of a tray. Referring to FIG. 8, the drape 140 can comprise such a drape, for
   instance. In at least one such circumstance, the drape 140 may surround and cover
 0 the upper surface of the tray 120 and may grip the tray 120 when the drape 140 is
   vacuum-fitted around the tray 120 such that the drape 140 is held in place. While a
   cover, or drape, can be utilized to at least partially cover a tray, it is contemplated
   that a cover, such as a drape, for example, can be vacuum-fitted, or at least
   substantially vacuum-fitted around any suitable object in an operating room, for
 5 example. For instance, a surgical drape could be vacuum-fitted around a table, or at
   least a portion of a table. It is also contemplated that a surgical drape could be
   vacuum-fitted around a monitor, or at least a portion of a monitor, for example. In
   various circumstances, the cover, or drape, can be removed from the object by
   opening the drape and then pulling the drape off of the object. Once removed from
 0 the object, the drape can then be discarded, for example. In various instances,
   referring now to FIG. 7, the drape 40, for example, may be stored in a sterilized
   package, such as an outer sleeve or bag, and rolled up and placed in a shell 45 after
   it has been used. In some circumstances, the drape 40 can be delivered to the
   operating room in the shell 45. In certain circumstances, the shell 45, or a portion
25 thereof, can be configured to provide a useful channel. For instance, the shell 45
   can be placed on a patient bed during a procedure such as an angioplasty
   procedure, for example, and a tool, such as the guide wire used for such a
   procedure, for example, may be conveniently positioned within this channel to
   prevent the guide wire from being accidentally placed in contact with a non-sterile
30 surface such as the floor.
                As discussed above, a cover, such as drape 40, for example, can be pulled
   off the tray 20 after it has been used. In some instances, the drape 40 can be
   configured such that it can be inverted as it is removed from the tray 20. In one
   form, the drape 40 can include an open end that can be moved relative to body of
                                                    13
   507857835_1\

   the drape 40 such that an inner facing surface of the drape 40 becomes an
   outwardly facing surface and, correspondingly, an outwardly facing surface of the
   drape 40 becomes an inwardly facing surface. Once inverted, the seal 41, for
   example, could be utilized to re-seal the opening of the drape 40 with the drape 40 in
 5 its inverted position. Such an embodiment can allow the outer contaminated
   surfaces of the drape 40, and/or the items positioned thereon, to be captured within
   the drape 40. Once inverted and sealed, the drape 40 may encapsulate a significant
   quantity of air, for example. To remove the air from the inverted drape 40, a valve in
   the drape 40 could be utilized to remove the air. As the reader will recall, the drape
 0 40 can include a valve 50 to remove the air from the interior cavity of the drape 40.
   To the extent that the valve 50 comprises a one-way valve, an additional valve in the
   drape 40 could be utilized to remove the air from the inverted drape 40. To the
   extent that the valve 50 comprises a two-way valve, the valve 50 could also be
   utilized to remove air from the inverted drape 40.
 5              Further to the above, an embodiment of a drape, such as drape 940, for
   example, including a two-way valve 150 is illustrated in FIGS. 13 and 14. The two
   way valve 150 can comprise a valve body 151 mounted to a valve opening 947
   defined in the drape 940. In certain circumstances, the valve opening 947 can
   comprise a ring including a threaded aperture defined therein within which at least a
 0 portion of the valve body 151 can be positioned. In such circumstances, the outer
   surface of the valve body 151 can include threads which are configured to
   threadingly engage the threads defined in the valve opening 947. In some
   circumstances, the threaded interface between the valve opening 947 and the valve
   body 151 can comprise a seal. In at least one such circumstance, pipe threads
25 and/or TEFLON PTFE tape, for example, can be utilized to create a seal at the
   threaded interface between the valve opening 947 and the valve body 151. In any
   event, the valve 150 can include a first valve element 152 which can be selectively
   attached to a vacuum source and permit air to be suctioned out of the interior cavity
   946 of the drape 940 when a tray, for example, is positioned within the drape 940 in
30 its uninverted condition. In the uninverted condition of the drape 940, the first valve
   element 152 faces outwardly while a second valve element 155 of the valve 150
   faces inwardly. When the drape 947 is moved into its inverted condition, the second
   valve element 155 of the valve 150 may face outwardly while the first valve element
   152 may face inwardly. In such circumstances, the second valve element 155 can
                                                 14
   507857835_1\

   be attached to a vacuum source and permit air to be suctioned out of the inverted
   and sealed drape 940. In various embodiments, the valve body 151 can include a
   threaded portion 154 which can permit a valve cover 153 to be attached to the valve
   body 151 when the valve element 152 is not attached to a vacuum source. In such
 5 circumstances, the valve cover 153 can protect the valve element 152. In certain
   embodiments, the valve body 151 can include a second threaded portion which can
   be configured to permit the valve cover 153 to be assembled to the valve body 151
   to protect the second valve element 155 when the drape 940 is in its inverted
   condition, for instance.
 0              In various instances, further to the above, the valve 50 and/or the valve 150,
   for example, can be removably mounted to a drape. In certain instances, a drape,
   such as drape 40, for example, can include a valve opening wherein a valve can be
   placed in fluid communication with the interior cavity of the drape through the valve
   opening. In various instances, the valve opening can comprise a closable aperture.
 5 In at least one such instance, the valve opening can comprise a seal which can
   include a first sealed, or substantially sealed, configuration in which a valve is not
   positioned in the valve opening and a second sealed, or substantially sealed,
   configuration in which the valve opening is sealed, or substantially sealed, against a
   valve positioned within the valve opening. Thus, in such embodiments, a valve could
 0 be selectively assembled to the valve opening to suction air from the drape when the
   drape is in its uninverted condition, removed, and then later reassembled to the
   opposite side of the valve opening when the drape is in its inverted condition.
                Further to the above, referring now to FIG. 12, a cover, such as a drape 740,
   for example, can include a first portion 748 including an interior cavity which can be
25 sealingly enclosed by a seal 741. The drape 740 can further include a second
   portion 744 extending from the seal 741. The second portion 744 can include an
   opening 747 and a seal 746 configured to sealingly close the opening 747. In use, a
   tray can be inserted through the opening 747 and through the second portion 744 to
   position the tray within the interior cavity of the first portion 748. After the drape 740
30 has been used, the second portion 744 can be inverted to enclose, or at least
   partially enclose, the first portion 748 of the drape 740. Once the first portion 748 is
   positioned within the second portion 744, the first portion 748 can be sealed within
   the second portion 744 utilizing the seal 746, for instance. Turning now to FIGS. 15
   17, a cover, such as a drape 840, for example, can include a first portion 848
                                                     15
   507857835_1\

   including an interior cavity which can be sealingly enclosed by a seal 841. The
   drape 840 can further include a second portion 844 extending from the seal 841.
   The second portion 844 can include an opening 847 and a seal 846 configured to
   sealingly enclose the opening 847. In use, a tray can be inserted through the
 5 opening 847 and through the second portion 844 to position the tray within the
   interior cavity of the first portion 848. The drape 840 can further include an
   extendable portion 842 removably positioned within the second portion 844. Similar
   to the second portion 844, the extendable portion 842 can include an opening 843
   through which the tray can be inserted to position the tray in the first portion 848. In
 0 at least one such embodiment, the extendable portion 842 can be affixed the second
   portion 844. After the drape 840 has been used, the extendable portion 842 can be
   pulled out of the second portion 844 and then inverted to enclose, or at least partially
   enclose, the first portion 848 and the second portion 844 of the drape 840. Once the
   first portion 848 and the second portion 844 are positioned within the extended
 5 portion 842, the first portion 848 and the second portion 844 can be sealed within the
   extended portion 842 utilizing a seal 845, for instance.
                In various embodiments, turning now to FIGS. 5 and 6, a cover, such as
   drape 40, for example, can include one or more external pouches 42 attached to the
   drape 40. In at least one such instance, the external pouches 42 may be heat
 0 welded to the drape 40. In certain instances, at least one adhesive, hooks, hook and
   loop fasteners, and/or any other suitable attachment elements or methods could be
   utilized. In certain embodiments, the external pouches 42 can be integrally formed
   with the drape 40. The pouches 42 can provide one or more storage areas. In
   certain instances, the pouches 42 can include labels 43. Drapes including pouches
25 142 are depicted in FIGS. 8-12. A surgical instrument system 510 is depicted in
   FIGS. 23-26 which utilizes a large pouch 542.
                As discussed above, a tray, such as tray 120, for example, can include a first
   support 322 and a second support 424 extending therefrom. In various instances,
   the first support 322 and/or the second support 424 can comprise modular
30 components which can be selectively assembled to the tray 120. In certain
   instances, the first support 322 and/or the second support 424 can include an
   expandable portion 515 wherein each expandable portion, in some circumstances,
   can include an accordion type configuration. Moreover, any portions of the surgical
   tray assemblies discussed herein can comprise modular components which can be
                                                  16
   507857835_1\

   assembled together. For instance, a clinician can select modular tray portions from
   a kit including a modular portion comprising a window, a modular portion comprising
   a light, a modular portion comprising a bowl-shaped indentation, a modular portion
   comprising a magnification element, a modular portion comprising a trough, a
 5 modular portion comprising a support, and/or a modular portion comprising an
   attachment portion, for example, and assemble the selected portions together. In
   such instances, each modular portion could include a universal connection system
   which could permit any two or more modular portions to be assembled together.
                As discussed herein, methods for covering a surgical room object are
 0 disclosed herein. Certain methods include the step of enveloping an object in a
   drape cover adapted to conform to the object. Such a step can include fully
   encapsulating an object, or alternatively, enveloping an object so that the drape
   cover may be sealed or substantially sealed about a portion of the object. Various
   methods further include the step of sealing or substantially sealing the drape cover
 5 around or about the object. Furthermore, various methods include the step of
   suctioning air out of an interior area of the drape cover to create a close conformity
   between the drape cover and the object. In some embodiments, suctioning the air
   out of the drape cover causes the drape cover to conform closely to at least one
   indentation in the tray, table, or object. In various embodiments, air can be
 o suctioned out of the drape cover in a first step and then sufficiently sealed in a
   second step so that a vacuum is maintained, or at least substantially maintained,
   within the drape cover. Alternatively, a vacuum within a drape cover can be
   maintained by continuously suctioning air out of the drape cover during use. Certain
   methods can include the step of suctioning air through an opening in a support arm
25 extending through the drape cover opening. Various methods can include the step
   of positioning a valve within a valve opening in the drape cover and/or removing the
   valve from the valve opening after the valve has been used. Certain methods can
   include the step of positioning a valve opening and/or valve in the drape cover to
   coincide with the position of an opening in the object which is in communication with
30 at least one vent in the object and suctioning air out of the object through the
   opening in the object via the valve opening and/or valve in the drape cover.
                Various methods further include the steps of unsealing the drape cover after it
   has been used, removing the drape cover from the object, and/or inverting the drape
   cover. Certain methods further include the step of sealing the drape cover after the
                                                  17
   507857835_1\

   step of inverting the drape cover. Methods disclosed herein can also include the
   step of suctioning air or fluids out of the drape cover via a valve opening in the drape
   cover after the step of sealing the drape cover. In various embodiments, indicia may
   be present on the drape cover to assist a clinician in performing any of the steps
 5 identified herein. For example, directional indicators to help instruct the clinician as
   to how to deploy the drape cover about an object may be included, as well as
   indicators that can be matched to certain portions of the object so that the clinician
   can discern whether the drape cover is fully deployed.
                In various instances, a system disclosed herein can comprise a floor
 O mounted, bed-mounted, and/or ceiling-mounted system, for example, that can
   include one or more ergonomic surfaces. In certain instances, the system can
   include a pre-modeled base-platform and/or a modular system allowing for a plurality
   of items to be attached to a base-platform. In at least one instance, the base
   platform, or at least portions of the base-platform, can be comprised of a
 5 polycarbonate, an acrylic, and/or a poly(methyl methacrylate) such as LUCITE, for
   example, material which can also include a LED contained and/or
   impregnated within the base-platform. In various instances, the base-platform, such
   as a tray and/or table, for example, could act as an ergonomic surface and/or a
   shield for radiation scatter within the applicable procedural environment. In various
 0 instances, the system can include a correlating or matching sterile vacuum form
   fitted covering that can cover the one or more ergonomic surfaces of an object within
   a procedural environment. Such a covering can increase and/or maximize the sterile
   surface area of a non-sterile object enclosed within. In various instances, as outlined
   above, the air pressure within the covering can be less than the air pressure
25 surrounding the covering and, owing to this pressure differential, the covering can be
   pushed inwardly toward the object so long as a pressure differential is maintained.
   In the event that the covering is ruptured and/or a pressure differential is not
   maintained, the covering may no longer be vacuum-fitted to the object which may
   provide a visual indicator to a clinician that a breach in the cover may exist. After the
30 system has been used during a procedure, the once sterile-covering can be inverted
   as it is removed from the object and/or ergonomic surface in order to enclose and/or
   encapsulate the procedural waste and/or pathogens that were placed on the
   covering during the procedure.
                                                   18
   507857835_1\

                The devices disclosed herein can be designed to be disposed of after a single
   use, or they can be designed to be used multiple times. In either case, however, the
   device can be reconditioned for reuse after at least one use. Reconditioning can
   include any combination of the steps of disassembly of the device, followed by
 5 cleaning or replacement of particular pieces, and subsequent reassembly. In
   particular, the device can be disassembled, and any number of the particular pieces
   or parts of the device can be selectively replaced or removed in any combination.
   Upon cleaning and/or replacement of particular parts, the device can be
   reassembled for subsequent use either at a reconditioning facility, or by a surgical
 0 team immediately prior to a surgical procedure. Those skilled in the art will
   appreciate that reconditioning of a device can utilize a variety of techniques for
   disassembly, cleaning/replacement, and reassembly. Use of such techniques, and
   the resulting reconditioned device, are all within the scope of the present application.
                Any patent, publication, or other disclosure material, in whole or in part, that is
 5 said to be incorporated by reference herein is incorporated herein only to the extent
   that the incorporated materials does not conflict with existing definitions, statements,
   or other disclosure material set forth in this disclosure. As such, and to the extent
   necessary, the disclosure as explicitly set forth herein supersedes any conflicting
   material incorporated herein by reference. Any material, or portion thereof, that is
 O said to be incorporated by reference herein, but which conflicts with existing
   definitions, statements, or other disclosure material set forth herein will only be
   incorporated to the extent that no conflict arises between that incorporated material
   and the existing disclosure material.
                While this invention has been described as having exemplary designs, the
25 present invention may be further modified within the spirit and scope of the
   disclosure. This application is therefore intended to cover any variations, uses, or
   adaptations of the invention using its general principles. Further, this application is
   intended to cover such departures from the present disclosure as come within known
   or customary practice in the art to which this invention pertains.
30
                                                    19
   507857835_1\

   WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
   1.           A surgical tray system, comprising:
                a tray, comprising:
 5                      an upper surface; and
                        a lower surface; and
                a vacuum-fitted cover covering at least a portion of said tray.
   2.           The surgical tray system of claim 1, wherein said vacuum-fitted cover
   comprises a surgical drape.
 0 3.           The surgical tray system of claim 1 or claim 2, further comprising a floor
   supportable stand, and wherein said tray is supported by said floor-supportable
   stand.
   4.           The surgical tray system of any one of claims 1 to 3, further comprising a
   movable arm, wherein said tray is mounted to said movable arm.
 5 5.           The surgical tray system of any one of claims 1 to 4, further comprising at
   least one light mounted to said tray, wherein said at least one light is configured to
   illuminate a surgical site located underneath said lower surface.
   6.           The surgical tray system of any one of claims 1 to 5, further comprising at
   least one light emitting diode mounted relative to said lower surface, wherein said
20 cover covers said lower surface and said at least one light emitting diode.
   7.           The surgical tray system of any one of claims 1 to 6, wherein said tray
   comprises a first modular component and a second modular component assembled
   to said first modular component.
   8.           The surgical tray system of claim 7, wherein said first modular component and
25 said second modular component are selected from a plurality of modular
   components.
                                                   20
   507857835_1\

   9.           The surgical tray system of any one of claims 1 to 8, wherein said tray is
   comprised of a transparent material sufficiently transparent such that a clinician can
   view a surgical site through said tray.
   10.          The surgical tray system of claim 9, wherein said cover is comprised of a
 5 material sufficiently transparent such that a clinician can view a surgical site through
   said tray and said cover.
   11.          The surgical tray system of any one of claims 1 to 8, wherein said tray is
   comprised of a translucent material.
   12.          The surgical tray system of claim 11, wherein said cover is comprised of a
 0 translucent material.
   13.          The surgical tray system of any one of claims 1 to 12, wherein said tray
   further comprises an indentation formed in said upper surface, and wherein said
   cover is form-fitted into said indentation.
   14.          The surgical tray system of any one of claims 1 to 13, wherein said cover
 5 comprises:
                an interior cavity defined by a flexible wall, wherein said tray is positioned
   within said interior cavity; and
                a valve in fluid communication with said interior cavity, wherein said valve is
   configured to enable the suction of air from said interior cavity and draw said flexible
20 wall inwardly toward said upper surface.
   15.          The surgical tray system of claim 14, wherein said valve comprises a one-way
   valve which permits air to be suctioned through said valve in a first direction and
   prohibits the flow of air in a direction opposite to said first direction.
   16.          The surgical tray system of claim 14, wherein said valve comprises a two-way
25 valve including a first opening and a second opening, wherein said two-way valve is
   configured to permit air to be suctioned through said valve in a first direction when a
   vacuum source is applied to said first opening, wherein said two-way valve is
                                                     21
   507857835_1\

   configured to permit air to be suctioned through said valve in a second direction
   when a vacuum source is applied to said second opening, and wherein said two-way
   valve is in a closed condition when a vacuum source is not applied to said first
   opening or said second opening.
 5 17.          The surgical tray system of any one of claims 1 to 16, wherein said cover
   comprises:
                an opening through which said tray can be inserted into said cover; and
                a closable portion configured to close said opening and enclose said tray
   within said cover.
 0 18.          The surgical tray system of claim 17, wherein said closable portion is
   configured to seal said opening.
   19.          The surgical tray system of any one of claims 1 to 16, wherein said cover
   comprises:
                an opening through which said tray can be at least partially inserted into said
 5 cover; and
                a sealing element configured to selectively seal said opening.
   20.          The surgical tray system of any one of claims 1 to 19, wherein said cover
   comprises an interior cavity defined by a flexible wall, wherein said flexible wall
   comprises an inner surface and an outer surface, and wherein said cover is invertible
20 such that said inner surface can face outwardly and said outer surface can face
   inwardly.
   21.          The surgical tray system of any one of claims 1 to 20, wherein said tray
   further comprises a magnification element.
   22.          The surgical tray system of any one of claims 1 to 21, wherein said cover
25 comprises a magnification element.
   23.          The surgical tray system of any one of claims 1 to 22, wherein said cover
   comprises at least one pocket.
                                                    22
   507857835_1\

   24.          A surgical system, comprising:
                a tray; and
                a drape at least partially vacuum-fitted to said tray.
   25.          A surgical drape, comprising:
 5              a cover, comprising:
                        an interior cavity configured to receive a support surface, wherein said
   interior cavity is defined by a flexible wall;
                        an opening;
                a closable portion configured to close said opening and enclose at least a
 o portion of the support surface within said interior cavity; and
                a valve in fluid communication with said interior cavity, wherein said valve is
   configured to enable the suction of air from said interior cavity and draw said flexible
   wall inwardly to closely envelop at least a portion of the support surface.
   26.          A method of covering a surgical room object comprising the steps of:
 5              enveloping the object in a drape cover adapted to conform to the object;
                substantially sealing the drape cover about the object; and
                suctioning air out of an interior area of the drape cover to create a close
   conformity between the drape cover and the object.
   27.          The method according to claim 26, wherein the object includes at least one
CO indentation, and wherein the drape cover is caused to conform to the at least one
   indentation during said suctioning step.
   28.          The method according to claim 26 or claim 27, further comprising the steps of:
                unsealing the drape cover, and
                inverting the drape cover.
25 29.          The method according to claim 28, further comprising the step of re-sealing
   the drape cover after said inverting step.
   30.          The method according to claim 29, further comprising the step of suctioning
   air out of the drape cover after said re-sealing step.
                                                      23
   507857835_1\

