ll:\gw\Interwovn\NRPortbl\DCC\GW\14758428_1.docx-23 I/2017
                                                           ABSTRACT
                 The invention relates to a dishwasher (1) in the form of a commercial utensil washer or
dishwasher which is designed as a batch dishwasher and is realized as a hood-type dishwasher,
wherein the dishwasher (1) has a treatment chamber (2) with at least one wash system which is
designed as a recirculation system, wherein the treatment chamber (2) has a first treatment
zone (6) and at least one further, second treatment zone (7), wherein items of washware can be
treated independently of one another and at least temporarily at the same time in the first and
in the at least one second treatment zone (6, 7).

           1/8
         110
Ik
     HvN
            OWN,
           "'V
                 --------
   Iqy         I

       DISHWASHER IN THE FORM OF A COMMERCIAL UTENSIL WASHER
       OR DISHWASHER WHICH IS DESIGNED AS A BATCH DISHWASHER
                                         Description
[0001] The entire content of the complete specification of Australian Patent Application
 No. 2015229486 as originally filed is incorporated herein by reference.
[0001A] The invention relates to a dishwasher in the form of a commercial utensil washer
or dishwasher which is designed as a batch dishwasher.
[0002]    Batch dishwashers are dishwashers which can be manually loaded and unloaded.
Batch dishwashers (also called "box-type warewashers") may be hood-type dishwashers
("hood-type warewashers") or front-loader dishwashers ("front-loader warewashers").
Front-loader dishwashers may be under-counter machines, top-counter machines or free
standing front-loader dishwashers.
[0003]    A dishwasher which is in the form of a batch dishwasher usually has one
treatment chamber for cleaning washware. The treatment chamber generally has arranged
beneath it a wash tank in which liquid from the treatment chamber can flow back due to the
force of gravity. The wash tank contains wash liquid which is usually water to which
detergent may be added if required.
[0004]    A dishwasher which is designed as a batch dishwasher usually also has a wash
system comprising a wash pump, a line system which is connected to the wash pump, and
comprising a large number of spray nozzles which are formed in at least one wash arm.
The wash liquid contained in the wash tank can be conveyed from the wash pump to the
wash nozzles via the line system and can be sprayed onto the washware to be cleaned
through the wash nozzles in the treatment chamber. The sprayed wash liquid then flows
back into the wash tank.
[0005]    A dishwasher of this kind which is designed as a batch dishwasher is known, for
example, from document DE 10 2005 023 429 Al.
[0006]    The term "washware" used in the present document is intended to be understood
to mean, in particular, crockery, glasses, cutlery, cooking utensils, baking utensils and
serving trays.
                                                1

[0007]    The invention in particular relates to a dishwasher in the form of a commercial
utensil washer or dishwasher which is designed as a batch dishwasher and is realized as a
hood-type dishwasher, wherein the dishwasher has a treatment chamber with at least one
wash system which is designed as a recirculation system.
[0008]    Dishwashers of this type are used primarily (but not exclusively) in relatively
small sculleries, for example in relatively small canteens, in particular school canteens, or
in the catering sector. The use of dishwashers of this kind is characterized by said
dishwashers being used in sculleries in which there is generally only a limited amount of
floor space available.
[0009]    A commercial dishwasher, in particular a hood-type dishwasher, which is
designed as a batch dishwasher differs from a domestic dishwasher in particular in that a
commercial dishwasher has to be designed in such a way that - depending on the treatment
program selected - program run times of between one and five minutes can be realized,
whereas domestic dishwashers generally have run times of up to 2.5 hours or more. On
account of the short program duration required in commercial dishwashers, techniques
employed in domestic dishwashers generally cannot be readily transferred to commercial
dishwashers.
[0010]    Commercial dishwashers which are in the form of batch dishwashers normally
operate in two main process steps: a first step which includes washing with a wash liquid,
and a second step which includes final rinsing with heated fresh water with the metered
addition of a final rinse aid.
[0011]    In order to be able to carry out these process steps, a commercial dishwasher,
which is designed as a batch dishwasher, is generally equipped with two independent liquid
systems. One liquid system is a wash water circuit which is responsible for washing the
washware, with washing being carried out using recirculated water from the wash tank of
the dishwasher. The other liquid system is a fresh water system which is responsible for
final rinsing. Final rinsing is carried out using fresh water, preferably using fresh water
from a water heater (boiler). The fresh water is likewise collected by the wash tank of the
dishwasher after being sprayed.
                                                 2

[0012]    The main objective of final rinsing is to remove wash liquor from the washware.
In addition, the final rinse water which flows into the wash tank during the final rinse step
serves to regenerate the wash water which is present in the wash tank.
[0013]    Before fresh water is sprayed as final rinse liquid as a result of final rinsing and
thus conducted into the wash tank of the dishwasher, a quantity of wash liquid which is
equal to the quantity of fresh water is pumped out of the wash tank.
[0014]    Commercial dishwashers which are designed as batch dishwashers are usually
equipped with several programs. These programs differ mainly due to program run times of
the wash process of different lengths. The operator has the option of selecting a short wash
program for washware which is lightly soiled, or of selecting a correspondingly longer
wash program for washware which is heavily soiled.
[0015]    Commercial dishwashers, which are designed as batch dishwashers and are
designed for loading washware into and unloading washware from the treatment chamber
in batches, are, in particular, front-loader machines or hood-type machines. In the case of
front-loader machines, the washware is placed in a rack and the rack which is loaded with
washware is placed in the treatment chamber of the dishwasher through a front door and,
after cleaning, is removed again through the front door. In the case of hood-type machines,
the dish racks which are loaded with washware are pushed manually into the treatment
chamber from an entry end and manually removed from the treatment chamber from an
exit end when a wash program is complete. Front-loader machines and hood-type machines
contain only a single treatment chamber for treating the washware. The front-loader
machines may be under-counter machines or top-counter machines.
[0016]    Virtually without exception, commercial dishwashers which are designed as batch
dishwashers and are designed for loading washware into and unloading washware from the
treatment chamber in batches are realized with entry and/or exit tables. The dirty washware
is usually manually pre-cleared and manually pre-washed at the entry end of the
dishwasher. Furthermore, the dirty washware is loaded into special dish racks here. The
exit end is used for drying purposes and unloading the dish racks.
[0017]    Particularly in the case of dishwashers which are realized as hood-type machines,
the wash level is usually at the same height as the entry and exit tables. In this way, the
                                                3

dish racks which are to be cleaned can be easily and ergonomically pushed into the
dishwasher from the entry table and, after cleaning is complete, pushed out of the
dishwasher onto the exit table.
[0018]    The term "dishwashing level" used in the present document is intended to be
understood to mean the horizontal level at which the dish rack is situated. In the treatment
chamber of a dishwasher, the dishwashing level is generally defined by a guide system, in
particular guide rails, which accommodates a dish rack which is pushed into the treatment
chamber from an entry table which is provided at the inlet end of the machine.
[0019]    Commercial batch dishwashers, in particular those which are realized as hood
type dishwashers, are designed to clean large quantities of washware in as short a time as
possible. For example, in state-of-the-art hood-type dishwashers, the duration of a preset
standard program, which is usually used for washware, such as plates, trays, cups and
glasses, with a normal level of soiling, lasts only approximately 60 to 80 seconds. This
provides a theoretical capacity of up to 45 to 60 racks per hour.
[0020]    However, depending on the washware and the degree of soiling of said washware,
it may be necessary to select a treatment program with a longer duration in order to ensure
a satisfactory cleaning result.
[0021]    For example, in this connection, it is known from the prior art that commercial
batch dishwashers have, for example, a special cutlery treatment program (intensive
treatment program) for improving the cleaning result specifically of cutlery. An intensive
treatment program of this kind lasts considerably longer than said 60 to 80 seconds of the
standard treatment program, for example approximately 360 seconds. Therefore, it is clear
that the capacity of the machine when the intensive treatment program is chosen is greatly
reduced since the treatment chamber is occupied for considerably longer than would be the
case with a standard treatment program.
[0022]    In practice, this leads to special treatment programs which are usually already
provided as alternatives to the standard treatment program as standard generally being
chosen only rarely by the operator of the dishwasher, in spite of the improved washing
performance, since the corresponding program duration is found to be too long, in
particular at peak times, that is to say when there is an increased amount of washware
                                                  4

arriving. Instead, the heavily soiled washware (in particular cutlery and GN containers) is
often likewise treated using the standard treatment program and the poor washing
performance is compensated for by additional manual operating steps, such as manual pre
washing of heavily soiled GN containers or separate pre-soaking of cutlery for example.
[0023]     With heavily soiled washware, as is often the case with pots or pans for example,
it is necessary in particular to correspondingly increase the cycle length in order to be able
to achieve an acceptable cleaning result. In the case of hood-type dishwashers, the program
run times are usually extended to up to 10 minutes in order to be able to clean heavily
soiled washware, in particular pots and pans with burnt-on food residues, in a hygienically
satisfactory manner.
[0024]     Consequently, the dishwasher cannot be used to clean lightly soiled washware,
such as plates, cups, cutlery or glasses for example, during these extended cycle times. In
other words, the dishwasher is blocked for a relatively long period of time in order to clean
heavily soiled washware, in particular pans and pots, this often leading to problems in
relatively small sculleries since accruing dirty dishes cannot be cleaned or further
processed during this period of time.
[0025]     Therefore, in practice, particularly during peak times, the dishwasher is used only
to clean lightly soiled washware, such as plates, cups and glasses for example, while the
heavily soiled washware (in particular pots and pans) are manually cleaned in order to
prevent the dishwasher being blocked for too long due to the relatively long cycle times
required.
[0026]     Accordingly, the present invention is based on the object of further developing a
commercial utensil washer or dishwasher, which is realized as a hood-type dishwasher and
is generally known in principle from the prior art, in such a way that no bottlenecks occur
during cleaning of the accruing washware even during peak times in sculleries. In
particular, the aim is to indicate a solution with which the operating processes in sculleries
can be simplified and optimized while at the same time saving resources (energy, water and
chemicals).
[0027]     A further object is to develop a commercial utensil washer or dishwasher, which
is realized as a hood-type dishwasher, to the effect that the capacity of the machine can be
                                                 5

increased, even when a treatment program which leads to a longer cycle run time than
would be the case with a conventional standard treatment program is chosen. In particular,
resources (energy, water and chemicals) should be saved at the same time in this case.
[0028]     In order to achieve this object, the invention proposes, in particular, a dishwasher
in the form of a commercial utensil washer or dishwasher which is designed as a batch
dishwasher, wherein the dishwasher is realized as a hood-type dishwasher, and wherein the
dishwasher has a treatment chamber with at least one wash system which is designed as a
recirculation system. According to the invention, the treatment chamber has a first
treatment zone and at least one further, second treatment zone, wherein items of washware
can be treated independently of one another and at least temporarily at the same time in the
first and in the at least one second treatment zone.
[0029]     The term "can be treated independently of one another" used in the present
document is intended to be understood to mean, in particular, the treatment zone-specific
treatment of the washware in respect of action time, wash and/or rinse mechanics, and/or in
respect of the selected treatment program. In other words, provision is made according to
the invention to divide the treatment chamber into at least two zones, wherein at least some
of the parameters which characterize the treatment of the washware (such as the action
time, the wash/rinse mechanics, the temperature and/or composition of the wash
liquid/final rinse liquid etc. for example) can be individually adjusted for each treatment
zone.
[0030]     In this connection, it is feasible for the two treatment zones to be realized
physically, that is to say hermetically, separately from one another. This embodiment has
the advantage, in particular, that different treatment programs can be selected for the
corresponding treatment zones of the treatment chamber. In this connection, it is feasible,
for example, for the washware to be treated in accordance with a standard treatment
program in one treatment zone, while the washware is treated in accordance with an
intensive treatment program in another treatment zone which is physically separated from
the first treatment zone.
[0031]     Secondly, the present invention is not restricted to batch dishwashers in which the
at least two treatment zones of the treatment chamber are physically (hermetically)
                                                   6

separated from one another with the aid of a partition. Rather, according to a further aspect
of the present invention, provision is made for the two treatment zones to be designed
within a common treatment chamber, and in particular for no hermetic separation to be
provided between the at least two treatment zones.
[0032]     Even in the case of embodiments of the kind in which the at least two treatment
zones are not hermetically separated from one another, it goes without saying that it is
likewise feasible for the washware to be treated in the different treatment zones for
different action times. This is possible particularly when the same treatment program is
chosen for the two treatment zones. In this connection, it is feasible, for example, for the
washware to remain in one of the two treatment zones for only one program cycle, while
the washware remains in the other treatment zone for more than one program cycle, it
being possible for the action time to be correspondingly multiplied as a consequence.
[0033]     According to a preferred realization of the solution according to the invention,
provision is made for the at least two treatment zones to be arranged one above the other.
In this connection, it is possible, in particular, for at least one of the at least two treatment
zones, and preferably each of the at least two treatment zones, to be designed to
accommodate a dish rack, in which the washware which is to be treated in the treatment
zone in question is accommodated, in such a way that the lower region of the dish rack,
which lower region supports the dish rack, lies at a predefined or predefinable horizontal
wash level.
[0034]     In a preferred realization of the dishwasher according to the invention, the first
treatment zone can be closed by means of a hood which can be pivoted or moved
vertically, and the at least one second treatment zone can be closed by means of a door
which is designed separately from the hood. In this case, provision is made, in particular,
for the first and at least one second treatment zone to be arranged one above the other.
[0035]     It has proven advantageous in this case to realize the first treatment zone as a
main treatment zone, and to realize the at least one second treatment zone as an auxiliary
treatment zone. The dimensions and cleaning capacity of the main treatment zone (first
treatment zone) and the dimensions and cleaning capacity of the auxiliary treatment zone
(second treatment zone) are preferably matched to the types of washware (such as
                                                  7

crockery, cutlery, glasses and pots for example) which are to be cleaned and usually
accumulate in sculleries, the quantity of washware which is to be cleaned and usually
accumulates per unit time, depending on the type of washware, and/or to the degree of
soiling of the washware which accumulates per unit time, in such a way that all of the
washware which accumulates can be cleaned as far as possible without a delay even during
peak times during operation of the dishwasher.
[0036]    In this connection, investigations in various sculleries have shown that it is
advantageous when the first treatment zone (main treatment zone) has a loading volume
which can be effectively used for cleaning washware and is 2 to 4 times greater than the
loading volume of the at least one second treatment zone which can be effectively used. In
this case, the first treatment zone is particularly suitable for cleaning lightly soiled
washware which, in practice, accumulates substantially more frequently per unit time in
respect of amount in comparison to heavily soiled washware.
[0037]    In a preferred realization of the dishwasher, the loading volume of the first
treatment zone which can be effectively used is between 60 and 180 liters, and preferably
between 80 and 150 liters, and further preferably is approximately 120 liters. This has the
result that the cleaning capacity of the first treatment zone, that is to say the quantity of
units of washware which can be cleaned in the first treatment zone per unit time,
corresponds to the cleaning capacity of a conventional hood-type dishwasher which is
known from the prior art and has only a single treatment zone.
[0038]    In respect of the loading volume of the at least one second treatment zone which
can be effectively used, it has proven advantageous when this loading volume is between
25 and 75 liters, and preferably between 30 and 50 liters. This ensures that heavily soiled
washware can also be promptly effectively cleaned even at peak times in sculleries.
[0039]    In order for the dishwasher to fit into a customary work flow in a scullery in an
optimum manner, it is preferred when the base area of the first treatment zone has
dimensions which match the base area of a dish rack, and in particular has a base area of
600 mm x 500 mm, 500 mm x 500 mm or 400 mm x 400 mm. Accordingly, the washware
which is loaded into dish racks can be treated in batches in the first treatment zone.
                                                  8

[0040]     In a preferred refinement of the dishwasher according to the invention, the first
treatment zone can be closed by means of a hood which can be pivoted or moved
vertically, wherein the hood is realized such that it can be pivoted or moved vertically
upward by at least 300 mm, preferably by at least 400 mm. This ensures a sufficiently high
insertion height, and therefore relatively large items of washware, such as trays for
example, can also be introduced into the first treatment zone and removed from said first
treatment zone without problems. In this connection, it is further advantageous when the
first treatment zone has a height, which is effective for cleaning washware, of at least
400 mm.
[0041]     In respect of the internal dimensions of the at least one second treatment zone, it is
advantageous when said internal dimensions are matched to the dimensions of pans and/or
pots which are usually used since this type of washware is generally the most soiled.
According to one realization of the dishwasher according to the invention, the at least one
second treatment zone has, to this end, a height, which is effective for cleaning washware,
of at least 120 mm, and preferably of at least 150 mm.
[0042]     In order that the dishwasher according to the invention can also be used without
problems in relatively small sculleries, the dishwasher has, in the closed state of the
treatment zones, a width of between 500 mm and 800 mm, and preferably of between
600 mm and 800 mm, a depth of between 700 mm and 900 mm, and preferably of between
750 mm and 850 mm, and a height of between 1350 mm and 1600 mm, and preferably of
between 1400 mm and 1550 mm.
[0043]     According to a further aspect of the present invention, the dishwasher has a wash
system, which is designed as a recirculation system, for spraying wash liquid in the
treatment chamber as required, and has at least one final rinse system for spraying final
rinse liquid in the treatment chamber as required. Furthermore, a control device is provided
for actuating the at least one wash system and/or the at least one final rinse system. In this
case, the control device is preferably designed to actuate the at least one wash system in
such a way that the wash cycle of each treatment cycle in the first treatment zone is
interrupted, while the wash cycle of a single treatment cycle in the at least one second
treatment zone is intermittent. In this way, it is also possible to adjust the action times of
                                                9

the wash liquid in the individual treatment zones in each case to any desired values only
using a single wash pump and without the use of a valve controller.
[0044]     In a development of the last-mentioned embodiment, provision is made in this
connection for the control device to also be designed to actuate the at least one wash
system in such a way that wash liquid is always sprayed at the same time in the first and in
the at least one second treatment zone.
[0045]     In respect of the at least one final rinse system, provision is preferably made for
the control device to be designed to actuate the at least one final rinse system in such a way
that, in the at least one second treatment zone, a final rinse cycle always takes place
simultaneously or at least so as to overlap with a final rinse cycle in the first treatment
zone. Therefore, the risk of the washware being re-soiled is minimized, this applying in
particular to embodiments in which the treatment zones are not hermetically separated.
[0046]     In order for the dishwasher to operate as efficiently as possible in respect of time,
provision is made in a preferred realization of the dishwasher for the treatment cycles in the
first and in the at least one second treatment zone to be matched to one another with respect
to time. To this end, it is feasible for the at least one wash system to be actuated by the
control device in such a way that the duration of a wash cycle of a single treatment cycle in
the at least one second treatment zone matches the total duration of the wash cycles of a
large number of treatment cycles in the first treatment zone.
[0047]     The term "treatment cycle" used in the present document is intended to be
understood to mean the cycle to which the washware in question is subjected in the
corresponding treatment zone of the dishwasher before the washware can be removed from
the treatment zone again in the cleaned state. Therefore, a treatment cycle is usually made
up of a wash cycle and a final rinse cycle which takes place following said wash cycle.
Wash liquid is sprayed onto the washware during a wash cycle, while final rinse liquid is
sprayed onto the washware during a final rinse cycle.
[0048]     As an alternative or in addition to the last-mentioned embodiment, it is feasible to
actuate the at least one wash system by means of the control device in such a way that the
duration of a wash cycle of a single treatment cycle in the at least one second treatment
zone is an integer multiple of the duration of one wash cycle in the first treatment zone.
                                                   10

[0049]     In a preferred development of the dishwasher according to the invention, the
control device is also designed to actuate the at least one wash system and/or the at least
one final rinse system in such a way that a wash cycle in the at least one second treatment
zone is interrupted automatically, preferably selectively automatically, when at least one of
the following conditions is met:
-        a final rinse cycle is taking place in the first treatment zone; and/or
-       the first treatment zone is open or is not closed; and/or
-       the second treatment zone is open or is not closed.
[0050]     In this way, the respective final rinse cycle of the individual treatment zones can
be matched in an optimum manner, this saving resources, in particular fresh water and
energy.
[0051]     In order to be able to treat the washware in the treatment zones as efficiently as
possible, provision is made in a development of the invention for the treatment parameters
for the treatment zones to be selected in as individual a manner as possible and such that
they are matched to the washware which is to be cleaned.
[0052]     In this connection, it is feasible for the at least one wash system to be actuated in
such a way that, during a wash cycle:
-       the temperature of the wash liquid which is sprayed in the first treatment zone is
         different from the temperature of the wash liquid which is sprayed in the at least
         one second treatment zone; and/or
-       the nozzle pressure of the wash liquid which is sprayed in the first treatment zone is
         different from the nozzle pressure of the wash liquid which is sprayed in the at least
         one second treatment zone; and/or
-       the quantity of wash liquid which is sprayed in the first treatment zone per unit time
         is different from the quantity of wash liquid which is sprayed in the at least one
         second treatment zone per unit time; and/or
-       the concentration of detergent in the wash liquid which is sprayed in the first
        treatment zone is different from the concentration of detergent in the wash liquid
        which is sprayed in the at least one second treatment zone.
                                                   11

[0053]   As an alternative or in addition to this, it is feasible for the at least one final rinse
system to be actuated by means of the control device in such a way that, during a final rinse
cycle:
-      the temperature of the final rinse liquid which is sprayed in the first treatment zone
       is different from the temperature of the final rinse liquid which is sprayed in the at
       least one second treatment zone; and/or
-      the nozzle pressure of the final rinse liquid which is sprayed in the first treatment
       zone is different from the nozzle pressure of the final rinse liquid which is sprayed
       in the at least one second treatment zone; and/or
-      the quantity of final rinse liquid which is sprayed in the first treatment zone per unit
       time is different from the quantity of final rinse liquid which is sprayed in the at
       least one second treatment zone per unit time; and/or
-      the concentration of final rinse aid in the final rinse liquid which is sprayed in the
       first treatment zone is different from the concentration of final rinse aid in the final
       rinse liquid which is sprayed in the at least one second treatment zone.
[0054]   The invention is not only directed at an, in particular, hood-type dishwasher in
which at least two treatment zones are provided in the treatment chamber of the
dishwasher, but also to a corresponding method for operating a dishwasher of this kind.
[0055]   According to the invention, the method comprises the following method steps:
-      wash liquid is sprayed at the same time in the first treatment zone and in the at least
       one second treatment zone until the wash cycle in the first treatment zone is
       complete;
-      after the wash cycle in the first treatment zone is complete, the wash cycle of the at
       least one second treatment zone is interrupted and final rinse liquid is sprayed in the
       first treatment zone; and
-      spraying of wash liquid in the at least one second treatment zone is resumed only
       when a further wash cycle is started in the first treatment zone.
                                               12

[0056]     In order to carry out the method according to the invention, the dishwasher has
according to a further aspect of the present invention - a control device for actuating the at
least one wash system of the dishwasher in accordance with a predefined program
sequence, wherein at least one predefined program sequence for the first treatment zone
and/or the at least one second treatment zone is stored in the control device. In particular, a
large number of predefined program sequences for the first treatment zone and/or the at
least one second treatment zone are stored in the control device in order to allow the
operator to choose treatment parameters which are matched as far as possible.
[0057]     In order to reduce the effort for operator control when choosing a program,
provision is made in a preferred development of the last-mentioned embodiments for at
least one program sequence group containing a defined program sequence for the first
treatment zone and a defined program sequence for the at least one second treatment zone
to be stored in the control device.
[0058]     In this connection, it is feasible, in particular, for the operator to selectively
choose a program sequence from the large number of predefined program sequences for the
first treatment zone and, independently of this, a program sequence from the large number
of predefined program sequences for the at least one second treatment zone, or a predefined
program sequence group.
[0059]     The program sequences of the program sequence group are preferably chosen
depending on at least one of the factors listed below:
-        a quantity of washware which preferably accumulates per unit time in a standard
         situation; and/or
-        the different types of washware which preferably accumulate per unit time in a
         standard situation; and/or
-        a degree of soiling of the washware which preferably occurs in a standard situation.
[0060]     In a preferred realization of the last-mentioned embodiments, provision is made
for the program sequence group to have a program sequence for the first treatment zone,
the duration of a wash cycle of the first treatment zone being 40 to 70 seconds (short
program), 70 to 120 seconds (standard program) or 2 to 5 minutes (intensive program) in
                                                   13

accordance with said program sequence. In respect of the program sequence for the at least
one second treatment zone, provision is made in this case for the duration of a wash cycle
in the at least one second treatment zone to be identical to the duration of a wash cycle in
the first treatment zone in accordance with said program sequence.
[0061]     As an alternative or in addition to this, it is feasible for the program sequence
group to have a program sequence for the at least one second treatment zone, the duration
of a wash cycle in the at least one second treatment zone being 40 to 70 seconds (short
program), 70 to 120 seconds (standard program) or 4 to 10 minutes (intensive program) in
accordance with said program sequence.
[0062]     According to a further aspect of the present invention, provision is made for the
dishwasher to have at least one user interface with at least one input area, in particular
which can be manually or optically operated, for manually choosing at least one treatment
program for the first and/or at least one second treatment zone.
[0063]     An "input area which can be manually operated" is intended to be understood to
mean, in particular, a keypad or the like, while an "input area which can be optically
operated" is an input area which can be actuated by means of radio, IR, WLAN or a similar
wireless communication connection.
[0064]     According to a preferred realization, provision is made in this case for a common
user interface to be provided for the first and at least one second treatment zone. This
common user interface is preferably arranged in the upper region of the hood which can be
pivoted or moved vertically and by means of which the first treatment zone can be closed.
This ensures that the operator of the machine can manually operate the input area only
when the first treatment zone is closed.
[0065]     As an alternative to this, it goes without saying, however, that it is also feasible
for a user interface to be provided in each case for the first and at least one second
treatment zone.
[0066]     In a preferred realization of the invention, provision is made for the at least one
user interface to be designed to provide, preferably optically and/or acoustically,
information relating to a system state of the dishwasher.
                                                 14

[0067]    As an alternative or in addition, it is feasible for the at least one user interface to
have at least one input area, in particular keypad, in particular which can be optically or
manually operated, for manually intervening in a treatment cycle of the first treatment zone
and/or in a treatment cycle of the at least one second treatment zone.
[0068]    In this connection, it is also feasible for the at least one user interface to have a
first input area, in particular keypad, which can be manually operated, for starting and/or
completing a treatment cycle in the first and/or at least one second treatment zone, and has
a second input area, in particular which can be manually or optically operated and is
realized separately from the first input area, for retrieving information relating to a system
state of the dishwasher and/or for manually intervening in a treatment cycle of the first
and/or at least one second treatment zone and/or for calling up and/or choosing program
parameters for the first and/or at least one second treatment zone.
[0069]    The invention will be described in greater detail below with reference to the
exemplary embodiments which are illustrated in the drawings.
[0070]    In the drawings:
[0071]    figure la shows a perspective view of a batch dishwasher, which is realized as a
hood-type dishwasher, according to one embodiment of the present invention;
[0072]    figure lb shows a front view of the embodiment which is shown in figure la;
[0073]    figure 2 schematically shows a batch dishwasher, which is realized as a hood-type
dishwasher, according to a further embodiment of the invention;
[0074]    figure 3 schematically shows a batch dishwasher, which is realized as a hood-type
dishwasher, according to a further embodiment of the invention;
[0075]    figure 4 schematically shows a hydraulics diagram of a wash system of a
dishwasher, which is designed as a batch dishwasher, according to one embodiment of the
present invention;
                                                 15

[0076]     figure 5 schematically shows a hydraulics diagram of a wash system of a
dishwasher, which is designed as a batch dishwasher, according to a further embodiment of
the present invention;
[0077]     figure 6 schematically shows a hydraulics diagram of a wash system of a
dishwasher, which is designed as a batch dishwasher, according to a further embodiment of
the present invention; and
[0078]     figure 7 shows an embodiment of a user interface for the dishwasher according to
the invention.
[0079]     The invention relates to commercial dishwashers, in particular dishwashers or
utensil washers, in the form of a batch dishwasher. In particular, the present invention
relates to batch dishwashers which are realized as hood-type dishwashers.
[0080]     A commercial dishwasher 1, which is realized as a batch dishwasher, usually has
a program control device (also designated "control device 100" in the present document)
for controlling at least one cleaning program, and has a treatment chamber 2, which can be
closed by at least one door 9 and/or at least one hood 8, in a machine housing for
accommodating washware, such as crockery, cutlery, pots, pans, trays and glasses for
example, which is to be cleaned.
[0081]     As can be seen in the illustrations in figures 2 and 3 in particular, it is
advantageous from an ergonomical perspective for a batch dishwasher, which is realized as
a hood-type dishwasher 1, to be equipped with a respective table (entry table 3, exit table 4)
at its entry end and exit end. The racks 5 which are loaded with dirty washware can
therefore be pushed into the dishwasher 1 at the entry table 3. After the washware is treated
in the treatment chamber 2 of the dishwasher 1, the rack 5 containing the now cleaned
washware is moved out of the machine 1 onto the exit table 4.
[0082]     The action time, that is to say the time during which cleaning liquid or wash
liquid wets the washware within the treatment chamber 2, depends, in particular, on the
duration of the wash phase, which duration is defined by means of the treatment program.
For normally soiled washware, such as plates, trays, cups and glasses, a cleaning cycle
comprising a wash phase and a subsequent final rinse phase generally requires between 50
                                                 16

and 100 seconds. However, longer treatment of the washware may be necessary, in
particular when said washware exhibits a high level of soiling, or when dirt is burnt onto
the washware. Extension of the total treatment time to up to 400 seconds is often required
in this case. Owing to the extended action time, the washware which is to be cleaned is
subjected to intensive treatment, so that heavily soiled washware can also be effectively
cleaned.
[0083]     In order to ensure that the cleaning capacity of the dishwasher 1, that is to say the
units of washware/washware racks 5 which can theoretically be processed by the machine
1 per unit time, is not negatively influenced in spite of an intensive treatment, provision is
made according to the invention for the treatment chamber 2 of the dishwasher 1, which is
designed as a batch dishwasher, to be divided into at least two treatment zones 6, 7,
wherein the at least two treatment zones 6, 7 are realized such that the washware can be
treated in the individual treatment zones 6, 7 independently of one another.
[0084]     Even though the exemplary embodiments of the dishwasher 1 according to the
invention which are illustrated in the drawings are each realized with exactly two treatment
zones 6, 7, this should not be regarded as being restrictive. Rather, it goes without saying
that it is also feasible for the treatment chamber 2 of the dishwasher 1 according to the
invention to be divided into more than two zones.
[0085]     As illustrated in figures la and lb for example, one exemplary embodiment of the
present invention relates to a hood-type dishwasher 1 which is distinguished, in particular,
in that, in addition to the usually provided (main) treatment zone 6, a further treatment zone
7 which is arranged beneath said treatment zone 6 is provided. The upper main treatment
zone 6, which is also designated "first treatment zone" in the present document, is designed
to accommodate a dish rack 5 which may be loaded with the washware which is to be
treated.
[0086]     To this end, the base area of the first treatment zone or main treatment zone 6 has
dimensions which match the base area of a dish rack 5, and in particular has a base area of
600 mm x 500 mm, 500 mm x 500 mm or 400 mm x 400 mm.
[0087]     Furthermore, the main treatment zone 6 is designed such that the dish rack 5 can
be pushed directly into the treatment zones 6 of the hood-type dishwasher 1 from an entry
                                                 17

table 3 (not illustrated in figures la and Ib). In other words, the wash level 6a of the main
treatment zone 6 is aligned with the table height of the entry table 3 in the horizontal
direction.
[0088]     In the dishwasher 1 which is shown in figure 1b, the height of the horizontal wash
level 6a of the first treatment zone 6 can, in particular, be variably adjusted and is
preferably 800 mm to 900 mm, and preferably 830 mm to 890 mm. The height of the
horizontal wash level 6a of the first treatment zone 6 is adjusted, for example, by means of
vertically adjustable feet of the machine.
[0089]     An exit table 4 is also preferably provided, wherein the table height of the exit
table 4 is likewise horizontally aligned with the wash level 6a of the main treatment zone 6,
so that the dish rack 5 can be pushed directly onto the exit table 4 after treatment in the
main treatment zone 6.
[0090]     As already indicated, a further treatment zone 7 is realized beneath the main
treatment zone 6. This further treatment zone 7, which is also designated "second treatment
zone" or "auxiliary treatment zone" in the present document, serves, in particular, for
cleaning washware which requires a longer action time in comparison to the washware
which is to be cleaned in the first treatment zone 6.
[0091]     In the exemplary embodiment which is illustrated in figures la and 1b, the second
treatment zone 7 is likewise designed to accommodate a dish rack 5, wherein the washware
which is to be treated in the further treatment zone 7 is accommodated in the dish rack 5.
[0092]     Specifically, the dimensions and cleaning capacity of the main treatment zone
(first treatment zone 6) and the dimensions and cleaning capacity of the auxiliary treatment
zone (second treatment zone 7) are preferably matched to the types of washware (such as
crockery, cutlery, glasses and pots for example) which are to be cleaned and usually
accumulate in sculleries, the quantity of washware which is to be cleaned and usually
accumulates per unit time, depending on the type of washware, and/or to the degree of
soiling of the washware which accumulates per unit time, in such a way that all of the
washware which accumulates can be cleaned as far as possible without a delay even during
peak times during operation of the dishwasher 1.
                                                 18

[0093]     Therefore, in the embodiment of the dishwasher 1 according to the invention
which is shown in figure Ib, provision is made for the first treatment zone 6 to have a
loading volume which can be effectively used for cleaning washware and is 2 to 4 times
greater than the loading volume of the second treatment zone 7 which can be effectively
used. Specifically, the loading volume of the first treatment zone 6 which can be effectively
used is between 60 and 180 liters, and preferably between 80 and 150 liters, and further
preferably is approximately 120 liters, while the loading volume of the second treatment
zone 7 which can be effectively used is between 25 and 75 liters, and preferably between
30 and 50 liters. This ensures that heavily soiled washware can also be promptly effectively
cleaned even at peak times in sculleries.
[0094]     As illustrated, in the exemplary embodiment of the invention which is
schematically illustrated in figures la and Ib, provision is made for washware to be loaded
into and unloaded from the two treatment zones 6, 7 independently of one another.
Specifically, washware can be loaded into or unloaded from the first treatment zone 6 via
an opening which can be closed by a hood 8 which can move in the vertical direction. The
movement travel of the hood 8 is at least 300 mm, preferably at least 400 mm, while the
first treatment zone 6 has a height, which is effective for cleaning washware, of at least
400 mm.
[0095]     Secondly, the second treatment zone 7 has a height, which is effective for
cleaning washware, of at least 120 mm, and preferably of at least 150 mm, and therefore
cutlery which is accommodated in cutlery racks can also be cleaned in this treatment zone
7.
[0096]     In addition to this, the second treatment zone 7 has a dedicated opening which can
be closed and via which washware can be loaded into or unloaded from said treatment zone
7.
[0097]     In the exemplary embodiment which is illustrated in figures la and 1b, provision
is made, in particular, for the second treatment zone 7 to have a dedicated opening which
can be closed by means of a door 9 that can be pivoted about a horizontal pivot axis and via
which opening washware can be loaded into and unloaded from the second treatment zone
7.
                                                 19

[0098]     In this case, it is advantageous, in particular, for the door 9 which can be pivoted
about a horizontal pivot axis to be designed in such a way that said door, when it is in its
open state, is horizontally aligned with the wash level 7a of the further treatment zone 7. In
this way, the door 9, in its open state, serves simultaneously as a loading and unloading aid
for inserting and, respectively, removing the washware into/from the dish rack 5.
[0099]     Like the height of the horizontal wash level 6a of the first treatment zone 6, the
height of the horizontal wash level 7a of the second treatment zone 7 can be variably
adjusted, and is preferably 350 mm to 600 mm, and further preferably 500 mm to 600 mm
(measured from the floor of the room in which it is installed).
[0100]     Figure 2 shows the exemplary embodiment of the dishwasher 1 according to the
invention in line with figures la and lb in a configuration in which the dishwasher 1 is
equipped with entry and exit tables 3, 4. Specifically, the dirty washware is usually
manually pre-cleared and manually pre-washed at the entry end of the dishwasher 1.
Furthermore, the dirty washware can be loaded into special dish racks 5 here.
[0101]     The exit end is used for drying purposes and unloading the dish racks. As
illustrated in figure 2, the wash level 6a of the main treatment zone 6 is at the same height
as the entry and exit tables 3, 4. In this way, the dish racks 5 which are to be cleaned can be
easily and ergonomically pushed into the main treatment zone 6 of the hood-type
dishwasher 1 from the entry table 3 and, after cleaning is complete, pushed out of the
dishwasher 1 onto the exit table 4.
[0102]     As can be seen, in particular, in the schematic illustration in figure 3, the present
invention is not restricted to the additional treatment zone 7 being arranged beneath the
main treatment zone 6. Rather, it goes without saying that it is also feasible for the
additional treatment zone 7 to be arranged next to the main treatment zone 6 or above the
main treatment zone 6.
[0103]     In respect of the embodiments of the dishwasher 1 according to the invention
which are shown in figures 1 to 3, it should be noted that said dishwasher has, in the closed
state of the treatment zones 6, 7, a width of between 500 mm and 800 mm, and preferably
of between 600 mm and 800 mm, a depth of between 700 mm and 900 mm, and preferably
of between 750 mm and 850 mm, and a height of between 1350 mm and 1600 mm, and
                                                 20

preferably of between 1400 mm and 1550 mm. In other words, the external dimensions of
the dishwasher 1 according to the invention are comparable with those of a conventional
machine of the same type which, however, has only a single treatment zone, wherein the
machine capacity is increased, along with a relatively reduced consumption of resources,
using the dishwasher according to the invention.
[0104]    In order to clean, for example, the washware which accumulates in the case of a
total of 150 meals, a conventional dishwasher, which however has only a single treatment
zone, requires a total of 67 minutes and a fresh water consumption of 100 liters and an
energy consumption of 2.9 kWh (with a standard treatment program).
[0105]    Using the dishwasher 1 according to the invention however, the treatment
duration can be reduced to less than 50 minutes, specifically with a fresh water
consumption of 72.5 liters and an energy consumption of 2.1 kWh.
[0106]    The manner of operation of different wash/final rinse systems which can be used,
for example, in a dishwasher 1 according to the present invention which is designed as a
batch dishwasher is described below with reference to the illustrations in figures 4 to 6.
[0107]    Although it is feasible, in principle, to equip the dishwasher 1 according to the
present invention with several wash tanks, wherein each wash tank is associated with a
treatment zone 6, 7, provision is made in the preferred exemplary embodiments of the
solution according to the invention which are illustrated in the drawings for the dishwasher
1 to in each case have only a single wash tank 12 which is associated with the (single)
treatment chamber 2 and therefore with the individual treatment zones 6, 7 of the (single)
treatment chamber 2 jointly.
[0108]    The wash tank 12 preferably has a capacity of 20 to 40 liters, preferably 25 to 35
liters. This capacity is firstly sufficient for the simultaneous final rinse operation in the two
treatment zones 6, 7. Secondly, the tank 12 is selected to be so small that, as before, it can
be accommodated in the reduced - in comparison to a conventional machine which
however has only a single treatment zone - installation space in the machine housing.
[0109]    As illustrated in the hydraulics diagrams according to figures 4 to 6, the (single)
wash tank 12 is located beneath the treatment chamber 2 of the machine 1 and serves to
                                                  21

receive liquid which is sprayed in the respective treatment zones 6, 7 of the treatment
chamber 2. As already indicated, provision is made in the embodiments illustrated in the
drawings for the treatment chamber 2 of the dishwasher 1 to be divided into a total of two
treatment zones 6, 7, specifically into a main treatment zone 6 and an additional treatment
zone 7. A common wash system is associated with the treatment zones 6, 7 which are
integrated within the (single) treatment chamber 2.
[0110]    In the hydraulics diagram which is illustrated in figure 4, the wash system has a
(common) wash pump 13 with which wash liquid can be conveyed from the wash tank 12,
through a wash liquid line system, to corresponding wash nozzles 11.1, 11.2.
[0111]    In the embodiment which is schematically illustrated in figure 4, the wash nozzles
11.1, 11.2 are integrated into corresponding wash arms 10.1, 10.2, 10.3, 10.4. In this case,
provision is made for a first nozzle arrangement comprising an upper wash arm 10.1 and a
lower wash arm 10.2 to be associated with the upper (main) treatment zone 6. A further
nozzle arrangement, which likewise has an upper wash arm 10.3 and a lower wash arm
10.4, is associated with the lower (additional) treatment zone 7.
[0112]    In the hydraulics diagram which is shown in figure 4, the lower wash arm 10.2 of
the main treatment zone 6 and the upper wash arm 10.3 of the additional treatment zone 7
are realized as a common wash arm. In other words, a single wash arm 10.2, 10.3 which
has a double function is used in this exemplary embodiment: said common wash arm
serves as a lower wash arm of the (upper) main treatment zone 6 and, at the same time, as
an upper wash arm of the (lower) additional treatment zone 7. To this end, the common
wash arm has wash nozzles 11.1 which are oriented in the direction of the (upper) main
treatment zone 6, and wash nozzles 11.2 which are oriented in the direction of the (lower)
additional treatment zone 7.
[0113]    It goes without saying that the present invention is not restricted to this aspect. As
can be seen in the hydraulics diagram according to figure 5, it is also feasible for a common
wash arm to not be used, and therefore for separate wash arms 10.1-10.4 to be associated
with each individual treatment zone 6, 7.
[0114]    The wash nozzles 11.1, 11.2 which are integrated into the corresponding wash
arms 10.1-10.4 are each directed toward the correspondingly associated treatment zone 6, 7
                                              22

in the treatment chamber 2 and serve for spraying wash liquid, which is conveyed by the
common wash pump 13, onto the washware which is to be cleaned and is arranged in the
treatment zones 6, 7 in question.
[0115]    The sprayed wash liquid falls back into the wash tank 12 due to the force of
gravity. As a result, the wash tank 12, the wash pump 13, the wash liquid system 16 and
the wash nozzles 11 form a wash liquid circuit together with the treatment zones 6, 7 of the
treatment chamber 2. The wash liquid line system 16 connects the delivery end of the wash
pump 13 to the wash nozzles 11.1, 11.2.
[0116]    Also provided is a final rinse system for conveying final rinse liquid through a
final rinse line system 17 to final rinse nozzles 15.1, 15.2, which are directed toward the
region of the washware which is to be cleaned in the treatment chamber 2, by means of a
final rinse pump 14. The sprayed final rinse liquid falls into the wash tank 12 from the
treatment chamber 2 due to the force of gravity. The final rinse liquid system 17 connects
the delivery end of the final rinse pump 14 to the final rinse nozzles 15.1, 15.2.
[0117]    As already stated, the wash nozzles 11.1, 11.2 and the final rinse nozzles 15.1,
15.2 can be arranged in the regions above and/or below and, if desired, also to the sides of
the treatment zones 6, 7 in question within the treatment chamber 2 and each be directed
toward the region in which the washware is positioned in the corresponding treatment zone.
[0118]    Each treatment zone 6, 7 is preferably provided with a large number of wash
nozzles 11.1 and 11.2 on at least one upper wash arm 10.1 and 10.3, a large number of
wash nozzles 11.1 and 11.2 on a lower wash arm 10.2 and 10.4, a large number of final
rinse nozzles 15.1 and 15.2 on at least one upper final rinse arm 18.1 and 18.3, and a large
number of final rinse nozzles 15.1 and 15.2 on at least one lower final rinse arm 18.2 and
18.4. As already stated, the lower wash arm 10.2 of the upper main treatment zone 6 and
the upper wash arm 10.3 of the lower additional treatment zone 7 can be designed as a
common wash arm in this case (cf. figure 4). This also applies for the corresponding final
rinse arms 18.2, 18.3.
[0119]    However, as an alternative to this, it is equally feasible for each of the at least two
treatment zones 6, 7 to be provided with separate wash and final rinse arms 10.1-10.4 and
18.1-18.4, as is indicated in the hydraulics diagram according to figure 5.
                                               23

[0120]     Before final rinse liquid is sprayed during the final rinse phase, a quantity of wash
liquid which corresponds to the final rinse liquid is in each case pumped out of the wash
tank 12 by means of a discharge pump (not illustrated in the drawings), the intake end of
said discharge pump being connected to a sump of the wash tank 12 via a discharge line. If
the wash tank 12 is empty before the dishwasher 1, which is designed as a batch
dishwasher, is first started, said wash tank first has to be filled with fresh water via a fresh
water line (not shown) or with fresh water or another final rinse liquid or wash liquid by
means of the final rinse system and the final rinse pump 14 of said final rinse system.
[0121]     The final rinse liquid may be fresh water or fresh water which is mixed with rinse
aid. The wash liquid on the other hand contains detergent which is preferably automatically
added in a metered manner to the liquid which is contained in the wash tank 12 by a
detergent metering apparatus (not shown). The abovementioned program control device
controls the wash pumps 13, the final rinse pump 14, the discharge pump and the detergent
solution pump (not shown) depending on the cleaning program in each case selected on the
program control device by an operator. At least one cleaning program is provided; a
plurality of cleaning programs which can be selectively chosen are preferably provided.
[0122]     It can be seen from the hydraulics diagrams illustrated in the drawings that a final
rinse pump 14, by way of its intake end, is also connected to an outlet of a boiler 22. The
boiler 22 further has an inlet which is connected to a fresh water supply line 30 via which
fresh water or fresh water to which rinse aid has been added in a metered manner is
supplied to the boiler 22. In the boiler 22, the liquid (pure fresh water or fresh water to
which rinse aid has been added in a metered manner) which is supplied via the inlet is
heated up as prescribed by a process sequence. The final rinse liquid which is heated up in
the boiler 22 can be supplied to the final rinse nozzles 15.1 and 15.2 by means of the final
rinse line system 17 for example during a fresh water final rinse phase by means of the
final rinse pump 14 which, by way of its intake end, is connected to the boiler outlet. The
final rinse nozzles 15.1 and 15.2 are arranged in the treatment zones 6, 7 of the treatment
chamber 2 in order to spray the final rinse liquid, which is heated up in the boiler 22, onto
the washware in the corresponding treatment zone 6, 7 of the treatment chamber 2. It goes
without saying that it is also feasible for pure fresh water to be supplied to the boiler 22 via
the inlet in the fresh water supply line 30, a rinse aid being added in a metered manner to
said pure fresh water after it is heated in the boiler 22.
                                                24

[0123]    In this connection, it is also feasible for the final rinse system to have a preferably
electrically operated steam generator which can be integrated into the boiler 22 for
example. In this case, a corresponding steam outlet of the steam generator can be formed at
the upper region of the boiler 22 (not illustrated in the drawings). The steam outlet of the
steam generator can be connected to the treatment chamber via a steam line at a point
which is situated above the wash tank, in order to introduce the steam which is generated in
the steam generator into said treatment chamber as required. It goes without saying,
however, that other positions are also possible.
[0124]    A heater 47 is located in the boiler 22 which, according to some embodiments of
the invention, serves not only to heat the final rinse liquid but also to generate steam if
required. A level sensor which controls, for example, a valve 49 of the fresh water line 30
can also be arranged in or on the boiler 22.
[0125]    It can also be seen with reference to the hydraulics diagram illustrated in figure 6
that a dedicated wash system and a dedicated final rinse system can also be associated with
each individual treatment zone 6, 7. In contrast to the embodiments which are shown in
figures 4 and 5, a dedicated wash pump 13.1 and a dedicated wash liquid system 16.1 and
also a dedicated final rinse pump 14.1 with a dedicated final rinse line system 17.1 are
associated with the treatment zone 6 in this case. In the same way, a dedicated wash pump
13.2 and a dedicated wash liquid system 16.2 and also a dedicated final rinse pump 14.2
with a dedicated final rinse line system 17.2 are associated with the treatment zone 7. In
this case, the wash pumps 13.1, 13.2 and the final rinse pumps 14.1, 14.2 can be actuated
independently of one another by a control device, not shown, so that different treatment
programs can be realized in the respective treatment zones independently of one another.
[0126]     Specifically, the control device 100 which is schematically indicated in figures 4
to 6 serves to actuate the corresponding components, which can be actuated, of the wash
and/or final rinse system of the dishwasher 1. In particular, the control device 100 is
designed to actuate the preferably common wash pump 13 of the wash system in such a
way that the wash cycle of each treatment cycle in the first treatment zone 6 is interrupted,
while the wash cycle of a single treatment cycle in the second treatment zone 7 is
intermittent.
                                                 25

[0127]    Furthermore, in the exemplary embodiments of the dishwasher 1 according to the
invention which are illustrated in the drawings, the control device 100 is also designed to
actuate the preferably common wash pump 13 in such a way that wash liquid is always
sprayed at the same time in the first and in the second treatment zone 6, 7.
[0128]    In respect of the final rinse system of the dishwasher 1, the control device 100 is
designed to actuate the two final rinse pumps 14.1, 14.2 in such a way that, in the second
treatment zone 7, a final rinse cycle always takes place simultaneously or at least so as to
overlap with a final rinse cycle in the first treatment zone 6.
[0129]    In this case, it is advantageous when the control device 100 is also designed to
actuate the preferably common wash pump 13 in such a way that the duration of a wash
cycle of a single treatment cycle in the second treatment zone 7 matches the total duration
of the wash cycles of a large number of treatment cycles in the first treatment zone 6. In
particular, it is feasible in this connection for the control device 100 to actuate the
preferably common wash pump 13 in such a way that the duration of a wash cycle of a
single treatment cycle in the second treatment zone 7 is an integer multiple of the duration
of one wash cycle in the first treatment zone 6.
[0130]    In principle, provision is made in the embodiments of the dishwasher 1 according
to the invention which are illustrated in the drawings for the control device 100 to be
designed to actuate the at least one wash system and/or the at least one final rinse system in
such a way that a wash cycle in the second treatment zone 7 is interrupted automatically,
preferably selectively automatically, when at least one of the following conditions is met:
-       a final rinse cycle is taking place in the first treatment zone 6; and/or
-       the first treatment zone 6 is open or is not closed, it being possible for this to be
        detected by means of a corresponding sensor for example; and/or
-       the second treatment zone 7 is open or is not closed, it being possible for this to
        likewise be detected by means of a corresponding sensor for example.
[0131]    The wash system and/or final rinse system are preferably automatically actuated.
In other words, the at least one wash and/or final rinse system is preferably actuated in
accordance with a predefined program sequence, wherein at least one predefined program
                                                 26

sequence for the first treatment zone 6 and/or the at least one second treatment zone 7 is
stored in the control device 100. A large number of predefined program sequences for the
first treatment zone 6 and/or the at least one second treatment zone 7 are preferably stored
in the control device 100.
[0132]     In this connection, it is feasible for at least one program sequence group
containing a defined program sequence for the first treatment zone 6 and a defined program
sequence for the at least one second treatment zone 7 to be stored in the control device 100.
In this case, a program sequence from the large number of predefined program sequences
for the first treatment zone 6 and, independently of this, a program sequence from the large
number of predefined program sequences for the at least one second treatment zone 7, or a
predefined program sequence group, can be selectively chosen by the operator of the
dishwasher 1.
[0133]     At least one program sequence group containing a defined program sequence for
the first treatment zone 6 and containing a defined program sequence for the at least one
second treatment zone 7 is advantageously stored in the control device 100, and wherein
the program sequences of the program sequence group are chosen depending on at least
one of the factors listed below:
-        a quantity of washware which preferably accumulates per unit time in a standard
         situation; and/or
-        the different types of washware which preferably accumulate per unit time in a
         standard situation; and/or
-        a degree of soiling of the washware which preferably occurs in a standard situation.
[0134]     It is also preferred for at least one program sequence group containing a defined
program sequence for the first treatment zone 6 and a defined program sequence for the at
least one second treatment zone 7 to be stored in the control device 100, wherein the
program sequence group has a program sequence for the first treatment zone 6, the duration
of a wash cycle of the first treatment zone being 40 to 70 seconds, 70 to 120 seconds or 2
to 5 minutes in accordance with said program sequence, and wherein the program sequence
group has a program sequence for the at least one second treatment zone 7, the duration of
                                                  27

a wash cycle in the second treatment zone 7 being identical to the duration of a wash cycle
in the first treatment zone 6 in accordance with said program sequence.
[0135]     Secondly, it is preferred for at least one program sequence group containing a
defined program sequence for the first treatment zone 6 and a defined program sequence
for the at least one second treatment zone 7 to be stored in the control device 100, wherein
the program sequence group has a program sequence for the first treatment zone 6, the
duration of a wash cycle in the first treatment zone being 40 to 70 seconds, 70 to 120
seconds or 2 to 5 minutes in accordance with said program sequence, and wherein the
program sequence group has a program sequence for the at least one second treatment zone
7, the duration of a wash cycle in the second treatment zone being 40 to 70 seconds, 70 to
120 seconds or 4 to 10 minutes in accordance with said program sequence.
[0136]     An exemplary embodiment of a user interface 110 is described below with
reference to the illustration in figure 7, it being possible for an operator of the dishwasher 1
according to the invention to choose at least one treatment program or corresponding
treatment parameters for the first and/or second treatment zone 6, 7 via said user interface.
[0137]     Specifically, the embodiment of the user interface 110 which is illustrated in
figure 7 is realized as a common user interface for both treatment zones 6, 7 of the
dishwasher 1. As can be seen from the illustrations in figures 1 to 4, this common user
interface 110 is arranged in the upper region of the movable hood 8.
[0138]     It goes without saying that the present invention is not restricted to embodiments
in which a common user interface 110 is used for all of the treatment zones 6, 7 of the
dishwasher 1. In particular, it is feasible for a user interface to be provided in each case for
the first and at least one second treatment zones 6, 7. In this case, it would be possible to
arrange the user interface 110 for the first treatment zone 6 in the upper region of the hood
8, and to arrange the user interface 110 for the at least one second treatment zone 7 above
the door 9 which is realized separately from the hood 8.
[0139]     As indicated in figure 7, the user interface 110 is designed to provide information
relating to a system state of the dishwasher 1. In the illustration in figure 7, this is
performed in an optical manner by means of a corresponding information area 113.
                                                 28

[0140]     Furthermore, the user interface 110 is provided with an input area 111 in order to
allow the operator to manually intervene in a treatment cycle of the first treatment zone 6
and/or in a treatment cycle of the at least one second treatment zone 7.
[0141]     In particular, the user interface 110 which is schematically illustrated in figure 7 is
provided with a first input area 114, which can be manually operated, in order to start and,
respectively, complete a treatment cycle in the first and/or at least one second treatment
zone 7, and with a second input area 111, which is realized separately from the first input
area 114, in order to retrieve information relating to a system state of the dishwasher 1
and/or in order to intervene in a treatment cycle of the first and/or at least one second
treatment zone 7, and/or in order to call up and/or choose program parameters for the first
and/or at least one second treatment zone 7.
[0142]     Accordingly, in summary, it is clear that the solution according to the invention
provides at least one additional treatment zone 7, specifically in particular for washware,
such as cutlery or GN containers, which is generally heavily soiled and therefore requires a
longer dishwashing duration. In this way, the wash performance can be improved by
extending the program duration of the additional treatment zone 7, specifically in such a
way, as is necessary for the type of washware which is to be treated in this treatment zone
7, that a satisfactory dishwashing result is ensured. In addition to this, the capacity of the
main wash zone 6 is not negatively influenced, that is to say not reduced, despite the use of
the intensive program in the additional treatment zone 7.
[0143]     By way of example, five racks can be treated by the main treatment zone 6 using a
standard treatment program, while one rack can additionally be treated at the same time,
that is to say in parallel, in the lower or additional treatment zone 7 using an intensive
treatment program.
[0144]     Therefore, the previously existing treatment zone 6 can be operated without a loss
of capacity for the washware with a normal level of soiling in comparison to current
machines, specifically with simultaneous improvement in the wash result for heavily soiled
washware, since said heavily soiled washware can be cleaned in parallel in the additional
treatment zone 7, for example using a special intensive treatment program.
                                                 29

[0145]    The invention is not restricted to the exemplary embodiments which are illustrated
purely by way of example in the drawings, but rather can be gathered by looking at all of
the features and aspects disclosed in said exemplary embodiments together.
                                                30

HI:\gw\Interwovn\NRPortbl\DCC\GW\16042850_l.docx-23 /t12017
THE CLAIMS DEFINING THE INVENTION ARE AS FOLLOWS:
1.              A dishwasher (1) in the form of a commercial utensil washer or dishwasher which is
designed as a batch dishwasher and is realized as a hood-type dishwasher, wherein the
dishwasher (1) has a treatment chamber (2) with at least one wash system which is designed as
a recirculation system, wherein the treatment chamber (2) has a first treatment zone (6) and at
least one further, second treatment zone (7), wherein items of washware can be treated
independently of one another and at least temporarily at the same time in the first and in the at
least one second treatment zone (6, 7), wherein the at least one wash system has a nozzle
system with at least one wash nozzle (11.1, 11.2) for spraying wash liquid onto the washware
which is accommodated in the treatment zones of the treatment chamber (2).
2.              The dishwasher (1) as claimed in claim 1, wherein the nozzle system has at least one
first wash arm (10.1, 10.2) which is associated with the first treatment zone (6), and has at
least one second wash arm (10.3, 10.4) which is associated with the at least one second
treatment zone (7).
3.              The dishwasher (1) as claimed in claim 1 or 2, wherein the dishwasher (1) has a wash
tank (12) for collecting at least some of the wash liquid which is sprayed by the nozzle system
in the treatment zones (6, 7) of the treatment chamber (2).
4.              The dishwasher (1) as claimed in one of claims I to 3, wherein the nozzle system has a
common wash arm (10.2, 10.3) which is associated with the first and the at least one second
treatment zone (6, 7) jointly.
5.              The dishwasher (1) as claimed in claim 4, wherein the at least one wash system is
realized as a wash system which is common to the treatment zones (6, 7), and has a common
wash pump (13) for supplying wash liquid, which is collected in the wash tank (12), to the
nozzle system.
6.              The dishwasher (1) as claimed in one of claims 1 to 5, wherein a final rinse system
with at least one final rinse pump (14, 14.1, 14.2) and with a final rinse nozzle system which is
arranged in the treatment chamber (2) is also provided in order to spray final rinse liquid, in
                                                            31

HI:\gw\Interwovn\NRPortbl\DCC\GW\16042850_l.docx-23 /t12017
particular fresh water, in the treatment chamber (2) during a final rinse phase.
7.              The dishwasher (1) as claimed in claim 6, wherein the final rinse system is realized as
a final rinse system which is separate in respect of the at least two treatment zones (6, 7), and
has a correspondingly associated final rinse pump (14.1, 14.2) for each treatment zone (6, 7)
for independently supplying final rinse liquid, in particular fresh water, to corresponding final
rinse nozzles (15.1, 15.2) in the respective treatment zone (6, 7).
8.              The dishwasher (1) as claimed in one of claims 5 to 7, wherein a control device (100)
is also provided for actuating the respective final rinse and wash pumps (14, 14.1, 14.2; 13) of
the dishwasher (1) in accordance with a predefined treatment program.
9.              The dishwasher (1) as claimed in one of claims I to 8, wherein the dishwasher (1) has a
final rinse system for spraying final rinse liquid in the treatment chamber (2) as required, and
wherein the dishwasher (1) also has a control device (100) for actuating the at least one wash
system and/or the at least one final rinse system, wherein the control device (100) is designed
to actuate the at least one wash system in such a way that the wash cycle of each treatment
cycle in the first treatment zone (6) is uninterrupted, while the wash cycle of a single treatment
cycle in the at least one second treatment zone (7) is intermittent.
10.             The dishwasher (1) as claimed in claim 9, wherein the control device (100) is also
designed to actuate the at least one wash system in such a way that wash liquid is always
sprayed at the same time in the first and in the at least one second treatment zone (6, 7).
11.             The dishwasher (1) as claimed in claim 9 or 10, wherein the control device (100) is
designed to actuate the at least one final rinse system in such a way that, in the at least one
second treatment zone (7), a final rinse cycle always takes place simultaneously or at least so
as to overlap with a final rinse cycle in the first treatment zone (6).
12.             The dishwasher (1) as claimed in one of claims 9 to 11, wherein the control device
(100) is also designed to actuate the at least one wash system in such a way that the duration
of a wash cycle of a single treatment cycle in the at least one second treatment zone (7)
matches the total duration of the wash cycles of a large number of treatment cycles in the first
                                                            32

HI:\gw\Interwovn\NRPortbl\DCC\GW\16042850_l.docx-23 I/2017
treatment zone (6).
 13.            The dishwasher (1) as claimed in one of claims 9 to 12, wherein the control device
(100) is also designed to actuate the at least one wash system in such a way that the duration
of a wash cycle of a single treatment cycle in the at least one second treatment zone (7) is an
integer multiple of the duration of one wash cycle in the first treatment zone (6).
 14.            The dishwasher (1) as claimed in one of claims 9 to 13, wherein the control device
(100) is also designed to actuate the at least one wash system and/or the at least one final rinse
system in such a way that a wash cycle in the at least one second treatment zone (7) is
interrupted automatically, preferably selectively automatically, when at least one of the
following conditions is met:
                a final rinse cycle is taking place in the first treatment zone (6); and/or
                the first treatment zone (6) is open or is not closed; and/or
                the second treatment zone (7) is open or is not closed.
 15.            The dishwasher (1) as claimed in one of claims 9 to 14, wherein the control device
(100) is also designed to actuate the at least one wash system in such a way that, during a wash
cycle:
                the temperature of the wash liquid which is sprayed in the first treatment zone (6) is
different from the temperature of the wash liquid which is sprayed in the at least one second
treatment zone (7); and/or
                the nozzle pressure of the wash liquid which is sprayed in the first treatment zone (6) is
different from the nozzle pressure of the wash liquid which is sprayed in the at least one
second treatment zone (7); and/or
                the quantity of wash liquid which is sprayed in the first treatment zone (6) per unit time
is different from the quantity of wash liquid which is sprayed in the at least one second
treatment zone (7) per unit time; and/or
                the concentration of detergent in the wash liquid which is sprayed in the first treatment
zone (6) is different from the concentration of detergent in the wash liquid which is sprayed in
the at least one second treatment zone (7).
                                                           33

ll:\gw\Interwovn\NRPortbl\DCC\GW\16042850_l.docx-23 I/2017
 16.             A method for operating a commercial utensil washer or dishwasher which is designed
as a batch dishwasher and is realized as a hood-type dishwasher and has a treatment chamber
(2) which is divided into a first treatment zone (6) and at least one further second treatment
zone (7), wherein the method comprises the following method steps:
                 wash liquid is sprayed at the same time in the first treatment zone (6) and in the at least
one second treatment zone (7) until the wash cycle in the first treatment zone (6) is complete;
                 after the wash cycle in the first treatment zone (6) is complete, the wash cycle of the at
least one second treatment zone (7) is interrupted and final rinse liquid is sprayed in the first
treatment zone (6); and
                 spraying of wash liquid in the at least one second treatment zone (7) is resumed only
when a further wash cycle is started in the first treatment zone (6).
                                                           34

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
