TREATMENT OF TNFa RELATED DISORDERS
ABSTRACT
Methods of treating TNFa-related disorders comprising administering TNFa inhibitors,
including TNFa antibodies are described.

                     TREATMENT OF TNFa RELATED DISORDERS
RELATED APPLICATIONS
        This application claims priority to prior filed U.S. Provisional Application Serial
No. 60/397,275, filed July 19, 2002. This application also claims priority to prior filed to U.S.
Provisional Application Serial No. 60/411,081, filed September 16, 2002, and prior-filed U.S.
Provisional Application Serial No. 60/417490, filed October 10, 2002. This application also
claims priority to prior filed to U.S. Provisional Application Serial No. 60/455777, filed
March 18, 2003. In addition, this application is related to U.S.
Patent Nos. 6,090,382, 6,258,562, and 6,509,015. This application is also related to U.S.
Patent Application Serial No. 09/801,185, filed March 7, 2001; U.S. Patent Application Serial
No. 10/302,356, filed November 22, 2002; U.S. Patent Application Serial No. 10/163657,
filed June 2, 2002; and U.S. Patent Application Serial No. 10/133715, filed April 26, 2002.
        This application is a divisional of Australian Patent Application No. 2015215873
which is a divisional of Australian Patent Application No. 2013204147 which is a divisional
of Australian Patent Application No. 2012203853 which is a divisional of Australian Patent
Application No. 2010200708 which is a divisional of Australian Patent Application No.
2003267999 (national phase of PCT/US2003/022566), the entire contents of each of which is
incorporated herein by cross-reference.
        This application is related to U.S. utility applications (Attorney Docket No. BPI-187)
entitled "Treatment of TNFu-Related Disorders Using TNFax Inhibitors," (Attorney Docket
No. BPI-188) entitled "Treatment of Spondyloarthropathies Using TNFa Inhibitors,"
(Attorney Docket No. BPI-189) entitled "Treatment of Pulmonary Disorders Using TNFa
Inhibitors," (Attorney Docket No. BPI- 190) entitled "Treatment of
Coronary Disorders Using TNFa Inhibitors," (Attorney Docket No. BPI- 191) entitled
"Treatment of Metabolic Disorders Using TNFa Inhibitors," (Attorney Docket No. BPI-192)
entitled "Treatment of Anemia Using TNFx Inhibitors," (Attorney Docket No. BPI-193)
entitled "Treatment of Pain Using TNFa Inhibitors," (Attorney Docket No. BPI-194) entitled
"Treatment of Hepatic Disorders Using TNFax Inhibitors," (Attorney Docket No. BPI- 195)
entitled "Treatment of Skin and Nail Disorders Using TNFa Inhibitors," (Attorney Docket
No. BPI-196) entitled "Treatment of Vasculitides Using TNFa Inhibitors," and (Attorney
Docket No. BPI-197) entitled "Treatment of TNFa-Related Disorders Using TNFu
Inhibitors," all of which are filed on even date herewith. The entire contents of each of these
patents and patent applications are hereby incorporated herein by reference.

   BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
            Cytokines, such as interleukin-1 (IL-1)and tumor necrosis factor (TNF) are
   molecules produced by a variety of cells, such as monocytes and macrophages, which
   have been identified as mediators of inflammatory processes. Cytokines, including TNF,
 5 regulate the intensity and duration of the inflammatory response which occurs as the
   result of an injury or infection. TNFca (also referred to as TNF) has been implicated in
   the pathophysiology of a variety of human diseases and disorders, including sepsis,
   infections, autoinmune diseases, transplant rejection and graft-versus-host disease (see
   e.g., Moeller et a. (1990) Cytokine 2:162; U.S. Patent No. 5,231,024 to Moeller et al.;
10 European Patent Publication No. 260 610 B1 by Moeller, A. et aL.; Vasilli (1992) Annu.
   Rev. linmunol. 10:411; Tracey and Cerami (1994) Annu. Rev. Med. 45:491).
   SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
            There is a need to treat TNFa-related disorders, where TNFa activity is
15 detrimental, in a safe and effective manner. The present invention includes methods for
   safe and effective treatment of TNFc-related disorders where TNFa activity is
   detrimental.
            One aspect of the invention describes a method of treating a TNFa-related
    disorder in a subject comprising administering to the subject a therapeutically effective
20  amount of a neutralizing, high affinity TNFa antibody, such that said disorder is treated.
   In one embodiment the TNFa-related disorder is a spondyloartbropathy, a pulmonary
    disorder, a coronary disorder, a metabolic disorder, anemia, pain, a hepatic disorder, a
    skin disorder, a nail disorder, or vasculitis. In another embodiment, the TNFa-related
    disorder is age-related cachexia, Alzheimer's disease, brain edema, inflammatory brain
25  injury, chronic fatigue syndrome, dermatomyositis, drug reactions, edema in and/or
    around the spinal cord, familial periodic fevers, Felty's syndrome, fibrosis,.
    glomerulonephritides (e.g. post-streptococcal glomerulonephritis or IgA nephropathy),
    loosening of prostheses, microscopic polyangiitis, mixed connective tissue disorder,
    multiple myeloma, cancer and cachexia, multiple organ disorder, myelo dysplastic
30  syndrome, orchitism osteolysis, pancreatitis, including acute, chronic, and pancreatic
    abscess, periodontal disease polymyositis, progressive renal failure, pseudogout,
    pyoderma gangrenosum, relapsing polychondritis, rheumatic heart disease, sarcoidosis,
                                                   -2-

    sclerosing cholangitis, stroke, thoracoabdominal aortic aneurysm repair (TAAA), TNF
    receptor associated periodic syndrome (TRAPS), symptoms related to Yellow Fever
    vaccination, inflammatory diseases associated with the ear, chronic ear inflammation, or
    pediatric ear inflammation. In still another embodiment of the invention, the TNFax
 5  related disorder is a Crohn's disease-related disorder, juvenile arthritis/Still's disease
     (JRA), uveitis, sciatica, prostatitis, endometriosis, choroidal neovascularization, lupus,
     Sjogren's syndrome, and wet macular degeneration.
              In one embodiment, the antibody of the invention is an isolated human antibody,
     or an antigen-binding portion thereof, that dissociates from human TNFa with a Kd of 1
10   x 10-8 M or less and a Koff rate constant of 1 x 10-3 s-1 or less, both determined by
     surface plasmon resonance, and neutralizes human TNFc cytotoxicity in a standard in
     vitro L929 assay with an IC 5 0 of I x 10-7 M or less.
              In another embodiment of the invention, the antibody is an isolated human
     antibody, or an antigen-binding portion thereof which dissociates from human TNF
15   with a Koff rate constant of 1 x 10-3 s- 1 or less, as determined by surface plasmon
     resonance; has a light chain CDR3 domain comprising the amino acid sequence of SEQ
     ID NO: 3, or modified from SEQ ID NO: 3 by a single alanine substitution at position 1,
     4, 5, 7 or 8 or by one to five conservative amino acid substitutions at positions 1, 3, 4, 6,
      7, 8 and/or 9; and has a heavy chain CDR3 domain comprising the amino acid sequence
20    of SEQ ID NO: 4, or modified from SEQ ID NO: 4 by a single alanine substitution at
     position 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 8, 9, 10 or II or by one to five conservative amino acid
      substitutions at positions 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 8, 9, 10, 11 and/or 12.
               In another embodiment of the invention, the antibody is an isolated human
      antibody, or an antigen-binding portion thereof, with a light chain variable region
25    (LCVR) comprising the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO:1 and a heavy chain
      variable region (HCVR) comprising the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 2.
               In a further embodiment of the invention, the antibody is D2E7, also referred to
      as HUMIRA* or adalimumab.
               Another aspect of the invention includes a method of treating a subject suffering
 30   from a TNFoc-related disorder comprising administering a therapeutically effective
      amount of a TNFc antibody, or an antigen-binding fragment thereof, to the subject,
      wherein the antibody dissociates from human TNFa with a Kd of 1 x 10-8 M or less and
                                                      -3-

    a Kff rate constant of 1 x 10-3 s-1 or less, both determined by surface plasmon
    resonance, and neutralizes human TNFa cytotoxicity in a standard in vitro L929 assay
    with an IC5 0 of 1 x 10-7 M or less, such that said TNFa-related disorder is treated.
             Still another aspect of the invention includes a method of treating a subject
 5  suffering from a TNFx-related disorder, comprising administering a therapeutically
    effective amount a TNFa antibody, or an antigen-binding fragment thereof, wherein the
     antibody dissociates from human TNFa with a Koff rate constant of 1 x 10-3 s-1 or less,
     as determined by surface plasmon resonance; has a light chain CDR3 domain comprising
     the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 3, or modified from SEQ ID NO: 3 by a single
10   alanine substitution at position 1, 4, 5, 7 or 8 or by one to five conservative amino acid
     substitutions at positions 1, 3, 4, 6, 7, 8 and/or 9; and has a heavy chain CDR3 domain
     comprising the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 4, or modified from SEQ ID NO: 4
     by a single alanine substitution at position 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 8, 9, 10 or 11 or by one to five
     conservative amino acid substitutions at positions 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 8, 9, 10, 11 and/or 12,
15   such that said TNFax-related disorder is treated.
              A further aspect of the invention features a method of treating a subject suffering
      from a TNFa-related disorder, comprising administering a therapeutically effective
      amount a TNFa antibody, or an antigen-binding fragment thereof, with a light chain
      variable region (LCVR) comprising the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 1 and a
20    heavy chain variable region (HCVR) comprising the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID
      NO: 2, such that said TNFa-related disorder is treated. In one embodiment, the
      TNFa antibody, or antigen binding fragment thereof, is D2E7. In another embodiment,
      the TNFa.antibody is administered with at least one additional therapeutic agent.
              Yet another aspect of the invention features a method for inhibiting human TNFcc
25    activity in a human subject suffering from a TNFa-related disorder, comprising
      administering a therapeutically effective amount of a TNFa. antibody, or an antigen
      binding fragment thereof, to the subject, wherein the antibody dissociates from human
                                                                                    3
      TNFa with a Kd of 1 x 10-8 M or less and a Koff rate constant of 1 x 10- s-1 or less,
      both determined by surface plasmon resonance, and neutralizes human TNFc
 30    cytotoxicity in a standard in vitro L929 assay with an IC5 0 of 1 x 10-7 M or less. In one
       embodiment, the TNFa antibody, or antigen-binding fragment thereof, is D2E7.
                                                    -4-

            Yet another aspect of the invention includes a method of treating a subject
   suffering from a TNFax-related disorder, comprising administering a therapeutically
   effective amount of D2E7, or an antigen-binding fragment thereof, to the subject, such
   that the disease is treated.
 5          Still another aspect of the invention includes a method of treating a subject
   suffering from a TNFa-related disorder, comprising administering a therapeutically
   effective amount of D2E7, or an antigen-binding fragment thereof, to the subject, such
   that the disease is treated.
            In one embodiment of the invention, D2E7 (also referred to as HUMIRA* or
10 adalimumab) is administered with at least one additional therapeutic agent.
            Another aspect of the invention is a kit comprising a pharmaceutical composition
   comprising a TNFc antibody, or an antigen binding portion thereof, and a
   pharmaceutically acceptable carrier; and instructions for administering to a subject the
   TNFa antibody pharmaceutical composition for treating a subject who is suffering from
15 a TNFa-related disorder. In one embodiment, the TNFa antibody, or an antigen binding
   portion thereof, is D2E7 (HUMIRA*).
   DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
            This invention pertains to methods of treating TNFc-related disorders in which
20 TNFa activity, e.g., human TNFa activity, is detrimental. The methods include
    administering to the subject a therapeutically effective amount of a TNFc inhibitor, such
    that the TNFa-related disorder is treated. The invention also pertains to methods
    wherein the TNFa inhibitor is administered in combination with another therapeutic
    agent to treat a TNFa-related disorder. Various aspects of the invention relate to
25  treatment with antibodies and antibody fragments, and pharmaceutical compositions
    comprising a TNFc inhibitor, and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier for the treatment
    of TNFax-related disorders.
                                                  -5-

     Definitions
              In order that the present invention may be more readily understood, certain terms
     are first defined.
              The term "human TNFa" (abbreviated herein as hTNFca, or simply hTNF), as
 5   used herein, is intended to refer to a human cytokine that exists as a 17 kD secreted form
     and a 26 kD membrane associated form, the biologically active form of which is
                                                                              structure of hTNFa.
     composed of a trimer of noncovalently bound 17 kD molecules. The
     is described further in, for example, Pennica, D., et al. (1984) Nature 312:724-729;
     Davis, J.M., et al. (1987) Biochemistry 26:1322-1326; and Jones, E.Y., et al. (1989)
10   Nature 338:225-228. The tern human TNFa is intended to include recombinant human
                                                                                               or
      TNFa (rhTNFa), which can be prepared by standard recombinant expression methods
      purchased commercially (R & D Systems, Catalog No. 210-TA, Minneapolis, MN).
      TNFa is also referred to as TNF.
               The term "TNFa inhibitor" includes agents which inhibit TNFa. Examples of
15    TNFac inhibitors include etanercept (Enbrel*, Amgen), infliximab (Remicade*, Johnson
      and Johnson), human anti-TNF monoclonal antibody (D2E7/HUMIRA*, Abbott
      Laboratories), CDP 571 (Celltech), and CDP 870 (Celltech) and other compounds which
      inhibit TNFa activity, such that when administered to a subject suffering from or at risk
       of suffering from a disorder in which TNFax activity is detrimental, the disorder is
 20    treated. hi one embodiment, a TNFax inhibitor is a compound, excluding etanercept and
       infliximab, which inhibits TNFa activity. In another embodiment, the TNFcL inhibitors
       of the invention are used to treat a TNFa-related disorder, as described in more detail in
       section I. In one embodiment, the TNFa inhibitor, excluding etanercept and infliximab,
       is used to treat a TNFa-related disorder. In another embodiment, the TNFa inhibitor,
 25     excluding etanercept and infliximab, is used to treat ankylosing spondylitis. The term
        also includes each of the anti-TNFa human antibodies and antibody portions described
        herein as well as those described in U.S. Patent Nos. 6,090,382; 6,258,562; 6,509,015,
        and in U.S. Patent Application Serial Nos. 09/801185 and 10/302356.
                The term "antibody", as used herein, is intended to refer to immunoglobulin
  30    molecules comprised of four polypeptide chains, two heavy (H) chains and two light (L)
        chains inter-connected by disulfide bonds. Each heavy chain is comprised of a heavy
                                                    -6-

    chain variable region (abbreviated herein as HCVR or VH) and a heavy chain constant
    region. The heavy chain constant region is comprised of three domains, CH1, CH2 and
    CH3. Each light chain is comprised of a light chain variable region (abbreviated herein
    as LCVR or VL) and a light chain constant region. The light chain constant region is
 5  comprised of one domain, CL. The VH and VL regions can be further subdivided into
    regions of hypervariability, termed complementarity determining regions (CDR),
    interspersed with regions that are more conserved, termed framework regions (FR).
    Each VH and VL is composed of three CDRs and four FRs, arranged from amino
    terminus to carboxy-terminus in the following order: FRI, CDR1, FR2, CDR2, FR3,
10   CDR3, FR4. The antibodies of the invention are described in further detail in U.S.
     Patent Nos. 6,090,382; 6,258,562; and 6,509,015, and in U.S. Patent Application Serial
     Nos. 09/801185 and 10/302356, each of which is incorporated herein by reference in its
     entirety.
              The term "antigen-binding portion" of an antibody (or simply "antibody
15   portion"), as used herein, refers to one or more fragments of an antibody that retain the
     ability to specifically bind to an antigen (e.g., hTNFa). It has been shown that the
     antigen-binding function of an antibody can be performed by fragments of a full-length
     antibody. Examples of binding fragments encompassed within the term "antigen
     binding portion" of an antibody include (i) a Fab fragment, a monovalent fragment
20   consisting of the VL, VH, CL and CHI domains; (ii) a F(ab')2 fragment, a bivalent
     fragment comprising two Fab fragments linked by a disulfide bridge at the hinge region;
     (iii) a Fd fragment consisting of the VH and CH1 domains; (iv) a Fv fragment consisting
     of the VL and VH domains of a single arm of an antibody, (v) a dAb fragment (Ward et
     al., (1989) Nature 341:544-546 ), which consists of a VH domain; and (vi) an isolated
 25  complementarity determining region (CDR). Furthermore, although the two domains of
      the Fv fragment, VL and VH, are coded for by separate genes, they can be joined, using
      recombinant methods, by a synthetic linker that enables them to be made as a single
      protein chain in which the VL and VH regions pair to form monovalent molecules
      (known as single chain Fv (scFv); see e.g., Bird et al. (1988) Science 242:423-426; and
 30   Huston et al. (1988) Proc.Nati. Acad. Sci. USA 85:5879-5883) . Such single chain
      antibodies are also intended to be encompassed within the term "antigen-binding
      portion" of an antibody. Other forms of single chain antibodies, such as diabodies are
                                                     -7-

    also encompassed. Diabodies are bivalent, bispecific antibodies in which VH and VL
    domains are expressed on a single polypeptide chain, but using a linker that is too short
    to allow for pairing between the two domains on the same chain, thereby forcing the
    domains to pair with complementary domains of another chain and creating two antigen
 5  binding sites (see e.g., Holliger, P., et al. (1993) Proc.Nati. Acad. Sci. USA 90:6444
                                                                                   portions of the
    6448; PoIjak, R.J., et al. (1994) Structure 2:1121-1123). The antibody
    invention are described in further detail in U.S. Patent Nos. 6,090,382, 6,258,562,
                                                                            and 10/302356, each of
     6,509,015, and in U.S. Patent Application Serial Nos. 09/801185
     which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.
10            Binding fragments are produced by recombinant DNA techniques, or by
                                                                                 fragments include
     enzymatic or chemical cleavage of intact immunoglobulins. Binding
                                                                                    Other than
     Fab, Fab', F(ab') 2 , Fabc, Fv, single chains, and single-chain antibodies.
                                                                                                 or
     "bispecific" or "bifunctional" immunoglobulins or antibodies, an immunoglobulin
                                                                                              or
     antibody is understood to have each of its binding sites identical. A "bispecific"
15   "bifunctional antibody" is an artificial hybrid antibody having two different heavy/light
     chain pairs and two different binding sites. Bispecific antibodies can be produced by a
      variety of methods including fusion of hybridomas or linking of Fab' fragments. See,
                                                                                               et al.,
      e.g., Songsivilai & Lachmann, Clin. Exp. Immunol. 79:315-321 (1990); Kostelny
      J. Immunol. 148, 1547-1553 (1992).
20            A "conservative amino acid substitution", as used herein, is one in which one
      amino acid residue is replaced with another amino acid residue having a similar side
                                                                                                    in
      chain. Families of amino acid residues having similar side chains have been defined
      the art, including basic side chains (e.g., lysine, arginine, histidine), acidic side chains
      (e.g., aspartic acid, glutarnic acid), uncharged polar side chains (e.g., glycine, asparagine,
 25   glutamine, seine, threonine, tyrosine, cysteine), nonpolar side chains (e.g., alanine,
      valine, leucine, isoleucine, proline, phenylalanine, methionine, tryptophan), beta
      branched side chains (e.g., threonine, valine, isoleucine) and aromatic side chains (e.g.,
       tyrosine, phenylalanine, tryptophan, histidine).
               The term "human antibody", as used herein, is intended to include antibodies
 30    having variable and constant regions derived from human germline immunoglobulin
                                                                                         residues not
       sequences. The human antibodies of the invention may include amino acid
        encoded by human germline immunoglobulin sequences (e.g., mutations introduced by
                                                      -8-

    random or site-specific mutagenesis in vitro or by somatic mutation in vivo), for example
    in the CDRs and in particular CDR3. However, the term "human antibody", as used
    herein, is not intended to include antibodies in which CDR sequences derived from the
    germline of another mammalian species, such as a mouse, have been grafted onto human
 5  framework sequences.
             The term "recombinant human antibody", as used herein, is intended to include
    all human antibodies that are prepared, expressed, created or isolated by recombinant
    means, such as antibodies expressed using a recombinant expression vector transfected
     into a host cell (described further below), antibodies isolated from a recombinant,
10   combinatorial human antibody library (described further below), antibodies isolated
     from an animal (e.g., a mouse) that is transgenic for human immunoglobulin genes (see
     e.g., Taylor, L.D. et al. (1992) Nucl. Acids Res. 20:6287) or antibodies prepared,
     expressed, created or isolated by any other means that involves splicing of human
     immunoglobulin gene sequences to other DNA sequences. Such recombinant human
15   antibodies have variable and constant regions derived from human germline
     immunoglobulin sequences. In certain embodiments, however, such recombinant human
      antibodies are subjected to in vitro mutagenesis (or, when an animal transgenic for
      human Ig sequences is used, in vivo somatic mutagenesis) and thus the amino acid
      sequences of the VH and VL regions of the recombinant antibodies are sequences that,
20    while derived from and related to human germline VH and VL sequences, may not
      naturally exist within the human antibody germline repertoire in vivo.
              An "isolated antibody", as used herein, is intended to refer to an antibody that is
      substantially free of other antibodies having different antigenic specificities (e.g., an
      isolated antibody that specifically binds hTNFa is substantially free of antibodies that
 25   specificallybind antigens other than hTNFa). An isolated antibody that specifically
      binds hTNFa may, however, have cross-reactivity to other antigens, such as TNFa
      molecules from other species (discussed in further detail below). Moreover, an isolated
      antibody may be substantially free of other cellular material and/or chemicals.
              A "neutralizing antibody", as used herein (or an "antibody that neutralized
 30   hTNFa activity"), is intended to refer to an antibody whose binding to hTNFa results in
      inhibition of the biological activity of hTNFax. This inhibition of the biological activity
       of hTNFa can be assessed by measuring one or more indicators of hTNFa biological
                                                   -9-

   activity, such as hTNFa-induced cytotoxicity (either in vitro or in vivo), hTNFa-induced
   cellular activation and hTNF binding to hTNFa receptors. These indicators of hTNFa
   biological activity can be assessed by one or more of several standard in vitro or in vivo
   assays known in the art (see U.S. Patent No. 6,090,382). Preferably, the ability of an
 5 antibody to neutralize hTNFcc activity is assessed by inhibition of hTNFa-induced
   cytotoxicity of L929 cells. As an additional or alternative parameter of hTNFca activity,
   the ability of an antibody to inhibit hTNFa-induced expression of ELAM-1 on HUVEC,
   as a measure of hTNFc-induced cellular activation, can be assessed.
            The term "surface plasmon resonance", as used herein, refers to an optical
10 phenomenon that allows for the analysis of real-time biospecific interactions by
   detection of alterations in protein concentrations within a biosensor matrix, for example
   using the BlAcore system (Pharmacia Biosensor AB, Uppsala, Sweden and Piscataway,
   NJ). For further descriptions, see Example 1 of U.S. Patent 6,258,562 and Jnsson et al.
   (1993) Ann. Bio. Clin. 51:19; Jbnsson et al. (1991) Biotechniques 11:620-627; Johnsson
15 et al. (1995) J. Mol. Recognit. 8:125; and Johnnson et al. (1991) Anal. Biochem.198:268.
            The term "Koff", as used herein, is intended to refer to the off rate constant for
   dissociation of an antibody from the antibody/antigen complex.
            The term "Kd", as used herein, is intended to refer to the dissociation constant of
    a particular antibody-antigen interaction.
20          The term "IC50" as used herein, is intended to refer to the concentration of the
    inhibitor required to inhibit the biological endpoint of interest, e.g., neutralize
    cytotoxicity activity.
            The term "nucleic acid molecule", as used herein, is intended to include DNA
    molecules and RNA molecules. A nucleic acid molecule may be single-stranded or
25  double-stranded, but preferably is double-stranded DNA.
            The term "isolated nucleic acid molecule", as used herein in reference to nucleic
    acids encoding antibodies or antibody portions (e.g., VH, VL, CDR3) that bind hTNFa,
    is intended to refer to a nucleic acid molecule in which the nucleotide sequences
     encoding the antibody or antibody portion are free of other nucleotide sequences
30   encoding antibodies or antibody portions that bind antigens other than hTNFca, which
    other sequences may naturally flank the nucleic acid in human genomic DNA. Thus, for
    example, an isolated nucleic acid of the invention encoding a VH region of an anti
                                                 -10-

    hTNFc antibody contains no other sequences encoding other VH regions that bind
    antigens other than hTNFa.
              The term "vector", as used herein, is intended to refer to a nucleic acid molecule
    capable of transporting another nucleic acid to which it has been linked. One type of
 5  vector is a "plasmid", which refers to a circular double stranded DNA loop into which
    additional DNA segments may be ligated. Another type of vector is a viral vector,
    wherein additional DNA segments may be ligated into the viral genome. Certain vectors
    are capable of autonomous replication in a host cell into which they are introduced (e.g.,
    bacterial vectors having a bacterial origin of replication and episomal mammalian
10  vectors). Other vectors (e.g., non-episomal mammalian vectors) can be integrated into
    the genome of a host cell upon introduction into the host cell, and thereby are replicated
     along with the host genome. Moreover, certain vectors are capable of directing the
     expression of genes to which they are operatively linked. Such vectors are referred to
     herein as "recombinant expression vectors" (or simply, "expression vectors"). In
15   general, expression vectors of utility in recombinant DNA techniques are often in the
     form of plasmids. In the present specification, "plasmid" and "vector" may be used
     interchangeably as the plasmid is the most commonly used form of vector. However, the
     invention is intended to include such other forms of expression vectors, such as viral
     vectors (e.g., replication defective retroviruses, adenoviruses and adeno-associated
20   viruses), which serve equivalent functions.
               The term "recombinant host cell" (or simply "host cell"), as used herein, is
      intended to refer to a cell into which a recombinant expression vector has been
      introduced. It should be understood that such terms are intended to refer not only to the
      particular subject cell but to the progeny of such a cell. Because certain modifications
25    may occur in succeeding generations due to either mutation or environmental influences,
      such progeny may not, in fact, be identical to the parent cell, but are still included within
      the scope of the term "host cell" as used herein.
                The term "dosing", as used herein, refers to the administration of a substance
                                                                                              of a
       (e.g., an anti-TNFc antibody) to achieve a therapeutic objective (e.g., the treatment
 30    TNFcc-associated disorder).
                                                   - 11 -

              The terms "biweekly dosing regimen", "biweekly dosing", and "biweekly
    administration", as used herein, refer to the time course of administering a substance
    (e.g., an anti-TNFx antibody) to a subject to achieve a therapeutic objective (e.g., the
    treatment of a TNFa-associated disorder). The biweekly dosing regimen is not intended
 5  to include a weekly dosing regimen. Preferably, the substance is administered every 9
    19 days, more preferably, every 11-17 days, even more preferably, every 13-15 days, and
    most preferably, every 14 days.
              The term "combination" as in the phrase "a first agent in combination with a
    second agent" includes co-administration of a first agent and a second agent, which for
10   example may be dissolved or intermixed in the same pharmaceutically acceptable
     carrier, or administration of a first agent, followed by the second agent, or administration
     of the second agent, followed by the first agent. The present invention, therefore,
     includes methods of combination therapeutic treatment and combination pharmaceutical
     compositions.
15             The term "concomitant" as in the phrase "concomitant therapeutic treatment"
     includes administering an agent in the presence of a second agent. A concomitant
     therapeutic treatment method includes methods in which the first, second, third, or
      additional agents are co-administered. A concomitant therapeutic treatment method also
      includes methods in which the first or additional agents are administered in the presence
20    of a second or additional agents, wherein the second or additional agents, for example,
      may have been previously administered. A concomitant therapeutic treatment method
                                                                                                to
      may be executed step-wise by different actors. For example, one actor may administer
      a subject a first agent and a second actor may to administer to the subject a second agent,
      and the administering steps may be executed at the same time, or nearly the same time,
 25   or at distant times, so long as the first agent (and additional agents) are after
       administration in the presence of the second agent (and additional agents). The actor and
       the subject may be the same entity (e.g., human).
               The term "combination therapy", as used herein, refers to the administration of
       two or more therapeutic substances, e.g., an anti-TNFu antibody and another drug, such
 30    as a DMARD or NSAID. The other drug(s) may be administered concomitant with,
       prior to, or following the administration of an anti-TNFa antibody.
                                                    -12-

           The term "TNFcc-mediated condition" or "TNFa-related disorder" refers to a
   local and/or systemic physiological disorder where TNFca is a primary mediator leading
   to the manifestation of the disorder.
           The term "inflammatory disorder" or "inflammatory disease," as used
 5 interchangeably herein, refers to an inflammation-mediated malady, whether or not also
   immune mediated. Inflammatory disorders are disorders in which an excessive or
   unregulated inflammatory response leads to excessive inflammatory symptoms, host
   tissue damage, or loss of tissue function. Examples include rheumatoid arthritis and
   spondyloarthropathies. In one embodiment, the inflammatory disorder of the invention
10 refers to an inflammation-mediated malady excluding osteoarthritis and rheumatoid
   spondylitis.
            The term "pulmonary disease" as used herein refers to any idiopathic interstitial
    lung disease and/or chronic obstructive airway disorder. In one embodiment of the
    invention, the term pulmonary disease includes any lung disease and/or chronic
15  obstructive airway disorder excluding shock lung, chronic pulmonary inflammatory
    disease, pulmonary sacroidosis, pulmonary fibrosis, and silicosis.
            The term "idiopathic interstitial lung disease" or "idiopathic interstitial lung
    disorder," as used interchangeably herein, refers to any one of several diseases of
    unknown etiology with similar clinical features, producing diffuse pathologic changes
20  primarily in interalveolar interstitial tissue. Examples of idiopathic interstitial lung
    diseases include, but are not limited to, interstitial pulmonary fibrosis (IPF). In one
    embodiment, idiopathic interstitial lung diseases include any one of several diseases of
    unknown etiology with similar clinical features, producing diffuse pathologic changes
    primarily in interalveolar interstitial tissue but exclude shock lung, chronic pulmonary
25  inflammatory disease, pulmonary sacroidosis, pulmonary fibrosis, and silicosis.
            The term "chronic obstructive airway disorder" as used herein, refers to
    puhnonary diseases due to physiologically determined chronic airflow obstruction,
    regardless of etiology. Examples of chronic obstructive airway disorders include, but are
    not limited to, asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). In one
30  embodiment, the term chronic obstructive airway disorder includes pulmonary diseases
    due to physiologically determined chronic airflow obstruction but excludes shock lung,
                                                   - 13 -

   chronic pulmonary inflammatory disease, pulmonary sacroidosis, pulmonary fibrosis,
   and silicosis
            The term "airway obstruction" refers to an increased resistance to airflow
   exhibited by characteristic spirometric findings.
 5          The term "cardiovascular disorder" or "coronary disorder" as used
   interchangeably herein, refers to any disease, disorder, or state involving the
   cardiovascular system, e.g., the heart, the blood vessels, and/or the blood. A coronary
   disorder is generally characterized by a narrowing of the blood vessels that supply blood
   and oxygen to the heart (coronary arteries). Coronary disease usually results from the
10 build up of fatty material and plaque. As the coronary arteries narrow, the flow of blood
   to the heart can slow or stop. Coronary disorders of the invention can apply to any
   abnormality of an artery, whether structural, histological, biochemical or any other
    abnormality. An example of coronary heart disease is restenosis. In one embodiment, a
    coronary disorder refers to any disease, disorder, or state involving the cardiovascular
15  system excluding ischemia of the heart and heart insufficiency.
            The term "restenosis" as used herein refers to the recurrence of stenosis, which is
    the narrowing or constriction of an artery. Restenosis often occurs as a preocclusive
    lesion that develops following a reconstructive procedure in a diseased blood vessel.
    The term is not only applied to the recurrence of a pre-existing stenosis, but also to
20  previously normal vessels that become partially occluded following vascular bypass. In
    another embodiment, the invention provides a method of treating restenosis comprising
    administering the antibody, or antigen binding portion thereof, of the invention to a
    subject who has or is at risk of developing restenosis.
             The term "stent" as used herein refers to a structure that is inserted into the lumen
25  of an anatomical vessel, e.g. an artery, especially to keep a formerly blocked passageway
     open. Stent is used to maintain the flow of fluids (e.g., blood) from one portion of a
    vessel to another, and an endovascular scaffolding or stent which holds open a body
    passageway and/or supports the graft or wrap. A stent is often used following balloon
     angioplasty, although they can also be used as direct therapy for treating stenosis.
30           In one embodiment of the invention, the stent is drug-eluting. The term "drug
     eluting" refers to a stent which is coated with a slow-to-moderate release drug
     formulation. The terms "drug-eluting" or "drug-releasing" or "drug-coated" are used
                                                 -14-

   interchangeably herein. A stent can be coated with any drug which treats coronary heart
   disease, including, for example, the antibody, or antigen-binding fragment thereof, of the
   invention. In another embodiment, the stent delivers D2E7. In a further embodiment,
   the stent delivers D2E7 in combination with another drug used to treat coronary
 5 disorders, including dexamethasone, alkeran, cytoxan, leukeran, cis-platinum, BiCNU,
   adriamycin, doxorubicin, cerubidine, idamycin, mithracin, mutamycin, fluorouracil,
   methotrexate, thoguanine, toxotere, etoposide, vincristine, irinotecan, hycamptin,
   matulane, vumon, hexalin, hydroxyurea, gemzar, oncovin, etophophos, tacrolimus
   (FK506), and the following analogs of sirolimus: SDZ-RAD, CCI-779, 7-epi-rapamycin,
10 7-thiomethyl-rapamycin, 7-epi-trimethoxyphenyl-- rapamycin, 7-epi-thiomethyl
   rapamycin, 7-demethoxy-rapamycin, 32-demethoxy, 2-desmethyl and proline.
            The term "metabolic disorder," as used herein, refers to diseases or disorders
   which affect how the body processes substances needed to carry out physiological
   functions. Examples of metabolic disorders include, but are not limited to, diabetes and
15 obesity. In one embodiment of the invention, the term "metabolic disorder" is used to
   refer to disorders which affect how the body processes substances needed to carry out
   physiological functions, excluding autoimmune diabetes.
           The term "diabetes" or "diabetic disorder" or "diabetes mellitus," as used
   interchangeably herein, refers to a disease which is marked by elevated levels of sugar
20 (glucose) in the blood. Diabetes can be caused by too little insulin (a chemical produced
   by the pancreas to regulate blood sugar), resistance to insulin, or both.
           The phrase "disorders associated with diabetes," as used herein, refers to
   conditions and other diseases which are commonly associated with or related to diabetes.
   Example of disorders associated with diabetes include, for example, hyperglycemia,
25 hyperinsulinaemia, hyperlipidaemia, insulin resistance, impaired glucose metabolism,
   obesity, diabetic retinopathy, macular degeneration, cataracts, diabetic nephropathy,
   glomerulosclerosis, diabetic neuropathy, erectile dysfunction, premenstrual syndrome,
   vascular restenosis, ulcerative colitis, coronary heart disease, hypertension, angina
   pectoris, myocardial infarction, stroke, skin and connective tissue disorders, foot
30 ulcerations, metabolic acidosis, arthritis, and osteoporosis.
                                                - 15 -

             The term "obesity" as used herein, refers to a condition in which the subject has
    an excess of body fat relative to lean body mass. In one embodiment, obesity refers to a
    condition in which an individual weighs at least about 20% or more over the maximum
    desirable for their height. When an adult is more than 100 pounds overweight, he or
 5  she is considered to be "morbidly obese." In another embodiment, obesity is defined as
    a BMI (body mass index) over 30 kg/m2.
            The term "anemia" as used herein, refers to an abnormally low number of
   circulating red cells or a decreased concentration of hemoglobin in the blood.
            The term "pain" as used herein, refers to all types of pain. The term shall refer to
10 acute and chronic pains, such as neuropathic pain and post-operative pain, chronic lower
   back pain, cluster headaches, herpes neuralgia, phantom limb pain, central pain, dental
   pain, opioid-resistant pain, visceral pain, surgical pain, bone injury pain, pain during
   labor and delivery, pain resulting from bums, including sunburn, post partum pain,
   migraine, angina pain, and genitourinary tract-related pain including cystitis. The term
15 also includes nociceptive pain or nociception.
            As used herein, the term "hepatic disorder" refers to a mammalian and preferably
   a human liver disease or condition associated with hepatocellular injury or a biliary tract
   disorder. In one embodiment, hepatic disorders refers to a human liver disease or
   condition associated with hepatocellular injury or a biliary tract disorder excluding
20 hepatitis, alcoholic hepatitis, and viral hepatitis.
            The term "skin disorder" or "skin disease" as used interchangeably herein, refers
   to abnormalities, other than injury wounds, of the skin which have induced a state of
   inflammation. In one embodiment, the skin disorder of the invention is an inflammatory
   skin disorder, wherein the skin is characterized by capillary dilatation, leukocytic
25 infiltration, redness, heat, and/or pain. Examples of skin disorders include, but are not
   limited to, psoriasis, pemphigus vulgaris, scleroderma, atopic dermatitis, sarcoidosis,
   erythema nodosum, hidradenitis suppurative, lichen planus, Sweet's syndrome, and
   vitiligo.
            The term "psoriasis" as used herein, refers to skin disorders associated with
30 epidermal hyperplasia. Example of psoriasis include, but are not limited to, chronic
   plaque psoriasis, guttate psoriasis, inverse psoriasis, pustular psoriasis, psoriasis
   vulgaris, and erythrodermic psoriasis. Psoriasis can also be associated with other
                                                -16-

   inflammatory disorders, including inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) and rheumatoid
   arthritis (RA).
            The term "healthy skin" or "normal skin" refers to non-lesional skin, i.e., with no
   visually obvious erythema, edema, hyper-, hypo-, or uneven pigmentations, scale
 5 formation, xerosis, or blister formation. Histologically, healthy or normal skin refers to
   skin tissue with a morphological appearance comprising well-organized basal, spinous,
   and granular layers, and a coherent multi-layered stratum corneum.
            The term "nail disorder" or "nail disease" as used herein, refers to conditions
   wherein the fingernails or toenails to abnormal color, shape, texture, or thickness.
10          The term "vasculitis" or "vasculitides" as used interchangeably herein, refers to a
   group of disorders which are characterized by the inflammation of blood vessels. Blood
   vessels of all sizes may be affected, from the largest vessel in the body (the aorta) to the
    smallest blood vessels in the skin (capillaries). The size of blood vessel affected varies
    according to the specific type of vasculitis.
15          The term "kit" as used herein refers to a packaged product comprising
   components with which to administer the TNFa antibody of the invention for treatment
    of a TNFa-related disorder. The kit preferably comprises a box or container that holds
    the components of the kit. The box or container is affixed with a label or a Food and
   Drug Administration approved protocol. The box or container holds components of the
20  invention which are preferably contained within plastic, polyethylene, polypropylene,
    ethylene, or propylene vessels. The vessels can be capped-tubes or bottles. The kit can
    also include instructions for administering the TNFa antibody of the invention.
            Various aspects of the invention are described in further detail herein.
25  I. TNFa Inhibitors of the Invention
            This invention provides a method of treating a TNFc-related disorder in which
    the administration of a TNFa inhibitor is beneficial. In one embodiment, these methods
    include administration of isolated human antibodies, or antigen-binding portions thereof,
    that bind to human TNFa with high affinity and a low off rate, and have a high
30  neutralizing capacity. Preferably, the human antibodies of the invention are
    recombinant, neutralizing human anti-hTNFa antibodies. The most preferred
    recombinant, neutralizing antibody of the invention is referred to herein as D2E7, also
                                                  -17-

   referred to as HUIMIRA      and adalimumab (the amino acid sequence of the D2E7 VL
   region is shown in SEQ ID NO: 1; the amino acid sequence of the D2E7 VH region is
   shown in SEQ ID NO: 2). The properties of D2E7 (HUMIIRA)             have been described in
   Salfeld et al., U.S. patent No. 6,090,382, which is incorporated by reference herein.
 5          In one embodiment, the treatment of the invention includes the administration of
   D2E7 antibodies and antibody portions, D2E7-related antibodies and antibody portions,
   and other human antibodies and antibody portions with equivalent properties to D2E7,
   such as high affinity binding to hTNFa with low dissociation kinetics and high
   neutralizing capacity. In one embodiment, the invention provides treatment with an
10 isolated human antibody, or an antigen-binding portion thereof, that dissociates from
   human TNFc with a Kd of 1 x 10-8 M or less and a Koff rate constant of 1 x 10-3 s-1 or
   less, both determined by surface plasmon resonance, and neutralizes human TNFa
   cytotoxicity in a standard in vitro L929 assay with an IC5 0 of 1 x 10-7 M or less. More
   preferably, the isolated human antibody, or antigen-binding portion thereof, dissociates
15  from human TNFac with a Koff of 5 x 10-4 s-1 or less, or even more preferably, with a
   Koff of 1 x 10-4 s-1 or less. More preferably, the isolated human antibody, or antigen
   binding portion thereof, neutralizes human TNFx cytotoxicity in a standard in vitro L929
    assay with an IC5 0 of 1 x 10-8 M or less, even more preferably with an IC5 0 of 1 x 10-9
    M or less and still more preferably with an IC 50 of 1 x 10-10 M or less. In a preferred
20  embodiment, the antibody is an isolated human recombinant antibody, or an antigen
    binding portion thereof.
            It is well known in the art that antibody heavy and light chain CDR3 domains
    play an important role in the binding specificity/affinity of an antibody for an antigen.
    Accordingly, in another aspect, the invention pertains to methods of treating a TNFa
25  related disorder in which the TNFa activity is detrimental by administering human
    antibodies that have slow dissociation kinetics for association with hTNFa'and that have
    light and heavy chain CDR3 domains that structurally are identical to or related to those
    of D2E7. Position 9 of the D2E7 VL CDR3 can be occupied by Ala or Thr without
    substantially affecting the Koff. Accordingly, a consensus motif for the D2E7 VL CDR3
30  comprises the amino acid sequence: Q-R-Y-N-R-A-P-Y-(T/A) (SEQ ID NO: 3).
    Additionally, position 12 of the D2E7 VH CDR3 can be occupied by Tyr or Asn,
    without substantially affecting the Koff. Accordingly, a consensus motif for the D2E7
                                                  - 18 -

    VH CDR3 comprises the amino acid sequence: V-S-Y-L-S-T-A-S-S-L-D-(Y/N)                 (SEQ
    ID NO: 4). Moreover, as demonstrated in Example 2 of U.S. Patent No. 6,090,382, the
    CDR3 domain of the D2E7 heavy and light chains is amenable to substitution with a
    single alanine residue (at position 1, 4, 5, 7 or 8 within the VL CDR3 or at position 2, 3,
 5  4, 5, 6, 8, 9, 10 or 11 within the VH CDR3) without substantially affecting the Koff.
    Still further, the skilled artisan will appreciate that, given the amenability of the D2E7
    VL and VH CDR3 domains to substitutions by alanine, substitution of other amino acids
    within the CDR3 domains may be possible while still retaining the low off rate constant
    of the antibody, in particular substitutions with conservative amino acids. Preferably,
10  no more than one to five conservative amino acid substitutions are made within the
    D2E7 VL and/or VH CDR3 domains. More preferably, no more than one to three
     conservative amino acid substitutions are made within the D2E7 VL and/or VH CDR3
     domains. Additionally, conservative amino acid substitutions should not be made at
     amino acid positions critical for binding to hTNFca. Positions 2 and 5 of the D2E7 VL
15   CDR3 and positions I and 7 of the D2E7 VH CDR3 appear to be critical for interaction
     with hTNFa and thus, conservative amino acid substitutions preferably are not made at
     these positions (although an alanine substitution at position 5 of the D2E7 VL CDR3 is
     acceptable, as described above) (see U.S. Patent No. 6,090,382).
               Accordingly, in another embodiment, the invention provides methods of treating
20   a TNFc-related disorder by the administration of an isolated human antibody, or antigen
     binding portion thereof. The antibody or antigen-binding portion thereof preferably
     contains the following characteristics:
               a) dissociates from human TNFoc with a Koff rate constant of 1 x 10-3 s-1 or
      less, as determined by surface plasmon resonance;
 25            b) has a light chain CDR3 domain comprising the amino acid sequence of SEQ
      ID NO: 3, or modified from SEQ ID NO: 3 by a single alanine substitution at position 1,
      4, 5, 7 or 8 or by one to five conservative amino acid substitutions at positions 1, 3, 4, 6,
      7, 8 and/or 9;
               c) has a heavy chain CDR3 domain comprising the amino acid sequence of SEQ
 30   ID NO: 4, or modified from SEQ ID NO: 4 by a single alanine substitution at position 2,
       3, 4, 5, 6, 8, 9, 10 or 11 or by one to five conservative amino acid substitutions at
      positions 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 8, 9, 10, 11 and/or 12.
                                                     -19-

           More preferably, the antibody, or antigen-binding portion thereof, dissociates
   from human TNFa with a Koff of 5 x 10- 4 s-1 or less. Even more preferably, the
   antibody, or antigen-binding portion thereof, dissociates from human TNFa with a Koff
   of I x 10-4 s- 1 or less.
 5          In yet another embodiment, the invention provides methods of treating a TNFa
   related disorder by the administration of an isolated human antibody, or antigen-binding
   portion thereof. The antibody or antigen-binding portion thereof preferably contains a
   light chain variable region (LCVR) having a CDR3 domain comprising the amino acid
    sequence of SEQ ID NO: 3, or modified from SEQ ID NO: 3 by a single alanine
10  substitution at position 1, 4, 5, 7 or 8, and with a heavy chain variable region (HCVR)
   having a CDR3 domain comprising the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 4, or
    modified from SEQ ID NO: 4 by a single alanine substitution at position 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 8,
    9, 10 or 11. Preferably, the LCVR further has a CDR2 domain comprising the amino
    acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 5 (i.e., the D2E7 VL CDR2) and the HCVR further has a
15  CDR2 domain comprising the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 6 (i.e., the D2E7 VH
    CDR2). Even more preferably, the LCVR further has CDR1 domain comprising the
    amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 7 (i.e., the D2E7 VL CDR1) and the HCVR has a
    CDR1 domain comprising the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 8 (i.e., the D2E7 VH
    CDR1). The framework regions for VL preferably are from the V.I human germline
20  family, more preferably from the A20 human germline Vk gene and most preferably
    from the D2E7 VL framework sequences shown in Figures IA and 1B of U.S. Patent
                                                                                   3
    No. 6,090,382. The framework regions for VH preferably are from the VH human
    germline family, more preferably from the DP-31 human germline VH gene and most
    preferably from the D2E7 VH framework sequences shown in Figures 2A and 2B of
25  U.S. Patent No. 6,090,382.
             Accordingly, in another embodiment, the invention provides methods of treating
    a TNFa-related disorder by the administration of an isolated human antibody, or antigen
    binding portion thereof. The antibody or antigen-binding portion thereof preferably
     contains a light chain variable region (LCVR) comprising the amino acid sequence of
30   SEQ ID NO: 1 (i.e., the D2E7 VL) and a heavy chain variable region (HCVR)
     comprising the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 2 (i.e., the D2E7 VH). In certain
     embodiments, the antibody comprises a heavy chain constant region, such as an IgG1,
                                                  -20-

    IgG2, IgG3, IgG4, IgA, IgE, IgM or IgD constant region. Preferably, the heavy chain
    constant region is an IgGI heavy chain constant region or an IgG4 heavy chain constant
    region. Furthermore, the antibody can comprise a light chain constant region, either a
    kappa light chain constant region or a lambda light chain constant region. Preferably,
 5  the antibody comprises a kappa light chain constant region. Alternatively, the antibody
    portion can be, for example, a Fab fragment or a single chain Fv fragment.
              In still other embodiments, the invention provides methods of treating a TNFax
    related disorder in which the administration of an anti-TNFac antibody is beneficial
     administration of an isolated human antibody, or an antigen-binding portions thereof.
10  The antibody or antigen-binding portion thereof preferably contains D2E7-related VL
     and VH CDR3 domains, for example, antibodies, or antigen-binding portions thereof,
     with a light chain variable region (LCVR) having a CDR3 domain comprising an amino
     acid sequence selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NO: 3, SEQ ID NO: 11,
     SEQ ID NO: 12, SEQ ID NO: 13, SEQ ID NO: 14, SEQ ID NO: 15, SEQ ID NO: 16,
15   SEQ ID NO: 17, SEQ ID NO: 18, SEQ ID NO: 19, SEQ ID NO: 20, SEQ ID NO: 21,
                                                                                             26
     SEQ ID NO: 22, SEQ ID NO: 23, SEQ ID NO: 24, SEQ ID NO: 25 and SEQ ID NO:
     or with a heavy chain variable region (HCVR) having a CDR3 domain comprising an
     amino acid sequence selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NO: 4, SEQ ID NO:
                                                                                        NO:
     27, SEQ ID NO: 28, SEQ ID NO: 29, SEQ ID NO: 30, SEQ ID NO: 31, SEQ ID
20   32, SEQ ID NO: 33, SEQ ID NO: 34 and SEQ ID NO: 35.
               In another embodiment, the TNFa inhibitor of the invention is etanercept
      (described in WO 91/03553 and WO 09/406476), infliximab (described in U.S. Patent
     No. 5,656,272), CDP571 (a humanized monoclonal anti-TNF-alpha IgG4 antibody),
      CDP 870 (a humanized monoclonal anti-TNF-alpha antibody fragment), D2E7 (a human
 25   anti-TNF mAb), soluble TNF receptor Type I, or a pegylated soluble TNF receptor Type
      I (PEGs TNF-R1).
                The TNFa antibody of the invention can be modified. In some embodiments, the
      TNFa antibody or antigen binding fragments thereof, is chemically modified to provide
       a desired effect. For example, pegylation of antibodies and antibody fragments of the
 30    invention may be carried out by any of the pegylation reactions known in the art, as
       described, for example, in the following references: Focus on Growth Factors 3:4-10
       (1992); EP 0 154 316; and EP 0 401 384 (each of which is incorporated by reference
                                                  -21-

   herein in its entirety). Preferably, the pegylation is carried out via an acylation reaction
   or an alkylation reaction with a reactive polyethylene glycol molecule (or an analogous
   reactive water-soluble polymer). A preferred water-soluble polymer for pegylation of
   the antibodies and antibody fragments of the invention is polyethylene glycol (PEG). As
 5 used herein, "polyethylene glycol" is meant to encompass any of the forms of PEG that
   have been used to derivatize other proteins, such as mono (Cl-C1O) alkoxy- or aryloxy
   polyethylene glycol.
             Methods for preparing pegylated antibodies and antibody fragments of the
    invention will generally comprise the steps of (a) reacting the antibody or antibody
10  fragment with polyethylene glycol, such as a reactive ester or aldehyde derivative of
   PEG, under conditions whereby the antibody or antibody fragment becomes attached to
    one or more PEG groups, and (b) obtaining the reaction products. It will be apparent to
    one of ordinary skill in the art to select the optimal reaction conditions or the acylation
    reactions based on known parameters and the desired result.
15           Pegylated antibodies and antibody fragments may generally be used to treat
    TNFca-related disorders of the invention by administration of the TNFC antibodies and
    antibody fragments described herein. Generally the pegylated antibodies and antibody
    fragments have increased half-life, as compared to the nonpegylated antibodies and
    antibody fragments. The pegylated antibodies and antibody fragments may be employed
20  alone, together, or in combination with other pharmaceutical compositions.
              In yet another embodiment of the invention, TNFc antibodies or fragments
    thereof can be altered wherein the constant region of the antibody is modified to reduce
     at least one constant region-mediated biological effector function relative to an
    unmodified antibody. To modify an antibody of the invention such that it exhibits
25  reduced binding to the Fc receptor, the immunoglobulin constant region segment of the
     antibody can be mutated at particular regions necessary for Fc receptor (FcR)
     interactions (see e.g., Canfield, S.M. and S.L. Morrison (1991) J. Exp. Med. 173:1483
     1491; and Lund, J. et al. (1991) J. ofImmunol. 147:2657-2662). Reduction in FcR
     binding ability of the antibody may also reduce other effector functions which rely on
30   FcR interactions, such as opsonization and phagocytosis and antigen-dependent cellular
     cytotoxicity.
                                                   -22 -

           An antibody or antibody portion of the invention can be derivatized or linked to
   another functional molecule (e.g., another peptide or protein). Accordingly, the
   antibodies and antibody portions of the invention are intended to include derivatized and
   otherwise modified forms of the human anti-hTNFa antibodies described herein,
 5 including immunoadhesion molecules. For example, an antibody or antibody portion of
   the invention can be functionally linked (by chemical coupling, genetic fusion,
   noncovalent association or otherwise) to one or more other molecular entities, such as
   another antibody (e.g., a bispecific antibody or a diabody), a detectable agent, a cytotoxic
   agent, a pharmaceutical agent, and/or a protein or peptide that can mediate associate of
10 the antibody or antibody portion with another molecule (such as a streptavidin core
   region or a polyhistidine tag).
           One type of derivatized antibody is produced by crosslinking two or more
   antibodies (of the same type or of different types, e.g., to create bispecific antibodies).
   Suitable crosslinkers include those that are heterobifunctional, having two distinctly
15 reactive groups separated by an appropriate spacer (e.g., m-maleimidobenzoyl-N
   hydroxysuccinimide ester) or homobifunctional (e.g., disuccinimidyl suberate). Such
   linkers are available from Pierce Chemical Company, Rockford, IL.
           Useful detectable agents with which an antibody or antibody portion of the
   invention may be derivatized include fluorescent compounds. Exemplary fluorescent
20 detectable agents include fluorescein, fluorescein isothiocyanate, rhodamine, 5
   dimethylamine-l-napthalenesulfonyl chloride, phycoerythrin and the like. An antibody
   may also be derivatized with detectable enzymes, such as alkaline phosphatase,
   horseradish peroxidase, glucose oxidase and the like. When an antibody is derivatized
   with a detectable enzyme, it is detected by adding additional reagents that the enzyme
25 uses to produce a detectable reaction product. For example, when the detectable agent
   horseradish peroxidase is present, the addition of hydrogen peroxide and
   diaminobenzidine leads to a colored reaction product, which is detectable. An antibody
   may also be derivatized with biotin, and detected through indirect measurement of avidin
   or streptavidin binding.
30         An antibody, or antibody portion, of the invention can be prepared by
   recombinant expression of immunoglobulin light and heavy chain genes in a host cell.
   To express an antibody recombinantly, a host cell is transfected with one or more
                                               -23  -

   recombinant expression vectors carrying DNA fragments encoding the immunoglobulin
   light and heavy chains of the antibody such that the light and heavy chains are expressed
   in the host cell and, preferably, secreted into the medium in which the host cells are
   cultured, from which medium the antibodies can be recovered. Standard recombinant
 5 DNA methodologies are used to obtain antibody heavy and light chain genes,
    incorporate these genes into recombinant expression vectors and introduce the vectors
    into host cells, such as those described in Sambrook, Fritsch and Maniatis (eds),
   Molecular Cloning; A LaboratoryManual, Second Edition, Cold Spring Harbor, N.Y.,
    (1989), Ausubel, F.M. et al. (eds.) CurrentProtocols in MolecularBiology, Greene
10  Publishing Associates, (1989) and in U.S. Patent No. 4,816,397 by Boss et al.
            To express D2E7 or a D2E7-related antibody, DNA fragments encoding the light
    and heavy chain variable regions are first obtained. These DNAs can be obtained by
    amplification and modification of germline light and heavy chain variable sequences
    using the polymerase chain reaction (PCR). Germline DNA sequences for human heavy
15  and light chain variable region genes are known in the art (see e.g., the "Vbase" human
    germline sequence database; see also Kabat, E.A., et al. (1991) Sequences ofProteinsof
    ImmunologicalInterest, Fifth Edition, U.S. Department of Health and Human Services,
    NIH Publication No. 91-3242; Tomlinson, I.M., et al. (1992) "The Repertoire of Human
     Germline VH Sequences Reveals about Fifty Groups of VH Segments with Different
20  Hypervariable Loops" J. Mol. Biol. 227:776-798; and Cox, J.P.L. et al. (1994) "A
     Directory of Human Germ-line V7 8 Segments Reveals a Strong Bias in their Usage"
    Eur. J. Immunol. 24:827-836; the contents of each of which are expressly incorporated
     herein by reference). To obtain a DNA fragment encoding the heavy chain variable
                                                                        3
     region of D2E7, or a D2E7-related antibody, a member of the VH family of human
25   germline VH genes is amplified by standard PCR. Most preferably, the DP-31 VH
     germline sequence is amplified. To obtain a DNA fragment encoding the light chain
     variable region of D2E7, or a D2E7-related antibody, a member of the VKI family of
     human germline VL genes is amplified by standard PCR. Most preferably, the A20 VL
     germline sequence is amplified. PCR primers suitable for use in amplifying the DP-31
30   germline VH and A20 germline VL sequences can be designed based on the nucleotide
      sequences disclosed in the references cited supra, using standard methods.
                                                 -24-

             Once the germline VH and VL fragments are obtained, these sequences can be
   mutated to encode the D2E7 or D2E7-related amino acid sequences disclosed herein.
   The amino acid sequences encoded by the germline VH and VL DNA sequences are first
   compared to the D2E7 or D2E7-related VH and VL amino acid sequences to identify
 5 amino acid residues in the D2E7 or D2E7-related sequence that differ from germline.
   Then, the appropriate nucleotides of the germline DNA sequences are mutated such that
   the mutated germline sequence encodes the D2E7 or D2E7-related amino acid sequence,
   using the genetic code to determine which nucleotide changes should be made.
   Mutagenesis of the germline sequences is carried out by standard methods, such as PCR
10 mediated mutagenesis (in which the mutated nucleotides are incorporated into the PCR
   primers such that the PCR product contains the mutations) or site-directed mutagenesis.
             Once DNA fragments encoding D2E7 or D2E7-related VH and VL segments are
   obtained (by amplification and mutagenesis of germline VH and VL genes, as described
   above), these DNA fragments can be further manipulated by standard recombinant DNA
15 techniques, for example to convert the variable region genes to full-length antibody
   chain genes, to Fab fragment genes or to a scFv gene. In these manipulations, a VL- or
   VH-encoding DNA fragment is operatively linked to another DNA fragment encoding
    another protein, such as an antibody constant region or a flexible linker. The term
    "operatively linked", as used in this context, is intended to mean that the two DNA
20  fragments are joined such that the amino acid sequences encoded by the two DNA
    fragments remain in-frame.
             The isolated DNA encoding the VH region can be converted to a full-length
    heavy chain gene by operatively linking the VH-encoding DNA to another DNA
    molecule encoding heavy chain constant regions (CH1, CH2 and CH3). The sequences
25  of human heavy chain constant region genes are known in the art (see e.g., Kabat, E.A.,
    et al. (1991) Sequences of Proteinsof ImmunologicalInterest, Fifth Edition, U.S.
    Department of Health and Human Services, NIH Publication No. 91-3242) and DNA
    fragments encompassing these regions can be obtained by standard PCR amplification.
    The heavy chain constant region can be an IgGl, IgG2, IgG3, IgG4, IgA, IgE, IgM or
30  IgD constant region, but most preferably is an IgGI or IgG4 constant region. For a Fab
    fragment heavy chain gene, the VH-encoding DNA can be operatively linked to another
    DNA molecule encoding only the heavy chain CHI constant region.
                                                -25   -

           The isolated DNA encoding the VL region can be converted to a full-length light
   chain gene (as well as a Fab light chain gene) by operatively linking the VL-encoding
   DNA to another DNA molecule encoding the light chain constant region, CL. The
   sequences of human light chain constant region genes are known in the art (see e.g.,
 5 Kabat, E.A., et al. (1991) Sequences of Proteinsof Immunological Interest,Fifth
   Edition, U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, NIH Publication No. 91-3242)
   and DNA fragments encompassing these regions can be obtained by standard PCR
   amplification. The light chain constant region can be a kappa or lambda constant region,
   but most preferably is a kappa constant region.
10         To create a scFv gene, the VH- and VL-encoding DNA fragments are operatively
   linked to another fragment encoding a flexible linker, e.g., encoding the amino acid
   sequence (Gly 4 -Ser)3 , such that the VH and VL sequences can be expressed as a
   contiguous single-chain protein, with the VL and VH regions joined by the flexible
   linker (see e.g., Bird et al. (1988) Science 242:423-426; Huston et al. (1988) Proc.Natl.
15 Acad. Sci. USA 85:5879-5883; McCafferty et al., Nature (1990) 34!:552-554).
           To express the antibodies, or antibody portions of the invention, DNAs encoding
   partial or full-length light and heavy chains, obtained as described above, are inserted
   into expression vectors such that the genes are operatively linked to transcriptional and
   translational control sequences. In this context, the term "operatively linked" is intended
20 to mean that an antibody gene is ligated into a vector such that transcriptional and
   translational control sequences within the vector serve their intended function of
   regulating the transcription and translation of the antibody gene. The expression vector
   and expression control sequences are chosen to be compatible with the expression host
   cell used. The antibody light chain gene and the antibody heavy chain gene can be
25 inserted into separate vector or, more typically, both genes are inserted into the same
    expression vector. The antibody genes are inserted into the expression vector by
    standard methods (e.g., ligation of complementary restriction sites on the antibody gene
    fragment and vector, or blunt end ligation if no restriction sites are present). Prior to
   insertion of the D2E7 or D2E7-related light or heavy chain sequences, the expression
30 vector may already carry antibody constant region sequences. For example, one
    approach to converting the D2E7 or D2E7-related VH and VL sequences to full-length
    antibody genes is to insert them into expression vectors already encoding heavy chain
                                                -26  -

   constant and light chain constant regions, respectively, such that the VH segment is
   operatively linked to the CH segment(s) within the vector and the VL segment is
   operatively linked to the CL segment within the vector. Additionally or alternatively, the
   recombinant expression vector can encode a signal peptide that facilitates secretion of
 5 the antibody chain from a host cell. The antibody chain gene can be cloned into the
   vector such that the signal peptide is linked in-frame to the amino terminus of the
   antibody chain gene. The signal peptide can be an immunoglobulin signal peptide or a
   heterologous signal peptide (i.e., a signal peptide from a non-immunoglobulin protein).
             In addition to the antibody chain genes, the recombinant expression vectors of
10 the invention carry regulatory sequences that control the expression of the antibody chain
   genes in a host cell. The term "regulatory sequence" is intended to includes promoters,
    enhancers and other expression control elements (e.g., polyadenylation signals) that
    control the transcription or translation of the antibody chain genes. Such regulatory
    sequences are described, for example, in Goeddel; Gene Expression Technology:
15 Methods in Enzyinology 185, Academic Press, San Diego, CA (1990). It will be
    appreciated by those skilled in the art that the design of the expression vector, including
    the selection of regulatory sequences may depend on such factors as the choice of the
    host cell to be transformed, the level of expression of protein desired, etc. Preferred
    regulatory sequences for mammalian host cell expression include viral elements that
20  direct high levels of protein expression in mammalian cells, such as promoters and/or
    enhancers derived from cytomegalovirus (CMV) (such as the CMV promoter/enhancer),
    Simian Virus 40 (SV40) (such as the SV40 promoter/enhancer), adenovirus, (e.g., the
    adenovirus major late promoter (AdMLP)) and polyoma. For further description of viral
    regulatory elements, and sequences thereof, see e.g., U.S. Patent No. 5,168,062 by
25   Stinski, U.S. Patent No. 4,510,245 by Bell et at. and U.S. Patent No. 4,968,615 by
     Schaffner et al.
              In addition to the antibody chain genes and regulatory sequences, the
     recombinant expression vectors of the invention may carry additional sequences, such as
     sequences that regulate replication of the vector in host cells (e.g., origins of replication)
30   and selectable marker genes. The selectable marker gene facilitates selection of host
     cells into which the vector has been introduced (see e.g., U.S. Patents Nos. 4,399,216,
     4,634,665 and 5,179,017, all by Axel et al.). For example, typically the selectable
                                                  -27 -

    marker gene confers resistance to drugs, such as G41 8, hygromycin or methotrexate, on
    a host cell into which the vector has been introduced. Preferred selectable marker genes
    include the dihydrofolate reductase (DHFR) gene (for use in dhfr- host cells with
    methotrexate selection/amplification) and the neo gene (for G418 selection).
 5           For expression of the light and heavy chains, the expression vector(s) encoding
    the heavy and light chains is transfected into a host cell by standard techniques. The
    various forms of the term "transfection" are intended to encompass a wide variety of
    techniques commonly used for the introduction of exogenous DNA into a prokaryotic or
    eukaryotic host cell, e.g., electroporation, calcium-phosphate precipitation, DEAE
10  dextran transfection and the like. Although it is theoretically possible to express the
    antibodies of the invention in either prokaryotic or eukaryotic host cells, expression of
    antibodies in eukaryotic cells, and most preferably mammalian host cells, is the most
    preferred because such eukaryotic cells, and in particular mammalian cells, are more
     likely than prokaryotic cells to assemble and secrete a properly folded and
15   immunologically active antibody. Prokaryotic expression of antibody genes has been
     reported to be ineffective for production of high yields of active antibody (Boss, M.A.
     and Wood, C. R. (1985) Jnmnology Today 6:12-13).
              Preferred mammalian host cells for expressing the recombinant antibodies of the
     invention include Chinese Hamster Ovary (CHO cells) (including dhfr- CHO cells,
20   described in Urlaub and Chasin, (1980) Proc. NatL. Acad. Sci. USA 77:4216-4220, used
     with a DHFR selectable marker, e.g., as described in R.J. Kaufmnan and P.A. Sharp
     (1982) Mol. Bio. 159:601-621), NSO myeloma cells, COS cells and SP2 cells. When
     recombinant expression vectors encoding antibody genes are introduced into mammalian
     host cells, the antibodies are produced by culturing the host cells for a period of time
25    sufficient to allow for expression of the antibody in the host cells or, more preferably,
      secretion of the antibody into the culture medium in which the host cells are grown.
      Antibodies can be recovered from the culture medium using standard protein purification
      methods.
              Host cells can also be used to produce portions of intact antibodies, such as Fab
 30   fragments or scFv molecules. It is understood that variations on the above procedure are
      within the scope of the present invention. For example, it may be desirable to transfect a
      host cell with DNA encoding either the light chain or the heavy chain (but not both) of
                                                  -28-

    an antibody of this invention. Recombinant DNA technology may also be used to
    remove some or all of the DNA encoding either or both of the light and heavy chains that
    is not necessary for binding to hTNFa. The molecules expressed from such truncated
    DNA molecules are also encompassed by the antibodies of the invention. In addition,
 5  bifunctional antibodies may be produced in which one heavy and one light chain are an
    antibody of the invention and the other heavy and light chain are specific for an antigen
    other than hTNFc by crosslinking an antibody of the invention to a second antibody by
     standard chemical crosslinking methods.
              In a preferred system for recombinant expression of an antibody, or antigen
10  binding portion thereof, of the invention, a recombinant expression vector encoding both
     the antibody heavy chain and the antibody light chain is introduced into dhfr-CHO cells
     by calcium phosphate-mediated transfection. Within the recombinant expression vector,
     the antibody heavy and light chain genes are each operatively linked to CMV
     enhancer/AdMLP promoter regulatory elements to drive high levels of transcription of
15   the genes. The recombinant expression vector also carries a DIFR gene, which allows
     for selection of CHO cells that have been transfected with the vector using methotrexate
     selection/amplification. The selected transformant host cells are culture to allow for
      expression of the antibody heavy and light chains and intact antibody is recovered from
     the culture medium. Standard molecular biology techniques are used to prepare the
20   recombinant expression vector, transfect the host cells, select for transformants, culture
      the host cells and recover the antibody from the culture medium.
               Recombinant human antibodies of the invention in addition to D2E7 or an
      antigen binding portion thereof, or D2E7-related antibodies disclosed herein can be
      isolated by screening of a recombinant combinatorial antibody library, preferably a scFv
25    phage display library, prepared using human VL and VH cDNAs prepared from mRNA
      derived from human lymphocytes. Methodologies for preparing and screening such
      libraries are known in the art. In addition to commercially available kits for generating
      phage display libraries (e.g., the Pharmacia Recombinant PhageAntibody System,
      catalog no. 27-9400-01; and the Stratagene SurfZAPTM phage display kit, catalog no.
 30   240612), examples of methods and reagents particularly amenable for use in generating
       and screening antibody display libraries can be found in, for example, Ladner et al. U.S.
      Patent No. 5,223,409; Kang et al. PCT Publication No. WO 92/18619; Dower et al. PCT
                                                   -29-

   Publication No. WO 91/17271; Winter et al. PCT Publication No. WO 92/20791;
   Markland et al PCT Publication No. WO 92/15679; Breitling et al. PCT Publication No.
   WO 93/01288; McCafferty et al. PCT Publication No. WO 92/01047; Garrard et al PCT
   Publication No. WO 92/09690; Fuchs et al. (1991) Bio/Technology 9:1370-1372; Hay et
 5 al (1992) Hum Antibod Hybridomas 3:81-85; Huse et al. (1989) Science 246:1275
   1281; McCafferty et al., Nature (1990) 3_48:552-554; Griffiths et al. (1993) EMBOJ
   12:725-734; Hawkins et al (1992) JMol Biol 226:889-896; Clackson et al. (1991)
   Nature 352:624-628; Gram et al. (1992) PNAS 89:3576-3580; Garrard et al. (1991)
   Bio/Technology 2:1373-1377; Hoogenboom et al. (1991) Nuc Acid Res 19:4133-4137;
10 and Barbas et al. (1991) PNAS 88:7978-7982. Methods of isolating human antibodies
   with high affinity and a low off rate constant for hTNFa are described in U.S. Patent
   Nos. 6,090,382, 6,258,562, and 6,509,015, each of which is incorporated by reference
   herein.
15 II.     Uses of TNFca Inhibitors of the Invention
           In an embodiment, the invention provides a method for inhibiting TNFa activity
   in a subject suffering from a TNFc-related disorder in which TNFa activity is
   detrimental. In one embodiment, the TNFa inhibitor is D2E7, also referred to as
   HUMIRA* (adalimumab).
20         TNFa has been implicated in the pathophysiology of a wide variety of a TNFa
   related disorders including sepsis, infections, autoimmune diseases, transplant rejection
   and graft-versus-host disease (see e.g., Moeller, A., et al. (1990) Cytokine 2:162-169;
   U.S. Patent No. 5,231,024 to Moeller et al.; European Patent Publication No. 260 610
   BI by Moeller, A., et al.Vasilli, P. (1992) Annu. Rev. Immunol. 10:411-452; Tracey, K.J.
25 and Cerami, A. (1994) Annu. Rev. Med. 45:491-503). The invention provides methods
   for inhibiting TNFa activity in a subject suffering from a TNFa-related disorder, which
   method comprises administering to the subject an antibody, antibody portion, or other
   TNFax inhibitor such that TNFa activity in the subject suffering from the TNFa-related
   disorder is inhibited. The invention also provides methods for inhibiting or decreasing
30 TNFa activity in a subject with vasculitis, comprising administering to the subject an
   antibody, or antibody portion, or other TNFa inhibitor of the invention such that TNFax
   activity in the subject is inhibited or decreased. Preferably, the TNFa is human TNFx
                                                 -30-

    and the subject is a human subject. Alternatively, the subject can be a mammal
    expressing a TNFo with which an antibody of the invention cross-reacts. Still further
    the subject can be a mammal into which has been introduced hTNFax (e.g., by
    administration of hTNFa or by expression of an hTNFa transgene). An antibody of the
 5  invention can be administered to a human subject for therapeutic purposes (discussed
    further below).
              Moreover, an antibody of the invention can be administered to a non-human
    mammal expressing a TNFa with which the antibody cross-reacts (e.g., a primate, pig or
    mouse) for veterinary purposes or as an animal model of human disease. Regarding the
10   latter, such animal models may be useful for evaluating the therapeutic efficacy of
     antibodies of the invention (e.g., testing of dosages and time courses of administration).
     Examples of animal models used to study spondyloarthropathies include ank/ank
     transgenic mice, HLA-B27 transgenic rats (see Taurog et al. (1998) The
     Spondylarthritides.Oxford:Oxford University Press).
15            Examples of animal models used for evaluating the therapeutic efficacy of an
     agent for treating a hepatic disorder include the chimpanzee hepatitis C virus model (see
     Shimizu et al. (1990) ProcNatlAcad Sci. USA 87:6441). Examples of animal models
     used to study skin and nail disorder disorders include, for example, the severe combined
     immunodeficient (SCID) mouse model (psoriasis) and the Smith line (SL) chicken and
20    depigmenting mouse (vitiligo) (see Nickoloff (2000) Investig Dermatol Symp Proc.5:67;
      Austin et al. (1995) Am JPathol.146:1529;Lerner et al. (1986) JInvest Dermatol.
      87:299).
              Examples of animal models for evaluating the efficacy of a TNFa antibody for
      the treatment of a metabolic disorder include NOD transgenic mice, Akita mice, NSY
25    transgenic mice and ob/ob mice (see Baeder et al. (1992) Clin Exp Immunol. 89:174;
      Haseyama et al. (2002) Tohoku JExp Med. 198:233; Makino et al. (1980): Exp.Anim.
      29:1; Kolb (1987) Diabetes/MetabolismReviews 3:751; Hamada et al.(2001)
      Metabolism. 50:1282; Coleman, (1978) Diabetologia,14:141; Bailey et al. (1982)
      Int.J.Obesity 6:11). Examples of animal models used to study vasculitis includes the
 30   mouse HSV model (Behcet's disease), the mouse L. casei model (Kawasaki's disease),
       and the mouse ANCA model (Kawasaki's disease). Other models of vasculitis include
       the McH5-lpr/lpr strain (Nose, M., et al. (1996) Am. J. Path. 149:1763) and the SCG/Kj
                                                   -31-

    strain of mice (Kinjoh, et al. (1993) Proc.Natl.Acad. Sci., USA 90:3413). These mice
    strains spontaneously develop crescentic glomerulonephritis and necrotizing vasculitis of
    the small arteries and arterioles of the spleen, stomach, heart, uterus and ovaries. These
    animals develop hyperganmaglobulinemia and ANCA autoantibodies that react with
 5  myeloperoxidase (MPO). Additionally, immunization of rats with human MPO results
    in ANCA-associated necrotizing crescentic glomerulonephritis (Brouwer, E., et al.
    (1993) J. Exp. Med. 177:905).
              Examples of animal models used to study idiopathic interstitial lung disease and
    chronic obstructive airway disorders include ovalbumin (OVA) induced allergic asthma
10  mice and cigarette smoke induced chronic obstructive pulmonary disease mice (see
    Hessel, EM., et al. (1995) Eur JPharmacol.293:401; Keast D, et al. (1981) J. Pathol.
     135:249)
              Commonly used animal models for studying coronary disorders, including
     restenosis, include the rat or mouse carotid artery ligation model and the carotid artery
15   injury model (Ferns et al. (1991) Science 253:1129; Clowes etal. (1983) Lab. Invest.
     49:208; Lindner et al. (1993) Circ Res. 73:792). In the carotid artery ligation model,
     arterial blood flow is disrupted by ligation of the vessel near the distal bifurnation. As
     described in Clowes et al., the carotid artery injury model is performed such that the
      common carotid artery is denuded of endothelium by the intraluminal passage of a
20   balloon catheter introduced through the external carotid artery. At 2 weeks, the carotid
      artery is markedly narrowed due to smooth muscle cell constriction, but between 2 and
      12 weeks the intimal doubles in thickness leading to a decrease in luminal size. Any of
      these models can be used to determine the potential therapeutic action of the TNFcu
      antibodies of the invention in the prevention and treatment of restenosis in humans.
25             Examples of animal models used to study anemia include rats inoculated with
      peptidolglycan-polysaccharide polymers (see Coccia et al., (2001) Exp Hematology.
      29:1201-1209). Examples of animal models used to study pain are well known in the
      art, and include the rat sciatic nerve ligation model, and the rat segmental spinal nerve
      ligation model (see Bennett and Zie, (1988) Pain.33:87-107; Kim and Chung, (1992)
 30   Pain 50:355-363).
                                                    -32-

             As used herein, the term " TNFa-related disorder in which TNFu activity is
    detrimental" is intended to include TNFa-related diseases and other disorders in which
    the presence of TNFa in a subject suffering from the disorder has been shown to be or is
    suspected of being either responsible for the pathophysiology of the disorder or a factor
 5  that contributes to a worsening of the disorder, e.g., juvenile rheumatoid arthritis.
    Accordingly, TNFa-related disorders in which TNFa activity is detrimental are
     disorders in which inhibition of TNFa, activity is expected to alleviate the symptoms
     and/or progression of the disorder. Such disorders may be evidenced, for example, by an
     increase in the concentration of TNFa in a biological fluid of a subject suffering from
10   the disorder (e.g., an increase in the concentration of TNFa in serum, plasma, synovial
     fluid, etc. of the subject), which can be detected, for example, using an anti-TNFo
     antibody as described above. The use of the antibodies, antibody portions, and other
     TNFcc inhibitors of the invention in the treatment of specific TNFa-related disorder in
     which TNFa activity is detrimental, is discussed further below. In certain embodiments,
15   the antibody, antibody portion, or other TNFa inhibitor of the invention is administered
     to the subject in combination with another therapeutic agent, as described below in
      Section IIL
      A.      Spondyloarthropathies
20            TNFca has been implicated in the pathophysiology of a wide variety of disorders,
      including inflammatory diseases such as spondyloarthopathies (see e.g., Moeller, A., et
      al (1990) Cytokine 2:162-169; U.S. Patent No. 5,231,024 to Moeller et aL; European
      Patent Publication No. 260 610 B1 by Moeller, A). The invention provides methods for
      TNFca activity in a subject suffering from such a disorder, which method comprises
 25   administering to the subject an antibody, antibody portion, or other TNFca inhibitor such
      that TNFa activity in the subject suffering from a spondyloarthropathy is inhibited. In
       one embodiment, the invention provides a method of treating spondyloarthopathies.
               As used herein, the term "spondyloarthropathy" or "spondyloarthropathies" is
       used to refer to any one of several diseases affecting the joints of the spine, wherein such
 30    diseases share common clinical, radiological, and histological features. A number of
       spondyloarthropathies share genetic characteristics, i.e. they are associated with the
                                                   - 33 -

       HLA-B27 allele. In one embodiment, the term spondyloarthropathy is used to refer to
       any one of several diseases affecting the joints of the spine, excluding ankylosing
       spondylitis, wherein such diseases share common clinical, radiological, and histological
       features. Examples of spondyloarthropathies include ankylosing spondylitis, psoriatic
   5   arthritis/spondylitis, enteropathic arthritis, reactive arthritis or Reiter's syndrome, and
      undifferentiated spondyloarthropathies.
               The TNFa antibody of the invention can also be used to treat subjects who are at
      risk of developing a spondyloarthropathy. Examples of subjects who are at risk of
      having spondyloarthropathies include humans suffering from arthritis.
 10   Spondyloarthropathies can be associated with other forms of arthritis, including
      rheumatoid arthritis. In one embodiment, the antibody of the invention is used to treat a
      subject who suffers from a spondyloarthropathy associated with rheumatoid arthritis.
      Examples of spondyloarthropathies which can be treated with the TNFa antibody of the
      invention are described below:
 15
      1.       Ankylosing Spondylitis (AS)
               Tumor necrosis factor has been implicated in the pathophysiology of ankylosing
      spondylitis (see Vejans et al. (1991) ArthritisRheum. 34(4):486; Vejans et al. (1994)
      Clin Exp Immunol. 97(1):45; Kaijtzel et al. (1999) Hum Immunol. 60(2):140).
20   Ankylosing spondylitis (AS) is an inflammatory disorder involving inflammation of one
     or more vertebrae. AS is a chronic inflammatory disease that affects the axial skeleton
     and/or peripheral joints, including joints between the vertebrae of the spine and
     sacroiliac joints and the joints between the spine and the pelvis. AS can eventually cause
     the affected vertebrae to fuse or grow together. Spondyarthropathies, including AS, can
25   be associated with psoriatic arthritis (PsA) and/or inflammatory bowel disease (IBD),
     including ulcerative colitis and Crohn's disease.
              Early manifestations of AS can be determined by radiographic tests, including
     CT scans and MRI scans. Early manifestations of AS often include scroiliitis and
     changes in the sacroliac joints as evidenced by the blurring of the cortical margins of the
30   subchrondral bone, followed by erosions and sclerosis. Fatigue has also been noted as a
     common symptom of AS (Duffy et al. (2002) ACR 66th Annual Scientific Meeting
     Abstract). Accordingly, the antibody, or antigen-binding fragment thereof, of the
                                                    -34-

      invention can be used to treat AS. In one embodiment, the TNFa antibody, or antigen
      binding fragment thereof, of the invention is used to treat spondyloarthropathy
      associated with IBD, including AS
              AS is often treated with nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory medications (NSAIDs),
  5   such as aspirin or indomethacin. Accordingly, the TNFac antibody of the invention may
      also be administered in combination with agents commonly used to reduce inflammation
      and pain commonly associated with ankylosing spondylitis.
     2.       Psoriaticarthritis
 10           Tumor necrosis factor has been implicated in the pathophysiology of psoriatic
     arthritis (Partsch et al. (1998) Ann Rheum Dis. 57:691; Ritchlin et al. (1998) J
     Rheumatol. 25:1544). As referred to herein, psoriatic arthritis (PsA) or psoriasis
     associated with the skin, refers to chronic inflammatory arthritis which is associated with
     psoriasis. Psoriasis is a common chronic skin condition that causes red patches on the
 15  body. About 1 in 20 individuals with psoriasis will develop arthritis along with the skin
     condition, and in about 75% of cases, psoriasis precedes the arthritis. PsA exhibits itself
     in a variety of ways, ranging from mild to severe arthritis, wherein the arthritis usually
     affects the fingers and the spine. When the spine is affected, the symptoms are similar to
     those of ankylosing spondylitis, as described above. The TNFa antibody, or antigen
20  binding fragment thereof, of the invention can be used to treat PsA.
              PsA is sometimes associated with arthritis mutilans. Arthritis mutilans refers to a
    disorder which is characterized by excessive bone erosion resulting in a gross, erosive
    deformity which mutilates the joint. In one embodiment, the TNFa antibody, or antigen
    binding fragment thereof, of the invention can be used to treat arthritis mutilans.
25
    3.       Reactive arthritis/ Reiter's syndrome
             Tumor necrosis factor has been implicated in the pathophysiology of reactive
    arthritis, which is also referred to as Reiter's syndrome (Braun et al. (1999) Arthritis
    Rheum. 42(10):2039). Reactive arthritis (ReA) refers to arthritis which complicates an
30  infection elsewhere in the body, often following enteric or urogenital infections. ReA is
    often characterized by certain clinical symptoms, including inflammation of the joints
    (arthritis), urethritis, conjunctivitis, and lesions of the skin and mucous membranes. In
                                                   -35-

      addition, ReA can occurs following infection with a sexually transmitted disease or
      dysenteric infection, including chlamydia, campylobacter, salmonella, or yersinia.
      Accordingly, the TNFa antibody, or antigen-binding fragment thereof, of the invention
      can be used to treat ReA.
  5
      4.       Undifferentiatedspondyloarthropathies
              In one embodiment, the TNFa antibodies of the invention are used to treat
      subjects suffering from undifferentiated spondyloarthropathies (see Zeidler et al. (1992)
     Rheum Dis Clin North Am. 18:187). Other terms used to describe undifferentiated
 10  spondyloarthropathies include seronegative oligoarthritis and undifferentiated
     oligoarthritis. Undifferentiated spondyloarthropathies, as used herein, refers to a
     disorder wherein the subject demonstrates only some of the symptoms associated with a
     spondyloarthropathy. This condition is usually observed in young adults who do not
     have IiBD, psoriasis, or the classic symptoms of AS or Reiter's syndrome. In some
 15  instances, undifferentiated spondyloarthropathies may be an early indication of AS. In
     one embodiment, the TNFa antibody, or antigen-binding fragment thereof, of the
     invention can be used to treat undifferentiated spondyloarthropathies.
     B.      PulmonaryDisorders
20           TNFax has been implicated in the pathophysiology of a wide variety of pulmonary
    disorders, including pulmonary disorders such as idiopathic interstitial lung disease and
    chronic obstructive airway disorders (see e.g., Piquet PF et al. (1989) JExp Med.
     170:655-63; Whyte M, et al. (2000) Am JRespir Crit CareMed. 162:755-8; Anticevich
    SZ, et al. (1995) EurJPharmacol.284:221-5). The invention provides methods for
25  TNFa activity in a subject suffering from such a pulmonary disorder, which method
    comprises administering to the subject an antibody, antibody portion, or other TNFa
    inhibitor such that TNFa activity in the subject suffering from idiopathic interstitial lung
    disease or a chronic obstructive airway disorder is inhibited. Examples of idiopathic
    interstitial lung diseases and chronic obstructive airway disorders in which TNFa
30  activity is detrimental are discussed further below.
                                                -36-

   1.      Idiopathic interstitiallung disease
            In one embodiment, the TNFa antibody of the invention is used to treat subjects
   who have an idiopathic interstitial lung disease. Idiopathic interstitial lung diseases
   affect the lungs in three ways: first, the lung tissue is damaged in some known or
 5 unknown way; second, the walls of the air sacs in the lung become inflamed; and finally,
   scarring (or fibrosis) begins in the interstitium (or tissue between the air sacs), and the
   lung becomes stiff. Examples of idiopathic interstitial lung diseases are described
   below.
10          a.      Idiopathicpulmonaryfibrosis (IPF)
            Tumor necrosis factor has been implicated in the pathophysiology of idiopathic
   pulmonary fibrosis (IPF) (see Piquet PF, et al. (1989) JExp Med. 170:655-63; Whyte
   M, et al. (2000) Am JRespir Crit CareMed 162:755-8; Corbett EL, et al. (2002) Am J
   Respir Crit CareMed. 165:690-3). For example, it has been found that IPF patients
15 have increased levels of TNF expressiojn in macrophages and in type II epithelial cells
   (Piquet et al. (1993) Am JPathol143:651; Nash et al. (1993) Histopathology22:343;
   Zhang et al. (1993) JImmunol 150:4188). Certain genetic polymorphisms are also
   associated with increased TNF expression, and are implicated in playing a role in IPF
   and silicosis (Whyte et al., supra; Corbett EL, et al., supra).
20          The term "idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis" or "IPF" refers to a group of disorders
   characterized by inflammation and eventually scarring of the deep lung tissues, leading
   to shortness of breath. The scarring of the alveoli (air sacs) and their supporting
    structures (the interstitium) in IPF eventually leads to a loss of the functional alveolar
   units and a reduction of the transfer of oxygen from air to blood. IPF is also referred to
25  as diffuse parenchymal lung disease; alveolitis; cryptogenic fibrosing alveolitis (CFA);
    idiopathic pulmonary pneumonitis (IPP); and usual interstitial pneumonitis (UIP). IPF is
    often used synonymously with UIP ("IPF/UIP") because UIP is the most common
    cellular pattern seen in the pathologic diagnosis of IPF.
             Patients with IPF often exhibit certain symptoms, including a dry cough, chest
30  pain, and/or shortness of breath. Commonly used drugs for the treatment of IPF are
    prednisone and cytoxan, although only a fraction of patients improve with continued use
    of these drugs (American Thoracic Society (2000) Am. J. Respir. Crit. Care Med.
                                                  -37-

    161:646). Oxygen administration and transplantation of the lung are other choices for
    treatment. In one embodiment, the TNFa antibody of the invention is administered to
    the subject in combination with another therapeutic agent, for example oxygen, for the
    treatment of idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis,.
 5
    2.       Chronic obstructive airwaydisorder
             In one embodiment, the TNFa antibody of the invention is used to treat a subject
    who has a chronic obstructive airflow disorder. In these diseases, airflow obstruction
    may be chronic and persistent or episodic and recurrent. Airflow obstruction is usually
10  determined by forced expiratory spirometry, which is the recording of exhaled volume
    against time during a maximal expiration. In a subject who does not have an obstructed
     airflow, a full forced expiration usually takes between 3 and 4 seconds. In a patient with
     chronic obstructive airflow disorder, wherein airflow is obstructed, it usually takes up to
     15 to 20 seconds and may be limited by breath-holding time. The normal forced
15   expiratory volume in the first second of expiration (FEV1) is easily measured and
     accurately predicted on the basis of age, sex, and height. The ratio of FEVI to forced
     vital capacity (FEV1/FVC) normally exceeds 0.75. Recording airflow against volume
     during forced expiration and a subsequent forced inspiration--the flow-volume loop--is
     also useful, mainly for distinguishing upper from lower airway narrowing. Examples of
20   chronic obstructive airway disorders are described below.
              a.      Asthma
              Tumor necrosis factor has been implicated in the pathophysiology of asthma,
     (Anticevich SZ, et al.(1995) EurJPharmacol.284:221-5; Thomas PS, et al. 1995. Am
25   JRespirCrit CareMed. 152:76-80; Thomas PS, Heywood G. (2002) Thorax. 57:774-8).
     For example, acute asthma attacks have been found to be associated with pulmonary
     neutrophilia and elevated BAL TNF levels (Ordonez CL. et al. (2000) Am JRespir Crit
     Care Med 161:1185). It has been found that the severity of asthma symptoms correlates
     with endotoxin levels in house dust. In rats, anti-TNF antibodies reduced endotoxin
 30  induced airway changes (Kips et al. (1992) Am Rev RespirDis 145:332).
                                                  -38-

           The term "asthma" as used herein, refers to a disorder in which inflammation of
   the airways causes airflow into and out of the lungs to be restricted. Asthma is also
   referred to as bronchial asthma, exercise induced asthma - bronchial, and reactive
   airways disease (RAD). In some instances, astluna is associated with allergies and/or is
 5 familial. Asthma includes a condition which is characterized by widespread fluctuations
   in the diameter or caliber of bronchial airways over short periods of time, resulting in
   changes in lung function. The resulting increased resistance to air flow produces
   symptoms in the affected subject, including breathlessness (dyspnea), chest constriction
   or "tightness," and wheezing.
10          Patients with asthma are characterized according to NIH guidelines, are described
    as mild intermittent, mild persistent, moderate persistent, and severe persistent (see
   NAEPP Expert Panel Report Guidelines for the Diagnosis and Management of Asthma
   Update on Selected Topics 2002. JACI 2002; 110: S141-S209; Guidelines for the
   Diagnosis and Management of Asthma. NIH Publication 97-405 1, July 1997). Patients
15  diagnosed with moderate persistent asthma are often treated with inhaled corticosteroids.
    Patients diagnosed with severe persistent asthma are often treated with high dose inhaled
    corticosteroids and p.o. corticosteroids.
            b.      Chronic obstructivepulmonary disease (COPD)
20          Tumor necrosis factor has been implicated in the pathophysiology of chronic
    obstructive pulmonary disease, (Keatings VM. (2000) Chest. 118:971-5; Sakao S, et al.(
    2001) Am JRespir Crit CareMed. 163:420-22; Sakao S, et al. (2002) Chest. 122:416
    20). The term "chronic obstructive pulmonary disease" or "COPD" as used
    interchangeably herein, refers to a group of lung diseases characterized by limited
25  airflow with variable degrees of air sack enlargement and lung tissue destruction. The
    term COPD includes chronic bronchitis (mucous hypersecretion with goblet cell
    submucosal gland hyperplasia), chronic obstructive bronchitis, or emphysema
    (destruction of airway parenchyma), or combinations of these conditions. Emphysema
    and chronic bronchitis are the most common forms of chronic obstructive pulmonary
30  disease. COPD is defined by irreversible airflow obstruction.
                                                -39-

             In COPD, chronic inflammation leads to fixed narrowing of small airways and
   lung parenchyma and alveolar wall destruction (emphysema). This is characterized by
   increased numbers of alveolar macrophages, neutrophils, and cytotoxic T lymphocytes,
   and the release of multiple inflammatory mediators (lipids, chemokines, cytokines,
 5 growth factors). This inflammation leads to fibrosis with a narrowing of the small
   airways and lung parenchymal destruction. There is also a high level of oxidative stress,
   which may amplify this inflammation.
   C.        CoronaryDisorders
10          TNFax has been implicated in the pathophysiology of a wide variety of coronary
    disorders, including restenosis (see e.g., Clausell et al. (1994), supra;Medall et al.
    (1997) Heart78(3):273). As used herein, the term "a coronary disorder in which TNFC
    activity is detrimental" is intended to include coronary and cardiovascular diseases in
    which the presence of TNFc in a subject suffering from the disorder has been shown to
15  be or is suspected of being either responsible for the pathophysiology of the disorder or a
    factor that contributes to a worsening of the disorder, including cardiovascular disorders,
    e.g., restenosis. Coronary disorders in which TNFa activity is detrimental often result
    from a blockage in an artery. Such a blockage can be caused by a clot, which usually
    forms in a coronary artery that has been previously narrowed from changes usually
20  related to atherosclerosis. For example, if the atherosclerotic plaque inside the arterial
    wall cracks, it can trigger the formation of a thrombus, or clot. Such disorders may be
     evidenced, for example, by an increase in the concentration of TNFa in a biological fluid
     of a subject suffering from the disorder (e.g., an increase in the concentration of TNFa in
     serum, plasma, synovial fluid, etc. of the subject), which can be detected, for example,
25   using an anti-TNFa antibody as described above. A coronary disorder can be also
     caused by an imbalance in arterial pressure, a malfunction of the heart, or an occlusion of
     a blood vessel, e.g., by a thrombus. Coronary disorders includes both coronary artery
     disease and peripheral vascular disease.
             There are numerous examples of coronary disorders in which TNFc activity is
30   detrimental, including restenosis. The use of the antibodies, antibody portions, and other
     TNFc inhibitors of the invention in the treatment of specific coronary disorders are
     discussed further below. In certain embodiments, the antibody, antibody portion, or
                                                  -40-

    other TNFa inhibitor of the invention is administered to the subject in combination with
    another therapeutic agent, as described below
              The invention provides a method for inhibiting TNFa activity in a subject with a
    coronary disorder. The invention provides methods for inhibiting or decreasing TNFac
 5  activity in a subject with a coronary disorder, comprising administering to the subject an
    antibody, or antibody portion, or other TNFa inhibitor of the invention such that TNFa
    activity in the subject is inhibited or decreased. Preferably, the TNFa is human TNFa
    and the subject is a human subject. Alternatively, the subject can be a mammal
                                                                                         further
    expressing a TNFca with which an antibody of the invention cross-reacts. Still
10  the subject can be a mammal into which has been introduced hTNFa (e.g., by
     administration of hTNFc or by expression of an hTNFa transgene). An antibody of the
     invention can be administered to a human subject for therapeutic purposes (discussed
     further below). Moreover, an antibody of the invention can be administered to a non
     human mammal expressing a TNFa with which the antibody cross-reacts (e.g., a
                                                                                           disease.
15   primate, pig or mouse) for veterinary purposes or as an animal model of human
                                                                                     therapeutic
     Regarding the latter, such animal models may be useful for evaluating the
     efficacy of antibodies of the invention (e.g., testing of dosages and time courses of
     administration).
               Commonly used animal models for studying coronary disorders, including
20    restenosis, include the rat or mouse carotid artery ligation model and the carotid artery
      injury model (Ferns et al. (1991) Science 253:1129; Clowes et al. (1983) Lab. Invest.
      49:208; Lindner et al. (1993) Circ Res. 73:792). In the carotid artery ligation model,
      arterial blood flow is disrupted by ligation of the vessel near the distal bifurnation. As
      described in Clowes et al., the carotid artery injury model is performed such that the
 25   common carotid artery is denuded of endothelium by the intraluminal passage of a
      balloon catheter introduced through the external carotid artery. At 2 weeks, the carotid
       artery is markedly narrowed due to smooth muscle cell constriction, but between 2 and
       12 weeks the intimal doubles in thickness leading to a decrease in luminal size. Any of
       these models can be used to detennine the potential therapeutic action of the TNFcc
 30    antibodies of the invention in the prevention and treatment of restenosis in humans.
                                                   -41-

           The antibody of the invention can be used to treat cardiovascular disorders in
   which TNFa activity is detrimental, wherein inhibition of TNFa activity is expected to
   alleviate the symptoms and/or progression of the coronary disease or to prevent the
   coronary disease. Subjects suffering from or at risk of developing coronary disorders
 5 can be identified through clinical symptoms. Clinical symptoms in coronary disease
   often include chest pain, shortness of breath, weakness, fainting spells, alterations in
   consciousness, extremity pain, paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea, transient ischemic attacks
   and other such phenomena experienced by the patient. Clinical signs of coronary disease
   can also include EKG abnormalities, altered peripheral pulses, arterial bruits, abnormal
10 heart sounds, rates and wheezes, jugular venous distention, neurological alterations and
   other such findings discerned by the clinician. Coronary disorders may also be
   evidenced, for example, by an increase in the concentration of TNFa in a biological fluid
   of a subject suffering from the disorder (e.g., an increase in the concentration of TNFa in
   serum, plasma, synovial fluid, etc. of the subject).
15         Examples of a cardiovascular disorder include, but are not limited to, coronary
   artery disease, angina pectoris, myocardial infarction, cardiovascular tissue damage
   caused by cardiac arrest, cardiovascular tissue damage caused by cardiac bypass,
   cardiogenic shock, and hypertension, atherosclerosis, coronary artery spasm, coronary
   artery disease, valvular disease, arrhythmias, and cardiomyopathies. The use of the
20 antibodies, antibody portions, and other TNFa inhibitors of the invention in the
   treatment of specific cardiovascular diseases are discussed further below. In certain
   embodiments, the antibody, antibody portion, or other TNFa inhibitor of the invention is
   administered to the subject in combination with another therapeutic agent, as described
   below in section III.
25
    1.     Restenosis
           TNFa has been implicated in the pathophysiology of restenosis (see Zhou et al.
   (2002) Atherosclerosis. 161:153; Javed et al. (2002) Exp andMol Pathol73:104). For
   example, in the murine wire carotid model, TNF -/- mice demonstrated a seven-fold
30 reduction in intial hyperplasia compared to wild type mice (Zimmerman et al. (2002) Am
   JPhsiolRegul Integr Comp Physiol 283:R505). Restenosis can occur as the result of
   any type of vascular reconstruction, whether in the coronary vasculature or in the
                                               -42-

   periphery (Colburn and Moore (1998) Myointimal Hyperplasia pp. 690-709 in Vascular
   Surgery: A Comprehensive Review Philadelphia: Saunders). For example, studies have
   reported symptomatic restenosis rates of 30-50% following coronary angioplasties (see
   Berk and Harris (1995) Adv. Intern. Med. 40:455-501). After carotid endarterectomies,
 5 as a further example, 20% of patients studied had a luminal narrowing greater than 50%
   (Clagett et al. (1986) J. Vasc. Surg. 3:10-23). Restenosis is evidenced in different
   degrees of symptomatology which accompany preocclusive lesions in different
   anatomical locations, due to a combination of factors including the nature of the vessels
   involved, the extent of residual disease, and local hemodynamics.
10          "Stenosis," as used herein refers to a narrowing of an artery as seen in occlusive
   disorder or in restenosis. Stenosis can be accompanied by those symptoms reflecting a
   decrease in blood flow past the narrowed arterial segment, in which case the disorder
   giving rise to the stenosis is termed a disease (i.e., occlusive disease or restenosis
   disease). Stenosis can exist asymptomatically in a vessel, to be detected only by a
15 diagnostic intervention such as an angiography or a vascular lab study.
            The antibody of the invention can be used to treat a subject suffering from or at
   risk of developing restenosis. A subject at risk of developing restenosis includes a
    subject who has undergone PTCA. The subject may have also had a stent inserted to
   prevent restenosis. The TNFca antibody of the invention can be used alone or in
20  combination with a stent to prevent the re-occurrence of stenosis in a subject suffering
    from cardiovascular disease.
    2.      Congestive HeartFailure
            TNFa has been implicated in the pathophysiology of congestive heart failure (see
25  Zhou et al. (2002) Atherosclerosis 161:153). Serum levels of TNFa are elevated in
    patients with congestive heart failure in a manner which is directly proportional to the
    severity of the disease (Levine et al. (1990) NEnglJMed 323:236; Torre-Amione et al.
    (1996) JAm Coll Cardiol27:1201). In addition, inhibitors of TNFa have also been
    shown to improve congestive heart failure symptoms (Chung et al. (2003) Circulation
30   107:3133).
                                                 -43-

             As used herein, the term "congestive heart failure" includes a condition
    characterized by a diminished capacity of the heart to supply the oxygen demands of the
    body. Symptoms and signs of congestive heart failure include diminished blood flow to
    the various tissues of the body, accumulation of excess blood in the various organs, e.g.,
 5  when the heart is unable to pump out the blood returned to it by the great veins,
    exertional dyspnea, fatigue, and/or peripheral edema, e.g., peripheral edema resulting
    from left ventricular dysfunction. Congestive heart failure may be acute or chronic. The
    manifestation of congestive heart failure usually occurs secondary to a variety of cardiac
    or systemic disorders that share a temporal or permanent loss of cardiac function.
10  Examples of such disorders include hypertension, coronary artery disease, valvular
     disease, and cardiomyopathies, e.g., hypertrophic, dilative, or restrictive
     cardiomyopathies.
             A "subject who has or is suffering from congestive heart failure" is a subject who
     has a disorder involving a clinical syndrome of diverse etiologies linked by the common
15   denominator of impaired heart pumping in which the heart cannot pump blood
     commensurate with the requirements of the metabolizing tissues, or can do so only from
     an elevated filling pressure. A "subject at risk of developing congestive heart failure" is
     a subject who has a propensity of developing congestive heart failure because of certain
     factors affecting the cardiovascular system of the subject. It is desirable to reduce the
20   risk of or prevent the development of congestive heart failure in these subjects. The
     phrase "with congestive heart failure" includes patients who are at risk of suffering from
     this condition relative to the general population, even though they may not have suffered
     from it yet, by virtue of exhibiting risk factors. For example, a patient with untreated
     hypertension may not have suffered from congestive heart failure, but is at risk because
25   of his or her hypertensive condition. In one embodiment of the invention, the antibody
     D2E7 is used to treat a subject at risk of developing congestive heart failure.
     3.       Acute coronary syndromes
              TNFa has been implicated in the pathophysiology of acute coronary syndromes
 30   (see Libby (1995) Circulation91:2844 ). Acute coronary syndromes include those
      disorders wherein the subject experiences pain due to a blood flow restriction resulting
      in not enough oxygen reaching the heart. Studies have found that TNFa plays a role in
                                                   -44-

    acute coronary syndromes. For example, in a novel rat heterotropic cardiac
    transplantation-coronary ligation model capable of inducing myocardial infarction in the
    absence of downstream hemodynamic effects, administration of chimeric soluble TNF
    receptor (sTNFR) abolished transient LV remodeling and dysfunction (Nakamura, et aL.
 5  (2003) J. Cardiol. 41:41). It was also found that direct injection of an sTNFR
    expression plasmid to the myocardium, resulted in a reduction in the infarction size in
    acute myocardial infarction (AMI) experimental rats (Sugano et al.(2002) FASEB J
     16:1421).
              In one embodiment, TNFa antibody of the invention is used to treat or prevent an
10   acute coronary syndrome in a subject, wherein the acute coronary syndrome is a
     myocardial infarction or angina.
              As used herein, the term "myocardial infarction" or "MI" refers to a heart attack.
                                                                                          the
     A myocardial infarction involves the necorsis or permanent damage of a region of
     heart due to an inadequate supply of oxygen to that area. This necrosis is typically
15   caused by an obstruction in a coronary artery from either atherosclerosis or an embolis.
     MIs which are treated by the TNFa antibody of the invention include both Q-wave and
     non-Q-wave myocardial infarction. Most heart attacks are caused by a clot that blocks
     one of the coronary arteries (the blood vessels that bring blood and oxygen to the heart
     muscle). For example, a clot in the coronary artery interrupts the flow of blood and
20   oxygen to the heart muscle, leading to the death of heart cells in that area. The damaged
     heart muscle permanently loses its ability to contract, and the remaining heart muscle
     needs to compensate for it. An MI can also be caused by overwhelming stress in the
      individual.
               The term "angina" refers to spasmodic, choking, or suffocative pain, and
25    especially as denoting angina pectoris which is a paroxysmal thoracic pain due, most
      often, to anoxia of the myocardium. Angina includes both variant angina and exertional
      angina. A subject having angina has ischemic heart disease which is manifested by
      sudden, severe, pressing substemal pain that often radiates to the left shoulder and along
      the left arm. TNFcc has been implicated in angina, as TNFc levels are upregulated in
 30   patients with both MI and stable angina (Balbay et aL. (2001) Angiology 52109).
                                                 -45  -

   4.       Artherosclerosis
            "Atherosclerosis" as used herein refers to a condition in which fatty material is
   deposited along the walls of arteries. This fatty material thickens, hardens, and may
   eventually block the arteries. Atherosclerosis is also referred to arteriosclerosis,
 5 hardening of the arteries, and arterial plaque buildup. Polyclonal antibodies directed
   against TNFax have been shown to be effective at neutralizing TNFca activity resulting in
   inflammation and restenosis in the rabbit atherosclerotic model (Zhou et.al., supra).
   Accordingly, the TNFoq antibody of the invention can be used to treat or prevent subjects
   afflicted with or at risk of having atherosclerosis.
10
   5.        Cardiomyopathy
             The term "cardiomyopathy" as used herein is used to define diseases of the
   myocardium wherein the heart muscle or myocardium is weakened, usually resulting in
   inadequate heart pumping. Cardiomyopathy can be caused by viral infections, heart
15 attacks, alcoholism, long-term, severe hypertension (high blood pressure), or by
   autoimmune causes..
             In approximately 75-80% of heart failure patients coronary artery disease is the
   underlying cause of the cardiomyopathy and is designated "ischemic cardiomyopathy."
   Ischernic cardiomyopathy is caused by heart attacks, which leave scars in the heart
20 muscle or myocardium. The affected myocardium is then unable to contribute to the
   heart pumping function. The larger the scars or the more numerous the heart attacks, the
    higher the chance there is of developing ischemic cardiomyopathy.
             Cardiomyopathies that are not attributed to underlying coronary artery disease,
    and are designated "non-ischemic cardiomyopathies." Non-ischemic cardiomyopathies
25  include, but are not limited to idiopathic cardiomyopathy, hypertrophic cardiomyopathy,
    alcoholic cardiomyopathy, dilated cardiomyopathy, peripartum cardiomyopathy, and
    restrictive cardiomyopathy.
    D.       Metabolic Disorders
30           TNFac has been implicated in the pathophysiology of a wide variety of disorders,
    including metabolic disorders, such as diabetes and obesity (Spiegelman and
    Hotamisligil (1993) Cell 73:625; Chu et al. (2000) Int JObes Relat Metab Disord.
                                                 -46 -

   24:1085; Ishii et al. (2000) Metabolism. 49:1616). The invention provides methods for
   TNFca activity in a subject suffering from such a metabolic disorder, which method
   comprises administering to the subject an antibody, antibody portion, or other TNFX
   inhibitor such that TNFax activity in the subject suffering from a metabolic disorder is
 5 inhibited. The TNFax antibody of the invention can also be used to treat subjects who are
   at risk of developing a metabolic disorder. Metabolic disorders are often associated with
   arthritis, including rheumatoid arthritis. In one embodiment, the antibody of the
   invention is used to treat a subject who suffers from a metabolic disorder associated with
   rheumatoid arthritis. In another embodiment, the TNFa antibody of the invention is
10 used to treat disorders associated with diabetes or obesity
            Metabolic disorders affect how the body processes substances needed to carry out
   physiological functions. A number of metabolic disorders of the invention share certain
   characteristics, i.e. they are associated the insulin resistance, lack of ability to regulate
   blood sugar, weight gain, and increase in body mass index. Examples of metabolic
15 disorders include diabetes and obesity. Examples of diabetes include type 1 diabetes
   mellitus, type 2 diabetes mellitus, diabetic neuropathy, peripheral neuropathy, diabetic
   retinopathy, diabetic ulcerations, retinopathy ulcerations, diabetic macrovasculopathy,
   and obesity. Examples of metabolic disorders which can be treated with the TNFa
   antibody of the invention are described in more detail below:
20
    1. Diabetes
            Tumor necrosis factor has been implicated in the pathophysiology of diabetes.
   (see e.g., Navarro J.F., Mora C., Maca, Am J Kidney Dis. 2003 Jul;42(l):53-61; Daimon
   M et al., Diabetes Care. 2003 Jul;26(7):2015-20; Zhang M et al., J Tongji Med Univ.
25  1999;19(3):203-5, Barbieri M et al., Am J Hypertens. 2003 Jul;16(7):537-43.) For
    example, TNFa is implicated in the pathophysiology for insulin resistance. It has been
    found that serum TNF levels in patients with gastrointestinal cancer correlates with
   insulin resistance (see e.g., McCall, J. et al. Br. J. Surg. 1992; 79: 1361-3).
            Diabetes includes the two most common types of the disorder, namely type I
30 diabetes and type II diabetes, which both result from the body's inability to regulate
   insulin. Insulin is a hormone released by the pancreas in response to increased levels of
   blood sugar (glucose) in the blood.
                                                 -47  -

             The term "type 1 diabetes," as used herein, refers to a chronic disease that occurs
    when the pancreas produces too little insulin to regulate blood sugar levels appropriately.
    Type 1 diabetes is also referred to as insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus, IDMM,
                                                                                       result of a
    juvenile onset diabetes, and diabetes - type I. Type 1 diabetes represents is the
                                                                                       insulin
 5  progressive autoimmune destruction of the pancreatic p-cells with subsequent
    deficiency.
             The term "type 2 diabetes," refers to a chronic disease that occurs when the
     pancreas does not make enough insulin to keep blood glucose levels normal, often
     because the body does not respond well to the insulin. Type 2 diabetes is also referred to
10   as noninsulin-dependent diabetes mellitus, NDDM, and diabetes - type II
             Diabetes is can be diagnosed by the administration of a glucose tolerance test.
     Clinically, diabetes is often divided into several basic categories. Primary examples of
     these categories include, autoimmune diabetes mellitus, non-insulin-dependent diabetes
     mellitus (type 1 NDDM), insulin-dependant diabetes mellitus (type 2 IDDM), non
15   autoimmune diabetes mellitus, non-insulin-dependant diabetes mellitus (type 2
     NIDDM), and maturity-onset diabetes of the young (MODY). A further category, often
     referred to as secondary, refers to diabetes brought about by some identifiable condition
     which causes or allows a diabetic syndrome to develop. Examples of secondary
      categories include, diabetes caused by pancreatic disease, hormonal abnormalities, drug
20    or chemical-induced diabetes, diabetes caused by insulin receptor abnormalities, diabetes
      associated with genetic syndromes, and diabetes of other causes. (see e.g., Harrison's
      (1996)  14 th ed., New York, McGraw-Hill).
              Diabetes manifests itself in the foregoing categories and can cause several
      complications that are discussed in the following sections. Accordingly, the antibody, or
 25   antigen-binding fragment thereof, of the invention can be used to treat diabetes. In one
      embodiment, the TNFa antibody, or antigen-binding fragment thereof, of the invention
      is used to treat diabetes associated with the above identified catagores.
              Diabetes is aften treated with diet, insulin dosages, and various medications
       described herein. Accordingly, the TNFu antibody of the invention may also be
 30    administered in combination with agents commonly used to treat metabolic disorders
       and pain commonly associated with diabetes.
                                                    -48-

         . In one embodiment, the TNFca antibody of the invention can also be used to treat
   disorders associated with diabetes. Diabetes manifests itself in many complications and
   conditions associated with diabetes, including the following catagories:
 5          a.     DiabeticNeuropathy and PeripheralNeuropathy
            Tumor necrosis factor has been implicated in the pathophysiology of diabetic
   neuropathy and peripheral neuropathy. (See Benjafield et al. (2001) DiabetesCare.
   24:753; Qiang, X. et al. (1998) Diabetologia.41:1321-6 ; Pfeiffer et al. (1997) Horm
   Metab Res. 29:111).
10          The term "neuropathy," also referred to as nerve damage-diabetic, as used herein,
   refers to a common complication of diabetes in which nerves are damaged as a result of
   hyperglycemia (high blood sugar levels). A variety of diabetic neuropathies are
   recognized, such as distal sensorimotror polyneuropathy, focal motor neuropathy, and
   autonomic neuropathy.
15          The term "peripheral neuropathy," also known as peripheral neuritis and diabetic
   neuropathy, as used herein, refers to the failure of the nerves to carry information to and
   from the brain and spinal cord. Peripheral neuropathy produces symptoms such as pain,
    loss of sensation, and the inability to control muscles. In some cases, the failure of
   nerves to control blood vessels, intestinal function, and other organs results in abnormal
20 blood pressure, digestion, and loss of other basic involuntary processes. Peripheral
   neuropathy may involve damage to a single nerve or nerve group (mononeuropathy) or
   -may affect multiple nerves (polyneuropathy).
            Neuropathies that affect small myelinated and umnyelinated fibers of the
    sympathetic and parasympathetic nerves are known as "peripheral neuropathies."
25  Furthermore, the related disorder of peripheral neuropathy, also known as peripheral
    neuritis and diabetic neuropathy, refers to the failure of the nerves to carry information to
    and from the brain and spinal cord. This produces symptoms such as pain, loss of
    sensation, and the inability to control muscles. In some cases, failure of nerves
    controlling blood vessels, intestinal function, and other organs results in abnormal blood
30  pressure, digestion, and loss of other basic involuntary processes. Peripheral neuropathy
    may involve damage to a single nerve or nerve group (mononeuropathy) or may affect
    multiple nerves (polyneuropathy).
                                                  -49 -

           The term "diabetic neuropathy" refers to a common complication of diabetes in
   which nerves are damaged as a result of hyperglycemia (high blood sugar levels).
   Diabetic neuropathy is also referred to as neuropathy and nerve damage-diabetic. A
   variety of diabetic neuropathies are recognized, such as distal sensorimotror
 5 polyneuropathy, focal motor neuropathy, and autonomic neuropathy.
           b.      DiabeticRetinopathy
           Tumor necrosis factor has been implicated in the pathophysiology of diabetic
   retinopthy (Scholz et al. (2003) Trends Microbiol. 11:171). The term "diabetic
10 retinopathy" as used herein, refers to progressive damage to the eye's retina caused by
   long-term diabetes. Diabetic retinopathy, includes proliferative retinopathy.
   Proliferative neuropathy in turn includes includes neovascularization, pertinal
   hemmorrhave and retinal detachement.
           In advanced retinopathy, small vessels proliferate on the surface of the retina.
15 These blood vessels are fragile, tend to bleed and can cause ppretinal hemorrhages. The
   hemorrhage can obscure vision, and as the hemorrhage is resorbed fibrous tissue forms
   predisposing to retinal detachments and loss of vision. In addition, diabetic retinopathy
   includes prolferative retinopathy which includes neovascularization, pertinal
   hemmorrhave and retinal detachement. Daibetic retinopathy also includes "background
20 retinopathy" which involves changes occuring with the layers of the retina.
           c.      Diabetic Ulcerationsand Retinopathy Ulcerations
           Tumor necrosis factor has been implicated in the pathophysiology of diabetic
   ulcerations, (see Lee et aL. (2003) Hum Immunol. 64:614; Navarro et aL. (2003) Am J
25 Kidney Dis. 42:53; Daimon et al (2003) Diabetes Care. 26:2015; Zhang et al. (1999) J
   Tongji Med Univ. 19:203; Barbieri et al. (2003) Am JHypertens. 16:537; Venn et al.
   (1993) ArthritisRheum. 36:819; Westacott et al. (1994) JRheumatol.21:1710).
           The term "diabetic ulcerations," as used herein, refers to an ulcer which results as
   a complication of diabetes. An ulcer is a crater-like lesion on the skin or mucous
30 membrane caused by an inflammatory, infectious, malignant condition, or metabolic
   disorder. Typically diabetic ulcers can be found on limbs and extremeties, more
   typically the feet. These ulcers, caused by diabetic conditions, such as neurapthy and a
                                               -50-

   vacualr insufficiency, can lead to ischemia and poor wound healing. More extensive
   ulcerations may progress to ostemyelitis. Once osteomyelitis develops, it may be dificulte
   to eradicate with antibotics alonda nd amputation mayb e necessary..
            The term "retinopathy ulcerations," as used herein refers to an ulcer which causes
 5 or results in damages to the eye and the eye's retina. Retinopathy ulcerations may
   include conditions such has retinoathic hemmorages.
            d.      DiabeticMacrovasculopathy
            Tumor necrosis factor has been implicated in the pathophysiology of diabetic
10 macrovasculopathy (Devaraj et al. (2000) Circulation. 102:191; Hattori Y et al. (2000)
    CardiovascRes. 46:188; Clausell N et al. (1999) CardiovascPathol.8:145). The term
   "diabetic macrovasculopathy," also referred to as "macrovascular disease," as used
   herein, refers to a disease of the blood vessels that results from diabetes. Diabetic
   macrovasculopathy complication occurs when, for example, fat and blood clots build up
15 in the large blood vessels and stick to the vessel walls. Diabetic macrovasculopathies
   include-diseases such as coronary disease, cerebrovascular disease, and peripheral
   vascular disease, hyperglycaemia and cardiovascular disease, and strokes.
    2.      Obesity
20 Tumor necrosis factor has been implicated in the pathophysiology of obesity (see e.g.,
   Pihlajamaki J et al. (2003) Obes Res.11:912; Barbieri et al. (2003) Am JHypertens.
    16:537; Tsuda et al. (2003) JNutr. 133:2125). Obesity increases a person's risk of
    illness and death due to diabetes, stroke, coronary artery disease, hypertension, high
    cholesterol, and kidney and gallbladder disorders. Obesity may also increase the risk for
25  some types of cancer, and may be a risk factor for the development of osteoarthritis and
    sleep apnea. Obesity can be treated with the antibody of the invention alone or in
    combination with other metabolic disorders, including diabetes.
    E.      Anemia
30          TNFcc has been implicated in the pathophysiology of a wide variety of anemias
    (see e.g., Jongen-Lavrencic M., et al. (1997) J Rheumatol.24(8):1504-9;Demeter J., et
    al. (2002) Ann Hematol. 81(10):566-9; DiCato M., (2003) The Oncologist 8 (suppl
                                                -51-

    1): 19-2 1). The invention provides methods for inhibiting TNFa activity in a subject
    suffering from such a disorder, which method comprises administering to the subject an
    antibody, antibody portion, or other TNFa inhibitor of the invention such that TNFcc
    activity in the subject suffering from anemia is inhibited. In one embodiment, the
 5  anemia is associated with rheumatoid arthritis.
             The term "anemia" as used herein, refers to an abnormally low number of
    circulating red cells or a decreased concentration of hemoglobin in the blood. Examples
    of anemia related to rheumatoid arthritis include, for example, anemia of chronic
    disease, iron deficiency anemia, and autoimmune hemolytic anemia. In one
10  embodiment, the invention provides a method of treating anemias related to, for
    example, anemias related to rheumatoid arthritis, anemias of infection and chronic
    inflammatory diseases, iron deficiency anemia, autoimmune hemolytic anemia,
    myelophthisic anemia, aplastic anemia, hypoplastic anemia, pure red cell aplasia and
    anemia associated with renal failure or endocrine disorders, megaloblastic anemias,
15  defects in heme or globin synthesis, anemia caused by a structural defect in red blood
    cells, e.g., sickle-cell anemia, and anemias of unknown origins such as sideroblastic
    anemia, anemia associated with chronic infections such as malaria, trypanosomiasis,
    HIV, hepatitis virus or other viruses, and myelophthisic anemias caused by marrow
    deficiencies.
20
    F.        Pain
              TNFa has been implicated in the pathophysiology of a wide variety of pain
     syndromes (see e.g., Sorkin, LS. et al., (1997) Neuroscience. 81(l):255-62; Huygen FJ.,
     et al. (2002) MediatorsInflamm. 11 (1):47-51; Parada CA., et al. (2003) Eur J
25   Neurosci.17(9):1847-52). The invention provides methods for inhibiting TNFa activity
     in a subject suffering from such a pain disorder, which method comprises administering
     to the subject an antibody, antibody portion, or other TNFac inhibitor of the invention
     such that TNFa activity in the subject suffering from pain is inhibited. Pain has been
     defined in a variety of ways, including nociceptive pain and neuropathic pain. The most
 30  commonly experienced form of pain may be defined as the effect of a stimulus on nerve
      endings, which results in the transmission of impulses to the cerebrum. Pain is also
      commonly associated with inflammatory disorders, including, for example, rheumatoid
                                                 - 52-

    arthritis. In one embodiment, the antibody of the invention is used to treat a subject who
    suffers from pain associated with rheumatoid arthritis. Examples of pain disorders in
    which TNFa activity is detrimental are discussed further below.
 5  1.        NeuropathicPain
              Tumor necrosis factor has been implicated in the pathophysiology of neuropathic
    pain (see Sommer C., (1999) Schmerz. 13(5):315-23; Emp1 M et al., (2001) Neurology.
                                                                                              the
    56(10):1371-7; Schafers M et al., (2003) JNeurosci. 23(7):3028-38). As used herein
    term "neuropathic pain" refers to pain that results from injury to a nerve, spinal cord, or
10  brain, and often involves neural supersensitivity. Examples of neuropathic pain include
    chronic lower back pain, pain associated with arthritis, cancer-associated pain, herpes
    neuralgia, phantom limb pain, central pain, opioid resistant neuropathic pain, bone injury
     pain, and pain during labor and delivery. Other examples of neuropathic pain include
     post-operative pain, cluster headaches, dental pain, surgical pain, pain resulting from
15   severe, for example third degree, burns, post partum pain, angina pain, genitourinary
     tract related pain, and including cystitis.
               Neuropathic pain is distinguished from nociceptive pain. Pain involving a
     nociceptive mechanism usually is limited in duration to the period of tissue repair and
     generally is alleviated by available analgesic agents or opioids (Myers, Regional
20   Anesthesia 20:173-184 (1995)). Neuropathic pain typically is long-lasting or chronic and
     often develops days or months following an initial acute tissue injury. Neuropathic pain
      can involve persistent, spontaneous pain as well as allodynia, which is a painful response
      to a stimulus that normally is not painful. Neuropathic pain also can be characterized by
      hyperalgesia, in which there is an accentuated response to a painful stimulus that usually
 25   is trivial, such as a pin prick. Unlike nociceptive pain, neuropathic pain generally is
      resistant to opioid therapy (Myers, supra, 1995). Accordingly, the antibody, or antigen
      binding fragment thereof, of the invention can be used to treat neuropathic pain.
      2.       Nociceptive pain
 30   As used herein the term "nociceptive pain" refers to pain that is transmitted across intact
      neuronal pathways, i.e., pain caused by injury to the body. Nociceptive pain includes
       somatic sensation and normal function of pain, and informs the subject of impending
                                                   -53-

   tissue damage. The nociceptive pathway exists for protection of the subject, e.g., the
   pain experienced in response to a burn). Nociceptive pain includes bone pain, visceral
   pain, and pain associated with soft tissue.
             Tumor necrosis factor has been implicated in the pathophysiology of visceral
 5 pain (see Coelho A., et al. (2000) Am J Physiol Gastrointest Liver Physiol. 279:G781
    G790; Coelho A, et al. (2000) Brain Res Bull. 52(3):223-8). Visceral pain is used to
   refer to nociceptive pain that is mediated by receptors on A-delta and C nerve fibers. A
    delta and C-nerve fibers are which are located in skin, bone, connective tissue, muscle
    and viscera. Visceral pain can be vague in distribution, spasmodic in nature and is
10  usually described as deep, aching, squeezing and colicky in nature. Examples of visceral
    pain include pain associated with a heart attack, wherein the visceral pain can be felt in
    the arm, neck and/or back, and liver capsule pain, wherein the visceral pain can be felt in
    the back and/or right shoulder. Accordingly, the TNFa antibody, or antigen-binding
    fragment thereof, of the invention can be used to treat visceral pain.
15
    G.       Hepatic Disorders
             TNFa has been implicated in the pathophysiology of a wide variety of hepatic
    disorders (see e.g., Colletti LM., et al. (1990) J Clin Invest. 85(6):1936-43; Tiegs G.
     (1997) Acta GastroenterolBeig. 60(2):176-9; Fernandez ED., et al. (2000) JEndotoxin
20  Res. 6(4):321-8). The invention provides methods for TNFac activity in a subject
     suffering from such a hepatic disorder, which method comprises administering to the
     subject an antibody, antibody portion, or other TNFca inhibitor of the invention such that
     TNFca activity in the subject suffering from a hepatic disorder is inhibited.
             As used herein, the term "a hepatic disorder in which TNFa activity is
25   detrimental" is intended to include diseases and other disorders of the liver in which the
     presence of TNFa in a subject suffering from the disorder has been shown to be or is
     suspected of being either responsible for the pathophysiology of the disorder or a factor
     that contributes to a worsening of the disorder. Accordingly, a hepatic disorder in which
     TNFa activity is detrimental is a disorder in which inhibition of TNFax activity is
30   expected to alleviate the symptoms and/or progression of the hepatic disorder.
                                                  -54-

            Hepatic disorders include many diseases and disorders wherein the liver
   functions improperly or ceases to function. Hepatocellular injuries can include alcoholic
   cirrhosis, al antitypsin deficiency, autoimmune cirrhosis, cryptogenic cirrhosis,
   fulminant hepatitis, hepatitis B and C, and steatohepatitis. Examples of biliary tract
 5 disorders include cystic fibrosis, primary biliary cirrhosis, sclerosing cholangitis and
   biliary obstruction (Wiesner, R. H, Current Indications, Contra Indications and Timing
   for Liver Transplantation (1996), in Transplantation of the Liver, Saunders (publ.);
   Busuttil, R. W. and Klintmalm, G. B. (eds.) Chapter 6, e.g., Tables 6-3 and 6-5 as well
   as FIGS. 6-11; Klein, A. W., (1998) Partial Hypertension: The Role of Liver
10 Transplantation, Musby (publ.) in Current Surgical Therapy 6.sup.th Ed. Cameron, J.
   (ed).
            The term "hepatitis" refers to inflammation of the liver. Hepatitis can be caused
   by infections with various organisms, including bacteria, viruses (Hepatitis A, B, C,
   etc.), or parasites. Chemical toxins such as alcohol, drugs, or poisonous mushrooms can
15 also damage the liver and cause it to become inflamed. A rare but extremely dangerous
   cause of hepatitis results from overdose of acetaminophen (Tylenol), which can be
   deadly. In addition, immune cells in the body may attack the liver and cause
   autoimmune hepatitis. Hepatitis may resolve quickly (acute hepatitis), or cause long
   term disease (chronic hepatitis). In some instances, progressive liver damage or liver
20 failure may result. The incidence and severity of hepatitis vary depending on many
   factors, including the cause of the liver damage and any underlying illnesses in a patient.
            In one embodiment, the invention features a method for treating a hepatic
   disorder in which TNFax activity is detrimental, comprising administering to a subject an
   effective amount of a TNFa inhibitor, such that said disorder is treated. In one
25 embodiment, the hepatic disorder is selected from the group consisting of hepatitis C
   virus, autoimmune hepatitis, fatty-liver disease, hepatitis B virus, hepatotoxicity, and
   non-alcoholic hepatitis, including non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH). Examples of
   hepatic disorders are further described below.
                                                -55-

    1. Hepatitis C Virus (HCV)
              Tumor necrosis factor has been implicated in the pathophysiology of the hepatitis
    C virus (see Gonzalez-Amaro. (1994) JExp Med. 179:841-8; Nelson DR, et al. (1997)
    Dig Dis Sci 42:2487-94; Kallinowski B, et al. (1998) Clin Exp Inmunol. 111:269-77).
 5  The term "hepatitis C virus" or "HCV" is used to describe the hepatitis virus which is the
    causative agent of non-A, non-B hepatitis. Hepatitis C virus causes an inflammation of
    the liver. HCV infection causes hepatitis C. Hepatitis C in the acute stage is, in general,
    milder than hepatitis B, but a greater proportion of such infections become chronic. HCV
    is a major cause of acute hepatitis and chronic liver disease, including cirrhosis and liver
10  cancer. HCV is one of the viruses (A, B, C, D, and E), which together account for the
    vast majority of cases of viral hepatitis. It is an enveloped RNA virus in the flaviviridae
     family which appears to have a narrow host range. An important feature of the virus is
     the relative mutability of its genome, which in turn is probably related to the high
    propensity (80%) of inducing chronic infection. HCV is clustered into several distinct
15   genotypes which may be important in determining the severity of the disease and the
     response to treatment. In one embodiment, the TNFx antibody, or antigen-binding
     fragment thereof, of the invention can be used to treat HCV.
               In one embodiment, subjects who are infected with HCV are treated with the
     TNFca antibody of the invention. Symptoms of HCV infection (hepatitis C) include at
20   least one of the following: jaundice, abdominal pain (especially in the right upper
      abdomen), fatigue, loss of appetite, nausea and vomiting, low-grade fever, pale or clay
      colored stools, dark urine, and generalized itching. However, it should be noted that
     many people who are infected with the hepatitis C do not have symptoms, as hepatitis C
      is often detected during blood tests for a routine physical or other medical procedure.
25
      2. Autoimmune Hepatitis (AIH)
                Tumor necrosis factor has been implicated in the pathophysiology of
      autoimmune hepatitis (see Cookson S. et al., (1999) Hepatology 30(4):851-6; Jazrawi S.
      et al., (2003) Liver Transpl. 9(4):377-82). As used herein, "autoimmune hepatitis" refers
 30   to a hepatic disorder characterized by inflammation of the liver caused by rogue immune
      cells that mistake the liver's normal cells for a foreign tissue or pathogen (disease
      causing agent). Autoimmune hepatitis is often responsible for a progressive destruction
                                                    -56-

     of the hepatic parenchyma with a high mortality if left untreated (Johnson P. J. et al.,
     (1993) Hepatology, 18:998-1005). One of the characteristics of autoimmune hepatitis is
     the presence of circulating autoantibodies in almost 90% of patients' sera. Such
     antibodies can be used to identify subjects who have autoimmune hepatitis.
  5          Clinical and serological differences between patients have lead to the
     classification of AIH into two types. Type 1 is characterized by the presence of anti
     smooth muscle (SMA) and/or anti-nuclear antibodies (ANA) in patients' sera, while sera
     from Type I patients show anti-liver kidney microsomal antibodies type 1 (LKM1)
     (Homberg J. C. et al., (1987) Hepatology, 7:1333-1339; Maggiore G. et al., (1993) J
 10  Pediatr.GastroenterolNutr., 17:376-381). A serological marker, anti-liver cytosol type
     I antibodies (LCl), has been identified in 30% of patients with an AIH type I1. In
     addition, LC1 proved to be the only serological marker in 10% of patients tested
     (Martini E. et al., (1988) Hepatology, 8:1662-1666). In one embodiment, the TNFca
     antibody, or antigen-binding fragment thereof, of the invention is used to treat AIH.
 15
     3. Fatty-liverdisease
             Tumor necrosis factor has been implicated in the pathophysiology of fatty-liver
     disease (see Valenti L. et al., (2002) Gastroenerology 122(2):274-80; Li Z. et al., (2003)
    Hepatology 37(2):343-50). Fatty-liver disease refers to a disease wherein fat
20   (hepatocytes) is excessively accumulated in the liver. Fatty liver disease is believed to be
    caused by supernutrition, hyperingestion of alcohol, diabetes and side effects due to
    administration of pharmaceuticals. Fatty liver disease can cause severe diseases such as
    chronic hepatitis and hepatic cirrhosis. In patients with fatty liver disease, lipids,
    particularly neutral fat, accumulate in hepatocytes to the extent that the amount exceeds
25  the physiologically permissible range. From a biochemical point of view, a standard for
    judgment of fatty liver is that the weight of neutral fat is about 10% (100 mg/g wet
    weight) or more of the wet weight of hepatic tissue. In one embodiment, the TNFa
    antibody, or antigen-binding fragment thereof, of the invention can be used to treat fatty
    liver disease.
30
                                                 - 57 -

    4. Hepatitis B Virus (HBV)
             Tumor necrosis factor has been implicated in the pathophysiology of hepatitis B
    virus (see Kasahara S. et al., (2003) J Virol. 77(4):2469-76; Wang F.S., (2003) World J
    Gastroenterol.9(4):641-4;Biermer M. et al., (2003) J Virol. 77(7):4033-42). The term
 5  "hepatitis B virus" (HBV) is used to describe the virus (serum hepatitis virus) which
                                                                        with a long incubation
    produces viral hepatitis type B in humans. This is a viral disease
                                                                                          virus)
    period (about 50 to 160 days) in contrast to hepatitis A virus (infectious hepatitis
    which has a short incubation period. The hepatitis B virus is usually transmitted by
                                                                           contaminated
    injection of infected blood or blood derivatives or merely by use of
10  needles, lancets or other instruments. Clinically and pathologically, the disease is similar
     to viral hepatitis type A; however, there is no cross-protective immunity. Viral antigen
     (HBAg) is found in the serum after infection.
                                                                                  who become
              Hepatitis B virus infects humans at a very high rate. Most people
                                                                                       infection
     infected with Hepatitis B get rid of the virus within 6 months, wherein a short
                                                                                          million
15   is known as an "acute" case of Hepatitis B. It is estimated that at least about 300
                                                                               a range of clinical
     people are chronic carriers of HBV. Infection with the virus results in
                                                                       embodiment, the TNFa
      symptoms including minor flu-like symptoms to death. In one
                                                                                             HBV
      antibody, or antigen-binding fragment thereof, of the invention can be used to treat
      infection.
20
      5. Hepatotoxicity
               Tumor necrosis factor has been implicated in the pathophysiology of
                                                                                   Luster M.I. et
      hepatotoxicity (see Bruccoleri A. et al., (1997) Hepatology 25(1):133-41;
      al., (2000) Ann NYAcad Sci. 919:214-20; Simeonova P. et al., (2001) Toxicol Appl
 25   Pharmacol.177(2):112-20). The term hepatotoxicity refers to liver damage caused by
       medications and other chemicals or drugs. The best indicator for identifying liver
       toxicity in a subject is the elevation of certain enzyme measurements in the blood, such
       as AST (aspartate aminotransferase), ALT (alanine aminotransferase), and GOT
       (glutamate oxalacetate transaminase).
 30            Hepatotoxicity can cause permanent injury and death. Initial symptoms of
                                                                                  diarrhea. The
       hepatotoxicity can include acute gastrointestinal symptoms, e.g., severe
        second phase of hepatotoxicity is characterized by abatement of symptoms. During this
                                                     -58-

                                                                                     Oliguria
      apparent subsidence, biochemical evidence of hepatic injury appears.
                                                               phase. The third phase, that of overt
      (decreased urine output) is usual during the second
                                                                    after ingestion of the chemical,
      hepatic damage, becomes clinically apparent 3 to 5 days
                                                                           The symptoms of
      with the appearance of jaundice. Renal failure may also occur.
                                                                            of infectious hepatitis. In
 5     chemically-induced (drug-induced) hepatitis are similar to that
                                                                                 thereof, of the
       one embodiment, the TNFa antibody, or antigen-binding fragment
       invention can be used to treat hepatotoxicity.
       6. Liverfailure (e.g. chronic liverfailure)
                                                                                         of liver failure
10               Tumor necrosis factor has been implicated in the pathophysiology
                                                                      Dig Dis Sci. 43(4):887-92;
        (e.g. chronic liver failure) (see Takenaka K. et al., (1998)
                                                                             et al., (2000)
        Nagaki M. et al., (1999) JHepatol.31(6):997-1005; Streetz K.
                                                                                                usually
        Gastroenterology.119(2):446-60. Liver failure, including chronic liver failure,
                                                                                to the liver (such as
        develops over a period of years and is caused by a repeated insult
                                                                          damages the organ. Less
 15      alcohol abuse or infection with hepatitis virus) which slowly
                                                                          days or weeks. Causes of
         commonly, liver failure is acute, and occurs over a period of
                                                                                      autoimmune
         acute liver failure include hepatitis virus infections, drugs, pregnancy,
                                                                                     the TNFca
         disease, and sudden low blood flow to the liver. In one embodiment,
                                                                             can be used to liver
         antibody, or antigen-binding fragment thereof, of the invention
 20      failure.
          7. Non-alcoholic hepatitis, including NASH
                                                                                          of non
                  Tumor necrosis factor has been implicated in the pathophysiology
          alcoholic hepatitis, including nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (see Crespo J. et al., (2001)
                                                                                        The term
  25      Hepatology. 34(6):1158-63;Pessayre D. et al., (2002) 282(2):G193-9).
          "nonalcoholic steatohepatitis" or "NASH" refers to the development of histologic
                                                                                       alcohol intake,
          changes in the liver that are comparable to those induced by excessive
                                                                              macrovesicular and/or
          but in the absence of alcohol abuse. NASH is characterized by
          microvesicular steatosis, lobular and portal inflammation, and occasionally Mallory
                                                                                        with
   30      bodies with fibrosis and cirrhosis. NASH is also commonly associated
           hyperlipidemia, obesity, and type II diabetes mellitus.
                                                        - 59 -

             Additional clinical conditions which characterize hepatic steatosis and
   inflammation include excessive fasting, jejunoileal bypass, total parental nutrition,
   chronic hepatitis C, Wilson's disease, and adverse drug effects such as those from
   corticosteroids, calcium channel blockers, high dose synthetic estrogens, methotrexate
 5 and amiodarone. Thus, the term "nonalcoholic steatohepatitis" can be used to describe
   those patients who exhibit these biopsy findings, coupled with the absence of (a)
   significant alcohol consumption, (b) previous surgery for weight loss, (c) history of drug
   use associated with steatohepatitis, (d) evidence of genetic liver disease or (e) chronic
   hepatitis C infection (see, Ludwig, J. R. et al., (1980) Mayo Clin. Proc., 55:434; Powell
10 E. et al., (1990) Hepatol., 11:74). In one embodiment, the TNFcc antibody, or antigen
   binding fragment thereof, of the invention can be used to treat NASH.
   H.        Skin and Nail Disorders
             In one ambodiment, the TNFu antibodyof the invention is used to treat skin and
15 nail disorders. As used herein, the term "skin and nail disorder in which TNFa activity
    is detrimental" is intended to include skin and/or nail disorders and other disorders in
    which the presence of TNFa in a subject suffering from the disorder has been shown to
    be or is suspected of being either responsible for the pathophysiology of the disorder or a
    factor that contributes to a worsening of the disorder, e.g., psoriasis. Accordingly, skin
20  and nail disorders in which TNFx activity is detrimental are disorders in which
    inhibition of TNFa activity is expected to alleviate the symptoms and/or progression of
    the disorder. The use of the antibodies, antibody portions, and other TNFac inhibitors of
    the invention in the treatment of specific skin and nail disorders is discussed further
    below. In certain embodiments, the antibody, antibody portion, or other TNFa inhibitor
25   of the invention is administered to the subject in combination with another therapeutic
     agent, as described below in Section III. In one embodiment, the TNFa antibody of the
     invention is administered to the subject in combination with another therapeutic agent
     for the treatment of psoriasis and the treatment of psoriasis associated with arthritis.
                                                 -60-

    1.        Psoriasis
              Tumor necrosis factor has been implicated in the pathophysiology of psoriasis
    (Takematsu et al. (1989) Arch Dermatol Res. 281:398; Victor and Gottlieb (2002) J
    Drugs Dermatol. 1(3):264). Psoriasis is described as a skin inflammation (irritation and
 5  redness) characterized by frequent episodes of redness, itching, and thick, dry, silvery
    scales on the skin. In particular, lesions are formed which involve primary and
    secondary alterations in epidermal proliferation, inflammatory responses of the skin, and
    an expression of regulatory molecules such as lymphokines and inflammatory factors.
    Psoriatic skin is morphologically characterized by an increased turnover of epidermal
10   cells, thickened epidermis, abnormal keratinization, inflammatory cell infiltrates into the
     epidermis and polymorphonuclear leukocyte and lymphocyte infiltration into the
     epidermis layer resulting in an increase in the basal cell cycle. Psoriasis often involves
     the nails, which frequently exhibit pitting, separation of the nail, thickening, and
     discoloration. Psoriasis is often associated with other inflammatory disorders, for
15   example arthritis, including rheumatoid arthritis, inflammatory bowel disease (IBD), and
     Crohn's disease.
               Evidence of psoriasis is most commonly seen on the trunk, elbows, knees, scalp,
      skin folds, or fingernails, but it may affect any or all parts of the skin. Normally, it takes
      about a month for new skin cells to move up from the lower layers to the surface. In
20    psoriasis, this process takes only a few days, resulting in a build-up of dead skin cells
      and formation of thick scales. Symptoms of psoriasis include: skin patches, that are dry
      or red, covered with silvery scales, raised patches of skin, accompanied by red borders,
      that may crack and become painful, and that are usually lovated on the elbows, knees,
      trunk, scalp, and hands; skin lesions, including pustules, cracking of the skin, and skin
25    redness; joint pain or aching which maybe associated with of arthritis, e.g., psoriatic
      arthritis.
               Treatment for psoriasis often includes a topical corticosteroids, vitamin D
       analogs, and topical or oral retinoids, or combinations thereof. In one embodiment, the
      TNFa inhibitor of the invention is administered in combination with or the presence of
 30    one of these common treatments. Additional therapeutic agents which can also be
       combined with the TNFa inhibitor of the invention for treatment of psoriasis are
       described in more detail in Section III.B.
                                                    - 61-

             The diagnosis of psoriasis is usually based on the appearance of the skin.
    Additionally a skin biopsy, or scraping and culture of skin patches may be needed to rule
    out other skin disorders. An x-ray may be used to check for psoriatic arthritis ifjoint
    pain is present and persistent.
 5           In one embodiment of the invention, a TNFa inhibitor is used to treat psoriasis,
    including chronic plaque psoriasis, guttate psoriasis, inverse psoriasis, pustular psoriasis,
    pemphigus vulgaris, erythrodermic psoriasis, psoriasis associated with inflammatory
    bowel disease (IBD), and psoriasis associated with rheumatoid arthritis (RA). Specific
                                                                                   described in
    types of psoriasis included in the treatment methods of the invention are
10   detail below:
              a.      Chronicplaquepsoriasis
              Tumor necrosis factor has been implicated in the pathophysiology of chronic
                                                                       4
     plaque psoriasis (Asadullah et al. (1999) Br JDermatol.141:9 ). Chronic plaque
15   psoriasis (also referred to as psoriasis vulgaris) is the most common form of psoriasis.
     Chronic plaque psoriasis is characterized by raised reddened patches of skin, ranging
     from coin-sized to much larger. In chronic plaque psoriasis, the plaques may be single
     or multiple, they may vary in size from a few millimeters to several centimeters. The
     plaques are usually red with a scaly surface, and reflect light when gently scratched,
20    creating a "silvery" effect. Lesions (which are often symmetrical) from chronic plaque
      psoriasis occur all over body, but with predilection for extensor surfaces, including the
      knees, elbows, lumbosacral regions, scalp, and nails. Occasionally chronic plaque
      psoriasis can occur on the penis, vulva and flexures, but scaling is usually absent.
      Diagnosis of patients with chronic plaque psoriasis is usually based on the clinical
 25   features described above. In particular, the distribution, color and typical silvery scaling
      of the lesion in chronic plaque psoriasis are characteristic of chronic plaque psoriasis.
               b.     Guttatepsoriasis
               Guttate psoriasis refers to a form of psoriasis with characteristic water drop
 30   shaped scaly plaques. Flares of guttate psoriasis generally follow an infection, most
      notably a streptococcal throat infection. Diagnosis of guttate psoriasis is usually based
                                                   -62-

                                                                                           sore
     on the appearance of the skin, and the fact that there is often a history of recent
     throat.
              C.       Inversepsoriasis
 5            Inverse psoriasis is a form of psoriasis in which the patient has smooth, usually
                                                                                      associated
     moist areas of skin that are red and inflamed, which is unlike the scaling
                                                                                     psoriasis or
     with plaque psoriasis. Inverse psoriasis is also referred to as intertiginous
                                                                                           the
      flexural psoriasis. Inverse psoriasis occurs mostly in the armpits, groin, under
                                                                                            of the
      breasts and in other skin folds around the genitals and buttocks, and, as a result
                                                                                  areas.
10    locations of presentation, rubbing and sweating can irriate the affected
               d.      Pustularpsoriasis
               Pustular psoriasis is a form of psoriasis that causes pus-filled blisters that vary in
       size and location, but often occur on the hands and feet. The blisters may be localized,
15     or spread over large areas of the body. Pustular psoriasis can be both tender and painful,
       can cause fevers.
               e.       Otherpsoriasisdisorders
               Other examples of psoriatic disorders which can be treated with the TNFca
20     antibody of the invention include erythrodermic psoriasis, vulgaris, psoriasis associated
       with IBD, and psoriasis associated with arthritis, including rheumatoid arthritis.
       2.       Pemphigus vulgaris
 25
                                                                                         disease that
                Pemphigus vulgaris is a serious autoimmune systemic dermatologic
        often affects the oral mucous membrane and skin. The pathogenesis of pemphigus
                                                                            at skin and oral mucous
        vulgaris is thought to be an autoimmune process that is directed
                                                                                             The
        membrane desmosomes. Consequentially, cells do not adhere to each other.
  30    disorder manifests as large fluid-filled, rupture-prone bullae, and has a distinctive
                                                                                              for this
        histologic appearance. Anti-inflammatory agents are the only effective therapy
        disease which has a high mortality rate. Complications that arise in patients suffering
                                                     - 63 -

     from pemphigus vulgaris are intractable pain, interference with nutrition and fluid loss,
     and infections.
      3.       Atopic dermatitis/ eczema
 5             Atopic dermatitis (also referred to as eczema) is a chronic skin disorder
                                                                                       family
      categorized by scaly and itching plaques. People with eczema often have a
                                                                                              is a
      history of allergic conditions like asthma, hay fever, or eczema. Atopic dermatitis
                                                                        in the skin, causing chronic
      hypersensitivity reaction (similar to an allergy) which occurs
                                                                                        Chronic
      inflammation. The inflammation causes the skin to become itchy and scaly.
10    irritation and scratching can cause the skin to thicken and become leathery-textured.
                                                                                             skin,
      Exposure to environmental irritants can worsen symptoms, as can dryness of the
      exposure to water, temperature changes, and stress.
                                                                               symptoms, which
                Subjects with atopic dermatitis can be identified by certain
                                                                                         or
       often include intense itching, blisters with oozing and crusting, skin redness
                                                                                        the skin
15     inflammation around the blisters, rash, dry, leathery skin areas, raw areas of
       from scratching, and ear discharges/bleeding.
       4.       Sarcoidosis
                Sarcoidosis is a disease in which granulomatous inflammation occurs in the
                                                                                   includes
20      lymph nodes, lungs, liver, eyes, skin, and/or other tissues. Sarcoidosis
                                                                                                 of
        cutaneous sarcoidosis (sarcoidosis of the skin) and nodular sarcoidosis (sarcoidosis
        the lymph nodes). Patients with sarcoidosis can be identified by the symptoms, which
        often include general discomfort, uneasiness, or an ill feeling; fever; skin lesions.
 25      5.      Erythema nodosum
                                                                                                by
                 Erythema nodosumn refers to an inflammatory disorder that is characterized
         tender, red nodules under the skin, typically on the anterior lower legs. Lesions
         associated with erythema nodosum often begin as flat, but firm, hot red painful lumps
                                                                                         purplish, and
         (approximately an inch across). Within a few days the lesions may become
  30     then over several weeks fade to a brownish flat patch.
                                                     -64-

              In some instances, erythema nodosum may be associated with infections
     including, streptococcus, coccidioidomycosis, tuberculosis, hepatitis B, syphilis, cat
     scratch disease, tularemia, yersinia, leptospirosis psittacosis, histoplasmosis,
     mononucleosis (EBV). In other instances, erythema nodosum may be associated with
 5    sensitivity to certain medications including, oralcontraceptives, penicillin, sulfonamides,
      sulfones, barbiturates, hydantoin, phenacetin, salicylates, iodides, and progestin.
      Erythema nodosum is often associated with other disorders including, leukemia,
      sarcoidosis, rheumatic fever, and ulcerative colitis.
               Symptoms of erythema nodosum usually present themselves on the shins, but
10    lesions may also occur on other areas of the body, including the buttocks, calves, ankles,
                                                                                   nodosum can
      thighs and upper extremities. Other symptoms in subjects with erythema
      include fever and malaise.
       6.      Hidradenitissuppurative
15             Hidradenitis suppurativa refers to a skin disorder in which swollen, painful,
       inflamed lesions or lumps develop in the groin and sometimes under the arms and under
       the breasts. Hidradenitis suppurativa occurs when apocrine gland outlets become
       blocked by perspiration or are unable to drain normally because of incomplete gland
       development. Secretions trapped in the glands force perspiration and bacteria into
20      surrounding tissue, causing subcutaneous induration, inflammation, and infection.
       Hidradenitis suppurativa is confined to areas of the body that contain apocrine glands.
        These areas are the axillae, areola of the nipple, groin, perineum, circumanal, and
        periumbilical regions.
 25     7.      Lichen planus
                Tumor necrosis factor has been implicated in the pathophysiology of lichen
                                                                                 planus refers to a
        planus (Sklavounou et al. (2000) J OralPatholMed. 29:370). Lichen
        disorder of the skin and the mucous membranes resulting in inflammation, itching, and
        distinctive skin lesions. Lichen planus may be associated with hepatitis C or certain
  30    medications.
                                                     -65-

     8.       Sweet's syndrome
               Inflammatory cytokines, including tumor necrosis factor, have been implicated in
                                                                                 Br JHaematoL.
     the   pathophysiology of Sweet's syndrome (Reuss-Borst et al. (1993)
     84:356). Sweet's syndrome, which was described by R.D. Sweet in 1964, is
                                                                                             The
 5   characterized by the sudden onset of fever, leukocytosis, and cutaneous eruption.
                                                                                   plaques which
     eruption consists of tender, erythematous, well-demarcated papules and
     show dense neutrophilic infiltrates microscopically. The lesions may appear anywhere,
                                                                                                     as
     but favor the upper body including the face. The individual lesions are often described
                                                                            bullous, or ulcerative.
     pseudovesicular or pseudopustular, but may be frankly pustular,
10    Oral and eye involvement (conjunctivitis or episcleritis) have also been frequently
                                                                                 associated with
      reported in patients with Sweet's syndrome. Leukemia has also been
      Sweet's syndrome.
       9.       Vitiligo
                                                                                                    of
15              Vitiligo refers to a skin condition in which there is loss of pigment from areas
       skin resulting in irregular white patches with normal skin texture. Lesions characteristic
                                                                                              defined
       of vitiligo appear as flat depigmented areas. The edges of the lesions are sharply
                                                                                              elbows
       but irregular. Frequently affected areas in subjects with vitiligo include the face,
       and knees, hands and feet, and genitalia.
 20
        10.      Scleroderma
                 Tumor necrosis factor has been implicated in the pathophysiology of scleroderma
                                                                                     Mackiewicz Z et
        (Tutuncu Z et al. (2002) Clin Exp Rheumatol. 20(6 Suppl 28):S146-51;
                                                                                          Rheum.
        al. (2003) Clin Exp Rheumatol. 21(l):41-8; Murota H et aL. (2003) Arthritis
 25     48(4):1117-25). Scleroderma refers to a a diffuse connective tissue disease characterized
        by changes in the skin, blood vessels, skeletal muscles, and internal organs.
        Scleroderma is also referred to as CREST syndrome or Progressive systemic sclerosis,
         and usually affects people between the ages 30-50. Women are affected more often than
        men.
  30             The cause of scleroderma is unknown. The disease may produce local or
         systemic symptoms. The course and severity of the disease varies widely in those
         affected.Excess collagen deposits in the skin and other organs produce the symptoms.
                                                      - 66-

   Damage to small blood vessels within the skin and affected organs also occurs. In the
   skin, ulceration, calcification, and changes in pigmentation may occur. Systemic
   features may include fibrosis and degeneration of the heart, lungs, kidneys and
   gastrointestinal tract.
 5         Patients suffering from scleroderma exhibit certain clinical features, including,
   blanching, blueness, or redness of fingers and toes in response to heat and cold
   (Raynaud's phenomenon), pain, stiffness, and swelling of fingers and joints, skin
   thickening and shiny hands and forearm, esophageal reflux or heartburn, difficulty
   swallowing, and shortness of breath. Other clinical sypmtoms used to diagnose
10 scleroderma include, an elevated erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR), an elevated
   rheumatoid factor (RF), a positive antinuclear antibody test, urinalysis that shows protein
   and microscopic blood, a chest X-ray that may show fibrosis, and pulmonary funtion
   studies that show restricitive lung disease.
15  11.    Nail disorders
           Nail disorders include any abnormality of the nail. Specific nail disorders
   include, but are not limited to, pitting, koilonychia, Beau's lines, spoon nails,
   onycholysis, yellow nails, pterygium (seen in lichen planus), and leukonychia. Pitting is
   characterised by the presence of small depressions on the nail surface. Ridges or linear
20 elevations can develop along the nail occurring in a "lengthwise" or "crosswise"
   direction. Beau's lines are linear depressions that occur "crosswise" (transverse) in the
   fingernail. Leukonychia describes white streaks or spots on the nails. Koilonychia is an
   abnormal shape of the fingernail where the nail has raised ridges and is thin and concave
   Koilonychia is often associated with iron deficiency.
25         Nail disorders which can be treated with the TNFa antibody of the invention also
   include psoriatic nails. Psoriatic nails include changes in nails which are attributable to
   psoriasis. In some instances psoriasis may occur only in the nails and nowhere else on
   the body. Psoriatic changes in nails range from mild to severe, generally reflecting the
   extent of psoriatic involvement of the nail plate, nail matrix, i.e., tissue from which the
30 nail grows, nail bed, i.e., tissue under the nail, and skin at the base of the nail. Damage
   to the nail bed by the pustular type of psoriasis can result in loss of the nail. Nail
   changes in psoriasis fall into general categories that may occur singly or all together. In
                                                 - 67 -

   one category of psoriatic nails, the nail plate is deeply pitted, probably due to defects in
   nail growth caused by psoriasis. IN another category, the nail has a yellow to yellow
   pink discoloration, probably due to psoriatic involvement of the nail bed. A third
   subtype of psoriatic nails are characterized by white areas which appear under the nail
 5 plate. The white areas are actually air bubbles marking spots where the nail plate is
   becoming detached from the nail bed. There may also be reddened skin around the nail.
   A fourth category is evidenced by the nail plate crumbling in yellowish patches, i.e.,
   onychodystrophy, probably due to psoriatic involvement in the nail matrix. A fifth
   category is characterized by the loss of the nail in its entirety due to psoriatic
10 involvement of the nail matrix and nail bed.
           The TNFa antibody of the invention can also be used to treat nail disorders often
   associated with lichen planus. Nails in subjects with lichen planus often show thinning
   and surface roughness of the nail plate with longitudinal ridges or pterygium.
           The TNFc antibody of the invention can be used to treat nail disorders, such as
15 those described herein. Often nail disorders are associated with skin disorders. In one
   embodiment, the invention includes a method of treatment for nail disorders with a
   TNFcu antibody. In another embodiment, the nail disorder is associated with another
   disorder, including a skin disorder such as psoriasis. In another embodiment, the
   disorder associated with a nail disorder is arthritis, including psoriatic arthritis.
20
   12.      Other Skin and Nail Disorders
           The TNFa antibody of the invention can be used to treat other skin and nail
   disorders, such as chronic actinic dermatitis, bullous pemphigoid, and alopecia areata.
   Chronic actinic dermatitis (CAD) is also referred to as photosensitivity dermatitis/actinic
25 reticuloid syndrome (PD/AR). CAD is a condition in which the skin becomes inflamed,
   particularly in areas that have been exposed to sunlight or artificial light. Commonly,
   CAD patients have allergies to certain substances that come into contact with their skin,
   particularly various flowers, woods, perfumes, sunscreens and rubber compounds.
   Bullous pemphigoid refers to A skin disorder characterized by the formation of large
30 blisters on the trunk and extremities. Alopecia areata refers to hair loss characterized by
   round patches of complete baldness in the scalp or beard.
                                                - 68  -

   I.       Vasculitides
           TNFa has been implicated in the pathophysiology of a variety of vasculitides,
   (see e.g., Deguchi et al. (1989) Lancet. 2:745). In one embodiment, the invention
   provides a method for inhibiting TNFca activity in a subject suffering from a vasculitis in
 5 which TNFa activity is detrimental.
           As used herein, the term "a vasculitis in which TNFa activity is detrimental" is
   intended to include vasculitis in which the presence of TNFa in a subject suffering from
   the disorder has been shown to be or is suspected of being either responsible for the
   pathophysiology of the disorder or a factor that contributes to a worsening of the
10 disorder. Such disorders may be evidenced, for example, by an increase in the
   concentration of TNFa in a biological fluid of a subject suffering from the disorder (e.g.,
   an increase in the concentration of TNFa in serum, plasma, synovial fluid, etc. of the
   subject), which can be detected, for example, using an anti-TNFx antibody as described
   above.
15         There are numerous examples of vasculitides in which TNFa activity is
   detrimental, including Behcet's disease. The use of the antibodies, antibody portions,
   and other TNFa inhibitors of the invention in the treatment of specific vasculitides are
   discussed further below. In certain embodiments, the antibody, antibody portion, or
   other TNFa inhibitor of the invention is administered to the subject in combination with
20 another therapeutic agent, as described below
           The antibody of the invention can be used to treat vasculitis in which TNFa
   activity is detrimental, wherein inhibition of TNFa activity is expected to alleviate the
   symptoms and/or progression of the vasculitis or to prevent the vasculitis. Subjects
   suffering from or at risk of developing vasculitis can be identified through clinical
25 symptoms and tests. For example, subjects with vasculitides often develop antibodies
   to certain proteins in the cytoplasm of neutrophils, antineutrophil cytoplasmic antibodies
   (ANCA). Thus, in some instances, vasculitides may be evidenced by tests (e.g.,
   ELISA), which measure ANCA presence.
           Vasculitis and its consequences may be the sole manifestation of disease or it
30 maybe a secondary component of another primary disease. Vasculitis maybe confined
   to a single organ or it may simultaneously affect several organs. and depending on the
                                               - 69 -

   syndrome, arteries and veins of all sizes can be affected. Vasculitis can affect any organ
   in the body.
           In vasculitis, the vessel lumen is usually compromised, which is associated with
   ischemia of the tissues supplied by the involved vessel. The broad range of disorders
 5 that may result from this process is due to the fact that any type, size and location of
   vessel (e.g., artery, vein, arteriole, venule, capillary) can be involved. Vasculitides are
   generally classified according to the size of the affected vessels, as described below. It
   should be noted that some small and large vessel vasculitides may involve medium-sized
   arteries; but large and medium-sized vessel vasculitides do not involve vessels smaller
10 than arteries. Large vessel disease includes, but is not limited to, giant cell arteritis, also
   known as temporal arteritis or cranial arteritis, polymyalgia rheumatica, and Takayasu's
   disease or arteritis, which is also known as aortic arch syndrome, young female arteritis
   and Pulseless disease. Medium vessel disease includes, but is not limited to, classic
   polyarteritis nodosa and Kawasaki's disease, also known as mucocutaneous lymph node
15 syndrome. Non-limiting examples of small vessel disease are Behcet's Syndrome,
   Wegner's granulomatosis, microscopic polyangitis, hypersensitivity vasculitis, also
   known as cutaneous vasculitis, small vessel vasculitis, Henoch-Schonlein purpura,
   allergic granulamotosis and vasculitis, also known as Churg Strauss syndrome. Other
   vasculitides include, but are not limited to, isolated central nervous system vasculitis,
20 and thromboangitis obliterans, also known as Buerger's disease. Classic Polyarteritis
   nodosa (PAN), microscopic PAN, and allergic granulomatosis are also often grouped
   together and are called the systemic necrotizing vasculitides. A further description of
   vasculitis is described below:
25  1.     Large vessel vasculitis
            In one embodiment, the TNFa antibody of the invention is used to treat subjects
   who have large vessel vasculitis. The term "large vessel(s)" as used herein, refers to the
   aorta and the largest branches directed toward major body regions. Large vessels
   include, for example, the aorta, and its branches and corresponding veins, e.g., the
30 subclavian artery; the brachiocephalic artery; the common carotid artery; the innonimate
   vein; internal and external jugular veins; the pulmonary arteries and veins; the venae
                                                  -70-

    cavae; the renal arteries and veins; the femoral arteries and veins; and the carotid
    arteries. Examples of large vessel vasculitides are described below.
               a.      Giant cell arteritis(GCA)
 5             Tumor necrosis factor has been implicated in the pathophysiology of giant cell
    arteritis (Sneller, M.C. (2002) Cleve. Clin. J. Med. 69:S1I40-3; Schett, G., et al. (2002)
    Ann. Rheum. Dis. 61:463). Giant cell arteritis (GCA), refers to a vasculitis involving
    inflammation and damage to blood vessels, particularly the large or medium arteries that
    branch from the external carotid artery of the neck. GCA is also referred to as temporal
10  arteritis or cranial arteritis, and is the most common primary vasculitis in the elderly. It
    almost exclusively affects individuals over 50 years of age, however, there are well
     documented cases of patients 40 years and younger. GCA usually affects, extracranial
     arteries. GCA can affect the branches of the carotid arteries, including the temporal
     artery. GCA is also a systemic disease which can involve arteries in multiple locations.
15             Histopathologically, GCA is a panarteritis with inflammatory mononuclear cell
     infiltrates within the vessel wall with frequent Langhans type giant cell formation. There
     is proliferation of the intima, granulomatous inflammation and fragmentation of the
     internal elastic lamina. The pathological findings in organs is the result of ischemia
     related to the involved, vessels.
20              Patients suffering from GCA exhibit certain clinical symptoms, including fever,
     headache, anemia and high erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR). Other typical
      indications of GCA include jaw or tongue claudication, scalp tenderness, constitutional
      symptoms, pale optic disc edema (particularly 'chalky white' disc edema), and vision
      disturbances. The diagnosis is confirmed by temporal artery biopsy.
 25
                b.      Polymyalgia rheumatica
                Tumor necrosis factor has been implicated in the pathophysiology of polymyalgia
      rheumatica (Straub, R.H., et al. (2002) Rheumatology (Oxford) 41:423; Uddhammar, A.,
       et al. (1998) Br.J Rheumatol.37:766). Polymyalgia rheumatica refers to a rheumatic
 30    disorder that is associated with moderate to severe muscle pain and stiffness in the neck,
       shoulder, and hip, most noticeable in the morning. IL-6 and IL-1p expression has also
       been detected in a majority of the circulating monocytes in patients with the polymyalgia
                                                    -71-

   rheumatica. Polymyalgia rheumatica may occur independently, or it may coexist with
   or precede GCA, which is an inflammation of blood vessels.
             c.      Takayasu'sArteritis
 5           Tumor necrosis factor has been implicated in the pathophysiology of Takayasu's
   arteritis (Kobayashi, Y. and Numano, F. (2002) Intern.Med. 41:44; Fraga, A. and
   Medina F. (2002) Curr.Rheumnatol. Rep.4:30). Takayasu's arteritis refers to a vasculitis
   characterized by an inflammmation of the aorta and its major branches. Takayasu's
    arteritis (also known as Aortic arch syndrome, young female arteritis and Pulseless
10 disease) affects the thoracic and abdominal aorta and its main branches or the pulmonary
    arteries. Fibrotic thickening of the aortic wall and its branches (e.g., carotid, inominate,
    and subclavian arteries) can lead to reduction of lumen size of vessels that arise from the
    aortic arch. This condition also typically affects the renal arteries.
             Takayasu's arteritis primarily affects young women, usually aged 20-40 years old,
15 particularly of Asian descent, and may be manifested by malaise, arthralgias and the
    gradual onset of extremity claudication. Most patients have asymmetrically reduced
    pulses, usually along with a blood pressure differential in the arms. Coronary and/or
    renal artery stenosis may occur.
             The clinical features of Takayasu's arteritis may be divided into the features of
20  the early inflammatory disease and the features of the later disease. The clinical features
    of the early inflammatory stage of Takayasu's disease are: malaise, low grade fever,
    weight loss, myalgia, arthralgia, and erythema multiforme. Later stages of Takayasu's
    disease are characterised by fibrotic stenosis of arteries and thrombosis. The main
    resulting clinical features are ischaemic phenomena, e.g. weak and asymmetrical arterial
25  pulses, blood pressure discrepancy between the arms, visual disturbance, e.g. scotomata
    and hemianopia, other neurological features including vertigo and syncope, hemiparesis
    or stroke. The clinical features result from ischaemia due to arterial stenosis and
    thrombosis.
30  2.       Medium Vessel Disease
             In one embodiment, the TNFca antibody of the invention is used to treat subjects
    who have medium vessel vasculitis. The term "medium vessel(s)" is used to refer to
                                                  -72-

   those blood vessels which are the main visceral arteries. Examples of medium vessels
   include the mesenteric arteries and veins, the iliac arteries and veins, and the maxillary
   arteries and veins. Examples of medium vessel vasculitides are described below.
 5          a.      PolyarteritisNodosa
            Tumor necrosis factor has been implicated in the pathophysiology of polyarteritis
   nodosa (DiGirolamo, N., et al. (1997) J. Leukoc. Biol. 61:667). Polyarteritis nodosa, or
   periarteritis nodosa refers to vasculitis which is a serious blood vessel disease in which
   small and medium-sized arteries become swollen and damaged because they are attacked
10 by rogue immune cells. Polyarteritis nodosa usually affects adults more frequently than
    children. It damages the tissues supplied by the affected arteries because they don't
   receive enough oxygen and nourishment without a proper blood supply.
             Symptoms which are exhibited in patients with polyarteritis nodosa generally
    result from damage to affected organs, often the skin, heart, kidneys, and nervous
15  system. Generalized symptoms of polyarteritis nodosa include fever, fatigue, weakness,
    loss of appetite, and weight loss. Muscle aches (myalgia) and joint aches(arthralgia) are
    common. The skin of subjects with polyarteritis nodosa may also show rashes, swelling,
    ulcers, and lumps (nodular lesions).
             Classic PAN (polyarteritis nodosa) is a systemic arteritis of small to medium
20  muscular arteritis in which involvement of renal and visceral arteries is common.
    Abdominal vessels have aneurysms or occlusions in 50% of PAN patients. Classic PAN
    does not involve the pulmonary arteries although the bronchial vessels may be involved.
    Granulomas, significant eosinophilia and an allergic diathesis are not part of the
     syndrome. Although any organ system may be involved, the most common
25  manifestations include peripheral neuropathy, mononeuritis multiplex, intestinal
     ischemia, renal ischemia, testicular pain and livedo reticularis.
             b.      Kawasaki'sDisease
             Tumor necrosis factor has been implicated in the pathophysiology of Kawasaki's
30   disease (Sundel, R.P. (2002) Curr.Rheumatol. Rep. 4:474; Gedalia, A.(2002) Curr.
     Rheunatol. Rep. 4:25). Although the cause of Kawasaki's disease is unknown, it is
     associated with acute inflammation of the coronary arteries, suggesting that the tissue
                                                 - 73 -

    damage associated with this disease may be mediated by proinflammatory agents such as
    TNFx. Kawasaki's disease refers to a vasculitis that affects the mucus membranes,
    lymph nodes, lining of the blood vessels, and the heart. Kawasaki's disease is also often
    referred to as mucocutaneous lymph node syndrome, mucocutaneous lymph node
 5  disease, and infantile polyarteritis. Subjects afflicted with Kawasaki's disease develop
    vasculitis often involving the coronary arteries which can lead to myocarditis and
    pericarditis. Often as the acute inflammation diminishes, the coronary arteries may
    develop aneurysm, thrombosis, and lead to myocardial infarction.
              Kawasaki's disease is a febrile systemic vasculitis associated with edema in the
10  palms and the soles of the feet, with enlargement of cervical lymph nodes, cracked lips
     and "strawberry tongue". Although the inflammatory response is found in vessels
     throughout the body, the most common site of end-organ damage is the coronary
     arteries. Kawasaki's Disease predominantly affects children under the age of 5. The
     highest incidence is in Japan but is becoming increasingly recognized in the West and is
15   now the leading cause of acquired heart disease in US children. The most serious
     complication of Kawasaki disease is coronary arteritis and aneurysm formation that
     occurs in a third of untreated patients.
      3.      Small vessel disease
20            In one embodiment, the TNFa antibody of the invention is used to treat subjects
      who have small vessel vasculitis. The term "small vessel(s)" is used to refer to
      arterioles, venules and capillaries. Arterioles are arteries that contain only 1 or 2 layers
      of sooth muscle cells and are terminal to and continuous with the capillary network.
      Venules carry blood from the capillary network to veins and capillaries connect
25    arterioles and venules. Examples of small vessel vasculitides are described below.
               a.     Behcet's Disease
               Tumor necrosis factor has been implicated in the pathophysiology of Behcet's
      disease (Sfikakis, P.P. (2002) Ann. Rheum. Dis. 61:ii5l-3; Dogan, D. and Farah, C.
 30   (2002) Oftalmologia. 52:23). Behcet's disease is a chronic disorder that involves
      inflammation of blood vessels throughout the body. Behcet's disease may also cause
      various types of skin lesions, arthritis, bowel inflammation, and meningitis
                                                   - 74-

                                                                           a result of Behcet's
     (inflammation of the membranes of the brain and spinal cord). As
     disease, the subject with the disorder may have inflammation in tissues and organs
                                                                                           vascular
     throughout the body, including the gastrointestinal tract, central nervous system,
                                                                    more common in males than
     system, lungs, and kidneys. Behcet's disease is three times
 5    females and is more common in the east Mediterranean and Japan.
                Subjects who have Behcet's disease may show clinical symptoms including
      recurrent oral ulcers (resembling canker sores), recurrent genital ulcers, and eye
                                                                                     elevated in
      inflammation. Serum levels of TNFa, IL-8, IL-1, IL-6 INF-y and IL-12 are
                                                                                     elevated in
      Behcet's patients, and the production of these factors has been shown to be
                                                                                        Vessels
10    the monocytes of Beheet's patients (see, e.g., Inflammatory Disease ofBlood
       (2001) Marcel Dekker, Inc., eds. G.S. Hoffman and C.M. Weyand, p. 473).
                b.       Wegener's granulomatosis
                Tumor necrosis factor has been implicated in the pathophysiology of Wegener's
                                                                                              L.E.
15      granulomatosis (Marquez, J., et al. (2003) Curr.Rheumatol. Rep. 5:128; Harman,
                                                                                           refers to
        and Margo, C.E. (1998) Surv. Ophthalmol. 42:458). Wegener's granulomatosis
        a vasculitis that causes inflammation of blood vessels in the upper respiratory tract (nose,
                                                                                        to as
        sinuses, ears), lungs, and kidneys. Wegener's granulomatosis is also referred
        midline granulomatosis. Wegener's granulomatosis includes a granulomatous
                                                                                             small to
 20     inflammation involving the respiratory tract, and necrotizing vasculitis affecting
                                                                                       also have
        medium-sized vessels. Subjects who have Wegener's granulomatosis often
        arthritis (joint inflammation). Glomerulonephritis may also be present in affected
        subjects, but virtually any organ may be involved.
                 Patients affected with Wegener's granulomatosis typically show clinical
                                                                                      otitis media,
 25      symptoms comprising recurrent sinusitis or epistaxis, mucosal ulcerations,
                                                                              granulomatosis
         cough, hemoptysis and dyspnea. The first symptoms of Wegener's
                                                                                       and
         frequently include upper respiratory tract symptoms, joint pains, weakness,
         tiredness.
  30              c.      Clurg-Strausssyndrome
                  Tumor necrosis factor has been implicated in the pathophysiology of Churg
          Strauss syndrome (Gross, W.L (2002) Curr. Opin. Rheumatol. 14:11; Churg,
                                                     - 75 -

         W.A.(2001) Mod. Pathol.14:1284). Churg-Strauss syndrome refers to a vasculitis that
        is systemic and shows early manifestation signs of asthma and eosinophilia. Churg
        Strauss syndrome is also referred to as allergic granulomatosis and angiitis, and occurs in
        the setting of allergic rhinitis, asthma and eosinophilia. Sinusitis and pulmonary
   5    infiltrates also occur in Churg-Strauss syndrome, primarily affecting the lung and heart.
        Peripheral neuropathy, coronary arteritis and gastrointestinal involvement are common.
                 Patients afflicted with Churg-Strauss syndrome can be diagnosed according to
       criteria established by the American College of Rheumatology (ACR). These criteria
       were intended to distinguish CSS from other forms of vasculitis. Not all patients meet
 10    every criterion. Some, in fact, may have only 2 or 3 criteria, yet they are still classified as
       Churg-Strauss syndrome. The ACR selected 6 disease features (criteria) as being those
       that best distinguished Churg-Strauss syndrome from other vasculitides. These criteria
       include: 1) asthma; 2) eosinophilia [>10% on differential WBC count]; 3)
      mononeuropathy; 4) transient pulmonary infiltrates on chest X-rays; 5) paranasal sinus
 15   abnormalities; and 6) biopsy containing a blood vessel with extravascular eosinophils.
      J.        Other TNFa-RelatedDisorders
                In one embodiment, the invention features a method for treating a TNFaC-related
      disorder in which TNFac activity is detrimental, comprising administering to a subject an
20    effective amount of a TNFc inhibitor, such that said TNFa-related disorder is treated.
      Examples of TNFa-related disorders in which TNFcc activity is detrimental, are
      discussed further below.
      1.        Crohn'sDisease-RelatedDisorders
25              Tumor necrosis factor has been implicated in the pathophysiology of
     inflammatory bowel disorders (IBD), including Crohn's disease (see e.g., Tracy, K.J., et
     al. (1986) Science 234:470-474; Sun, X-M., et al. (1988) J. Clin. Invest. 81:1328-1331;
     MacDonald, T.T., et al. (1990) Clin. Exp. Inmunol. 81:301-305).
               In one embodiment, the TNF inhibitor of the invention is used to treat disorders
30   often associated with IBD and Crohn's disease. The term "inflammatory bowel disorder
     (IBD)-related disorder" or "Crohn's disease-related disorder," as used interchangeably
     herein, is used to describe conditions and complications commonly associated with IBD
                                                   - 76-

        and Crohn's disease. Examples of Crohn's disease-related disorders include fistulas in
        the bladder, vagina, and skin; bowel obstructions; abscesses; nutritional deficiencies;
        complications from corticosteroid use; inflammation of the joints; erythem nodosum;
        pyoderma gangrenosum; and lesions of the eye. Other disorders commonly associated
   5    with Crohn's disease include Crohn's-related arthralgias, fistulizing Crohn's,
        indeterminant colitis, and pouchitis.
        2.       JuvenileArthritis
                 Tumor necrosis factor has been implicated in the pathophysiology of juvenile
 10     arthritis, including juvenile rheumatoid arthritis (Grom et al. (1996) ArthritisRheum.
        39:1703; Mangge et al. (1995) ArthritisRheum. 8:211). In one embodiment, the TNFa
       antibody of the invention is used to treat juvenile rheumatoid arthritis.
                 The term "juvenile rheumatoid arthritis" or "JRA" as used herein refers to a
       chronic, inflammatory disease which occurs before age 16 that may cause joint or
 15    connective tissue damage. JRA is also referred to as juvenile chronic polyarthritis and
       Still's disease.
                 JRA causes joint inflammation and stiffness for more than 6 weeks in a child of
       16 years of age or less. Inflammation causes redness, swelling, warmth, and soreness in
       the joints. Any joint can be affected and inflammation may limit the mobility of affected
20    joints. One type of JRA can also affect the internal organs.
                JRA is often classified into three types by the number ofjoints involved, the
      symptoms, and the presence or absence of certain antibodies found by a blood test.
      These classifications help the physician determine how the disease will progress and
      whether the internal organs or skin is affected. The classifications of JRA include the
25    following
                a.      Pauciarticular JRA, wherein the patient has four or fewer joints are
      affected. Pauciarticular is the most common form of JRA, and typically affects large
     joints, such as the knees.
30              b.      Polyarticular HRA, wherein five or more joints are affected. The small
     joints, such as those in the hands and feet, are most commonly involved, but the disease
     may also affect large joints.
                                                    - 77 -

             c.       Systemic JRA is characterized by joint swelling, fever, a light skin rash,
     and may also affect internal organs such as the heart, liver, spleen, and lymph nodes.
     Systemic JRA is also referred to as it Still's disease. A small percentage of these
     children develop arthritis in many joints and can have severe arthritis that continues into
  5  adulthood.
     3.      Endometriosis
 10          Tumor necrosis factor has been implicated in the pathophysiology of
     endometriosis, as women with endometriosis have elevated peritoneal levels of TNF
     (Eisermann J, et al. (1988) FertilSteril 50:573; Halme J. (1989) Am J Obstet Gynecol
     161:1718; Mori H, et al. (1991) Am JReprodlinmunol26:62;.Taketani Y, et al. (1992)
    Am JObstet Gynecol 167:265; Overton C, et al. (1996) Hum Reprod 1996; 11:380). In
 15  one embodiment, the TNFc antibody of the invention is used to treat endometriosis.
     The term "endometriosis" as used herein refers to a condition in which the tissue that
     normally lines the uterus (endometrium) grows in other areas of the body, causing pain,
     irregular bleeding, and frequently infertility.
20   4.      Prostatitis
             Tumor necrosis factor has been implicated in the pathophysiology of prostatitis,
     as men with chronic prostatitis and chronic pelvic pain have significantly higher levels
    of TNF and IL-I in semen compared to controls (Alexander RB, et al. (1998) Urology
    52:744; Nadler RB, et al. (2000) J Urol 164:214; Orhan et al. (2001) Int J Urol 8:495)
25  Furthermore, in a rat model of prostatitis TNF levels were also increased in comparison
    to controls (Asakawa K, et al. (2001) Hinyokika Kiyo 47:459; Harris et al. (2000)
    Prostate44:25). In one embodiment, the TNFa antibody of the invention is used to treat
    prostatitis.
             The term "prostatitis" as used herein refers to an inflammation of the prostate.
30  Prostatitis is also referred to as pelvic pain syndrome. Prostatitis manifests itself in a
    variety of forms, including nonbacterial prostatitis, acute prostatitis, bacterial prostatitis,
    and acute prostatitis. Acute prostatitis refers to an inflammation of the prostate gland
    that develops suddenly. Acute prostatitis is usually caused by a bacterial infection of the
                                                  - 78 -

    prostate gland. Chronic prostatitis is an inflammation of the prostate gland that develops
    gradually, continues for a prolonged period, and typically has subtle symptoms. Chronic
    prostatitis is also usually caused by a bacterial infection.
  5 5.      Autoimmune disorders
            Tumor necrosis factor has been implicated in the pathophysiology of many
    autoimmune disorders, including lupus (Shvidel et al. (2002) Hematol J. 3:32;
    Studnicka-Benke et al. (1996) Br JRheumatol. 35:1067). In one embodiment, the TNFa
    antibody of the invention is used to treat autoimmune disorders such as lupus,
 10 multisystem autoimmune diseases, and autoimmune hearing loss.
            The term "lupus" as used herein refers to a chronic, inflammatory autoimmune
    disorder called lupus erythematosus that may affect many organ systems including the
    skin, joints and internal organs. Lupus is a general term which includes a number of
    specific types of lupus, including systemic lupus, lupus nephritis, and lupus cerebritis. In
 15 systemic lupus (SLE), the body's natural defenses are turned against the body and rogue
    immune cells attack the body's tissues. Antibodies may be produced that can react
    against the body's blood cells, organs, and tissues. This reaction leads to immune cells
    attacking the affected systems, producing a chronic disease. Lupus nephritis, also
    referred to as lupus glomerular disease, is kidney disorder that is usually a complication
-20 of SLE, and is characterized by damage to the glomerulus and progressive loss of kidney
    function. Lupus cerebritis refers to another complication of SLE, which is inflammation
    of the brain and/or central nervous system.
     6.      Choroidalneovascularization
 25          Tumor necrosis factor has been implicated in the pathophysiology of choroidal
    neovascularization. For example, in surgically excised choroidal neovascular
    membranes, neovascular vessels stained positive for both TNF and EL-1 (Oh H et al.
     (1999) Invest Ophthalmol Vis Sci 40:1891). In one embodiment, the TNFa antibody of
     the invention is used to treat choroidal neovascularization. The term "choroidal
 30 neovascularization" as used herein refers to the growth of new blood vessels that
     originate from the choroid through a break in the Bruch membrane into the sub-retinal
                                                 -79-

   pigment epithelium (sub-RPE) or subretinal space. Choroidal neovascularization (CNV)
   is a major cause of visual loss in patients with the condition.
   7.       Sciatica
 5          Tumor necrosis factor has been implicated in the pathophysiology of sciatica
   (Ozaktay et al. (2002) Eur Spine J. 11:467; Brisby et al.(2002) Eur Spine J. 11:62). In
   one embodiment, the TNFa antibody of the invention is used to treat sciatica. The term
   "sciatica" as used herein refers to a condition involving impaired movement and/or
    sensation in the leg, caused by damage to the sciatic nerve. Sciatica is also commonly
10 referred to as neuropathy of the sciatic nerve and sciatic nerve dysfunction. Sciatica is a
    form of peripheral neuropathy. It occurs when there is damage to the sciatic nerve,
    located in the back of the leg. The sciatic nerve controls the muscles of the back of the
    knee and lower leg and provides sensation to the back of the thigh, part of the lower leg
    and the sole of the foot. Sciatica can be indicative of another disorder, including a
15  lumbar herniated disc, spinal stenosis, degenerative disc disease, istbmic
    spondyloisthesis and piniformis syndrome.
    8.      Sjogren's syndrome
             Tumor necrosis factor has been implicated in the pathophysiology of Sjogren's
20  syndrome (Koski et al. (2001) Clin Exp Rheumatol. 19:13 1). In one embodiment, the
    TNFc antibody of the invention is used to treat Sjogren's syndrome. The term "Sjogren's
    syndrome" as used herein refers to a systemic inflammatory disorder characterized by
    dry mouth, decreased tearing, and other dry mucous membranes, and is often associated
    with autoimmune rheumatic disorders, such as rheumatoid arthritis. Dryness of the eyes
25  and mouth are the most common symptoms of this syndrome. The symptoms may occur
     alone, or with symptoms associated with rheumatoid arthritis or other connective tissue
     diseases. There may be an associated enlargement of the salivary glands. Other organs
    may become affected. The syndrome may be associated with rheumatoid arthritis,
     systemic lupus erythematosus, scleroderma, polymyositis, and other diseases.
30
                                                 -80-

    9.      Uveitis
           Tumor necrosis factor has been implicated in the pathophysiology of uveitis
   (Wakefield and Lloyd (1992) Cytokine 4:1; Woon et al. (1998) CurrEye Res. 17:955).
   In one embodiment, the TNFa antibody of the invention is used to treat uveitis. The
 5 term "uveitis" as used herein refers to an inflammation of the the uvea, which is the layer
   between the sclera and the retina, which includes the iris, ciliary body, and the choroid.
   Uveitis is also commonly referred to as iritis, pars planitis, chroiditis, chorioretinitis,
   anterior uveitis, and posterior uveitis. The most common form of uveitis is anterior
   uveitis, which involves inflammation in the front part of the eye, which is usually
10 isolated to the iris. This condition is often called iritis. In one embodiment, the term
   uveitis refers to an inflammation of the the uvea which excludes inflammation associated
   with an autoimmune disease, i.e., excludes autoimmune uveitis.
    10.     Wet maculardegeneration
15         Tumor necrosis factor has been implicated in the pathophysiology of wet macular
   degeneration. In one embodiment, the TNFax antibody of the invention is used to treat
   wet macular degeneration. The term "wet macular degeneration" as used herein refers to
   a disorder that affects the macula (the central part of the retina of the eye) and causes
   decreased visual acuity and possible loss of central vision. Patients with wet macular
20 degeneration develop new blood vessels under the retina, which causes hemorrhage,
   swelling, and scar tissue.
   11.     Osteoporosis
           Tumor necrosis factor has been implicated in the pathophysiology of
25 osteoporosis, (Tsutsumimoto et al. (1999) JBone Miner Res. 14:1751). Osteoporosis is
   used to refer to a disorder characterized by the progressive loss of bone density and
   thinning of bone tissue. Osteoporosis occurs when the body fails to form enough new
   bone, or when too much old bone is reabsorbed by the body, or both. The TNFa
   antibody, or antigen-binding fragment thereof, of the invention can be used to treat
30 osteoporosis.
                                                 -81-

   12.      Osteoarthritis
            Tumor necrosis factor has been implicated in the pathophysiology of
   osteoarthritis, (Venn et al. (1993) Arthritis Rheum. 36:819; Westacott et al. (1994) J
   Rheumatol. 21:1710). Osteoarthritis (OA) is also referred to as hypertrophic
 5 osteoarthritis, osteoarthrosis, and degenerative joint disease. OA is a chronic
   degenerative disease of skeletal joints, which affects specific joints, commonly knees,
   hips, hand joints and spine, in adults of all ages. OA is characterized by a number of the
   following manifestations including degeneration and thinning of the articular cartilage
   with associated development of "ulcers" or craters, osteophyte formation, hypertrophy of
10 bone at the margins, and changes in the snyovial membrane and enlargement of affected
   joints. Furthermore, osteoarthritis is accompanied by pain and stiffness, particularly after
   prolonged activity. The antibody, or antigen-binding fragment thereof, of the invention
    can be used to treat osteoarthritis. Characteristic radiographic features of osteoarthritis
    include joint space narrowing, subchondral sclerosis, osteophytosis, subchondral cyst
15  formation, loose osseous body (or "joint mouse").
            Medications used to treat osteoarthritis include a variety of nonsteroidal, anti
    inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). In addition, COX 2 inhibitors, including Celebrex,
    Vioxx, and Bextra, aand Etoricoxib, are also used to treat OA. Steroids, which are
    injected directly into the joint, may also be used to reduce inflammation and pain. In one
20  embodiment of the invention, TNFac antibodies of the invention are administered in
    combination with a NSAIDs, a COX2 inhibitor, and/or steroids.
     13.    Other
            The antibodies, and antibody portions, of the invention, also can be used to treat
25  various other disorders in which TNFa activity is detrimental. Examples of other
    diseases and disorders in which TNFu activity has been implicated in the
    pathophysiology, and thus which can be treated using an antibody, or antibody portion,
    of the invention, include age-related cachexia, Alzheimer's disease, brain edema,
    inflammatory brain injury, cancer, cancer and cachexia, chronic fatigue syndrome,
30   dermatomyositis, drug reactions, such as Stevens-Johnson syndrome and Jarisch
    Herxheimer reaction, edema in and/or around the spinal cord, familial periodic fevers,
    Felty's syndrome, fibrosis, glomerulonephritides (e.g. post-streptococcal
                                                 - 82-

   glomerulonephritis or IgA nephropathy), loosening of prostheses, microscopic
   polyangiitis, mixed connective tissue disorder, multiple myeloma, cancer and cachexia,
   multiple organ disorder, myelo dysplastic syndrome, orchitism osteolysis, pancreatitis,
   including acute, chronic, and pancreatic abscess, periodontal disease polymyositis,
 5 progressive renal failure, pseudogout, pyoderma gangrenosum, relapsing polychondritis,
   rheumatic heart disease, sarcoidosis, sclerosing cholangitis, stroke, thoracoabdominal
   aortic aneurysm repair (TAAA), TNF receptor associated periodic syndrome (TRAPS),
   symptoms related to Yellow Fever vaccination, inflammatory diseases associated with
   the ear, chronic ear inflammation, chronic otitis media with or without cholesteatoma,
10 pediatric ear inflammation, myotosis, ovarian cancer, colorectal cancer, disorders
   associated with transplantation, therapy associated with induced inflammatory syndrome
   (e.g., syndromes following IL-2 administration), and a disorder associated with a
   reperfussion injury.
15           It is understood that all of the above-mentioned TNFa-related disorders include
    both the adult and juvenile forms of the disease where appropriate. It is also understood
    that all of the above-mentioned disorders include both chronic and acute forms of the
    disease. In addition, the TNFa antibody of the invention can be used to treat each of the
    above-mentioned TNFa-related disorders alone or in combination with one another, e.g.,
20  a subject who is suffering from uveitis and lupus.
    III.     Pharmaceutical Compositions and Pharmaceutical Administration
    A.       Compositions andAdministration
25           The antibodies, antibody-portions, and other TNFa inhibitors of the invention
    can be incorporated into pharmaceutical compositions suitable for administration to a
     subject. Typically, the pharmaceutical composition comprises an antibody, antibody
    portion, or other TNFc inhibitor of the invention and a pharmaceutically acceptable
     carrier. As used herein, "pharmaceutically acceptable carrier" includes any and all
30   solvents, dispersion media, coatings, antibacterial and antifungal agents, isotonic and
     absorption delaying agents, and the like that are physiologically compatible. Examples
     of pharmaceutically acceptable carriers include one or more of water, saline, phosphate
                                                  - 83 -

      buffered saline, dextrose, glycerol, ethanol and the like, as well as combinations thereof.
      In many cases, it is preferable to include isotonic agents, for example, sugars,
      polyalcohols such as mannitol, sorbitol, or sodium chloride in the composition.
      Pharmaceutically acceptable carriers may further comprise minor amounts of auxiliary
  5   substances such as wetting or emulsifying agents, preservatives or buffers, which
      enhance the shelf life or effectiveness of the antibody, antibody portion, or other TNFx
     inhibitor.
             The compositions of this invention may be in a variety of forms. These include,
     for example, liquid, semi-solid and solid dosage forms, such as liquid solutions (e.g.,
 10  injectable and infusible solutions), dispersions or suspensions, tablets, pills, powders,
     liposomes and suppositories. The preferred form depends on the intended mode of
     administration and therapeutic application. Typical preferred compositions are in the
     form of injectable or infusible solutions, such as compositions similar to those used for
     passive immunization of humans with other antibodies or other TNFax inhibitors. The
 15  preferred mode of administration is parenteral (e.g., intravenous, subcutaneous,
     intraperitoneal, intramuscular). In a preferred embodiment, the antibody or other TNFa
     inhibitor is administered by intravenous infusion or injection. In another preferred
     embodiment, the antibody or other TNFc inhibitor is administered by intramuscular or
     subcutaneous injection.
20           Therapeutic compositions typically must be sterile and stable under the conditions
     of manufacture and storage. The composition can be formulated as a solution,
     microemulsion, dispersion, liposome, or other ordered structure suitable to high drug
     concentration. Sterile injectable solutions can be prepared by incorporating the active
     compound (i.e., antibody, antibody portion, or other TNFa inhibitor) in the required
25   amount in an appropriate solvent with one or a combination of ingredients enumerated
     above, as required, followed by filtered sterilization. Generally, dispersions are prepared
    by incorporating the active compound into a sterile vehicle that contains a basic dispersion
    medium and the required other ingredients from those enumerated above. In the case of
    sterile powders for the preparation of sterile injectable solutions, the preferred methods of
30  preparation are vacuum drying and freeze-drying that yields a powder of the active
    ingredient plus any additional desired ingredient from a previously sterile-filtered solution
    thereof. The proper fluidity of a solution can be maintained, for example, by the use of a
                                                  - 84-

      coating such as lecithin, by the maintenance of the required particle size in the case of
      dispersion and by the use of surfactants. Prolonged absorption of injectable compositions
      can be brought about by including in the composition an agent that delays absorption, for
      example, monostearate salts and gelatin.
  5            Supplementary active compounds can also be incorporated into the compositions.
      In certain embodiments, an antibody or antibody portion of the invention is coformulated
     with and/or coadministered with one or more additional therapeutic agents. For
      example, an anti-hTNFca antibody or antibody portion of the invention may be
     coformulated and/or coadministered with one or more DMARD or one or more NSAID
 10  or one or more additional antibodies that bind other targets (e.g., antibodies that bind
     other cytokines or that bind cell surface molecules), one or more cytokines, soluble
     TNFa receptor (see e.g., PCT Publication No. WO 94/06476) and/or one or more
     chemical agents that inhibit hTNFa production or activity (such as cyclohexane-ylidene
     derivatives as described in PCT Publication No. WO 93/19751) or any combination
 15  thereof. Furthermore, one or more antibodies of the invention may be used in
     combination with two or more of the foregoing therapeutic agents. Such combination
     therapies may advantageously utilize lower dosages of the administered therapeutic
     agents, thus avoiding possible side effects, complications or low level of response by the
    patient associated with the various monotherapies.
20            In one embodiment, the invention includes pharmaceutical compositions
    comprising an effective amount of a TNFa inhibitor and a pharmaceutically acceptable
    carrier, wherein the effective amount of the TNFc inhibitor may be effective to treat a
    TNFa-related disorder, including, for example, sciatica, endometriosis, and prostatitis.
             The antibodies, antibody-portions, and other TNFc inhibitors of the present
25  invention can be administered by a variety of methods known in the art, although for many
    therapeutic applications, the preferred route/mode of administration is intravenous
    injection or infusion. As will be appreciated by the skilled artisan, the route and/or mode
    of administration will vary depending upon the desired results. In certain embodiments,
    the active compound may be prepared with a carrier that will protect the compound against
30  rapid release, such as a controlled release formulation, including implants, transdermal
    patches, and microencapsulated delivery systems. Biodegradable, biocompatible polymers
    can be used, such as ethylene vinyl acetate, polyanhydrides, polyglycolic acid, collagen,
                                                 - 85 -

      polyorthoesters, and polylactic acid. Many methods for the preparation of such
      formulations are patented or generally known to those skilled in the art. See, e.g.,
      Sustained and ControlledRelease DrugDelivery Systems, J.R. Robinson, ed., Marcel
      Dekker, Inc., New York, 1978.
  5            The TNFax antibodies of the invention can also be administered in the form of
      protein crystal formulations which include a combination of protein crystals encapsulated
      within a polymeric carrier to form coated particles. The coated particles of the protein
      crystal formulation may have a spherical morphology and be microspheres of up to 500
     micro meters in diameter or they may have some other morphology and be
 10  microparticulates. The enhanced concentration of protein crystals allows the antibody of
     the invention to be delivered subcutaneously. In one embodiment, the TNFa antibodies of
     the invention are delivered via a protein delivery system, wherein one or more of a protein
     crystal formulation or composition, is administered to a subject with a TNFa-related
     disorder. Compositions and methods of preparing stabilized formulations of whole
 15  antibody crystals or antibody fragment crystals are also described in WO 02/072636,
     which is incorporated by reference herein. In one embodiment, a formulation comprising
     the crystallized antibody fragments described in Examples 37 and 38 are used to treat a
     TNFa-related disorder.
              In certain embodiments, an antibody, antibody portion, or other TNFac inhibitor
20   of the invention may be orally administered, for example, with an inert diluent or an
     assimilable edible carrier. The compound (and other ingredients, if desired) may also be
     enclosed in a hard or soft shell gelatin capsule, compressed into tablets, or incorporated
    directly into the subject's diet. For oral therapeutic administration, the compounds may
    be incorporated with excipients and used in the form of ingestible tablets, buccal tablets,
25  troches, capsules, elixirs, suspensions, syrups, wafers, and the like. To administer a
    compound of the invention by other than parenteral administration, it may be necessary
    to coat the compound with, or co-administer the compound with, a material to prevent its
    inactivation.
             The pharmaceutical compositions of the invention may include a "therapeutically
30  effective amount" or a "prophylactically effective amount" of an antibody or antibody
    portion of the invention. A "therapeutically effective amount" refers to an amount
    effective, at dosages and for periods of time necessary, to achieve the desired therapeutic
                                                 - 86 -

     result. A therapeutically effective amount of the antibody, antibody portion, or other
     TNFa inhibitor may vary according to factors such as the disease state, age, sex, and
     weight of the individual, and the ability of the antibody, antibody portion, other TNFca
     inhibitor to elicit a desired response in the individual. A therapeutically effective
  5  amount is also one in which any toxic or detrimental effects of the antibody, antibody
     portion, or other TNFa inhibitor are outweighed by the therapeutically beneficial
     effects. A "prophylactically effective amount" refers to an amount effective, at dosages
     and for periods of time necessary, to achieve the desired prophylactic result. Typically,
     since a prophylactic dose is used in subjects prior to or at an earlier stage of disease, the
 10 prophylactically effective amount will be less than the therapeutically effective amount.
             Dosage regimens may be adjusted to provide the optimum desired response (e.g.,
     a therapeutic or prophylactic response). For example, a single bolus may be
     administered, several divided doses may be administered over time or the dose may be
    proportionally reduced or increased as indicated by the exigencies of the therapeutic
15  situation. It is especially advantageous to formulate parenteral compositions in dosage
    unit form for ease of administration and uniformity of dosage. Dosage unit form as used
    herein refers to physically discrete units suited as unitary dosages for the mammalian
    subjects to be treated; each unit containing a predetermined quantity of active compound
    calculated to produce the desired therapeutic effect in association with the required
20  pharmaceutical carrier. The specification for the dosage unit forms of the invention are
    dictated by and directly dependent on (a) the unique characteristics of the active
    compound and the particular therapeutic or prophylactic effect to be achieved, and (b)
    the limitations inherent in the art of compounding such an active compound for the
    treatment of sensitivity in individuals.
25           An exemplary, non-limiting range for a therapeutically or prophylactically
    effective amount of an antibody or antibody portion of the invention is 10-150 mg, more
    preferably 20-80 mg and most preferably about 40 mg. It is to be noted that dosage
    values may vary with the type and severity of the condition to be alleviated. It is to be
    further understood that for any particular subject, specific dosage regimens should be
30  adjusted over time according to the individual need and the professional judgment of the
    person administering or supervising the administration of the compositions, and that
    dosage ranges set forth herein are exemplary only and are not intended to limit the scope
                                                  - 87-

       or practice of the claimed composition. Ranges intermediate to the above recited
       concentrations, e.g., about 6-144 mg/ml, are also intended to be part of this invention.
       For example, ranges of values using a combination of any of the above recited values as
       upper and/or lower limits are intended to be included.
  5            The invention also pertains to packaged pharmaceutical compositions which
      comprise a TNFa inhibitor of the invention and instructions for using the inhibitor to treat
      TNFx-related disorders, as described above.
               Another aspect of the invention pertains to kits containing a pharmaceutical
      composition comprising an anti-TNFa antibody and a pharmaceutically acceptable
 10   carrier and one or more pharmaceutical compositions each comprising a drug useful for
      treating a TNFa-related disorder and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier.
      Alternatively, the kit comprises a single pharmaceutical composition comprising an anti
     TNFa antibody, one or more drugs useful for treating a TNFa-related disorder and a
     pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. The kits contain instructions for dosing of the
 15  pharmaceutical compositions for the treatment of a TNFu-related disorder in which the
     administration of an anti-TNFa antibody is beneficial, such as lupus.
              The invention also pertains to packaged pharmaceutical compositions or kits
     which comprise a TNFa inhibitor of the invention and instructions for using the
     inhibitor to treat a particular disorder in which TNFC activity is detrimental, as described
20   above. The package or kit alternatively can contain the TNFcc inhibitor and it can be
    promoted for use, either within the package or through accompanying information, for
    the uses or treatment of the disorders described herein. The packaged pharmaceuticals
    or kits further can include a second agent (as described herein) packaged with or
    copromoted with instructions for using the second agent with a first agent (as described
25  herein).
    B.       Additional therapeuticagents
             The invention pertains to pharmaceutical compositions and methods of use
    thereof for the treatment of a TNFa-related disorder. The pharmaceutical compositions
30  comprise a first agent that prevents or inhibits a TNFx-related disorder. The
    pharmaceutical composition also may comprise a second agent that is an active
    pharmaceutical ingredient; that is, the second agent is therapeutic and its function is
                                                  -88-

      beyond that of an inactive ingredient, such as a pharmaceutical carrier, preservative,
      diluent, or buffer. The second agent may be useful in treating or preventing TNFa
      related disorders. The second agent may diminish or treat at least one symptom(s)
      associated with the targeted disease. The first and second agents may exert their
  5   biological effects by similar or unrelated mechanisms of action; or either one or both of
      the first and second agents may exert their biological effects by a multiplicity of
      mechanisms of action. A pharmaceutical composition may also comprise a third
      compound, or even more yet, wherein the third (and fourth, etc.) compound has the same
      characteristics of a second agent.
 10            It should be understood that the pharmaceutical compositions described herein
     may have the first and second, third, or additional agents in the same pharmaceutically
      acceptable carrier or in a different pharmaceutically acceptable carrier for each described
     embodiment. It further should be understood that the first, second, third and additional
     agent may be administered simultaneously or sequentially within described
 15  embodiments. Alternatively, a first and second agent may be administered
     simultaneously, and a third or additional agent may be administered before or after the
     first two agents.
              The combination of agents used within the methods and pharmaceutical
     compositions described herein may have a therapeutic additive or synergistic effect on
20   the condition(s) or disease(s) targeted for treatment. The combination of agents used
    within the methods or pharmaceutical compositions described herein also may reduce a
     detrimental effect associated with at least one of the agents when administered alone or
    without the other agent(s) of the particular pharmaceutical composition. For example,
    the toxicity of side effects of one agent may be attenuated by another agent of the
25  composition, thus allowing a higher dosage, improving patient compliance, and
    improving therapeutic outcome. The additive or synergistic effects, benefits, and
    advantages of the compositions apply to classes of therapeutic agents, either structural or
    functional classes, or to individual compounds themselves.
              Supplementary active compounds can also be incorporated into the compositions.
30  In certain embodiments, an antibody or antibody portion of the invention is coformulated
    with and/or coadministered with one or more additional therapeutic agents that are
    useful for treating TNFc-related disorder in which TNFa activity is detrimental. For
                                                  - 89 -

   example, an anti-hTNFa antibody, antibody portion, or other TNFa inhibitor of the
   invention may be coformulated and/or coadministered with one or more additional
   antibodies that bind other targets (e.g., antibodies that bind other cytokines or that bind
   cell surface molecules), one or more cytokines, soluble TNFa receptor (see e.g., PCT
 5 Publication No. WO 94/06476) and/or one or more chemical agents that inhibit hTNFa
   production or activity (such as cyclohexane-ylidene derivatives as described in PCT
   Publication No. WO 93/19751). Furthermore, one or more antibodies or other TNFa
   inhibitors of the invention may be used in combination with two or more of the
   foregoing therapeutic agents. Such combination therapies may advantageously utilize
10 lower dosages of the administered therapeutic agents, thus avoiding possible toxicities or
   complications associated with the various monotherapies. Specific therapeutic agent(s)
   are generally selected based on the particular TNFa-related disorder being treated, as
   discussed below.
           Nonlimiting examples of therapeutic agents with which an antibody, antibody
15 portion, or other TNFa inhibitor of the invention can be combined include the following:
   non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug(s) (NSAIDs); cytokine suppressive anti
   inflammatory drug(s) (CSAIDs); CDP-571/BAY-10-3356 (humanized anti-TNFa
   antibody; Celltech/Bayer); cA2/infliximab (chimeric anti-TNFa antibody; Centocor); 75
   kdTNFR-IgG/etanercept (75 kD TNF receptor-IgG fusion protein; Immunex; see e.g.,
20 Arthritis & Rheumatism (1994) Vol. 37, S295; J Invest. Med. (1996) Vol. 44, 235A); 55
   kdTNF-IgG (55 kD TNF receptor-IgG fusion protein; Hoffinann-LaRoche); IDEC
   CE9. 1/SB 210396 (non-depleting primatized anti-CD4 antibody; IDEC/SmitbKline; see
   e.g., Arthritis & Rheumatism (1995) Vol. 38, S185); DAB 486-IL-2 and/or DAB 389-IL
   2 (IL-2 fusion proteins; Seragen; see e.g., Arthritis & Rheumatism (1993) Vol. 36, 1223);
25 Anti-Tac (humanized anti-IL-2Ra; Protein Design Labs/Roche); IL-4 (anti-inflammatory
   cytokine; DNAX/Schering); IL-10 (SCH 52000; recombinant IL-10, anti-inflammatory
   cytokine; DNAX/Schering); IL-4; IL-10 and/or IL-4 agonists (e.g., agonist antibodies);
   IL-lRA (IL-1 receptor antagonist; Synergen/Amgen); TNF-bp/s-TNF (soluble TNF
   binding protein; see e.g., Arthritis & Rheumatism (1996) Vol. 39, No. 9 (supplement),
30 S284; Amer. J Physiol. - Heart and CirculatoryPhysiology (1995) Vol. 268, pp. 37-42);
   R973401 (phosphodiesterase Type IV inhibitor; see e.g., Arthritis & Rheumatism (1996)
   Vol. 39, No. 9 (supplement), S282); MK-966 (COX-2 Inhibitor; see e.g., Arthritis &
                                                - 90-

     Rheumatism (1996) Vol. 39, No. 9 (supplement), S81); Iloprost (see e.g., Arthritis &
     Rheumatism (1996) Vol. 39, No. 9 (supplement), S82); methotrexate; thalidomide (see
     e.g., Arthritis & Rheumatism (1996) Vol. 39, No. 9 (supplement), S282) and
     thalidomide-related drugs (e.g., Celgen); leflunomide (anti-inflammatory and cytokine
  5  inhibitor; see e.g., Arthritis & Rheumatism (1996) Vol. 39, No. 9 (supplement), S13 1;
    Inflammation Research (1996) Vol. 45, pp. 103-107); tranexamic acid (inhibitor of
     plasminogen activation; see e.g., Arthritis & Rheumatism (1996) Vol. 39, No. 9
     (supplement), S284); T-614 (cytokine inhibitor; see e.g., Arthritis & Rheumatism (1996)
     Vol. 39, No. 9 (supplement), S282); prostaglandin El (see e.g., Arthritis & Rheumatism
 10  (1996) Vol. 39, No. 9 (supplement), S282); Tenidap (non-steroidal anti-inflammatory
     drug; see e.g., Arthritis & Rheumatism (1996) Vol. 39, No. 9 (supplement), S280);
    Naproxen (non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug; see e.g., Neuro Report (1996) Vol. 7
    pp. 1209-1213); Meloxicam (non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug); Ibuprofen (non
     steroidal anti-inflammatory drug); Piroxicam (non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug);
 15 Diclofenac (non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug); Indomethacin (non-steroidal anti
    inflammatory drug); Sulfasalazine (see e.g., Arthritis & Rheumatism (1996) Vol. 39, No.
    9 (supplement), S28 1); Azathioprine (see e.g., Arthritis & Rheumatism (1996) Vol. 39,
    No. 9 (supplement), S281); ICE inhibitor (inhibitor of the enzyme interleukin-1p
    converting enzyme); zap-70 and/or lek inhibitor (inhibitor of the tyrosine kinase zap-70
20  or lck); VEGF inhibitor and/or VEGF-R inhibitor (inhibitos of vascular endothelial cell
    growth factor or vascular endothelial cell growth factor receptor; inhibitors of
    angiogenesis); corticosteroid anti-inflammatory drugs (e.g., SB203580); TNF-convertase
    inhibitors; anti-IL-12 antibodies; anti-IL-18 antibodies; interleukin-1 1 (see e.g., Arthritis
    & Rheumatism (1996) Vol. 39, No. 9 (supplement), S296); interleukin-13 (see e.g.,
25  Arthritis & Rheumatism (1996) Vol. 39, No. 9 (supplement), S308); interleukin-17
    inhibitors (see e.g., Arthritis & Rheumatism (1996) Vol. 39, No. 9 (supplement), S120);
    gold; penicillamine; chloroquine; hydroxychloroquine; chlorambucil;
    cyclophosphamide; cyclosporine; total lymphoid irradiation; anti-thymocyte globulin;
    anti-CD4 antibodies; CD5-toxins; orally-administered peptides and collagen; lobenzarit
30  disodium; Cytokine Regulating Agents (CRAs) HP228 and HP466 (Houghten
    Pharmaceuticals, Inc.); ICAM-1 antisense phosphorothioate oligodeoxynucleotides (ISIS
    2302; Isis Phannaceuticals, Inc.); soluble complement receptor 1 (TP10; T Cell
                                                -91-

      Sciences, Inc.); prednisone; orgotein; glycosaminoglycan polysulphate; minocycline;
      anti-IL2R antibodies; marine and botanical lipids (fish and plant seed fatty acids; see
      e.g., DeLuca et al. (1995) Rheum. Dis. Clin. North Am. 21:759-777); auranofin;
     phenylbutazone; meclofenamic acid; flufenamic acid; intravenous immune globulin;
  5  zileuton; mycophenolic acid (RS-61443); tacrolimus (FK-506); sirolimus (rapamycin);
      amiprilose (therafectin); cladribine (2-chlorodeoxyadenosine); azaribine; methotrexate;
     antivirals; and immune modulating agents. Any of the above-mentioned agents can be
     administered in combination with the TNFca antibody of the invention to treat an TNFa
     related disorder.
 10           In one embodiment, the TNFc antibody of the invention is administered in
     combination with one of the following agents for the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis:
     small molecule inhibitor of KDR (ABT-123), small molecule inhibitor of Tie-2;
     methotrexate; prednisone; celecoxib; folic acid; hydroxychloroquine sulfate; rofecoxib;
     etanercept; infliximab; leflunomide; naproxen; valdecoxib; sulfasalazine;
 15 methylprednisolone; ibuprofen; meloxicam; methylprednisolone acetate; gold sodium
    thiomalate; aspirin; azathioprine; triamcinolone acetonide; propxyphene napsylate/apap;
    folate; nabumetone; diclofenac; piroxicam; etodolac; diclofenac sodium; oxaprozin;
    oxycodone hcl; hydrocodone bitartrate/apap; diclofenac sodium/misoprostol; fentanyl;
    anakinra, human recombinant; tramadol hcl; salsalate; sulindac;
20  cyanocobalamin/fa/pyridoxine; acetaminophen; alendronate sodium; prednisolone;
    morphine sulfate; lidocaine hydrochloride; indomethacin; glucosamine
    sulfate/chondroitin; cyclosporine; amitriptyline hcl; sulfadiazine; oxycodone
    hc1/acetaminophen; olopatadine hcl; misoprostol; naproxen sodium; omeprazole;
    mycophenolate mofetil; cyclophosphamide; rituximab; IL-1 TRAP; MRA; CTLA4-IG;
25  IL-18 BP; ABT-874; ABT-325 (anti-IL 18); anti-IL 15; BIRB-796; SCIO-469; VX-702;
    AMG-548; VX-740; Roflumilast; IC-485; CDC-801; and mesopram. In another
    embodiment, the TNFa antibody of the invention is administered for the treatment of a
    TNIFa related disorder in combination with one of the above mentioned agents for the
    treatment of rheumatoid arthritis.
30           In one embodiment, the TNFa antibody of the invention is administered in
    combination with one of the following agents for the treatment of a TNFa-related
    disorder in which TNFac activity is detrimental: anti-IL12 antibody (ABT 874); anti-IL18
                                                 -92-

      antibody (ABT 325); small molecule inhibitor of LCK; small molecule inhibitor of
      COT; anti-iLl antibody; small molecule inhibitor of MK2; anti-CD 19 antibody; small
     molecule inhibitor of CXCR3; small molecule inhibitor of CCR5; small molecule
     inhibitor of CCRll anti-E/L selectin antibody; small molecule inhibitor of P2X7; small
  5  molecule inhibitor of IRAK-4; small molecule agonist of glucocorticoid receptor; anti
     C5a receptor antibody; small molecule inhibitor of C5a receptor; anti-CD32 antibody;
     and CD32 as a therapeutic protein.
              In yet another embodiment, the TNFx antibody of the invention is administered
     in combination with an antibiotic or antiinfective agent. Antiinfective agents include
 10  those agents known in the art to treat viral, fungal, parasitic or bacterial infections. The
     term, "antibiotic," as used herein, refers to a chemical substance that inhibits the growth
     of, or kills, microorganisms. Encompassed by this term are antibiotic produced by a
     microorganism, as well as synthetic antibiotics (e.g., analogs) known in the art.
     Antibiotics include, but are not limited to, clarithromycin (Biaxin*), ciprofloxacin
 15  (Cipro*), and metronidazole (Flagyl*).
              In another embodiment, the TNFa antibody of the invention is administered in
    combination with an additional therapeutic agent to treat sciatica or pain. Examples of
    agents which can be used to reduce or inhibit the symptoms of sciatica or pain include
    hydrocodone bitartrate/apap, rofecoxib, cyclobenzaprine hcl, methylprednisolone,
20  naproxen, ibuprofen, oxycodone hcl/acetaminophen, celecoxib, valdecoxib,
    methylprednisolone acetate, prednisone, codeine phosphate/apap, tramadol
    hcl/acetaminophen, metaxalone, meloxicam, methocarbamol, lidocaine hydrochloride,
    diclofenac sodium, gabapentin, dexamethasone, carisoprodol, ketorolac tromethamine,
    indomethacin, acetaminophen, diazepam, nabumetone, oxycodone hcl, tizanidine hcl,
25  diclofenac sodium/misoprostol, propoxyphene napsylate/apap, asa/oxycod/oxycodone
    ter, ibuprofen/hydrocodone bit, tramadol hel, etodolac, propoxyphene hol, amitriptyline
    hcl, carisoprodol/codeine phos/asa, morphine sulfate, multivitamins, naproxen sodium,
    orphenadrine citrate, and temazepam.
             In yet another embodiment, the TNFa-related disorder is treated with the TNFa
30  antibody of the invention in combination with hemodialysis.
                                                  - 93 -

              In another embodiment, the TNFa antibody of the invention is used in
     combination with a drug used to treat Crohn's disease or a Crohn's-related disorder.
     Examples of therapeutic agents which can be used to treat Crohn's include mesalamine,
     prednisone, azathioprine, mercaptopurine, infliximab, budesonide, sulfasalazine,
  5  methylprednisolone sod succ, diphenoxylate/atrop sulf, loperamide hydrochloride,
     methotrexate, omeprazole, folate, ciprofloxacin/dextrose-water, hydrocodone
     bitartrate/apap, tetracycline hydrochloride, fluocinonide, metronidazole, thimerosal/boric
     acid, cholestyramine/sucrose, ciprofloxacin hydrochloride, hyoscyamine sulfate,
     meperidine hydrochloride, midazolam hydrochloride, oxycodone hcl/acetaminophen,
10   promethazine hydrochloride, sodium phosphate, sulfamethoxazole/trimethoprim,
     celecoxib, polycarbophil, propoxyphene napsylate, hydrocortisone, multivitamins,
     balsalazide disodium, codeine phosphate/apap, colesevelam hcl, cyanocobalamin, folic
      acid, levofloxacin, methylprednisolone, natalizumab, and interferon-gamma.
.              In another embodiment, the TNFa antibody of the invention is administered in
15    combination with an additional therapeutic agent to treat asthma. Examples of agents
      which can be used to reduce or inhibit the symptoms of asthma include the following:
      albuterol; salmeterol/fluticasone; sodium; fluticasone propionate; budesonide;
      prednisone; salmeterol xinafoate; levalbuterol hel; sulfate/ipratropium; prednisolone
      sodium phosphate; triamcinolone acetonide; beclomethasone dipropionate; ipratropium
 20   bromide; Azithromycin; pirbuterol acetate, prednisolone, theophylline anhydrous,
      methylprednisolone sod succ, clarithromycin, zafirlukast, formoterol fumarate,
       influenza virus vaccine, methylprednisolone, trihydrate, flunisolide, allergy injection,
       cromolyn sodium, fexofenadine hydrochloride, flunisolide/menthol,
       amoxicillin/clavulanate, levofloxacin, inhaler assist device, guaifenesin, dexamethasone
  25   sod phosphate; moxifloxacin hel; hyclate; guaifenesin/d-methorphan;
       pephedrine/cod/chlorphenir; gatifloxacin; cetirizine hydrochloride; mometasone furoate;
       salmeterol xinafoate; benzonatate; cephalexin; pe/hydrocodone/chlorphenir; cetirizine
       hcl/pseudoephed; phenylepbrine/cod/promethazine; codeine/promethazine; cefprozil;
        dexamethasone; guaifenesin/pseudoephedrine, chlorpheniramine/hydrocodone,
  30    nedocromil sodium, terbutaline sulfate, epinephrine and methylprednisolone,
        metaproterenol sulfate.
                                                   -94-

             In another embodiment, the TNFcq antibody of the invention is administered in
    combination with an additional therapeutic agent to treat COPD. Examples of agents
    which can be used to reduce or inhibit the symptoms of COPD include, albuterol
    sulfate/ipratropium; ipratropium bromide; salmeterol/fluticasone; albuterol; salmeterol;
 5  xinafoate; fluticasone propionate; prednisone; theophylline anhydrous;
    methylprednisolone sod succ; montelukast sodium; budesonide; formoterol fumarate;
    triamcinolone acetonide; levofloxacin; guaifenesin; azithromycin; beclomethasone;
    dipropionate; levalbuterol hcl; flunisolide; sodium; trihydrate; gatifloxacin; zafirlukast;
    amoxicillin/clavulanate; flunisolide/menthol; chlorpheniramine/hydrocodone;
10  metaproterenol sulfate; methylprednisolone; furoate; -ephedrine/cod/chlorphenir;
    pirbuterol acetate; -ephedrine/loratadine; terbutaline sulfate; tiotropium bromide;(R,R)
    formoterol; TgAAT; Cilomilast and Roflumilast
              In another embodiment, the TNFa antibody of the invention is administered in
    combination with an additional therapeutic agent to treat IPF. Examples of agents which
15  can be used to reduce or inhibit the symptoms of IPF include prednisone; azathioprine;
     albuterol; colchicines; sulfate; digoxin; gamma interferon; methylprednisolone sod succ;
     furosemide; lisinopril; nitroglycerin; spironolactone; cyclophosphamide; ipratropium
    bromide; actinomycin d; alteplase; fluticasone propionate; levofloxacin; metaproterenol
     sulfate; morphine sulfate; oxycodone hcl; potassium chloride; triamcinolone acetonide;
20   tacrolimus anhydrous; calcium; interferon-alpha; methotrexate; mycophenolate mofetil.
              In one embodiment of the invention, a TNFac antibody is administered in
     combination with an agent which is commonly used to treat spondyloarthropathies.
     Examples of such agents include nonsteroidal, anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), COX
     2 inhibitors, including Celebrex*, Vioxx*, and Bextra*, aand etoricoxib. Physiotherapy
25   is also commonly used to treat spondyloarthropathies, usually in conjunction with non
     steoidal inflammatory drugs.
               In another embodiment, the TNFa antibody of the invention is administered in
     combination with an additional therapeutic agent to treat ankylosing spondylitis.
     Examples of agents which can be used to reduce or inhibit the symptoms of ankylosing
 30   spondylitis include ibuprofen, diclofenac and misoprostol, naproxen, meloxicam,
      indomethacin, diclofenac, celecoxib, rofecoxib, sulfasalazine, prednisone, methotrexate,
      azathioprine, minocyclin, prednisone, etanercept, and infliximab.
                                                  - 95 -

            In another embodiment, the TNFa antibody of the invention is administered in
   combination with an additional therapeutic agent to treat psoriatic arthritis. Examples of
   agents which can be used to reduce or inhibit the symptoms of psoriatic arthritis include
   methotrexate; etanercept; rofecoxib; celecoxib; folic acid; sulfasalazine; naproxen;
 5 leflunomide; methylprednisolone acetate; indomethacin; hydroxychloroquine sulfate;
   sulindac; prednisone; betamethasone diprop augmented; infliximab; methotrexate;
   folate; triamcinolone acetonide; diclofenac; dimethylsulfoxide; piroxicam; diclofenac
   sodium; ketoprofen; meloxicam; prednisone; methylprednisolone; nabumetone; tolmetin
   sodium; calcipotriene; cyclosporine; diclofenac; sodium/misoprostol; fluocinonide;
10 glucosamine sulfate; gold sodium thiomalate; hydrocodone; bitartrate/apap; ibuprofen;
   risedronate sodium; sulfadiazine; thioguanine; valdecoxib; alefacept; and efalizumab.
            In one embodiment the TNFa inhibitor is administered following an initial
   procedure for treating coronary heart disease. Examples of such procedures include, but
    are not limited to coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG) and Percutaneous
15  transluminal coronary balloon angioplasty (PTCA) or angioplasty. In one embodiment,
    the TNFcc inhibitor is administered in order to prevent stenosis from re-occurring. In
    another embodiment of the invention, the TNFa inhibitor is administered in order to
    prevent or treat restenosis. The invention also provides a method of treatment, wherein
    the TNFca inhibitor is administered prior to, in conjunction with, or following the
20  insertion of a stent in the artery of a subject receiving a procedure for treating coronary
    heart disease. In one embodiment the stent is administered following CABG or PTCA.
    A wide variety of stent grafts may be utilized within the context of the present invention,
    depending on the site and nature of treatment desired. Stent grafts may be, for example,
    bifurcated or tube grafts, cylindrical or tapered, self-expandable or balloon-expandable,
25  unibody, or, modular. Moreover, the stent graft may be adapted to release the drug at
     only the distal ends, or along the entire body of the stent graft. The TNFc inhibitor of
     the invention can also be administered on a stent. In one embodiment, the
     TNFa antibody of the invention, including, for example, D2E7/HUMIRA* is
     administered by a drug-eluting stent.
30
                                                  -  96 -

              The TNFa antibody of the invention can be administered in combination with an
      additional therapeutic agent to treat restenosis. Examples of agents which can be used to
     treat or prevent restenosis include sirolimus, paclitaxel, everolimus, tacrolimus, ABT
     578, and acetaminophen.
  5            The TNFa antibody of the invention can be administered in combination with an
     additional therapeutic agent to treat myocardial infarction. Examples of agents which
     can be used to treat or prevent myocardial infarction include aspirin, nitroglycerin,
     metoprolol tartrate, enoxaparin sodium, heparin sodium, clopidogrel bisulfate,
     carvedilol, atenolol, morphine sulfate, metoprolol succinate, warfarin sodium, lisinopril,
 10  isosorbide mononitrate, digoxin, furosemide, simvastatin, ramipril, tenecteplase,
     enalapril maleate, torsemide, retavase, losartan potassium, quinapril hol/mag carb,
     bumetanide, alteplase, enalaprilat, amiodarone hydrochloride, tirofiban hcl m-hydrate,
     diltiazem hydrochloride, captopril, irbesartan, valsartan, propranolol hydrochloride,
     fosinopril sodium, lidocaine hydrochloride, eptifibatide, cefazolin sodium, atropine
 15  sulfate, aminocaproic acid, spironolactone, interferon, sotalol hydrochloride, potassium
     chloride, docusate sodium, dobutamine hcl, alprazolam, pravastatin sodium, atorvastatin
     calcium, midazolam hydrochloride, meperidine hydrochloride, isosorbide dinitrate,
     epinephrine, dopamine hydrochloride, bivalirudin, rosuvastatin, ezetimibe/simvastatin,
     avasimibe, abciximab, and cariporide.
20            The TNFc antibody of the invention can be administered in combination with an
     additional therapeutic agent to treat angina. Examples of agents which can be used to
    treat or prevent angina include: aspirin; nitroglycerin; isosorbide mononitrate;
    metoprolol succinate; atenolol; metoprolol tartrate; amlodipine besylate, dilitiazem
    hydropchloride, isosorbide dinitrate; clopidogrel bisulfate; nifedipine; atorvastatin
25  calcium; potassium chloride; furosemide; simvastatin; verapamil hcl; digoxin;
    propranolol hcl; carvedilo; lisinopril; sprionolactone; hydrochlorothiazide; enalapril
    maleate; madolol; ramipril; enoxaparin sodium; heparin sodium; valsartan; sotalol
    hydrochloride; fenofibrate; ezetimibe; bumetanide; losartan potassium;
    lisinopril/hydrochlorothiazide; felodipine; captopril; and bisoprolol fumarate.
30           In one embodiment of the invention, a TNFca antibody is administered in
    combination with an agent which is commonly used to treat hepatitis C virus. Examples
    of such agents include Interferon-aplha-2a, Interferon-alpha-2b, Interferon-alpha con1,
                                                  -97-

    Interfero-aopha-nl, Pegylated interferon-alpha-2a, Pegylated interferon-alpha-2b,
    Ribavirin, Peginterferon alfa-2b and ribavirin, Ursodeoxycholic Acid, Glycyrrhizic Acid,
    Thymalfasin, Maxamine, and VX-497.
             The TNFa antibody of the invention is administered in combination with topical
 5  corticosteroids, vitamin D analogs, and topical or oral retinoids, or combinations thereof,
    for the treatment of psoriasis. In addition, the TNFa antibody of the invention is
    administered in combination with one of the following agents for the treatment of
    psoriasis: small molecule inhibitor of KDR (ABT-123), small molecule inhibitor of Tie
    2, calcipotriene, clobetasol propionate, triamcinolone acetonide, halobetasol propionate,
10  tazarotene, methotrexate, fluocinonide, betamethasone diprop augmented, fluocinolone,
     acetonide, acitretin, tar shampoo, betamethasone valerate, mometasone furoate,
     ketoconazole, pramoxine/fluocinolone, hydrocortisone valerate, flurandrenolide, urea,
     betamethasone, clobetasol propionate/emoll, fluticasone propionate, azithromycin,
     hydrocortisone, moisturizing formula, folic acid, desonide, coal tar, diflorasone
15   diacetate, etanercept, folate, lactic acid, methoxsalen, he/bismuth subgal/znox/resor,
     methylprednisolone acetate, prednisone, sunscreen, salicylic acid, halcinonide, anthralin,
     clocortolone pivalate, coal extract, coal tar/salicylic acid, coal tar/salicylic acid/sulfur,
     desoximetasone, diazepam, emollient, pimecrolimus emollient, fluocinonide/emollient,
     mineral oil/castor oil/na lact, mineral oil/peanut oil, petroleum/isopropyl myristate,
20   psoralen, salicylic acid, soap/tribromsalan, thimerosal/boric acid, celecoxib, infliximab,
     alefacept, efalizumab, tacrolimus, pimecrolimus, PUVA, UVB, and sulfasalazine.
              An antibody, antibody portion, or other TNFa inhibitor of the invention can be
     used in combination with other agents to treat skin conditions. For example, an
      antibody, antibody portion, or other TNFo inhibitor of the invention is combined with
25    PUVA therapy. PUVA is a combination of psoralen (P) and long-wave ultraviolet
      radiation (UVA) that is used to treat many different skin conditions. The antibodies,
      antibody portions, or other TNFa inhibitors of the invention can also be combined with
      pimecrolimus. In another embodiment, the antibodies of the invention are used to treat
      psoriasis, wherein the antibodies are administered in combination with tacrolimus. In a
 30   further embodiment, tacrolimus and TNFa inhibitors are administered in combination
      with methotrexate and/or cyclosporine. In still another embodiment, the TNFa inhibitor
      of the invention is administered with excimer laser treatment for treating psoriasis.
                                                   - 98 -

             Nonlimiting examples of other therapeutic agents with which a TNFc inhibitor
    can be combined to treat a skin or nail disorder include UVA and UVB phototherapy.
    Other nonlimiting examples which can be used in combination with a TNFax inhibitor
    include anti-IL-12 and anti-IL-18 therapeutic agents, including antibodies.
 5           In one embodiment, the TNFa antibody of the invention is administered in
    combination with an additional therapeutic agent in the treatment of Behcet's disease.
    Additional therapeutic agents which can be used to treat Behcet's disease include, but
    are not limited to, prednisone, cyclophosphamide (Cytoxan), Azathioprine (also called
    imuran, methotrexate, timethoprim/sulfamethoxazole (also called bactrim or septra) and
10  folic acid.
              Any one of the above-mentioned therapeutic agents, alone or in combination
     therewith, can be administered to a subject suffering from a TNFa-related disorder in
     which TNFca is detrimental, in combination with the TNFca antibody of the invention. In
     one embodiment, any one of the above-mentioned therapeutic agents, alone or in
15   combination therewith, can be administered to a subject suffering from rheumatoid
     arthritis in addition to a TNFa antibody to treat a TNFa-related disorder.
              This invention is further illustrated by the following examples which should not
     be construed as limiting. The contents of all references, patents and published patent
     applications cited throughout this application are incorporated herein by reference
20
     EXAMPLES
      Example 1: TNFa Inhibitor in Rat Model for Ankylosing Spondylitis
25    Administration of TNF antibody to human leukocyte antigen-B27(HLA-B27) rats to
      test inhibition ofprogressive ankylosis
              Fisher 344 rats genetically engineered to carry high-copy numbers of the human
      major histocompatibility complex class 1 allele B27 and the p 2 -microglobulin genes
 30    exhibit symptoms similar to human spondyloarthopathies particularly ankylosing
       spondylitis (AS) (Zhang et al. Curr Rheumatol Rep. 2002: 4:507). Male transgenic
      human leuokocyte antigen-B27 (HLA-B27) rats are obtained at 10 weeks of age and are
                                                    - 99 -

    housed in an animal facility until they are 40 weeks of age. A group of Fisher 344 rats
    are obtained and serve as nontransgenic controls. The control rats are purchased at 36
    weeks and are housed in the animal facility under the same conditions for an additional 3
    to 4 weeks.
 5           Prior to the experimental treatment, body weights are measured for both the
    HLA-B27 transgenic rats, and the control rats to make sure there is no significant
    difference between the two. The rats are then administered intraperitoneally (i.p.) doses
    of either a placebo or a monoclonal anti-TNFa antibody that is known to bind and
    neutralize rat TNFa, e.g., antibody TN3 (TN3-19.12) (see Marzi et al. (1995) Shock
10   3:27; Williams et al. (1992) Proc Natl Acad Sci US A. 89:9784; BD Biosciences
    Pharmingen). Rats are evaluated for symptoms of AS using the following tests
     beginning at roughly 36 weeks of age and continuing throughout the study: weight,
     forepaw grasp of a wire grid, ability to cling to an inverted wire grid, gait, thorax
     flexibility, spinal mobility, and appearance of eyes, skin, nails, genitals, and peripheral
15   and axial skeletal joints with respect to redness and swelling, joint deformity, and
     mobility. Rats are also examined for evidence of arthritis, particularly decreases in AS
      symptoms in the treated rats, and are closely observed for growth characteristics and
      changes in skin and nails. At 4, 6, 8, 10, 12, 16, and 20 weeks, rats are sacrificed for
     radiographic and microscopic analysis.
20
      Example 2:      TNF Inhibitor Effects on AS Symptoms
      Ankylosing Spondylitis- Clinical Considerations
               Patients who exhibit symptoms commonly associated with AS are examined and
25    tested to determine if they suffer from AS, and thus qualify for the study. Symptoms
      commonly associated with AS are low back pain that is worse after inactivity, stiffness
      and limited motion in the low back, hip pain and stiffness, limited expansion of the
      chest, limited range of motion (especially involving spine and hips), joint pain and joint
      swelling in the shoulders, knees, and ankles, neck pain, heel pain, chronic stooping to
 30   relieve symptoms, fatigue, fever, low grade, loss of appetite, weight loss , and/or eye
      inflammation. Patients are given a physical examination to determine whether or not
      they exhibit any of the characteristic symptoms indicative of limited spine motion or
                                                  -100-

    chest expansion associated with AS. Examples of tests which indicate AS include X
                                                                                  associated
    rays of sacroiliac joints and vertebrae a which show characteristic findings
    with AS.
             Ankylosing spondylitis is diagnosed using the modified New York criteria (Moll
 5  et al. (1973) Ann Rheum Dis 32:354; Van der Linden et al. (1984) Arthritis Rheum
    27:361). The New York criteria for ankylosing spondylitis is a modification of the
    Rome criteria as proposed at the CIOMS Symposium in New York during 1966. It
     combines both clinical criteria and radiographic findings of the sacroiliac joint.
     Clinical criteria of New York criteria:
                                                                                     lateral
10   (a) Limitation of motion of the lumbar spine in all 3 planes (anterior flexion
     flexion extension). Skin markings to aid in the examination are shown in Moll, supra;
                                                                                       the lumbar
     (b) A history of pain or the presence of pain at the dorsolumbar junction or in
     spine; and
                                                                                    level of the
     (c) Limitation of chest expansion to 1 inch (2.5 cm) or less measured at the
15   fourth intercostal space.
      Scoring Index for New York Criteria
     Radiographic Changes in the Sacroiliac             Grade
     Joint(s)
     normal                                               0
      suspicious                                           1
     minimal sacroiliitis                                  2
      moderate sacroiliitis                                3
      ankylosis                                            4
      The clinical course of AS is measured by using any number of instruments to evaluate
 20   various AS symptoms. Some of the commonly used scales include the Assessment in
       Ankylosing Spondylitis (ASAS), the Bath Ankylosing Spondylitis Disease Activity
       Index (BASDAI) (Garrett et al. (1994) JRheumatol21:2286), the Bath Ankylosing
       Spondylitis Metrology Index (BASMI) (Jenkinson et al. (1994) JRheumatol 21:1694),
       and the Bath Ankylosing Spondylitis Functional Index (BASFI) (Calin et al. (1994) J
                                                 - 101  -

   Rheumatol 21:2281).        These indices can be used to monitor a patient over time and to
   determine improvement. Each of these scales is described further below:
   Criteria for Measuring the Clinical Course of AS
 5 1.       The Assessment in Ankylosing Spondylitis (ASAS20) is the primary endpoint in
   the pivotal Phase 3 AS studies.      A 20% improvement and absolute improvement of
   >10 units (scale of 0-100) in 3 of 4 domains: Subject Global Assessment, Pain,
   Function, and Inflammation. There must be an absence of deterioration in the potential
   remaining domain (deterioration is defined as a change for the worse of 20% and a net
10 worsening of 10 units (scale of 0-100).
   2. The Bath Ankylosing Spondylitis Disease Activity Index (BASDAI) can be used to
   evaluate the level of disease activity in a patient with AS. BASDAI focuses upon signs
   and symptoms of the inflammatory aspects of AS, nocturnal and total back pain, the
   patient's global assessment and actual physical measurements of spinal mobility such as
15 the Schober's test, chest expansion score and occiput to wall measurement. BASDAI
   measures disease activity on the basis of six questions relating to fatigue, spinal pain,
   peripheral arthritis, enthesitis (inflammation at the points where tendons/ligaments/joint
    capsule enter the bone), and morning stiffness. These questions are answered on a 10
    cm horizontal visual analog scale measuring severity of fatigue, spinal and peripheral
20 joint pain, localized tenderness, and morning stiffness (both qualitative and quantitative).
    The final BASDAI score has a range of 0 to 10.
    3.       The Bath Ankylosing Spondylitis Functional Index (BASFI) measures the
    physical function impairment caused by AS, and is a self-assessment instrument that
    consists of 8 specific questions regarding function in AS, and 2 questions reflecting the
25  patient's ability to cope with everyday life. Each question is answered on a 10-cm
    horizontal visual analog scale, the mean of which gives the BASFI score (0-10).
    4.       The Bath Ankylosing Spondylitis Metrology Index (BASMI) consists of 5 simple
    clinical measurements that provide a composite index and define disease status in AS.
    Analysis of metrology (20 measurements) identified these 5 measurements as most
30  accurately reflecting axial status: cervical rotation, tragus to wall distance, lateral
                                                 -102-

    flexion, modified Schober's test, and intermalleolar distance. The BASMI is quick (7
    minutes), reproducible, and sensitive to change across the entire spectrum of disease.
    The BASMI index comprises 5 measures of hip and spinal mobility in AS. The five
    BASMI measures, scaled 0 (mild) to 10 (severe), include tragus to wall distance, cervical
 5  rotation, lumbar flexion, lumbar side flexion, and intermolleolar distance.
              Combinations of the above-mentioned criteria are used to evaluate patients. In
    addition, radiographic, MRI, and bone and cartilage degradation markers can be used to
    determine disease activity in AS patients.
10   Clinicalstudies examining D2E7 in human subjects with active AS
              Patients are administered a dose of D2E7 s.c in a placebo-controlled clinical trial
     over a period of weeks, and re-examined every 2-6 weeks for the next year to determine
     if AS symptoms are reduced or treated. A dose of 40 mg every other week, which is
15   effective and safe in treating rheumatoid arthritis, is used in the study. Only patients
     who have a confirmed diagnosis of active AS, as defined by having 2 of the following 3
     criteria- BASDAI index , a visual analog scale (VAS) for pain and the presence of
     morning stiffness- are chosen for the study. The BASDAI index is described in more
      detail above. In order to enroll in this study, patients must have significant pain at
20    screening and at baseline, , a pain score of> 4 on a 10-cm VAS, and a BASDAI score of
      >4.
               Disease-modifying antirheumatic drugs (DMARDS) or other immunosuppressive
      agents are allowed in the study. Patients are allowed to enroll if they are on an
      equivalent dose of< 10 mg of prednisone per day.
 25            Screening examinations are performed prior to the study enrollment in order to
      document each patient's medical history and current findings. The following information
      is obtained from each patient: morning stiffness (duration and severity), occurrence of
      anterior uveitis (number of episodes and duration), and the number of inflamed
      peripheral joints. For each patient, radiographs of the vertebral column and the
 30    sacroiliac joints are obtained. Magnetic resonance imaging can also be used to
       document the spinal column of the patients enrolled
                                                   -103-

             Patients are randomly divided into experimental and placebo groups, and are
    administered either D2E7 or the placebo once every two weeks in a blinded fashion until
    week 12 or week 24. D2E7 has been administered at doses of 20 to 80 mg that have
    been used effectively to treat rheumatoid arthritis; a 40 mg dose was determined to be
 5  effective. A higher dose might be necessary to treat spinal inflammation, so a higher
    dose (40 mg weekly in those patients who are nonresponders and who are not on
    methotrexate) is used in the study. The percentage of patients who achieve an ASAS20
    is calculated.
10  Example 3: TNF Inhibitor in Clinical Studv for Psoriatic Arthritis
    D2E7 in human subjects with psoriaticarthrits
              Patients with moderate to severe psoriatic arthritis of any subtype (arthritis of the
15   distal interphalangeal joints, arthritis mutilans, symmetric polyarthritis, asymmetric
     oligoarthritis and/or spoyloarthropathy) are selected for the study. Patients have either
     failed or exhibited intolerance to non-steroidal antiinflamatory drugs (NSAIDs) or
     disease modifying anti-rheumatic drugs (DMARDs). Therapy is given alone and/or in
     combination with NSAIDs and DMARDs.
20            Dosage ranges being evaluated include 40 mg every other week, which is the
     D2E7 dose which has been found to be most effective at treating rheumatoid arthritis in
     patients. Higher dose (40 mg every week) is also being studied. Studies are a
      comparison to placebo for 12 to 24 weeks followed by open label therapy to determine
      long term safety and efficacy.
 25           Patients are examined clinically at screening, baseline, and frequently during
      treatment. The primary efficacy for signs and symptoms is measured via American
      College of Rheumatology preliminary criteria for improvement (ACR20) at 12 weeks.
      An additional primary endpoint includes evaluation of radiologic changes over 6 to 12
      months to assess changes in structural damage. Multiple other evaluations are
 30   performed during treatment including Psoriatic Arthritis Response Criteria (PsARC),
       quality of life measurements, and skin evaluations to detennine efficacy on psoriasis
       lesions (psorasis area severity index (PASI) and target lesion evaluations).
                                                   -104-

    Example 4:       TNFa Inhibitor in Mouse Model for Asthma
    TNF antibody study using ovalbumin (OVA)-induced allergic asthma mice
 5           The mouse OVA model of allergic asthma (Hessel, E.M., et al. (1995) Eur.
    J. Pharmacol.293:401; Daphne, T., et al. (2001) Am. J. Respir. Cell Mol. Biol. 25:751,
    is used in the following study for treating allergic asthma.
             All mice are sensitized to OVA (chicken egg albumin, crude grade V; Sigma, St.
    Louis, MO). Active sensitization is performed without an adjuvant by giving seven
10  intraperitoneal injections of 10 pg OVA in 0.5 ml pyrogen-free saline on alternate days
    (one injection per day). Three weeks after the last sensitization, mice are exposed to
    either 16 OVA challenges (2 mg/ml in pyrogen-free saline) or 16 saline aerosol
    challenges for 5 min on consecutive days (one aerosol per day). An additional group of
    mice first receive eight OVA aerosols, followed by eight saline aerosols (OVA/saline,
15   spontaneous resolution group).
             For the experiment in the more severe ongoing model of allergic asthma, all mice
     are sensitized to OVA by active sensitization with two intraperitoneal injections (7 d
     apart) of 0.1 ml alum-precipitated antigen, comprising 10 pg OVA adsorbed onto
     2.25 mg alum (AlumImject; Pierce, Rockford, IL). Two weeks after the second
20   sensitization, mice are exposed to either six OVA challenges (10 mg/ml in pyrogen-free
     saline) or six saline aerosol challenges for 20 min every third day (one aerosol every third
     day). An additional group of mice first receive three OVA aerosols, followed by three
     saline aerosols (OVA/saline, spontaneous resolution group).
              The aerosol treatment is performed in a plexiglas exposure chamber (5 liter)
25   coupled to a Pari LC Star nebulizer (PARI Respiratory Equipment, Richmond, VA;
     particle size 2.5-3.1 pi) driven by compressed air at a flow rate of 6 liters/min. Aerosol
     is given in groups composed of no more than eight animals.
              A monoclonal anti-TNFx antibody which is known to bind and neutralize mouse
      TNFx, e.g., antibody TN3 (TN3-19.12) (see Marzi et al. (1995) Shock 3:27; Williams et
 30   al. (1992) Proc NatlAcadSci USA. 89:9784; BD Biosciences Pharmingen) is
      administered to the OVA sensitized mice in a range of doses after the second
                                                  - 105 -

   sensitization according to standard protocols known in the art. Appropriate placebo
   controls are also administered.
            Airway responsiveness is measured in conscious, unrestrained mice using
   barometric whole-body plethysmography by recording respiratory pressure curves in
 5 response to inhaled methacholine (acetyl-P-methylcholine chloride; Sigma). Briefly, mice
   are placed in a whole-body chamber, and basal readings are obtained and averaged for
   3 min. Aerosolized saline, followed by doubling concentrations of methacholine (ranging
   from 1.6-50 mg/ml saline), are nebulized for 3 min, and readings are taken and averaged
   for 3 min after each nebulization. Dose-response curves (DRCs) to methacholine are
10 statistically analyzed by a general linear model of repeated measurements followed by
   post-hoc comparison between groups. Data are LOG transformed before analysis to
   equalize variances in all groups.
            After measurement of in vivo airway responsiveness, mice are sacrificed by
   intraperitoneal injection of 1 ml 10% urethane inpyrogen-free saline (Sigma).
15  Subsequently, mice are bled by cardiac puncture, and OVA-specific IgE is measured by
   ELISA. Briefly, microtiter plates (Nunc A/S, Roskilde, Denmark) are coated overnight at
    4'C with 2 pg/ml rat anti-mouse IgE (clone EM95) diluted in phosphate-buffered saline
    (PBS). The next day, the ELISA is performed at room temperature. After blocking with
    ELISA buffer (PBS containing 0.5% bovine serum albumin [Sigma], 2 mM EDTA,
20  136.9 mM NaCl, 50 mM Tris, 0.05% Tween-20 [Merck, Whitehouse Station, NJ] pH
    7.2) for 1 h, serum samples and a duplicate standard curve (starting 1:10), diluted in
    ELISA buffer, are added for 2 h. An OVA-specific IgE reference standard is obtained by
    intraperitoneal immunization with OVA and arbitrarily assigned a value of
     10,000 experimental units/ml (EU/ml). After incubation, 1 tg/ml of OVA coupled to
25  digoxigenin (DIG), which is prepared from a kit containing DIG-3-o-methylcarbonyl-r,
    aminocaproic acid-N-hydroxy-succinimide-ester (Roche Diagnostics, Basel,
    Switzerland) in ELISA buffer, is added for 1.5 h, followed by incubation with anti-DIG
    Fab fragments coupled to horseradish perotidase (Roche Diagnostics) diluted 1:500 in
    ELISA buffer for 1 hour. Color development is performed with o-phenylenediamine
30  dichloride substrate (0.4 mg/ml, Sigma) and 4 mM H202 in PBS and stopped by adding
    4 M H2 S0 4 . The optical density is read at 492 nm, using a Benchmark microplate reader
                                                 -106-

   (Bio-Rad Laboratories, Hercules, CA). The detection limit of the ELISA is 0.5 EU/ml
   IgE.
            Bronchial alveolar lavage (BAL) is performed immediately after bleeding of the
   mice. Briefly, the airways are lavaged five times through a tracheal cannula with 1-ml
 5 aliquots of pyrogen-free saline warmed to 37*C. The recovered lavage fluid is pooled,
   and cells are pelleted (32 x g, 4"C, 5 min) and resuspended in 150 pl cold PBS. The total
   number of cells in the BALF is determined using a Bnrker-Turk counting-chamber (Karl
   Hecht Assistent KG, Sondheim/R6hm, Germany). For differential BALF cell counts,
   cytospin preparations are made and stained with Diff-Quick (Dade AG, Dndingen,
10 Switzerland). Per cytospin, 400 cells are counted and differentiated into mononuclear
   cells (monocytes, macrophages, and lymphocytes), eosinophils, and neutrophils by
    standard morphology. Statistical analysis is performed using the nonparametric Mann
    Whitney Utest.
             Cytokine production by antigen-restimulated T cells in lung tissue is determined
15  as described previously (Hofstra, C.L., et al. (1999) Inflamm. Res. 48:602). Briefly, the
    lungs are lavaged as described above and perfused via the right ventricle with 4 ml saline
    containing 100 U/ml heparin to remove any blood and intravascular leukocytes.
    Complete lung tissue is removed and transferred to cold sterile PBS. Lungs are then
    minced and digested in 3 ml RPMI 1640 containing 2.4 mg/ml collagenase A and DNase
20  I (grade II) (both from RocheDiagnostics) for 30 min at 37*C. Collagenase activity is
    stopped by adding fetal calf serum (FCS). The lung tissue digest is filtered through a 70
     jim nylon cell strainer (Becton Dickinson Labware, Franklin Lakes, NJ) with 10 ml
    RPMI 1640 to obtain a single-cell suspension. The lung-cell suspension is washed,
    resuspended in culture medium (RPMI 1640 containing 10% FCS, 1%glutamax I, and
25  gentamicin [all from Life Technologies, Gaithersburg, MD]) and 50 mM         P
    mercaptoethanol (Sigma), and the total number of lung cells is determined using a
    Birker-Ttirk counting-chamber. Lung cells (8 x 105 lung cells/well) are cultured in
    round-bottom 96-well plates (Greiner Bio-One GmbH, Kremsmuenster, Austria) in the
    presence of OVA (10 ptg/ml) or medium only. As a positive control, cells are cultured in
30   the presence of plate-bound rat anti-mouse CD3 (clone 17A2, 50 pg/ml, coated overnight
     at 4*C). Each in vitro stimulation is performed in triplicate. After 5 days of culture at
                                                 -107-

    37 0 C, the supernatant is harvested, pooled per stimulation, and stored at -20*C until
    cytokine levels were determined by ELISA.
              The IFN-y, IL-4, IL-5, IL-10, and IL-13 ELISAs are performed according to the
    manufacturer's instructions (PharMingen, San Diego, CA). The detection limits of the
 5  ELISAs are 160 pg/ml for IFN-, 16 pg/ml for IL-4, 32 pg/ml for IL-5, and 100 pg/ml for
    IL-10 and IL-13.
              In all experiments, airway responsiveness to methacholine, OVA-specific IgE
    levels in serum, cellular infiltration in the BALF, and T-cell responses in lung tissue are
    measured 24 hours after the last challenge in each mouse.
10            Improvements in asthma in the experimental mice are marked by a decrease in
    the number of mononuclear cells (including monocytes, macrophages, and lymphocytes),
     eosinophils, and neutrophils in the BALF, a decrease in the airway hyperresponsiveness,
     and a decrease in the cytokine production by antigen-restimulated T cells in the lung
     tissue.
15
     Example 5:        TNFa Inhibitor in Mouse Model of Chronic Ostructive Pulmonary
     Disease (COPD)
     Study examining treatmentfor alveolar enlargement and inflammation
20
               The following study is perfonned using a cigarette smoke induced COPD mouse
      model (Keast, D.et al. (1981) J. Pathol.135:249; Hautmaki, R.D., et al. (1997) Science
      277:2002). In response to cigarette smoke, inflammatory cell recruitment into the lungs
      followed by pathologic changes characteristic of emphysema have been observed.
25    Previous studies have shown that progressive inflammatory cell recruitment begins
      within the first month of smoking followed by air space enlargement after 3 to 4 months
      of cigarette exposure (Hautmaki et al. (1997) Science 277:2002).
               Mice are exposed to smoke from two non-filtered cigarettes per day, 6 days per
      week, for 6 months, with the use of a smoking apparatus with the chamber adapted for
 30   mice. Nonsmoking, age-matched animals are used as controls. After 6 months of
      exposure to smoke as described above, a monoclonal anti-TNFa antibody which is
      known to bind and neutralize mouse TNFa, e.g., antibody TN3 (TN3-19.12) (see Marzi
                                                   - 108 -

    et al. (1995) Shock 3:27; Williams etal.(1992) ProcNatlAcad Sci USA. 89:9784; BD
    Biosciences Pharmingen) is administered in a range of doses according to standard
                                                                                          Mice
    protocols known in the art. An appropriate placebo control is also administered.
    are administered the antibody treatment for a period of 21 days. Mice are sacrificed,
 5  followed by examination of lung volume and compliance, cytokine measurement,
    histological mucus index measurement, alveolar duct enlargement, air space
    measurement, alveolar and interstitial macrophage counts and alveolar size, as described
    below.
              Following antibody treatment, bronchiolar lavage is performed on euthanized
10   animals; the trachea is isolated by blunt dissection, and small caliber tubing is inserted
     and secured in the airway. Two volumes of 1.0 ml of PBS with 0.1% BSA are instilled,
     gently aspirated, and pooled. Each BAL fluid sample is centrifuged, and the
                                                                                              in
     supernatants are stored in -70* until used. Cytokine measurements are as described
     Example 5.
15            To determine lung volume and compliance, animals are anesthetized, the trachea
     is cannulated,, and the lungs are ventilated with 100% 02 via a "T" piece attachment. The
     trachea is then clamped and oxygen absorbed in the face of ongoing pulmonary
     perfusion. At the end of this degassing, the lungs and heart are removed en bloc and
     inflated with PBS at gradually increasing pressures from 0 to 30 cm. The size of the lung
20    at each 5-cm interval is evaluated via volume displacement. An increase in the lung
      volume of treated animals compared to placebo treated control animals indicates an
      improvement in COPD.
               For histological analysis, animals are sacrificed and a median sternotomyis
      performed, and right heart perfusion is accomplished with calcium- and magnesium-free
 25   PBS to clear the pulmonary intravascular space. The lungs are then fixed to pressure (25
                                                                                                 in
      cm) with neutral buffered 10% formalin, fixed overnight in 10% formalin, embedded
      paraffin, sectioned at 5 pm and stained with Hematoxylin and eosin (H&E) and periodic
       acid-Schiff with diastase (D-PAS).
               The histological mucus index (HMI) provides a measurement ofthe percentage
 30    of epithelial cells that are D-PAS* per unit airway basement membrane. It is calculated
       from D-PAS-stained sections (Cohn, L., et al. (1997) J. Exp. Med. 186:1737). A
                                                   -109-

    decrease in the HII     of treated animals compared to placebo treated control animals
    indicates an improvement in COPD.
              Lm, an indicator of air space size, is calculated for each mouse from 15 random
    fields at x200 by means of a 50-line counting grid (10-mm total length). The results are
 5  the average of measurements of two independent investigators. An increase in air space
    size of treated animals compared to placebo treated control animals indicates an
    improvement in COPD.
               To determine alveolar duct enlargement, the proximal surface areas from the
    terminal bronchiole-alveolar duct transition extending 250 [tm into the duct using
10   Optimus 5.2 image analysis software (Optimus, Bothell, WA) is measured. A decrease
     in alveolar duct size of treated animals compared to placebo treated control animals
     indicates an improvement in COPD.
               Alveolar and interstitial macrophages are quantitated by counting macrophages
     identified by marine Mac-3 (rat antibody to mouse (0.5 mg/ml), used at 1:4000 dilution;
15   PharMingen, San Diego, CAO immunostaining using the avidin-biotin alkaline. A
     decrease in the number of alveolar and interstitial macrophages of treated animals
      compared to placebo treated control animals indicates an improvement in COPD.
               Alveolar size is estimated from the mean cord length of the airspace (Ray, P., et
      al. (1997) J. Clin. Invest. 100:2501). This measurement is similar to the mean linear
20    intercept, a standard measure of air space size, but has the advantage that it is
      independent of alveolar septal thickness. Sections are prepared as described above. To
      obtain images at random for analysis, each glass slide is placed on a printed rectangular
       grid and a series of dots placed on the coverslip at the intersection of the grid lines, i.e.,
       at intervals of approximately 1 mm. Fields as close as possible to each dot are acquired
 25   by systematically scanning at 2-mm intervals. Fields containing identifiable artifacts or
       non-alveolated structures such as bronchovascular bundles or pleura are discarded.
                A minimum of ten fields from each mouse lung are acquired into a Macintosh G3
       computer (Apple Computer Inc., Cupertino, California, USA) through a framegrabber
       board. Images are acquired in 8-bit gray-scale at a final magnification of 1.5 pixels per
 30    micron. The images are analyzed on a Macintosh computer using the public domain NIH
       Image program written by Wayne Rasband at NIH using a custom-written macro
       available from the web site (http://rsb.info.nih.gov/nih-image). Images are manually
                                                    -110-

   thresholded and then smoothed and inverted. The image is then subject to sequential
   logical image match "and" operations with a horizontal and then vertical grid. At least
   300 measurements per field are made for each animal. The overlying air space air is
   averaged as the mean chord length. Chord length increases with alveolar enlargement.
 5 An increase in alveolar size of treated animals compared to placebo treated control
   animals indicates an improvement in COPD.
   Example 6: TNFa Inhibitor in Idiopathic Pulmonary Fibrosis (IPF) Mouse Model.
10 Study ofIPFtreatmentusing bleomycin induced lung fibrosis mouse model
            The following study is performed using the bleomycin induced lung fibrosis
   mouse model (reviewed in Bowden, D.H. (1984) Lab. Invest. 50:487; Tokuda, A., et al.
   (2000) J. Immunol. 164:2745).
15          Bleomycin sulfate is administered to C57BL/6J female mice aged 8-10 weeks.
   Briefly, C57BL/6J mice are anesthetized with 200 pl of 5 mg/ml pentobarbital injected
   i.p., followed by intratracheal instillation of 3 mg/kg bleomycin sulfate in 50 pl sterile
   saline.
            A monoclonal anti-TNFa antibody which is known to bind and neutralize mouse
20 TNFa, e.g., antibody TN3 (TN3-19.12) (see Marzi et al. (1995) Shock 3:27; Williams et
   al. (1992) Proc Natl Acad Sci U SA. 89:9784; BD Biosciences Pharmingen) is
   administered to the bleomycin induced lung fibrosis mice in a range of doses, after
   intratracheal instillation of bleomycin as described above. An appropriate placebo
   control is also administered. Mice ar treated twice daily for 14 days.
25          Mice are sacrificed 20 and 60 days following bleomycin treatment. Tissues are
   fixed in 10% buffered formalin and embedded in paraffin. Sections are stained with
   hematoxylin and eosin and examined by light microscopy. Lung-infiltrating leukocyte
   counts, cytokine measurements, and total lung collagen content is determined as
   described below.
30          BAL cells and lung-infiltrating leukocytes are prepared as described in Smith et
   al. (1994) J. Immunol. 153:4704. In brief, following anesthesia, 1 ml PBS is instilled
   and withdrawn five times from the lung via an intratracheal camula. The BAL fluids are
                                                - 111 -

    collected and after RBC lysis total leukocyte counts are determined. Cell differentials are
    determined after cytospin centrifuge. Specimens are stained with Diff-Quik products
    (Baxter, Miami, FL).
              To isolate lung-infiltrating leukocytes, lungs are perfused with saline, dissected
 5  from the chest cavity, and then minced with scissors. Each sample is incubated for 30
    minutes at 37*C on a rocker in 15 ml digesting buffer (10% FCS in RPMI 1640 with 1%
    collagenase; Wako Pure Chemical, Osaka, Japan). Next, the sample is pressed through
    nylon mesh and suspended in 10%FCS-RPMI 1640 after being rinsed. The cell
                                                                                               at
     suspension is treated with Histopaque-1 119 (Sigma, St. Louis, MO) and centrifuged
10   2000 rpm for 20 min to remove lung parenchymal cells and RBC. The pellet is
     resuspended in 2.5% FCS-PBS after being rinsed. After cell counts are performed, flow
     cytometric immunofluorescence analyses are conducted.
              Immunofluorescence analyses of peripheral blood leukocytes and lung
     infiltrating leukocytes are performed with the use of an Epics Elite cell sorter (Coulter
15   Electronics, Hialeah, FL) as described previously (Yoneyama et al. (1998) J. Clin.
     Invest. 102:1933; Murai et al.(1999) J. Clin. Invest. 104:49). Peripheral blood
      leukocytes are prepared from normal mice with RBC lysis buffer. After incubation with
     Fc Block (anti-CD 16/32; PharMingen, San Diego, CA) for 10 min, cells are stained with
      PE-conjugated mAb against CD3, CD4, CD8, CD1 lb, CD1 1c, and Gr-1 (PharMingen),
20    and also stained with 20 tg/ml of rabbit anti-CCR1 polyclonal Ab followed by staining
      with FITC-conjugated goat anti-rabbit IgG (Leinco Technologies, St. Louis, MO). Before
      analyses propidium iodide (Sigma) staining is performed to remove the dead cells. A
      decrease in the number of lung-infiltrating leukocytes of treated animals compared to
      placebo treated control animals indicates an improvement in IPF.
 25            Inmunohistochemistry of lung samples is carried out as follows: lung specimens
       are prepared as described previously (Yoneyama et aL. (1998) J. Clin. Invest. 102:1933;
       Murai et al. (1999) J. Clin. Invest. 104:49). Briefly, lung specimens are fixed in
       periodate-lysine-paraformaldehyde, washed with PBS containing sucrose, embedded in
       Tissue-Tek OCT compound (Miles, Elkhart, IN), frozen in liquid nitrogen, and cut into
 30    7-im-thick sections with a cryostat. After inhibition of endogenous peroxidase activity,
       the sections are incubated with the first Ab. The Abs used are rabbit anti-CCR1 Ab, rat
       anti-F4/80 (BMA Biomedicals, Geneva, Switzerland), rat anti-CD4, rat anti-CD8, rat
                                                   -112-

   anti-Gr-1 (PharMingen), rat anti-nonlymphoid dendritic cell (NLDC)-145, and rat anti
   MHC class II (BMA Biomedicals). As a negative control either a rabbit IgG or a rat IgG
   is used, respectively. They are treated sequentially with either HRP-conjugated goat anti
   rabbit IgG (Cedarlane Laboratories, Homby, Ontario, Canada) or a HRP-conjugated goat
 5 anti-rat IgG (BioSource International, Camarillo, CA). After staining with 3,3'
   diaminobenzidine (Wako Pure Chemical) or 3-amino-9-ethylcarbazole substrate kit
   (Vector Laboratories, Burlingame, CA), samples are counterstained with Mayer's
   hematoxylin. A decrease in CCR1, and decreases in the number of CD4+ T cells, ,
   CD8+ T cells, nonlymphoid dendritic cell (NLDC), and MHC class II bearing cells of
10 treated animals compared to placebo treated control animals indicates an improvement in
   IPF
             Total lung collagen content is detennined by assaying total soluble collagen using
   the Sircol Collagen Assay kit (Biocolor, Northern Ireland) according to the
   manufacturer's instructions. Briefly, lungs are harvested at day14 after bleomycin
15  administration andhomogenized in 10 ml 0.5 M acetic acid containing about 1 mg
   pepsin/10 mg tissue residue. Each sample is incubated for 24 h at 4*C with stirring. After
    centrifugation, 200 pl of each supernatant is assayed. One milliliter of Sircol dye reagent
    that binds to collagen is added to each sample and then mixed for 30 min. After
    centrifugation, the pellet is suspended in 1 ml of the alkali reagent included in the kit and
20  read at 540 mn by a spectrophotometer. Collagen standard solutions are utilized to
    construct a standard curve. Collagens contain about 14% hydroxyproline by weight, and
    collagen contents obtained with this method correlate well with the hydroxyproline
    content according to the manufacturer's data. A decrease on lung collagen content of
    treated animals compared to placebo treated control animals indicates an improvement in
25  IPF
             Using the bleomycin induced lung fibrosis mouse model, mice are examined for
    a decrease in the BAL cell counts, a decrease in the peripheral blood leukocytes and lung
    infiltrating leukocytes. Mice are also examined for a decrease in the total lung collagen
    content in D2E7 treated mice as compared to placebo treated mice.
30
                                                - 113 -

    Example 7: TNFa Inhibitor in Treatment of Asthma
    Clinicalstudy ofD2E7 in human subjects with asthma
 5           Patients 12 to 65 years of age are eligible for the study if they have had a
    documented diagnosis of asthma of at least 2 years duration and have also had
    demonstrable reversible bronchospasm with an increase in FEV1 of 15% or greater after
   the administration of albuterol within the previous six months. Additional inclusion
    criteria include, a baseline FEVI between 50% and 80% of predicted normal, absence of
10  any clinically significant disease other than asthma, a history of daily use of inhaled
    corticosteroids and cessation of all p2-agonist use 30 days prior to the beginning of the
    study.
             A baseline visit occurs within 7 days after the screening visit. All patients
   undergo evaluation of FEVI and have a complete physical examination. Pulmonary
15 auscultation and oropharyngeal examinations are performed, and asthma symptoms are
    assesses. Patients who qualify are randomly assigned to a treatment group including a
   placebo group.
             Following baseline measurements, patients begin receiving treatment. They are
   randomized and treated with either D2E7 or placebo in a blinded fashion. At days 15 and
20 29, all examinations performed at the baseline visit are repeated. A 12-lead ECG is also
   performed. Diary cards are reviewed with patients regarding the use of other
   medications and any adverse events.
             Improvements are determined on spirometry tests measured at each visit. These
   include FEV1, peak expiratory flow rate (PEFR), Forced Vital Capacity (FCV), and
25 forced expiratory flow at 25% to 75% of FVC. FEV1 at the final visit is regarded as the
   primary measure of efficacy. Twice-daily PEFR tests performed by the patient are
   compared and the number of inhalations of rescue medication is calculated.
   Patient/physician evaluations of asthma symptoms (wheezing, tightness in the chest,
   shortness of breath and cough) are characterized by severity. Compliance is assessed by
30 review of the patient's diary cards and by collecting unused study medication.
                                                -114-

   Example 8: TNFa Inhibitor in Treatment of COPD
   Clinicalstudy examining D2E7 in human subjects with COPD
 5          The study population is male and female subjects who are 40 to 80 years of age
   with a diagnosis of COPD. Subjects must have a best FEVi/FVC ratio 20.70 liters,
   fixed airway obstruction, defined by s15% or :200 ml (or both) increase in FEVI after
   the administration of albuterol and a post-albuterol FEVI between 30 and 70% of
   predicted. Subjects must also be current or previous smokers with a history of smoking
10  210 pack years.
            Following baseline measurements, patients begin receiving treatment. They are
   randomized and treated with either D2E7 or placebo in a blinded fashion.
            Improvements are marked by an increase from predose baseline after study
   medication in pre-bronchodilator FEV1 and change from baseline in total score of the St.
15 George's Respiratory Questionnaire (Jones, P.W., et al. (1991) Resp. Med. 85(suppl):25)
   which indicates an improvement in the patients' quality of life. Improvements are also
   seen as an increase from baseline FVC at trough, an increase in time to first COPD
   exacerbation, and a decrease from baseline in post-exercise breathlessness (modified
   Borg Scale; Stulbarg, M., Adams, L. Dyspnea. In: Murray J, Nadel J, eds. Textbook of
20 Respiratory Medicine. Philadelphia, PA: WB Saunders, 2000; 541-552). Measures of
    safety are adverse events, vital signs, electrocardiogram at all double-blind visits, and
    laboratory assessments.
   Example 9:       TNFa Inhibitor in Treatment of IPF
25
    Clinicalstudy of D2E7 in human subjects with IPF.
            A multi-center, double-blind, placebo-controlled study comparing treatment of
    IPF patients with D2E7 versus treatment with placebo is performed. Patients are eligible
30  for the study if they have histologically verified IPF and have a decline in lung function
    of at least 10% during the 12 months prior to the beginning of the study, despite
    continuous or repeated treatment with glucocorticoids or other immunosuppressive
                                                 -115-

    agents or both for at least 6 months. The main histological feature used to identify IPF is
    the presence of subpleural and periacinar fibrotic lesions with only minor cellular
    infiltration. The absence of bilateral patchy infiltrates on high-resolution computed
    tomography and the demonstration of predominantly peripheral distribution of lesions
 5  are the radiological criteria for identifying the disease. Patients with a history of
     exposure to organic or inorganic dust or drugs known to cause pulmonary fibrosis and
     those with connective-tissue disease or other chronic lung diseases are excluded.
     Patients with end-stage IPF as identified on the basis of a total lung capacity of less than
     45% of the predicted normal are also excluded. Baseline values for repeat pulmonary
10   function tests, FVC, total lung capacity (TLC), and oxygen saturation are taken.
               Following baseline measurements, patients begin receiving treatment. They are
     randomized and treated with either D2E7 or placebo in a blinded fashion.
               Improvements in IPF patients include an increase in the overall survival rate of
     patients in the study, and improvements in FVC, total lung capacity (TLC) and oxygen
15    saturation. Improvement in pulmonary function is defined as a 10% or greater increase
      in predicted value of FVC or TLC, or a 3% or greater increase in oxygen saturation with
      the same fraction of expired air, resting or exertional. A decrease of similar manner for
      each measure is considered a deterioration. Patients who do not demonstrate
      improvement or deterioration are considered stable.
20
      Example 10: TNFa Inhibitor In Reducing Inflammation and Restenosis
      Study of restenosis using mouse carotidartery model
25              The following study of restenosis is performed using the mouse carotid artery
      model (Kumar and Lindner (1997) Arterioscler. Thromb. Vasc. Biol. 17:2238; de Waard
       et al. (2002) Arterioscler. Thromb. Vasc. Biol. 22:1978). Mice, ranging in age from two
       to four months, are anesthetized by intraperitoneal (i.p.) injection of a solution of
       xylazine. The left common carotid artery is dissected and ligated near the carotid
 30    bifurcation. Mice are then allowed to recover.
                                                   -116-

           A monoclonal anti-TNFa antibody which is known to bind and neutralize mouse
   TNFa, e.g., antibody TN3 (TN3-19.12) (see Marzi et al. (1995) Shock 3:27; Williams et
   al. (1992) Proc NatlAcad Sci USA. 89:9784; BD Biosciences Pharmingen) is
   administered to the experimental group. Mice receive daily subcutaneous injections per
 5 week of either the anti-TNF antibody or a placebo. At either 2.5 or 4 weeks after the
   ligation of the carotid artery, mice are sacrificed and subsequently fixed by perfusion
   with 4% parafonnaldehyde in PBS. The carotid arteries are excised, immersed in 70%
   (v/v) ethanol, and embedded in paraffin. The nonligated right carotid artery serves as an
   internal control for both the D2E7 injected and placebo injected mice. Serial sections
10 are cut for morphometric analysis, as described in de Waard et al., supra.
           Morphometric analysis provides a measurement of the total vessel area for the
   treated and untreated ligated carotids at certain set distances from a common physical
   reference point. It has previously been shown that the ligation results in the narrowing
   of the arteries (constructive remodeling) (Kumar and Lindner, supra; Kumar et al.
15 (1997) Circulation96:4333). Cross sections of the carotids are mounted on microscopic
   slides and stained with hematoxylin and eosin. Images of the carotid arteries are
   obtained using microscopic digital photography and the cross sectional areas of the
   intimal and the media are measured for a decrease in arterial narrowing (i.e, larger vessel
   diameter) as compared to placebo injected mice.
20
   Example 11 : TNFa Inhibitor in Monkey Model of Atherosclerosis
   Effect ofD2E7 in monkey model of atherosclerosis.
25          The following study is performed using a diet-induced monkey model of
   atherosclerosis (Lentz SR et al. (2002) Circulation 106(7):842-6; Sundell CL et al.
   (2003)305(3):1116-23).
            Adult cynomolgus monkeys (Macacafascicularis)are fed an atherogenic diet
   that contains 0.7% cholesterol and 43% total calories as fat. After 44J 1 months on the
30  atherogenic diet, animals are sedated with ketamine hydrochloride (20mg/kb IM) and
    anesthetized with sodium pentobarbital (20mg/kg IV). A nonobstructive catheter is
    inserted into an axillary artery for blood sampling, and the axillary vein is cannulated for
                                                -117-

    administration of either D2E7 or placebo and supplemental anesthesia (sodium
    pentobarbital 5mg/kg per hour). D2E7 has been shown to effectively inhibit TNFa
    activity in a variety of species, including cynomolgus monkeys (see U.S. Patent No.
    6,258,562).
 5           Prior to infusion of D2E7 or placebo, blood is collected from the axillary artery
    catheter directly into a 1/10 volume of 3.8% sodium citrate for hemostatic assaying.
    After collection, blood samples are placed immediately on ice, and plasma is isolated by
    centrifugation at 2500g for 30 minutes at 4"C. Additional blood samples are collected
    into serum separator tubes for determination of cholesterol or into serum separator tubes
10  prepared with 3.4 mmol/L EDTA for determination of total plasma homocysteine
    (tHCY).
             D2E7 or placebo is infused in 10ml of saline over 10 minutes through the
     axillary vein catheter. After infusion, blood samples are collected regularly.
             The degree to which the animals are suffering atherosclerosis after treatment is
15   assessed in various ways. Serum samples are regularly taken from the monkeys and
     assayed for total cholesterol, HDL cholesterol, LDL cholesterol, tHCY and triglycerides.
     Treated monkeys are examined to detennine if total cholesterol, and LDL cholesterol,
     and tHCY levels are lower as compared to placebo treated monkeys, and whether HDL
     levels are higher.
20
     Example 12: TNFa Inhibitor on Treating Restenosis in Patients
     Study ofD2E7 in human subjects with restenosis
25           Patients who have undergone balloon angioplasty are chosen for the study, as
     they have an increased chance of restenosis occurring within the first six months
     following angioplasty.
              Prior to treatment, estimates of vessel and lesion parameters are made with
     reference to the guiding catheter. Estimates include reference vessel diameter (RVD),
 30  pretreatment minimal luminal diameter (MLD, which is determined by (RVD X [1
     preprocedural percent diameter stenosis]), postprocedural MLD (which is determined by
                                                  - 118 -

   (RVD X [1 - postprocedural percent diameter stenosis]), acute gain (postprocedural
   MLD - preprocedural MLD), number of diseased vessels and number of traded vessels.
             Experimental group of patients are administered either D2E7 in biweekly and
   weekly doses of 40 mg or a placebo. Dosages may be adjusted by an ordinarily skilled
 5 artisan knowledgeable in restenosis. Patients are following and assessed at six months
   post-angioplasty to determine whether restenosis has occurred. Patients are also
   assessed at 9 months and long-term to determine the effect of delayed restenosis in those
   groups where restenosis was prevented or reduced due to treatment. Estimates of vessel
   and lesion parameters are recorded following D2E7 treatment. Statistical analysis is
10 performed to compare the extent of restenosis in the patients. (Jackson et al. (2003) Am
   HeartJ 145:875).
   Example 13: TNFa Inhibitor on Treating Heart Failure
15  Clinicalstudy ofD2E7 in human subjects with heartfailure
             Patients with stable New York Association (NYHA) class II or IV heart failure
    and left ventricular ejection fraction of less than 35% are chosen for the study. Under
    the NYHA standard, class III patients are defined as those with marked limitation of
20  activity, i.e., they are comfortable only at rest, and class IV patients are defined as those
    who should be at complete rest, i.e., confined to bed or chair, or where any physical
    activity brings on discomfort and symptoms occur at rest. As described in Burns et al.,
    left ventricular ejection fraction is associated with six-month mortality (Burns et al.
    (2002) JAm Coll Cardiol.39:30).
25            Patients receive biweekly doses of D2E7 at 40 mg, or a dosage adjusted by an
    ordinarily skilled artisan knowledgeable in heart failure. The control group is given a
    placebo. Patients undergo examinations at 1, 2, 6, 10, 14, 20, and 18 weeks. At each
    visit, each patient is examined and given an assessment of their overall heart failure
     status, relative to their status at the onset of the study, i.e., their NYHA class is assessed.
30  At the end of the heart failure study, the patient's final NYHA class is compared to the
     initial NHYA class.
                                                   -119-

   Example 14: TNFq Inhibitor in Mouse Model for Diabetes
   Study of TNF antibody in NOD mouse model
 5
            The following study is performed using the nonobese diabetic (NOD) mouse
   model for type 1 diabetes. At the onset of the study, insulin levels are established by
   testing glucose levels in the blood of the NOD mice. Baseline insulin levels are
   established by fasting the mice overnight (17 hours). The blood glucose level is
10 checked, and checked again 4 minutes after administering glucose. Blood glucose is
   determined with a reflectance meter. Glucose (200 mg/mL in 0.85% sodium chloride) in
    1 mL syringes were prewarmed to 40"C and mice injected ip at 3 g/kg body weight. The
   second blood glucose measurement is determined 4 minutes after administering the
   glucose. Samples of the second blood measurement are used to determine the blood
15 glucose level using the Glucometer Elite. The remaining sample of blood is collected
   into microfuge tube and used to separate the serum for insulin or C-peptide
    determination. Insulin levels are determined using a rodent radioimmunassay (RIA) kit
   per manufacturers' instruction or an enzyme-linked immunoassay (ELISA).
            Diabetic mice are chosen based on the criteria that they have blood glucose
20 readings greater than 300 mg/dL. Non-diabetic mice are chosen such that their glucose
    readings are under 200 mg/dL by glucose meter. NOD mice (those which displayed the
    glucose reading described above) are allowed to develop diabetes, and are administered
    doses of a placebo or a monoclonal anti-TNFa antibody which is known to bind and
    neutralize mouse TNFa, e.g., antibody TN3 (TN3-19.12) (see Marzi et al. (1995) Shock
25  3:27; Williams et al. (1992) ProcNatlAcad Sci USA. 89:9784; BD Biosciences
    Pharmingen). The mice receive daily subcutaneous injections of the TNF antibody or a
    placebo. Insulin and glucose levels are measured at weekly increments to determine
    whether there is a decrease in blood glucose levels.
                                               - 120-

    Example 15: TNFa Inhibitor in Mouse Model of Diabetes
    Study of TNF antibody in type-2 diabetic mouse model
 5          The following study is performed using the NSY mouse model (type 2 diabetes)
    (Ueda et al, Diabetes Vol. 48, May 1999, 1168: 1174). The NSY mouse closely mimics
    human type 2 diabetes in that the onset is age-dependant, the animals are not severely
    obese, and both insulin resistance and impaired insulin response to glucose contribute to
    disease development. This study evaluates a number of phenotypic data, including
10  glucose levels, insulin levels, height, and weight of the mouse.
             Glucose is measured in the NSY mouse according to standard techniques,
    including by an intravenous glucose-tolerance test. Baseline glucose resistance is
    measured prior to 12 weeks before the initiation of the study, and glucose, insulin,
    height, and weights are charted accordingly.
15           NSY mice are administered doses of either a placebo or a monoclonal anti-TNFaX
     antibody which is known to bind and neutralize mouse TNFaX, e.g., antibody TN3 (TN3
     19.12) (see Marzi et al. (1995) Shock 3:27; Williams et al. (1992) ProcNatl Acad Sci U
     S A. 89:9784; BD Biosciences Pharmingen). Mice receive daily subcutaneous injections
     of the anti-TNF antibody or a placebo. Glucose level measurements are taken 120
20   minutes after intraperitoneal glucose administration at 0, 12, 24, 36, and 48 weeks
     following the initiation of the study to examine whether there is a decrease in glucose
     intolerance.
     Example 16: TNFa Inhibitor in Obese Mouse Model
 25
     Study of TNF antibody in mouse modelfor obesity
             The following study is performed using the obese mice (ob/ob) murine model.
     Mice are evaluated for weight loss and a reduction in their body mass index. Obese
 30   mice are characterized by marked obesity, hyperphagia, transient hyperglycemia and
      markedly elevated plasma insulin concentration associated with an increase in number
      and size of the beta cells of the islets of Langerhans (Coleman, supra). Obese mice
                                                   -121-

     (ob/ob) are phenotypically distinguished from their lean littermates (ob/+and +/+) at
     about 26 days of age on basis of body weight. Obese mice gain weight rapidly and have
     marked obesity at 5 weeks of age. Obese mice reach a maximum body weight of 60-70
     grams at an age of 7-8 months, while lean littermates reach their maximal weight of 30
  5  40 grams in 3-4 months (Coleman, supra; Westman (1968) Diabetologia4:141; Bray &
     York (1971) Physiologicalreviews. 51:598).
             Thirteen (13) week old ob/ob mice and matched wild-type control mice are
    weighed to establish a base line weight. The mice are administered doses of either a
    placebo or a monoclonal anti-TNFx antibody which is known to bind and neutralize
 10 mouse TNFa, e.g., antibody TN3 (TN3-19.12) (see Marzi et al. (1995) Shock 3:27;
    Williams et al. (1992) ProcNatl Acad Sci US A. 89:9784; BD Biosciences
    Pharmingen). Mice receive daily subcutaneous injections of the TNF antibody or a
    placebo. All mice are fed a high-fat diet (58% fat, Research Diets D12330) for 12
    weeks. Body weights are recorded weekly. After 12 weeks, the mice are euthanized,
 15 and the fat pads are dissected and weighed, as well as the final weight of the animal to
    determine the final body mass index (BMI) and occurrence of obesity.
            Alternatively, ob/ob mice can be treated with D2E7 beginning at birth, and fed a
    regular diet, i.e., not low-fat, not high-fat diet. Treated and control mice (ob/ob
    littermates) are weighed weekly. Normally, at five weeks ob/ob mice exhibit a BMI
20  which indicates that they are obese. Mice are examined at five weeks to determine if
    they have a lower BMI measurement than the controls.
    Example 17: TNFa Inhibitor in Treating Type 2 Diabetes in Humans
25  Study ofD2E7 in human subjects with diabetes type 2
            Patients who are diagnosed with type 2 diabetic are selected for the study. The
    following inclusion criteria are used: 40-65 years of age, known duration of diabetes >
    12 months, stable BMI< 35 kg/m2, supine blood pressure< 140/90 mm/Hg, serum
30  creatinine <106 pmol/l, m24-h UAE between 20 and 200 pg/min in samples assessed
    weekly during the 3 months prior to the first evaluation and in the 15-day placebo run-in
    period, and no cardiovascular, hepatic, or systemic disease before the beginning of the
                                                  -122-

    study. The subjects do not take any additional drugs other than those for the treatment of
    their diabetes. For three days prior to and throughout the duration of the study, the
    patients follow an isocaloric diet (~0.13 mJ x kg -I X day -I ; 50% carbohydrates, 35%
    lipids, 15% proteins) with no restriction on sodium intake. Adherences to the dietary
 5  recommendations are checked at each visit.
              Patients are administered 40 mg of D2E7 in a biweekly dosing regiment,
    although this dose and the frequency of the dose can be adjusted by an ordinarily skilled
     artisan with knowledge of HCV treatments. Patients are monitored at least every week
     for twelve weeks, with repeated assays like those which were performed prior to the
10   initiation of the D2E7 treatment and as described below.
              For each patient's evaluation throughout the study, the following baseline
     examinations are performed: supine blood pressure measurements; BMI; the mean of
     three twenty four hour urine samples; blood glucose levels; twenty four hour urine
     glucose; serum creatine levels; creatinine clearance; and an electrocardiogram reading.
15   Furthermore, each subject keeps a daily journal to monitor typical type 2 diabetic
      symptoms such as fatigue, excessive thirst, frequent urination, blurred vision, a high rate
      of infections, wounds that heal slowly, mood changes , and sexual problems. Patients
      are examined to determine if there is a reduction in blood glucose levels in D2E7, as
      well as reduction in symptoms typical to type II diabetes such as fatigue, excessive thirst,
20    frequent urination, blurred vision, a high rate of infections, wounds that heal slowly, and
      mood changes.
      Example 18: TNFa Inhibitor in Iron Deficiency Anemia
 25   Study of TNF antibody in rat model of iron deficiency
               The following study is performed using the rat animal model of iron deficiency
      anemia (Catani et al (2003) Braz. J. Med. Biol. Res. 36;693). Male Wistar-EPM rats
      (approximately three weeks old) are fed an AIN-93G (American Institute of Nutrition
 30   Rodent Diets) iron-free diet for a period of two weeks to induce iron deficiency anemia.
      Rats are administered doses of a placebo or a monoclonal anti-TNFa antibody which is
      known to bind and neutralize rat TNFa, e.g., antibody TN3 (TN3-19.12) (see Marzi et
                                                  - 123  -

                                                                                             BD
     al. (1995) Shock 3:27; Williams et al. (1992) ProcNatlAcad Sci USA. 89:9784;
     Biosciences Pharmingen). Blood samples are taken pre and post treatment to determine
                                                                            and hemoglobin
     hemoglobin and hematocrit values. For the analysis of hematocrit
     concentration, blood is collected and mixed with 5ml of 0.5 M EDTA. Hematocrit is
 5   determined by centrifugation of blood in sealed heparinized capillaries. Hemoglobin
     concentrations are calculated from the absorbance of cyanmethemoglobin at 546 nm.
     Rats are examined to determine if there was an improved hematocrit measurement.
     Example 19: TNFa Inhibitor Study of Chronic Disease Anemia
10
                                                                                   disease
      Study of TNF antibody on anemia associatedwith chronic inflammatory
               The following study is performed using a rat model of anemia of chronic disease
                                                                        week old female Lewis
      (Coccia et al, (2001) Exp. Hematology 29;1201). Eight to ten
15    rats are inoculated on day 0 with an intraperitoneal (i.p.) injection of peptidoglycan
                                                                                       to a dose of
      polysaccharide polymers (PG-APS) suspended in 0.85% saline equilibrated
                                                                                   Microtainer
       15 pg rhamnose/kg. Blood is collected via tail veins into EDTA-coated
      tubes and complete blood counts (CBC) are performed on an ADVA 120 Hematology
                                                                          collected and separated
       System calibrated for rat blood. An additional blood sample is
20     on Microtainer serum separator centrifuge tubes and sera are analyzed for iron, bilirubin,
       and endogenous EPO concentrations. Rats are administered doses of a placebo or a
       monoclonal anti-TNFa antibody which is known to bind and neutralize mouse TNFa,
                                                                                Williams et al.
       e.g., antibody TN3 (TN3-19.12) (see Marzi et al. (1995) Shock 3:27;
                                                                                      and examined
       (1992) Proc Natl Acad Sci USA. 89:9784; BD Biosciences Pharmingen),
 25    for improved iron, bilirubin, and EPO concentration measurements.
       Example 20: TNFa Inhibitor on Anemia
        Study ofD2E7 antibody in human subjects with anemia
  30
                Patients who exhibit symptoms commonly associated with anemia are examined
        and tested to determine if they suffer from anemia. Symptoms commonly associated
                                                   -124-

   with anemia are fatigue, chest pain, shortness of breath, pale complexion, and rapid heart
   rate. Examples of tests which indicate anemia are the complete blood count (CBC),
   reticulocyte count, and measurements of iron supply, including the serum iron, total iron
   binding capacity, and serum ferritin. In patients with sever anemia and abnormalities in
 5 red blood cell morphology, a bone marrow aspirate and biopsy are important diagnostic
   tools. Patients who suffer from anemia are selected for the study.
            In the CBC test, automated cell counters measure a number of parameters as part
   of the CBC, including the hemoglobin, red blood cell count, red blood cell volume
   distribution, platelet count, and white blood cell count. The counter also calculates the
10 hematocrit (based on the RBC count and volume), the mean cell volume (MCV) (based
   on volume distribution), mean cell hemoglobin (MCH)(hemoglobin divided by
   hematocrit), and the red cell distribution width (RDW). The red cell indices and RDW
   are used together with a direct inspection of the Wright-stained blood smear to evaluate
   red blood cell morphology.
15          Like the CBC test, an accurate measure of the reticulocyte count is key to the
   initial classification of any anemia. Reticulocytes are newborn red blood cells that
   contain sufficient residual RNA that they can be stained with a supravital dye and
   counted as a percent of the circulating red cell population. In the basal state, the normal
   reticulocyte count ranges from 1 to 2 percent according to the counting method. This
20 correlates with the normal daily replacement of approximately 1 percent of the
   circulating red blood cell population. Increases in the reticulocyte count provide a
   reliable measure of the red blood cell production response to anemia.
            To use the reticulocyte count as a production measure, it must first be corrected
   for changes in the patient's hematocrit and for the effect of erythropoietin on the early
25 release of marrow reticulocytes into circulation. The hematocrit (HCT) correction
   converts the reicultocyte percentage to an absolute number:
                    %Reticulocytes X patient HCT = absolute % reticulocytes
                                           45%
   The marrow reticulocyte ("shift") correction involves dividing the absolute percentage
30 by a factor of 1.5 to 2.5 whenever there is prominent polychromasia on the peripheral
   blood smear. The shift correction should always be applied to any patient with anemia
   and a very high reticulocyte count to provide a true index of effective red blood cell
                                               - 125 -

   production. A normal patient will respond to a hematocrit less than 30 percent with a
   two-to three-fold increase in the reticulocyte production index. This measure alone,
   therefore, will confirm the fact that the patient has an appropriate erythropoietin
   response, a normal erythroid marrow, and sufficient iron supply to meet the challenge.
 5 When the reticulocyte index falls below 2, a defect in marrow proliferation or precursor
   maturation must be present.
             Standard measures of iron supply include the serum iron, transferring iron
   binding capacity (TIBC), and the serum ferritin level. The normal serum iron ranges
   from 9 to 27 pmol/L (50 to 150 Lg/dL), while the normal TIBC is 54 to 64 pmol/L (300
10 to 360 pg/dL). Therefore, in the basal state, only 30 to 50 percent of the transferring in
   circulation is saturated with iron. Important information is provided by each
   measurement as well as the calculated percent saturation. The serum ferritin is used to
    evaluate body iron stores. Adult males have serum ferritin levels of between 50 and 150
   mg/L, corresponding to iron stores of from 600 to 1000 mg. Adult females have lower
15  serum ferritin levels (15 to 50 mg/L) and smaller iron stores (0 to 300 mg). Lower serum
    ferritin levels are observed as iron stores are depleted; levels below 15mg/L indicate
    store exhaustion and iron deficiency.
             A sample of bone marrow is readily obtained by needle aspirate or biopsy. It is of
    greatest value in patients who have a hypoproliferative anemia or a disorder of red blood
20  cell maturation, providing valuable information as to marrow structure and cellularity, as
    well as precursor proliferation and maturation. The ratio of erytbroid to granulocytic
    precursors (E/G ration) is used to asses the proliferative capacity of erythorid precursors.
    A patient with hypoproliferative anemia and a reticulocyte index <2 will demonstrate an
    E/G ratio 51:3 or 1:2. In contrast, the hemolytic anemia patient with a production index
25   ;>-3 to 5 will have an E/G ratio >1:1. Red cell precursor maturation defects are identified
    from the mismatch between the E/G ratio and reticulocyte production index. These
    individuals demonstrate and E/G ratio of greater than 1:1 together with a low
    reticulocyte index, typical of the ineffective erythorpoiesis of a maturation disorder.
              Following baseline measurements, patients begin receiving treatment. They are
30  randomized and treated with either D2E7 or placebo in a blinded fashion. Patients'
     complete blood count (CBC), reticulocyte count, and measurements of iron supply are
    monitored at least every two weeks.
                                                 - 126-

    Example 21: TNFa Inhibitor in Animal Model of Neuropathic Pain
    TNF antibody in rat sciatic nerve ligation model
 5          The following study is performed using the rat sciatic nerve ligation model for
    neuropathic pain (Bennett and Zie (1988) Pain 33:87). Baseline behavioral
    measurements (response to mechanical allodynia and heat hyperalgesia, protocols are
    described below) are made prior to surgery. Heat hyperalgesia refers to the rat heat pain
    threshold, and mechanical allodynia refers to the response threshold to light tactile
10  stimuli. Male Sprague-Dawley rats, weighing between 120-150 grams, are anesthetized
    and a sciatic nerve ligation procedure is performed on each. The sciatic nerve ligation
    procedure involves exposing the common sciatic nerve, which is then tied loosely with 4
    ligatures with about 1 mm spacing. Rats are allowed to recover and are administered
    doses of either a placebo or a monoclonal anti-TNFat antibody which is known to bind
15   and neutralize rat TNFa, e.g., antibody TN3 (TN3-19.12) (see Marzi et al. (1995) Shock
     3:27; Williams et al. (1992) ProcNatl Acad Sci US A. 89:9784; BD Biosciences
     Pharningen). The experimental groups receive daily subcutaneous injections per week
     of TNF antibody or a placebo.
             Following the surgery, mechanical allodynia and heat hyperalgesia are performed
20   on a weekly basis for 10 weeks. Analgesia testing examines responses to noxious heat
     and is determined by placing the rats in a chamber with a clear glass floor and aiming a
     radiant heat source from beneath the floor at the plantar surface of the affected foot.
     Withdrawal latency and duration are recorded. Increased latency to withdraw the hind
     paw after treatment is demonstrative of analgesic activity.
25           Responses to normally innocuous mechanical stimuli (mechanical allodynia
     measurement) are determined by placing the rats in a chamber with a screen floor and
      stimulating the plantar surface of the hind paw with graduated von Frey hairs which are
     calibrated by the grams of force required to bend them. Rats with sciatic nerve ligation
     respond to lower grams of mechanical stimulation by reflexive withdrawal of the foot
 30   than unoperated rats. This response to stimuli which are normally innocuous is termed
      allodynia. Increases in the grams of mechanical force required to produce foot
                                                  - 127 -

    withdrawal after treatment is demonstrative of antiallodynic activity and a decrease in
    neuropathic pain.
    Example 22: TNFa Inhibitor in Animal Model of Neuropathic Pain
 5
    Study of TNF antibody in rat segmental spinal nerve ligation model
             The following study is performed using the rat segmental spinal nerve ligation
    model for neuropathic pain (Kim and Chung, Pain 50 (1992) 355-363.). Male Sprague
10  Dawley rats, weighing 120-150 grams, are anesthetized, and placed in a prone position.
    The left paraspinal muscles are separated from the spinous processes at the L 4 - S2
    levels. The left L5 and L6 nerve roots are exposed and tightly ligated with 6-0 surgical
     silk suture distal to the dorsal root ganglion. Rats are allowed to recover and are
     administered doses of either a placebo or a monoclonal anti-TNFx antibody which is
15   known to bind and neutralize rat TNFa, e.g., antibody TN3 (TN3-19.12) (see Marzi et
     al. (1995) Shock 3:27; Williams et al. (1992) ProcNatl Acad Sci U SA. 89:9784; BD
     Biosciences Pharmingen). The experimental groups receive daily subcutaneous
     injections per week of TNF antibody or a placebo. Baseline behavioral measurements
     (response to mechanical allodynia and heat hyperalgesia testing, as described above) are
20   made prior to surgery. Following the surgery, mechanical allodynia and analgesia testing
     for neuropathic pain are performed on a weekly basis for 10 weeks.
     Example 23: TNFa Inhibitor in Treatment of Neuropathic Pain
25   Study examining D2E7 in human subjects with neuropathicpain
              Patients diagnosed with neuropathic pain are selected for the study. Clinical
     neuropathic pain is determined based on clinical grounds, including history, physical
      examination and appropriate investigation of symptoms and signs expressed by the
 30   patient. The definitions of diagnostic criteria defined in the International Association for
      the Study of Pain (IASP) Classification of Chronic Pain are used to support the clinical
      diagnosis of neuropathic pain. Patients are excluded based on criteria including, but not
                                                  - 128 -

   limited to, another pain problem of equal or greater severity that might impair the
   assessment of neuropathic pain; significant neurological or psychiatric disorders
   unrelated to causes of neuropathic pain which might impair the assessment of
   neuropathic pain; current drug or alcohol abuse; and clinically significant liver, renal or
 5 pulmonary disease.
            Evaluations of patient neuropathic pain are made using standard pain assessment
   tools such as the Short Form-McGill Pain Questionnaire (SF-MPQ); a 100-mm vertical
   Visual Analog Scale (VAS) (0 = no pain, 100 = intolerable pain); and the Clinician
   Global Impression of Change (CGIC). Patient's may also use a daily diary to score their
10 neuropathic pain. Each evening, patients rate the average intensity of their pain during
   the preceding 24 hours.
            Following a week of baseline measurements, patients begin receiving treatment.
   They are randomized and treated with either D2E7 or placebo in a blinded fashion.
   Patients are monitored every two weeks, and examined for a reduction in the patient's
15 neuropathic pain assessment and average intensity of pain, as charted in their daily
   diaries.
   Example 24: TNFa Inhibitor in Animal Model for Hepatitis C Infection
20 Study ofD2E7 in HCV chimpanzee model
            The following study is performed using the chimpanzee hepatitis C virus (HCV)
   model (Shimizu et al. (1990) Proc.NatI. Acad Sci. USA 87:6441).
            Chimpanzees are inoculated intravenously (i.v.) with 0.5ml of undiluted plasma
25 obtained from a patient with posttransfusion acute non-A, non-B hepatitis. The
   inoculum contains, for example, 106.5 chimpanzee 50% infectious doses per ml
   (CIDso/ml) of HCV. Serum samples and liver biopsy specimens are taken before
   inoculation and weekly after treatment. After inoculation, chimpanzees are administered
   doses of D2E7 or a placebo. D2E7 is effective at binding TNF in a high affinity manner
30 across species, see U.S. Patent No. 6,258,562.
                                              -129-

             HCV levels following innoculation are monitored in a number of ways. Serum
     samples are regularly taken from the chimpanzees and assayed for alanine
     aminotransferase (ALT). The ALT assay is one of a group of tests known as liver
     function tests (or LFTs), and is used to monitor damage to the liver. Circulating
  5  antibody to HCV (anti-C 100-3 antibody) is detected by the BCV antibody ELISA test
     system. In addition, HCV is detected in the serum samples, cDNA/PCR assays are
     performed as described in Weiner et al, (1990) Lancet 335; 1. Frozen liver biopsy
     specimens are also tested for the cytoplasmic antigen by immunofluorescent staining
     with monoclonal antibody 48-1 according to the method described in Shimizu et al
 10  (1985) Proc.Nati. Acad. Sci. USA 82;2138. Treated chimpanzees are examined to
     determine if ALT levels and HCV serum levels are lower as compared to placebo treated
     chimpanzees.
    Example 25: TNFa Inhibitor in Human HCV Infection
15
    Study ofD2E7 in treatingHCV in humans
             Men and women aged 18 to 70 years with compensated chronic HCV infection
    are selected. To qualify for the study, patients must test positive for anti-HCV (second
20  generation enzyme immunoassay) and HCV RNA by reverse transcription -polymerase
    chain reaction (RT-PCR). Patients also have a liver biopsy within a year of the study
    entry showing chronic hepatitis, and have elevated serum alanine transaminase (ALT)
    levels for at least 6 months before initiation of treatment. Entry leukocyte counts should
    be least 2,500/pL; the platelet counts should be greater than 70,000/tL. Exclusion
25  criteria include but are not limited to any other cause of liver disease or other relevant
    disorders, including human immunodeficiency or hepatitis B virus coinfection; clinically
    significant cardiac or cardiovascular abnormalities, organ grafts, systemic bacterial or
    fungal infection; clinically significant bleeding disorders; alcohol or drug abuse within
    the previous year.
30           Pretreatment and post-treatment serum HCV RNA is quantified by a
    standardized RT-PCR assay. Qualitative detection of HCV RNA is performed by RT
    PCR in serum samples obtained post treatment. Genotyping of HCV is performed by
                                                 -130-

   reverse hybridization assay. Emotional and psychological states are measured using
   suitable health-related quality of life scales.
           Following baseline measurements, patients begin receiving treatment. They are
   randomized and treated with either D2E7 or placebo in a blinded fashion. Patients are
 5 administered 40 mg of D2E7 in a biweekly dosing regiment, although this dose and the
   frequency of the dose can be adjusted by an ordinarily skilled artisan with knowledge of
   HCV treatments. Patients are monitored at least every 4 weeks, with repeated assays
   like those which were performed prior to the initiation of the D2E7 treatment. A
   decrease in HCV levels relative to those who received only placebo is evidenced by a
10 weaker RT-PCR signal.
   Example 26: TNFa Inhibitor in Mouse Model for Psoriasis
   Study of TNF antibody in SCID mouse model ofpsoriasis
15
            Severe Combined Immunodeficient (SCID) mice that have undergone
   transplantation of human psoriasis plaques are selected as an animal model to study
   psoriasis because these mice retain the typical clinical and histological features of
   psoriasis for a prolonged period (Nickoloff et al. (1995) Am JPathol 146:580-8).
20          2-3 month old female out bred C.B17 SCID mice are obtained from a pathogen
   free animal breeding facility. Human skin specimens are taken from white male patients
   with chronic plaque psoriasis. The spindle-shaped skin specimens 1 x 3 cm inches in
   size comprising clinically involved skin are obtained under local anesthesia and are
   prepared for transplantation by removing subcutaneous fat, held in cooled phosphate
25 buffered saline (PBS). Skin specimens are grafted within 1-2 hours.
            The full-thickness skin specimens are dissected into pieces 8-10 mm in diameter
   and are then transplanted on to the back of the mice, each mouse carrying one transplant.
   For the surgical procedure, mice are anesthetized by intraperitoneal injection (i.p.) of a
    1:1 mixture of midazolam and fentanyl dihydrogen citrate. A spindle-shaped piece of
30 full thickness skin is grafted onto a corresponding excisional full thickness defect of the
   shaved central dorsum and is fixed by 6-0 atraumatic monofilament sutures. After a
   sterile Vaseline impregnated gauze is applied, the grant is protected from injury by
                                                -131-

   suturing a skin pouch over the transplanted area using the adjacent lateral skin. The
   sutures and over-tied pouch are left in place until they resolve spontaneously after 2-3
   weeks.
            The SCID-human skin chimeras exhibit symptoms similar to human psoriasis. A
 5 transplanted plaque on the SCID mouse shows clinical features typical of psoriasis
   including scales, erythema, and thickening. This model also exhibits histological features
   typical of psoriasis including parakeratosis, acanthosis, elongated rete ridges, supra
   papillary thinning, and lymphomononuclear infiltrates in the papillary dermis.
           Transplanted SCID mice are are injected subcutaneously at the site of the lesion
10 with either a placebo or a monoclonal anti-TNFca antibody which is known to bind and
   neutralize mouse TNFo, e.g., antibody TN3 (TN3-19.12) (see Marzi et al. (1995) Shock
   3:27; Williams et al. (1992) ProcNatlAcad Sci USA. 89:9784; BD Biosciences
   Pharmingen). The experimental groups receive daily subcutaneous injections per week
   of TNF antibody or a placebo. Improvement in the TNF antibody treated SCID mice is
15 evidenced by a reduction in the symptoms associated with the psoriasis plaques.
   Example 27: TNFa Inhibitor in Clinical Studies for Psoriasis
20 D2E7 in human subjects with psoriasis
            Patients with moderate to severe chronic plaque psoriasis are selected for the
   study. None of the patients will have received any psoriasis treatments for at least 4
   weeks or any topical treatments for at least 2 weeks before study entry. Doses of D2E7
25 begin at 40 ng weekly or 40 mg every other week administered by subcutaneous
   injection.
           Patients are examined clinically every 2-4 weeks. Clinical activity of psoriatic
   skin lesions is evaluated by means of the Psoriasis Area and Severity Index (PASI)
   (Fredriksson and Pettersson (1978) Dermatologica157:238-44) and the Physician's
30 Global Assessment by the same investigator to ensure consistent evaluations. At week
   12, the primary end point of proportion of patients achieving at least 75% reduction in
   PASI score compared to baseline is determined. Pruritus is assessed by using a validated
   scale. Quality of life assessments are measured using validated instruments, including,
                                              -132-

   but not limited to the DLQI, SF-36, and EQ-5D. Full-body photographs excluding the
   face are taken at scheduled visits throughout the study.
            Skin biopsy specimens are obtained at scheduled intervals during the tudy to
   correlate histology and biomarkers in the skin with treatment. A biopsy of normal skin
 5 is obtained at baseline for comparison with psoriatic skin.
   Example 28. TNFa InhibitorIn Animal Model for Beheet's Disease
   Study of TNF antibody in Behcet's syndrome mouse model
10
            The following study is performed using the mouse HSV model of Behcet's
   disease (Hirata, Y., et al. (1993) Acta. Otolaryngol. Supply. 503:79). Earlobes of mice
   which express human TNFa (see EMBO J(1991) 10:4025-4031 for further description)
    are scratched with a needle, then inoculated with 1.0 x 106 plaque-forming units
15  (pfu)/mL of Herpes Simplex Virus type 1 (HSV1) (KOS strain) solution, which causes
    inflammatory cells to accumulate in and around the blood vessels. As a result, intestinal,
    oral, ear lobe, and genital epithelial lesions occur. A mouse with Behcet's disease-like
    syndrome is defined as a mouse with two or more symptoms, which are similar to the
    typical morphological changes seen in human Beheet's disease.
20          A monoclonal anti-TNFa antibody which is known to bind and neutralize mouse
    TNFa, e.g., antibody TN3 (TN3-19.12) (see Marzi et al. (1995) Shock 3:27; Williams et
    al. (1992) ProcNatlAcad Sci USA. 89:9784; BD Biosciences Pharmingen) is
    administered to the HSV-induced Behcet's syndrome mice in a range of doses both
    before and after inoculation, or from the day of lesion occurrence. Appropriate placebo
25  controls are also administered. Hair loss, ulceration of the mouth and genital skin, and
    eye involvement is monitored, and tissue samples are collected from lesions. Tissue
    samples are formalin-fixed and paraffin-embedded for sectional analysis. Lesion
    sections are stained with hematoxylin and eosin and examined for the appearance of
    inflammatory cell. As a control, 30 mice are inoculated at the same site with a culture
30  medium. Four weeks later, a second inoculation is performed using the same method,
     followed by 16 weeks of observation.
                                                 - 133 -

              Mice are examined for hair regrowth and a decrease in ulcerations in the treated
     mice as compared to placebo treated mice. Improvements in lesions in treated mice, as
     determined through visual inspection and histological analysis, noting a decrease in
     inflammation at the site of the ulceration and a decrease in the number of inflammatory
 5   cells, e.g., T cells, at the site of the ulceration also are further indications of
     improvements.
     Example 29. TNFa Inhibitor In Treating Kawasaki's Disease
10   Effect of TNF antibody in Kawasaki'sDiseaseusing L. casei mouse model
              Using the mouse L. casei model of Kawasaki's disease (Lehman, T.J., et al.
      (1985) Arthritis Rheum 28:652; Duong, T.T. (2002) Int Immunol 15:79; Brahn, E., et al.
      (1999) Clin Immunol 90:147), the following study is performed. Coronary arteritis is
15    induced in mice expressing human TNFa (see above) with a single intraperitoneal (ip)
      injection of Lactobacilluscasei cell fragments. It has been shown that histologic
      sections of the hearts of mice treated with L. casei,resemble the vasculitis and
      aneurysms observed in the medium-sized coronary arteries of children with Kawasaki
      disease (Lehman et al. (1985) Arthritis Rheum 28:652; Duong (2002) Int Immunol
20    15:79; Brahn et al. (1999) Clin Immunol 90:147).
              L. casei injected mice are administered a either control placebo or a monoclonal
      anti-TNFoc antibody which is known to bind and neutralize mouse TNFac, e.g., antibody
      TN3 (TN3-19.12) (see Marzi et al. (1995) Shock 3:27; Williams et al. (1992) ProcNatl
      Acad Sci USA. 89:9784; BD Biosciences Pharmingen) intraperitoneally through
25    standard protocols. Hearts from injected mice are harvested on day 14 (early disease) or
      at the end of the study (established disease). Histologic sections are scored blindly for
      vasculitis.
               A decrease in coronary arteritis is assessed by determining a reduction in
      inflammatory lesions of the coronary vessel wall of TNF antibody treated mice as
30     compared to placebo treated animals. A decrease in coronary arteritis is assessed as a
   -  reduction in inflammatory mononuclear cell infiltrate of the coronary vessel wall
                                                      -134-

    accompanied by a reduction in intimal proliferation and less narrowing of the vessel
    lumen as compared to placebo treated animals.
    Example 30. TNFa Inhibitor In Animal Model for Kawasaki's Disease
 5
     TNF antibody in Kawasaki'sDiseaseusing ANCA Mouse Model
               The following study is performed using the mouse anti-endothelial cell
     antibodies (ANCA) model of Kawasaki's Disease (Grunebaum et al. (2002) Clin. Exp.
10   Immunol. 130:233; Blank et al. (1995) Clin. Exp. Immunol. 102:120; Tomer et al. (1995)
     ArthritisRheum. 38:1375; Damianovich et al. (1996) J. Immunol. 156:4946). Animals
     are immunized with anti-endothelial cell antibodies (ANCA) containing proteinase 3
     specific antibodies derived from a Wegener's granulomatosis patient's plasma. Mice are
     immunized with purified ANCA and control mice are injected with normal IgG. Mice
15   are administered weekly doses of either a placebo or a monoclonal anti-TN-Fa antibody
     which is known to bind and neutralize mouse TNFa, e.g., antibody TN3 (TN3-19.12)
     (see Marzi et al. (1995) Shock 3:27; Williams etaL. (1992) ProcNatlAcad Sci USA.
      89:9784; BD Biosciences Pharmingen) for upto four months. Three months after the
      immunization with the human ANCA, mice develop endogenous antibodies to ANCA.
20    Mice are euthanized ,and lungs, kidneys, and heart are examined histologically for
      lymphoid cell infiltration surrounding arterioles and venules, as well as deposition of Igs
      at the outer part of blood vessel walls like that observed in patients with Kawasaki's
      Disease (Grunebaum et al. (2002) Clin. Exp. Immunol. 130:233; Blank et al. (1995)
       Clin. Exp. Immunol. 102:120; Tomer et al. (1995) ArthritisRheum. 38:1375;
 25   Damianovich et al. (1996) J. Immunol. 156:4946). A decrease in lymphoid cell
       infiltration and IgG deposition in vessel walls and a decrease in antibody titre of ANCA
       is indicative of an improvement in Kawasaki's disease.
                                                   -135-

    Example 31. TNFx Inhibitor in Treatment of Kawasaki's Disease
    Clinicalstudy ofD2E7 in human subjects with Kawasaki's disease
 5           Patients suffering from Kawasaki's Disease (KD) are enrolled into the study; all
    patients have fever and at least 4 of the 5 clinical criteria published for KD (Barron,
    K.S., et al. (1999) J. Rheumatol. 26:170). Case-controls are also identified. The
    diameter of the coronary arteries is measured by echocardiography and corrected for
    body surface area. Electrocardiograms are screened for typical changes that may be
    present in KD including prolonged PR or QT interval, abnormal Q waves,
                                                                                    ST- and T
10
    wave changes, low voltages or arrhythmias. KD patients are administered either D2E7
    in biweekly and weekly doses of 40 mg or a placebo. Dosages may be adjusted by an
    ordinarily skilled artisan knowledgeable in KD. Patients are monitored for fever
    reduction. Adjuvant therapy, e.g, corticosteroids, are adniinistered as needed. Patients
15   are monitored and follow-up echocardiography is used to determine if coronary artery
     damage has occurred or whether an improvement in coronary artery lesions,
     demonstrated through improved echocardiogram results has occurred.
     Example 32. TNFa Inhibitor in Treatment of Beheet's Disease
20
     ClinicalStudy of D2E7 in Human Subjects With Behcet's Disease
              Patients for the study are selected because they fulfill International Study Group
     criteria, which requires the presence of oral ulceration plus any two of genital ulceration,
 25  typical defined eye lesions, typical defined skin lesions, or a positive pathergy test
      (Lancet. (1990) 335:1078; Kaklamani, V.G. et al. (2001) Semin. ArthritisRheum.
      30:299) for a mean of 6 years. Behcet's patients are administered either D2E7 in
      biweekly and weekly doses of 40 mg or a placebo. Dosages may be adjusted by an
      ordinarily skilled artisan knowledgeable in Behcet's disease. Treated and placebo
 30   patients are given a systemic examination and detailed ophthalmological assessment,
      including visual acuity, measurement of intraocular pressure, slit-lamp biomicroscopy,
      and indirect ophthalmoscopy of the posterior segment followed by fundus photography,
                                                   -136-

    both before and following the treatment regime. Patients are examined for an
    improvement in the documented symptoms associated with Behcet's disease, e.g.,
    reduction in eye inflammation and reduction in number or severity of mouth ulcers.
 5  Example 33: TNFa Inhibitor in Animal Model for Lupus
    Study of TNF antibody in mouse lupus model
             The MRL/lpr mouse model is chosen to study lupus (Reilly and Gilkeson (2002)
10 Immunologic Research. 25(2):143-153; Mishra et al. (2003) JClinInvest. 111(4):539
    552). MRL/lpr mice exhibit the onset of an accelerated autoimmune syndrome with
   polyclonal B cell activation and hypergammaglobulinemia beginning at about 8 weeks of
    age. In MRL/lpr mice, there is serologic evidence of an array of autoantibodies,
    including anti-double- stranded DNA ( anti-dsDNA) autoantibodies and
15 hypocomplementemia by 12-16 weeks of age. MRL/lpr mice exhibit clinical signs of
    arthritis, massive lymphadenopathy, splenomegaly, vasculitis, and glomerulonephritis
   (GN) by the age of 16-24 weeks. Approximately 50% of MRL/lpr mice die by 24 weeks
   of age, primarily from renal failure.
                    Eight week old female MRL/lpr mice are used in this study. At fourteen
20 weeks, MRL/lpr mice are injected intraperitoneally (i.p.) with either varying
   concentrations of a placebo or Rats are allowed to recover and are administered doses of
   either a placebo or a monoclonal anti-TNFa antibody which is known to bind and
   neutralize mouse TNFa, e.g., antibody TN3 (TN3-19.12) (see Marzi et al. (1995) Shock
   3:27; Williams et al. (1992) Proc Natl Acad Sci USA. 89:9784; BD Biosciences
25 Pharmingen). The experimental groups receive daily subcutaneous injections per week
   of TNF antibody or a placebo.
             Some patients with lupus develop lupus nephritis which is defined by persistent
   inflammation (irritation and swelling) in the kidney. These patients may eventually
   develop renal failure and require dialysis or kidney transplantation. To examine the
30 progression of renal disease, MRL/lpr mice are placed in metabolic cages for 24-hour
   urine collections after injection with D2E7. Urinary albumin excretion is determined pre
   and post treatment with D2E7 by ELISA using a standard curve of known
                                              -137-

   concentrations of mouse albumin (Cappel Research products, Durham, North Carolina,
   USA, as described in Weinberg et aL (1994) JExp Med. 179:651). Improvements in
   early disease manifestations and progression of proteinuria are evidenced by a decrease
   in mean albumin excretion after treatment.
 5          Mice are sacrificed at week 19 by cervical dislocation after isoflurane anesthesia
   and the kidneys are removed. One kidney is fixed with buffered formalin, embedded in
   paraffin, sectioned and is stained with H&E. Renal pathology is examined and graded
   by standard methods for glomerular inflammation, proliferation, crescent formation, and
   necrosis. Interstitial changes and vasculitis are also noted. Scores from 0 to 3 are
10 assigned or each of the features, and then added together to yield a final renal score, as
   described by Watson et al. (1992) JExp Med. 176:1645-1656. Scores for necrosis and
   crescent formation are doubled prior to adding. For example, glomerular inflammation is
    graded as follows: 0, normal; 1, few inflammatory cells; 2, moderate inflammation; and
    3, severe inflammation. Improvements are evidenced by minimal signs of inflammation
15  or cellular proliferation (a lower renal pathology index) in the kidney section from the
    D2E7 treated mouse when compared to the placebo treated mouse.
             Spleen weight is also measured to determine the delay or prevention of the
    progression of lupus activity in the mice. Spleen size is an indicator of lupus activity
    that reflects the underlying immunopathology of the disease. MRL/lpr mice develop
20  massive splenomegaly and lymphadenopathy with disease progression. To determine
    spleen size, at age 19 weeks, mice animals from each group (treatment and placebo) are
    sacrificed and the mean spleen weights determined. A lower mean spleen weight
    indicates an improvement in lupus.
25  Example 34: TNFa Inhibitor Treatment for Lupus
    Study examiningD2E7 in human subjects with lupus
             Patients with diagnosed lupus are selected for the study based. Patients are
30   selected based on their presentation of symptoms commonly associated with lupus
     including fever, fatigue, general discomfort, uneasiness or ill feeling (malaise), weight
     loss, skin rash, "butterfly" rash, sunlight aggravates skin rash, sensitivity to sunlight,
                                                  - 138 -

   joint pain and swelling, arthritis, swollen glands, muscle aches, nausea and vomiting,
   pleuritic chest pain, seizures, and psychosis. Additional symptoms include blood in the
   urine, coughing up blood, nosebleed, swallowing difficulty, skin color is patchy, red
    spots on skin, fingers that change color upon pressure or in the cold (Raynaud's
 5 phenomenon), numbness and tingling, mouth sores, hair loss, abdominal pain and visual
    disturbance. Patients are given a physical examination to determine whether or not they
    exhibit any of the characteristic symptoms indicative of lupus. The diagnosis of lupus is
    based upon the presence of at least four out of eleven typical characteristics of the
    disease.
10           Tests to determine the presence of these disease manifestations may vary but will
    include some of the following: antinuclear antibody (ANA) panel including anti-DNA
    and anti-Smith antibodies, with the latter two tests generally positive in lupus alone;
    characteristic skin rash or lesions; chest X-ray showing pleuritis or pericarditis; listening
    to the chest with a stethoscope to reveal heart friction rub or pleural friction rub;
15  urinalysis to show blood, casts, or protein in the urine; a complete blood cell count
    showing a decrease in some cell types; kidney biopsy; and neurological examination.
    This disease may also alter the results of the following tests: WBC count; serum globulin
     electrophoresis; rheumatoid factor; protein, urine; protein electrophoresis - serum;
    mononucleosis spot test; erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR); cryoglobulins; direct
20   Coombs' test; complement component 3 (C3); complement; antithyroid microsomal
     antibody; antithyroglobulin antibody; antimitochondrial antibody; and anti-smooth
     muscle antibody.
             Patients are randomly divided into experimental and placebo groups, and are
     administered either D2E7 or the placebo. Dosage ranges are used in the study to
25   determine what dose is most effective for treating lupus. Dosages should begin at 40
     mg, which is the D2E7 dose which has been found to be most effective at treating
     rheumatoid arthritis in patients. Patients are given 4 to 7 infusions of either D2E7 or
     placebo. Patients are re-examined every other week to determine if lupus symptoms are
     reduced or treated, determined by a reduction in the ESR and C-reactive protein (CRP)
30   levels.
                                                 -139-

     Example 35: TNFa Inhibitor on Sinaren's Syndrome
     Study examining D2E7 in human subjects with Sjagren'ssyndrome.
 5            Patients who meet the European and the American College of Rheumatology
     classification for primary Sjogren's disease are selected for the study (see Vitali et a.
     (1993) Arthritis Rheum 36:340-7; Fox et aL. (1986) ArthritisRheum. 29:577-85).
     Patients are at least 18 years old. At the time of enrollment all patients have active
                                                                                 of at least an
     primary Sjogren's disease which is defined as the presence at screening
10    elevated erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR; >25/mm/~hr)or hypergammaglobulinemia
                                                                                   corticosteroids
      (>1.4 gm/liter). Disease-modifying antirheumatic drugs (DMARDs) and
      are not allowed during the study and are discontinued at least 4 weeks before baseline.
      Exclusion criteria include serious infection in the previous 3 months, latent tuberculosis,
      documented human immunodeficiency virus or hepatitis C virus infection, life
15    threatening vasculitis, known malignancy, concomitant severe or uncontrolled disease,
       and the presence of any other connective tissue disease.
               The study includes administering 3 infusions of D2E7 (at a dosage of about 40
                                                                              Patients are
       mg) at weeks 0, 2, and 6 and 2 follow-up visits at weeks 10 and 14.
       allowed to continue artificial tears, provided that the dosage and schedule are stable
20     throughout the study.
               Clinical, ophthalmologic, and biologic evaluations are performed at baseline and
       at weeks 2, 4, 6, 10, and 14. Clinical assessments are performed by the same physician.
       These include a general physical examination, a dry mouth evaluation (using a scale of
        0-2 where 0= no dryness, 1=mild-to moderate dryness, and 2=severe dryness), and a
                                                                                  a 2-minute
 25     speech test (number of times the word "puttica" can be repeated during
                                                                                              in
        period, a technique presented by P.J. Shirlaw at the conference on New Advances
        Basic Science, Diagnosis and Treatment of Sj6gren's Syndrome, London, January 1997).
        In addition, unstimulated whole saliva is collected for 5 minutes using the spitting
        technique according to established methods, and samples are weighed on an analytical
  30    balance to determine the volume of saliva obtained (I gm=lmt) (Navazesh (1993) Ann
                                                                                                 0
        NYAcad Sci 694:72-7). A dry eye evaluation is also performed (scored on a scale of
                                                                                          tears
        2, where 0=no symptoms, 1=mild-to-moderate symptoms relieved by artificial
                                                    -140-

   (ATs), and 2= severe symptoms unrelieved by ATs), and the frequency of use of ATs is
   determined.
           Patients are also given a fatigue evaluation (0-100 mm visual analog scale
   (VAS)) and answer a fatigue questionnaire (0=no fatigue, 1 = mild fatigue not interfering
 5 with daily activities, 2= moderate fatigue that interferes with daily activities, and 3
   =fatigue with severely reduced activities). The clinical assessment may also include a
   tender joint count (maximum 64), tender point count (maximum 18), and patient's
   assessment of pain (0-100-mm VAS). Patient's and physician's global assessments were
   made using a 0-100 mm VAS.
10         All ophthalmologic assessments are performed by the same physician and
   include a fluorescein tear film breakup time (TBUT) test, the Schirmer I test, and a
   corneal evaluation performed by lissamine green staining (van Bijsterveld score of 0-9).
   Biologic parameters are measured through out the study and include the ESR, C-reactive
   protein level (CRP), complete blood cell count, renal and liver function tests, creating
15 phosphokinase levels, serum levels of IgA, IgM, IgG, antinuclear antibodies (ANA), and
   rheumatoid factor(RF, and lymphocyte typing (numbers of CD4= and CD8= cells).
   Diminishment in the symptoms associated with Sjdgren's syndrome symptoms include
   reduction in the tender points and pain in the peripheral joints.
20 Example 36: TNFa Inhibitor on Juvenile Rheumatoid Arthritis
   Study examining D2E7 in children with juvenile rheumatoidarthritis
           Patients with diagnosed juvenile rheumatoid arthritis (JRA) are selected for the
25 study. Patients receive D2E7 for 16 weeks and are then randomly divided into
   experimental and placebo groups. Patients are then administered either D2E7 or the
   placebo. Patients are administered a dosage range of between about 20 mg/m2 /BSA
   (Body surface area) to a maximum of 40 mg every other week. Patients are given
   subcutaneous injections of either D2E7 or placebo on every other week for the duration
30 of the treatment. Patients are re-examined every other week to determine if the
   symptoms of JRA are reduced or treated. Improvements in JRA are determined by a
   decrease in the clinical symptoms of the disease. Improvement in JRA is determing
                                              - 141  -

    using criteria defined by Giannini (Giannini et al. (1997) Arthritis & Rheumatism
    40:1202). Using this criteria, the definition of improvement is at least a 30%
    improvement from baseline in 3 of any 6 variables in the core set, with no more than 1 of
    the remaining variables worsening by >30%. The variables in the core set consist of
 5 physician global assessment of disease activity, parent/patient assessment of overall
   well-being (each scored on a 10-cm Visual Analog Scale), functional ability, number of
   joints with active arthritis, number of joints with limited range of motion, and
    erythrocyte sedimentation rate.
10 Example 37: Crystallization of D2E7 F(ab)' 2 fragment
    Generationandpurification of the D2E7 F(ab)'2 Fragment
           A D2E7 F(ab)' 2 fragment was generated and purified according to the following
15 procedure. Two ml of D2E7 IgG (approximately 63 mg/ml) was dialyzed against 1 liter
   of Buffer A (20 mM NaOAc, pH 4) overnight. After dialysis, the protein was diluted to
   a concentration of 20 mg/ml. Immobilized pepsin (Pierce; 6.7 ml of slurry) was mixed
   with 27 ml of Buffer A, mixed, and centrifuged (Beckman floor centrifuge, 5000 rpm, 10
   min). The supernatant was removed, and this washing procedure was repeated twice
20 more. The washed immobilized pepsin was re-suspended in 13.3 ml of Buffer A. D2E7
   (7.275 ml, 20 mg/ml, 145.5 mg) was mixed with 7.725 ml of Buffer A Bnd 7.5 ml of the
   washed immobilized pepsin slurry. The D2E7/pepsin mixture was incubated at 37 'C
   for 4.5 hr with shaking (300 rpm). The immobilized pepsin was then separated by
   centrifugation. Analysis of the supernatant by SDS-PAGE indicated that the digestion of
25 D2E7 was essentially complete (-115 kDa band unreduced, -30 and -32 kDa bands
   reduced).
           The D2E7 F(ab)' 2 fragment was separated from intact D2E7 and Fc fragments
   using Protein A chromatography. One-half of the above reaction supernatant (10 ml)
   was diluted with 10 ml of Buffer B (20 mM Na phosphate, pH 7), filtered through a 0.45
30   im Acrodisk filter, and loaded onto a 5 ml Protein A Sepharose column (Pharmacia-Hi
   Trap; previously washed with 50 ml of Buffer B). Fractions were collected. After the
   protein mixture was loaded, the column was washed with Buffer B until the absorbance
                                                -142-

   at 280 rn re-established a baseline. Bound proteins were eluted with 5 ml of Buffer C
   (100 mM citric acid, pH 3); these fractions were neutralized by adding 0.2 ml of 2 M
   Tris-HCI, pH 8.9. Fractions were analyzed by SDS-PAGE; those that contained the
   D2E7 F(ab)'2 fragment were pooled (-42 ml). Protein concentrations were determined
 5 by absorbance at 280 nm in 6 M guanidine-HCl, pH 7 (calculated extinction coefficients:
   D2E7, 1.39 (AU-ml)/mg; F(ab)'2, 1.36 (AU-ml)/mg). The flow-though pool contained
   -38.2 ng protein (concentration, 0.91 mg/ml), which represents a 79% yield of F(ab)'2
   (theoretical yield is -2/3 of starting material, divided by two [only half purified], i.e.
   -48.5 mg).
10          The D2E7 F(ab)'2 fragment was further purified by size-exclusion
   chromatography. The pooled Protein A flow-through was concentrated from -42 to -20
   ml, and a portion (5 ml, -7.5 mg) was then chromatographed on a Superdex 200 column
   (26/60, Pharmacia) previously equilibrated (and eluted) with Buffer D (20 mM HEPES,
   pH 7, 150 mM NaCl, 0.1 mM EDTA). Two peaks were noted by absorbance at 280 mn:
15 Peak 1, eluting at 172-200 ml, consisted of F(ab)'2 (analysis by SDS-PAGE; -115 kDa
   band unreduced, -30 and -32 kDa bands reduced); Peak 2, eluting at 236-248 ml,
   consisted of low molecular weight fragment(s) (-15 kDa, reduced or unreduced). Peak 1
   was concentrated to 5.3 mg/mI for crystallization trials.
20 Crystallizationof the D2E7 F(ab)'2 Fragment
           The D2E7 F(ab)' 2 fragment (5.3 mg/ml in 20 mM HEPES, pH 7, 150 mM NaCl,
   0.1 mM EDTA) was crystallized using the sitting drop vapor diffusion method by
   mixing equal volumes of F(ab)'2 and crystallization buffer (approx. 1 pl of each) and
25 allowing the mixture to equilibrate against the crystallization Buffer Bt 4 or 18 *C. The
   crystallization buffers used consisted of the Hampton Research Crystal Screens I
   (solutions 1-48) and 11 (solutions 1-48), Emerald Biostructures Wizard Screens I and II
   (each solutions 1-48), and the Jena Biosciences screens 1-10 (each solutions 1-24).
   Crystals were obtained under many different conditions, as summarized in Table 1.
                                               - 143  -

   Table 1. Summary of crystallization conditions for the D2E7 F(ab)' 2 fragment.
 Screen     Solution     Temp                           Condition                             Result
Hampton 1      32           4   2.0 M (NH4)2SO4                                    tiny needle clusters
Hampton 1      46            4  0.2 M Ca(Oac) 2 , 0.1 M Na cacodylate pH 6.5, 18%  medium sized needle
                                PEG 8K                                             clusters
Hampton 1      48           4   0.1 M Tris HCI pH 8.5, 2.0 M NH 4 H2 PO 4          micro needle clusters
Hampton 2       2           4   0.01 M hexadecyltrimethylammonium bromide, 0.5 small shard crystals
                                M NaCl, 0.01 M MgCl 2
Hampton 2      13           4   0.2 M (NH 4 )2 SO 4 , 0.1 M NaOAc pH 4.6, 30% PEG small needle clusters
                                MME 2000
Hampton 2      15           4   0.5 M (NH4 ) 2 SO 4 , 0.1M NaOAc pH 5.6, 1.OM      large needle clusters
                ________ ____Li    2 SO 4
Hampton 2      16           4   0.5M NaCl, 0. IM NaOAc pH 5.6, 4% Ethylene        large irregular crystal
                                Imine polymer
Hampton 1      34           18  0.1 NaOAc pH 4.6, 2.0 M Na Formate                needle clusters
                                0.1M Hepes pH 7.5, 0.8M mono-sodium
Hampton 1      35           18  dihydrogen phosphate, 0.8M mono-potasium          needle clusters
                                dihydrogen phosphate
Hampton 2       9           18  0. 1M NaOAc pH 4.6, 2.OM NaCl                     dense needle clusters
Hampton 2      12           18  0.1M CdCl2, 0.1M NaOAc pH 4.6, 30% PEG 400        needles & amorphous
                                                                                  crystals
Hampton 2      1.5          18  0.5M (NH4) 2S0     4, 0.1M NaOAc pH 5.6, 1.OM     tiny needle clusters
                                Li 2SO 4
 Wizard I     27            4    1.2M NaH2PO4, 0.8M K2HPO4, 0. 1M CAPS pH Medium large needle
                                 10.5, 0.2 M Li 2 SO 4                            clusters
 Wizard I     30            4    1.26M (NH 4) 2SO 4 , 0.1 M NaOAc pH 4.5, 0.2M    small needle clusters
                                NaCI
Wizard II       8           4   10% PEG 8K, 0.1M Na/K phosphate pH 6.2, 0.2M      Large plate crystals grown
                                WNaCl                                             in clusters
Wizard H      43            4   10% PEK 8K, 0.lM Tris pH 7.0, 0.2 M MgCl2         micro needle clusters
 Wizard I      4            18  35% MPD, 0.1M Imidazole pH 8.0, 0.2M MgCl2        rod shaped crystal
 Wizard I     27            18  1.2M NaH2PO4, 0.8M K2HP04, 0. IM CAPS pH          Needle clusters
                                10.5, 0.2 M Li 2SO 4
Wizard H        7           18  30% PEG 3K, 0.1M Tris pH 8.5, 0.2M NaCl           tiny needle clusters
Wizard H       11           18  10% 2-propanol, 0. 1M cacodylate pH 6.5, 0.2M     tiny hexagonal or
                                Zn(Oac)2                                          rhombohedral crystals
Wizard II     46            18  1.OM AP, 0.1M Imidazole pH 8.0, 0.2M NaCl         1 irregular crystal
  JB 1        D6            4   30% PEG 3K, 0.1M Tris HC1 pH 8.5, 0.2M Li2 SO 4   tiny needles in precipitate
  JB 2        B6            4   20% PEG 4K, 0.1M Tris HCl pH 8.5, 0.2M Na         tiny needle cluster balls
                                Cacodylate
  JB 3        Al            4   8% PEG 4K, 0.8M LiCl, 0.1M Tris HC pH 8.5         Large frost-like crystals
  JB 3        Bi            4   15% PEG 4K, 0.2M (NH 4)2 SO 4                     tiny needle clusters
  JB 3        D5            4          PEG 4K, 0. 1M Na Citrate pH 5.6, 0.2M      tiny needles in precipitate.
  JB 4        B1            4   15% PEG 6K, 0.05M KC, 0.01M MgCl 2                needle cluster balls
  JB 3        A6            18  12% PEG 4K, 0.1M NaOAc pH 4.6, 0.2M               needle clusters
                                NH 4OAc
  JB 3        B31           18  15% PEG 4K, 0.2M (NH4)2SO4                        needle clusters in
                                                                                  precipitate
  JB 3        C6            18  25% PEG 4K, 0. 1M Na Citrate pH 5.6, 0.2M         long, thin needles
                                NH4OAc
  JB 4        C5            18  8% PEG 8K, 0.2 M LiCl, 0.05M MgSO 4               frost-like crystals
                                                      -144-

     Screen       Solution   Tem                          Condition                      Result
       JB 5          A3        4   15% PEG 8K              (NH4)2SO4           l.2M single needles in
                            SAPphase                                                  separation
       JB 5         A4         4   15% PEG 8K, 0.5M Li2 SO 4                   tiny needle clusters
       JB 5         A5             15% PEG 8K, 0.1M Na MES pH 6.5, 0.2M       needle cluster balls
                             A5__4 Ca(OAc) 2
       JB 6         B2         4   1.6M (NH 4 )2 SO 4 , 0.5 LiCl              tiny needle cluster balls
       JB 6         C2         4   2.0 M (NH4 )2 SO 4 , 0.1M NaOAc pH 4.6     micro needle clusters
      JB 10         D3         18  2.OM Na Fonnate, 0.1M NaOAc pH 4.6         needle clusters
                The following conditions (as described in Table 1) produced crystals which can
       be used for diffraction quality crystals: Wizard II, 11, 18, 10% 2-propanol, 0.1M
       cacodylate pH 6.5, 0.2M Zn(Oac)2, tiny hexagonal or rhom. Xtals; Wizard 11, 10% PEG
   5   8K, 0. 1M Na/K phosphate pH 6.2, 0.2M NaCl, large plate xtals grown in clusters;
                                                                                               JB 3,
       C6, 18, 25% PEG 4K, 0.1M Na Citrate pH 5.6, 0.2M Ammonium Acetate, long, thin
      needles; Hampton 2, 15, 18, 0.5M AS, 0.1M Na Acetate trihydrate pH 5.6, 1.OM Li
      Sulfate monohydrate, tiny needle clusters.
 10   Example 38: Crystallization of D2E7 Fab fragment
      Generationandpurification of the D2E7 Fab Fragment
               A D2E7 Fab fragment was generated and purified according to the following
      procedure. Four ml of D2E7 IgG (diluted to about 20 mg/ml) was diluted with 4 ml of
 15   Buffer E (20 mM Na phosphate, 5 mM cysteine-HCl, 10 mM EDTA, pH7) and mixed
     with 6.5 ml of a slurry of immobilized papain (Pierce, 1%; previously washed twice with
     26 ml of Buffer E). The D2E7/papain mixture was incubated at 37 'C overnight with
     shaking (300 rpm). The immobilized papain and precipitated protein were separated by
     centrifugation; analysis of the supernatant by SDS-PAGE indicated that the digestion of
20   D2E7 was partially complete (~55, 50, 34, and 30 kDa bands unreduced, with some
     intact and partially digested D2E7 at ~115 and ~150 kDa; -30 and -32 kDa bands
     reduced, as well as a ~50 kDa band). Nonetheless, the digestion was halted and
     subjected to purification.
              The D2E7 Fab fragment was purified by Protein A chromatography and
25   Superdex 200 size-exclusion chromatography essentially as described above for the
     F(ab)' 2 fragment. The Protein A column flow-through pool (21 ml) contained ~9.2 mg
                                                     -145-

     (0.44 mg/ml), whereas the Protein A eluate (4 ml) contained -19.5 mg (4.9 mg/ml).
                                                                                              Fab
     Analysis by SDS-PAGE indicated that the flow-through was essentially pure
                                                                                                     the
     fragment (-48 and -30 kDa unreduced, broad band at -30 kDa reduced), whereas
     eluate was intact and partially-digested D2E7. The Fab fragment was further purified on
 5    a Superdex 200 column, eluting at 216-232 ml, i.e., as expected, after the F(ab)'2
                                                                                                      to
      fragment but before the small Fc fragments. The D2E7 Fab fragment concentrated
      12.7 mg/ml for crystallization trials, as described below.
      Crystallizationof the D2E7 Fab Fragment
10
               The D2E7 Fab fragment (12.7 mg/mi in 20 mM HEPES, pH 7, 150 mM NaC1,
      0.1 mM EDTA) was crystallized using the sitting drop vapor diffusion method
       essentially as described above for the F(ab)' 2 fragment. Crystals were obtained under
      many different conditions, as summarized in Table 2.
15     Table 2. Summary of crystallization conditions for the D2E7 Fab fragment.
    Screen       Solution   T     p                          Condition                           Result
                     4        4     0.1M Tris pH 8.5, 2M (NH4 2 SO 4                  wispy needles
   Hampton 1
                     10       4     0.2M NH4 OAc, 0. IM NaOAc pH 4.6, 30% PEG         wispy needle clusters
   Hampton 1
                                    4K
                     18       4     0.2M Mg(OAc) 2 , 0. IM Na Cacodylate pH 6.5,      needle clusters
   Hampton 1
                                    20% PEG 8K
                     20       4     0.2M (NH4) 2 SO 4 , 0. 1M NaOAc pH 4.6, 25% PEG   tiny needle clusters
   Hampton 1
                                    4K
                     32       4     2M (NH4) 2 SO 4                                   long, wispy needles
   Hampton   1
                     33       4     4M Na Formate                                     tiny needle clusters
   Hampton   1
                     38       4     0.1M Hepes pH 7.5                                 tiny needle clusters
   Hampton   1
                     43        4    30% PEG 1500                                      tiny needle clusters
   Hampton   1
             1       46        4    0.2M Ca(OAc) 2, 0.1M Na Cacodylate pH 6.5, 18%    large plate clusters
   Hampton
                                    PEG 8K
                     47        4    0.1M NaOAc pH 4.6, 2M (NH4)2SO 4                  long, wispy needles
   Hampton 1
                      1        4    2M NaCl, 10% PEG 6K                                small plate clusters
   Hampton 2
                      2        4    0.01M Hexadecyltrimethylanmonium bromide,         round & irregular plates
   Hampton 2
                                    0.5M NaCl, 0.01 MgC12 ____
   Hampton 2          5        4    2M (NH4) 2SO4, 5% isopropanol                      long fiber ropes
                     13        4     0.2M (NH 4 ) 2 SO 4 , 0.1M NaOAc pH 4.6, 25% PEG  tiny, wispy needle clusters
   Hampton 2
                                    MME 2K
                     14        4     0.2M KINa Tatrate, 0.1M Na Citrate pH 5.6, 2M     tiny needle clusters
   Hampton 2
                                     (NH 4)2 SO4
                     27        4     0.01M ZnSO4, 0.1 MES pH 6.5, 25% PEG MME          tiny needle clusters
   Hampton 2
                                     550
                     28        4     30% MPD                                           tiny needle clusters
   Hampton 2
                      4        18    0.1M Tris pH 8.5, 2M (NH 4 )2 SO 4                needle clusters
   Hampton 1
                                                            -146-

 Screen    Solution                              Condition                                 Result
Hampton 1      9    18  0.2M NH4 OAc, 0.1M Na Citrate pH 5.6, 30% PEG needle clusters
                        4K
Hampton 1     17    18  0.2M Li2 SO 4 , 0.1M Tris pH 8.5, 30% PEG 4K            long, wispy needles
Hampton 1     32    18  2M (NH 4 )2 SO 4                                        needle clusters
Hampton 1     33    18  4M Na Formate                                           tiny needle clusters
Hampton 1     38    18  0.lM Hepes pH 7.5                                        fiber bundles
Hampton 1     43    18  30%PEG 1500                                              tiny needle clusters
Hampton 1     47    18  0.1M NaOAc pH 4.6, 2M (NH4 ) 2 SO 4                      tiny needle clusters
Hampton 2      1    18  2M NaCl, 10% PEG 6K                                      long, wispy needle clusters
Hampton 2      5    18  2M (NH4 2 SO 4 , 5% 2-propanol                           tiny needle clusters
Hampton 2      9    18  0.1M NaOAc pH 4.6, 2M NaCl                               long, wispy needles
Hampton 2     13    18  0.2M (NH 4 ) 2 SO 4 , 0. 1M NaOAc pH 4.6, 25% PEG        tiny needle clusters
                        MME 2K
Hampton 2     14    18  0.2M K/Na Tartrate, 0.1M Na Citrate pH 5.6, 2M           long wispy needles
                        (NH 4 ) 2 SO4
Hampton 2     27    18  0.01M ZnSO 4, 0.1 MES pH 6.5, 25% PEG MME tiny needle clusters
                        550
 Wizard I     20     4  0.4M NaH 2PO 4/1.6M K 2 HPO4, 0. 1M Imidazole pH tiny needle clusters
                        8, 0.2M NaCI
 Wizard I     28     4  20% PEG 3K, 0. 1M Hepes pH 7.5, 0.2M NaCI                large orthorhombic plate
                                                                                 clusters
 Wizard I     31     4  20% PEG 8K,      0.  1M   phosphate citrate pH 4.2,      wispy needle clusters
                        0.2M NaCl
 Wizard I     39     4  20% PEG 1K, 0.1M phosphate citrate pH 4.2,               needle clusters
                        0.2M Li 2SO 4
 Wizard 11     3     4  20% PEG 8K, 0.1M Tris pH 8.5, 0.2M MgC 2                 large hexagonal or
                                                                                 orthorhombic plate cluster
                                                                                 in phase sep
 Wizard II     4     4  2M (NH 4 )2 S0 4 , 0.1M Cacodylate pH 6.5, 0.2 NaCI tiny needle clusters
 Wizard 11     9     4  2M (NH 4) 2S0 4, 0. IM phosphate citrate pH 4.2          tiny, wispy needle clusters
 Wizard H     28     4   20% PEG 8K, 0.1M MES          pH  6, 0.2M  Ca(OAc) 2    tiny needle clusters; large
                                                                                 wispy needle clusters
 Wizard II     35    4   0.8M NaH 2PO 4/1.2M K 2 HPO 4 , 0.1M NaOAcpH tiny fiber bundles
                         4.5
 Wizard II     38    4   2.5M NaCl, 0.1M NaOAc pH 4.5, 0.2M Li2 SO 4              long wispy needles
 Wizard II     47    4   2.5M NaCl,    0.1M     Imidazole pH  8, 0.2M  Zn(OAc) 2 tiny needle clusters
 Wizard I       6    18  20% PEG 3K, 0. IM Citrate pH 5.5                         needle clusters
 Wizard I      20    18  0.4M NaH 2PO 4/1.6M K2 HPO 4 , 0.1M Imidazole pH tiny needle clusters
                         8, 0.2M NaC1
 Wizard I      27    18  1.2M NaH 2PO 4/0.8M K2 HPO 4 , 0.1M CAPS pH 10, wispy needle clusters
                         0.2M Li2 SO 4
 Wizard I      30    18  1.26M (NH4) 2 SO 4 , 0. 1M NaOAc pH 4.5, 0.2M            wispy needles
                         NaCl
 Wizard I      31    18  20% PEG 8K, 0.1M phosphate citrate pH 4.2,               tiny needle clusters
                         0.2M NaCl
 Wizard I      33    18  2M (NH 4) 2SO 4, 0.1M CAPS pH 10.5, 0.2M Li2SO 4 fiber bundles
 Wizard I      39    18  20% PEG 1K, 0. 1M phosphate citrate pH 4.2,              needle clusters
                         0.2M Li 2 SO 4
 Wizard H       4    18  2M (NH 4 ) 2 SO 4 , 0. IM Cacodylate pH 6.5, 0.2 NaCl needle clusters
 Wizard II      9    18  2M (NH 4 )2 SO 4 , 0. IM phosphate citrate pH 4.2        wispy needles
 Wizard II     35    18  0.8M NaH 2PO 4/1.2M K2HPO 4, 0.1M NaOAc pH tiny needle clusters
                         4.5
 Wizard H      38    18  2.5M NaCl, 0.1M NaOAc pH 4.5, 0.2M Li 2 SO 4             tiny needle clusters
                                                -147-

            The following conditions (as described in Table 2) produced crystals which can
    be used for diffraction quality crystals: Hampton 2, 1, 4C, 2M NaCl, 10% PEG 6K,
    small plate clusters; Hampton 1 46, 4C, 0.2M Ca Acetate, 0.1M Na Cacodylate, pH
                                                                                           6.5,
 5  18% PEG 8K, large plate clusters; Wizard I, 28, 4C, 20% PEG 3K, 0.1M Hepes pH 7.5,
    0.2M NaCl, large orthorhombic plate clusters; Wizard I 3, 4C, 20% PEG 8K, 0.1M Tris
   pH 8.5, 0.2M MgCl 2 , rg hex or orth plate cluster in phase sep.
10 EQUIVALENTS
           Those skilled in the art will recognize, or be able to ascertain using no more than
   routine experimentation, many equivalents to the specific embodiments of the invention
   described herein. Such equivalents are intended to be encompassed by the following
   claims.
                                              -148-

                                                 149
Claims
1.       A method of treating a TNFa-related disorder in a subject, wherein the TNFa-related
disorder is selected from the group consisting of a spondyloarthropathy, a pulmonary
disorder, a coronary disorder, a metabolic disorder, anemia, pain, a hepatic disorder, a skin
disorder, a nail disorder, or vasculitis, comprising administering to the subject a
therapeutically effective amount of a neutralizing, high affinity TNFa antibody, such that said
TNFa-related disorder is treated.
2.       A method of treating a TNFa-related disorder in a subject, wherein the TNFc-related
disorder is selected from the group consisting of Behcet's disease, ankylosing spondylitis,
asthma, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF),
restenosis, diabetes, anemia, pain, a Crohn's disease-related disorder, juvenile rheumatoid
arthritis (JRA), a hepatitis C virus infection, psoriasis, psoriatic arthritis, and chronic plaque
psoriasis, comprising administering to the subject a therapeutically effective amount of a
neutralizing, high affinity TNFa antibody, such that said TNFa-related disorder is treated.
3.       A method of treating a TNFa-related disorder in a subj ect, wherein the TNFa-related
disorder is selected from the group consisting of age-related cachexia, Alzheimer's disease,
brain edema, inflammatory brain injury, chronic fatigue syndrome, dermatomyositis, drug
reactions, edema in and/or around the spinal cord, familial periodic fevers, Felty's syndrome,
fibrosis, glomerulonephritides (e.g. post-streptococcal glomerulonephritis or IgA
nephropathy), loosening of prostheses, microscopic polyangiitis, mixed connective tissue
disorder, multiple myeloma, cancer and cachexia, multiple organ disorder, myelo dysplastic
syndrome, orchitism osteolysis, pancreatitis, including acute, chronic, and pancreatic abscess,
periodontal disease polymyositis, progressive renal failure, pseudogout, pyoderma
gangrenosum, relapsing polychondritis, rheumatic heart disease, sarcoidosis, sclerosing
cholangitis, stroke, thoracoabdominal aortic aneurysm repair (TAAA), TNF receptor
associated periodic syndrome (TRAPS), symptoms related to Yellow Fever vaccination,
inflammatory diseases associated with the ear, chronic ear inflammation, or pediatric ear
inflammation, a Crohn's disease-related disorder, juvenile arthritis/Still's disease (JRA),
uveitis, sciatica, prostatitis, endometriosis, choroidal neovascularization, lupus, Sjogren's
syndrome, and wet macular degeneration, comprising administering to the subject a

                                                  150
therapeutically effective amount of a neutralizing, high affinity TNFa antibody, such that said
TNFa-related disorder is treated.
4.      The method of any one of claims 1, 2, or 3, wherein the antibody is an isolated human
antibody, or an antigen-binding portion thereof, that dissociates from human TNFa with a Kd
of 1 x 10-8 M or less and a Koff rate constant of 1 x 10- 3 s   or less, both determined by surface
plasmon resonance, and neutralizes human TNFa cytotoxicity in a standard in vitro L929
assay with an IC 50 of 1 x 10-7 M or less.
5.      The method of any one of claims 1, 2, or 3, wherein the antibody is an isolated human
antibody, or an antigen-binding portion thereof with the following characteristics:
        a)    dissociates from human TNFa with a Koff rate constant of 1 x 10-3 s-I or less, as
              determined by surface plasmon resonance;
        b)    has a light chain CDR3 domain comprising the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID
              NO: 3, or modified from SEQ ID NO: 3 by a single alanine substitution at
              position 1, 4, 5, 7 or 8 or by one to five conservative amino acid substitutions at
              positions 1, 3, 4, 6, 7, 8 and/or 9;
        c)    has a heavy chain CDR3 domain comprising the amino acid sequence of SEQ
              ID NO: 4, or modified from SEQ ID NO: 4 by a single alanine substitution at
              position 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 8, 9, 10 or 11 or by one to five conservative amino acid
              substitutions at positions 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 8, 9, 10, 11 and/or 12.
6.      The method of any one of claims 1, 2, or 3, wherein the antibody is an isolated human
antibody, or an antigen-binding portion thereof, with a light chain variable region (LCVR)
comprising the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO:1 and a heavy chain variable region
(HCVR) comprising the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 2.
7.      The method of any one of claims 1, 2, or 3, wherein the antibody is D2E7.
8.      A method of treating a subject suffering from a TNFu-related disorder, wherein the
TNFa-related disorder is selected from the group consisting of Behcet's disease, ankylosmg
spondylitis, asthma, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), idiopathic pulmonary
fibrosis (IPF), restenosis, diabetes, anemia, pain, a Crohn's disease-related disorder, juvenile
rheumatoid arthritis (JRA), a hepatitis C virus infection, psoriasis, psoriatic arthritis, and

                                                    151
chronic plaque psoriasis, comprising administering a therapeutically effective amount of a
TNFa antibody, or an antigen-binding fragment thereof, to the subject, wherein the antibody
dissociates from human TNFa with a Kd of 1 x 10-8 M or less and a Kor rate constant of 1 x
10-3 s-I or less, both determined by surface plasmon resonance, and neutralizes human TNFa
cytotoxicity in a standard in vitro L929 assay with an IC 50 of 1 x 10-7 M or less, such that said
TNFa-related disorder is treated.
9.       A method of treating a subject suffering from a TNFa-related disorder, wherein the
TNFc-related disorder is selected from the group consisting of Behcet's disease, ankylosing
spondylitis, asthma, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), idiopathic pulmonary
fibrosis (IPF), restenosis, diabetes, anemia, pain, a Crohn's disease-related disorder, juvenile
rheumatoid arthritis (JRA), a hepatitis C virus infection, psoriasis, psoriatic arthritis, and
chronic plaque psoriasis, comprising administering a therapeutically effective amount a
TNFa antibody, or an antigen-binding fragment thereof, with the following characteristics:
         a)     dissociates from human TNFax with a Kof rate constant of 1 x 10-3 s-I or less, as
                determined by surface plasmon resonance;
         b)     has a light chain CDR3 domain comprising the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID
                NO: 3, or modified from SEQ ID NO: 3 by a single alanine substitution at
                position 1, 4, 5, 7 or 8 or by one to five conservative amino acid substitutions at
                positions 1, 3, 4, 6, 7, 8 and/or 9;
         c)     has a heavy chain CDR3 domain comprising the amino acid sequence of SEQ
                ID NO: 4, or modified from SEQ JD NO: 4 by a single alanine substitution at
                position 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 8, 9, 10 or 11 or by one to five conservative amino acid
                substitutions at positions 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 8, 9, 10, 11 and/or 12, such that said
                TNFa-related disorder is treated.
10.      A method of treating a subject suffering from a TNFa-related disorder selected from
the group consisting of Behcet's disease, ankylosing spondylitis, asthma, chronic obstructive
pulmonary disease (COPD), idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF), restenosis, diabetes, anemia,
pain, a Crohn's disease-related disorder, juvenile rheumatoid arthritis (JRA), a hepatitis C
virus infection, psoriasis, psoriatic arthritis, and chronic plaque psoriasis, comprising
administering a therapeutically effective amount of a TNFa antibody, or an antigen-binding
fragment thereof, with a light chain variable region (LCVR) comprising the amino acid

                                                  152
sequence of SEQ ID NO: 1 and a heavy chain variable region (HCVR) comprising the amino
acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 2, such that said TNFa-related disorder is freated.
11.     The method of any one of claims 8, 9, or 10, wherein the TNFa antibody, or antigen
binding fragment thereof, is D2E7.
12.     The method of any one of claims 8, 9, or 10, wherein the TNFa antibody is
administered with at least one additional therapeutic agent.
13.     A method of treating a subject suffering from a TNFa-related disorder selected from
the group consisting of Behcet's disease, ankylosing spondylitis, asthma, chronic obstructive
pulmonary disease (COPD), idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF), restenosis, diabetes, anemia,
pain, a Crohn's disease-related disorder, juvenile rheumatoid arthritis (JRA), a hepatitis C
virus infection, psoriasis, psoriatic arthritis, and chronic plaque psoriasis, comprising
administering a therapeutically effective amount of D2E7, such that said TNFa-related
disorder is treated.
14.     The method of claim 13, wherein D2E7 is administered with at least one additional
therapeutic agent.
15.     A kit comprising:
        a)     a pharmaceutical composition comprising a TNFu antibody, or an antigen
               binding portion thereof, and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier; and
        b)     instructions for administering to a subject the TNFa antibody pharmaceutical
               composition for treating a subject who is suffering from a TNFa-related
               disorder.
16.     The kit of claim 15, wherein the TNFca-related disorder selected from the group
consisting of Behcet's disease, ankylosing spondylitis, asthma, chronic obstructive pulmonary
disease (COPD), idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF), restenosis, diabetes, anemia, pain, a
Crohn's disease-related disorder, juvenile rheumatoid arthritis (JRA), a hepatitis C virus
infection, psoriasis, psoriatic arthritis, and chronic plaque psoriasis.

                                                  153
17.     A kit according to claim 16, wherein the TNFa antibody, or an antigen binding
portion thereof, is D2E7.
18.     A method of treating a disorder selected from the group consisting of hidradenitis
suppurativa, glomerulosclerosis, diabetic retinopathy, giant cell arteritis, Behcet's disease,
and cutaneous sarcoidosis in a subject, comprising administering to the subject a
therapeutically effective amount of an isolated human anti-TNFa antibody, or an antigen
binding portion thereof, such that the disorder is treated, wherein the human anti-TNFca
antibody, or antigen-binding portion-thereof, dissociates from human TNFa with a Kd of
1 x 10-8 M or less and a k(grate constant of 1 x 10-3 s or less, both determined by surface
plasmon resonance, and neutralizes human TNFa cytotoxicity in a standard in vitro L929
assay with an IC 50 of 1 x 10-7 M or less.
19.     The method of claim 18, wherein the human anti-TNFa antibody is an isolated
antibody, or an antigen-binding portion thereof, with the following characteristics:
        a)    dissociates from human TNFu with a kff rate constant of 1 x 10-3 s-1 or less, as
              determined by surface plasmon resonance;
        b)    has a light chain CDR3 domain comprising the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID
              NO: 3, or modified from SEQ ID NO: 3 by a single alanine substitution at
              position 1, 4, 5, 7, or 8, or by one to five conservative amino acid substitutions
              at positions 1, 3, 4, 6, 7, 8, and/or 9; and,
        c)    has a heavy chain CDR3 domain comprising the amino acid sequence of SEQ
              ID NO: 4, or modified from SEQ ID NO: 4 by a single alanine substitution at
              position 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 8, 9, 10 or 11 or by one to five conservative amino acid
              substitutions at positions 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 8, 9, 10, 11, and/or 12.
20.     The method of claim 18, wherein the human anti-TNFa antibody, or antigen binding
portion thereof, comprises a light chain variable region (LCVR) comprising the amino acid
sequence of SEQ ID NO: 1 and a heavy chain variable region (HCVR) comprising the amino
acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 2.
21.     The method of claim 18, wherein the human anti-TNFa antibody, or antigen binding
portion thereof, is adalimumab.

                                                 154
22.     The method of any one of claims 18-21, wherein the human anti-TNFU antibody, or
antigen-binding portion thereof, is administered with at least one additional
therapeutic agent.
23.     The method of any one of claims 18-21, wherein 10-150 mg of the human anti-TNFa
antibody, or antigen-binding portion thereof, is administered to the subject.
24.     The method of any one of claims 18-21, wherein 20-80 mg of the human anti-TNFa
antibody, or antigen-binding portion thereof, is administered to the subject.
25.     The method of any one of claims 18-21, wherein about 40 mg of the human anti
TNFca antibody, or antigen-binding portion thereof, is administered to the subject.
26.     The method of any one of claims 18-25, wherein the human anti-TNFU antibody, or
antigen-binding portion thereof, is administered to the subject on a biweekly
dosing regimen.
27.     A kit when used for treating a disorder selected from the group consisting of
hidradenitis suppurativa, glomerulosclerosis, diabetic retinopathy, giant cell arteritis, Behcet's
disease, and cutaneous sarcoidosis comprising:
        a)    a pharmaceutical composition comprising an isolated human anti-TNFa
              antibody, or an antigen binding portion thereof, and a pharmaceutically
              acceptable carrier, wherein the human anti-TNFa antibody, or an antigen
              binding portion thereof, dissociates from human TNFa with a K of 1 x 10-8 M
              or less and a kff rate constant of 1 x 10-3 s-I or less, both determined by surface
              plasmon resonance, and neutralizes human TNFa cytotoxicity in a standard in
              vitro L929 assay with an IC5 0 of 1 x 10-7 M or less; and
        b)    instructions for administering to a subject the pharmaceutical composition for
              treating a subject who is suffering from the disorder selected from the group
              consisting of hidradenitis suppurativa, glomerulosclerosis, diabetic retinopathy,
              giant cell arteritis, Behcet's disease, and cutaneous sarcoidosis .
28.     The kit of claim 27, wherein the human anti-TNFa antibody is an isolated antibody,
or an antigen-binding portion thereof with the following characteristics:

                                                 155
        a)   dissociates from human TNFa with a kff rate constant of 1 x 10-3 s-1 or less, as
             determined by surface plasmon resonance;
       b)    has a light chain CDR3 domain comprising the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID
             NO: 3, or modified from SEQ ID NO: 3 by a single alanine substitution at
             position 1, 4, 5, 7 or 8 or by one to five conservative amino acid substitutions at
             positions 1, 3, 4, 6, 7, 8, and/or 9; and,
        c)   has a heavy chain CDR3 domain comprising the amino acid sequence of SEQ
             ID NO: 4, or modified from SEQ ID NO: 4 by a single alanine substitution at
             position 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 8, 9, 10, or 11, or by one to five conservative amino acid
             substitutions at positions 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 8, 9, 10, 11, and/or 12.
29.     The kit of claim 27, wherein the human anti-TNFa antibody, or antigen-binding
portion thereof, comprises a light chain variable region (LCVR) comprising the amino acid
sequence of SEQ ID NO: 1 and a heavy chain variable region (HCVR) comprising the amino
acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 2.
30.     The kit of claim 27, wherein the human anti-TNFa antibody, or antigen-binding
portion thereof, is adalimumab.
31.     The kit of any one of claims 27-30 wherein the pharmaceutical composition contains
10-150 mg of the human anti-TNFu antibody, or antigen-binding portion thereof.
32.     The kit of any one of claims 27-30, wherein the pharmaceutical composition contains
20-80 mg of the human anti-TNFa antibody, or antigen-binding portion thereof.
33.     The kit of any one of claims 27-30 wherein the pharmaceutical composition contains
about 40 mg of the human anti-TNFa antibody, or antigen-binding portion thereof.
                                   AbbVie Biotechnology Ltd
                    Patent Attorneys for the Applicant/Nominated Person
                                    SPRUSON & FERGUSON

      <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
<U+2701> <U+2702>

      <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
<U+2701> <U+2702>

      <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
<U+2701> <U+2702>

      <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
<U+2701> <U+2702>

      <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
<U+2701> <U+2702>

      <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
<U+2701> <U+2702>

      <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
<U+2701> <U+2702>

      <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
<U+2701> <U+2702>

      <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
<U+2701> <U+2702>

       <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
<U+2702><U+2701> <U+2702>

