  RECOMMENDING ADDITIONAL USERS FOR AN EVENT USING A
                          SOCIAL NETWORKING SYSTEM
                                           ABSTRACT
        Social networking system users may create events where a group of other users invited
to the event meet at a specified time and location.    While an inviting user initially specifies
the group of users to invite to the event, the social networking system suggests additional
users to invite to the event.   The social networking system suggests additional users based
on a prediction that the users would attend the event if invited.    Various factors may be used
to make the prediction, such as an affinity between the inviting user and the other users, the
availability of the other users at the time of the event and/or the proximity of the other users
to the location of the event.   Invitations to the suggested additional users may be
automatically sent or sent to a set of the additional users selected by the inviting user.

                                          2/3
300
                                                                                 Additional User
    Inviting User Device              Social Networking System                       Device
             305                                  140                                  110
                    Transmit information about
                  event including future action,
                 location, time and list of users
                                310
                                    Retrieve user profiles of users
                                    connected to inviting user and
                                       not associated with event
                                                  315
                                     Select set of candidate users
                                    connected to inviting user and
                                       not associated with event
                                                  320
                                    Select one or more candidate
                                      users based on likelihood of
                                     candidate users joining event
                                                   325
                   Identify selected candidate
                               users
                                330
                  Identify one or more selected
                          candidate users
                                335
                                                        Send invitation to event to
                                                             identified one or more
                                                         selected candidate users
                                                                       340
                                                        FIG.            3

                                                -1
   RECOMMENDING ADDITIONAL USERS FOR AN EVENT USING A
                          SOCIAL NETWORKING SYSTEM
                                   RELATED APPLICATIONS
[0001]       This application is related to US Provisional Patent Application No. 13/544,197
filed 9 July 2012, International Application No. PCT/US2013/047776 titled "Recommending
additional users for an event using a social networking system" and filed 26 June 2013 in the
name of Facebook, Inc., and Australian Patent Application No. 2013289033 titled
"Recommending additional users for an event using a social networking system" and filed
26 June 2013 in the name of Facebook, Inc., the entire content of each of which is
incorporated by reference as if fully set forth herein.
                                          BACKGROUND
[0002]       Embodiments of the present disclosure relate generally to social networking
systems and, in particular, to recommending users for an event created using a social
networking system.
[0003]       Social networking systems provide a useful environment in which their users can
connect to and communicate with other users.       Different social networking systems provide
various mechanisms allowing users to interact within their social networks.       Some social
networking systems also include tools and/or functionality allowing users to calendar events
for coordinating activities with other users.   In addition to providing event scheduling for
users involved, calendaring tools or functionality of a social networking system also provide a
socializing function of informing users of activities of users to whom they are connected.
[0004]       When creating an event, a social networking system inviting users to an event, or
"inviting user," identifies the additional users invited to the event.  Often, this requires the
inviting user to navigate through other users connected to the inviting user.     This manual
identification of users may make it difficult for the inviting user to comprehensively identify
additional users for inviting to an event.

                                                 -2
                                            SUMMARY
[0005]       A first aspect of the present disclosure provides a method comprising:
             receiving information about an event from an inviting user of a social networking
system, the information including one or more of a location, a time, and one or more users of
the social networking system who are associated with the event;
             accessing user profiles of social networking system users connected to the inviting
user and not already associated with the event;
             selecting a set of candidate users from the social networking system users
connected to the inviting user and not already associated with the event;
             for each candidate user, generating a prediction of whether a suggestion to the
inviting user to invite a candidate user to the event would lead to the candidate user joining
the event based on both (1) an affinity for the inviting user by the candidate user and (2) a
history of the candidate user attending events that the inviting user attended, the affinity
computed based on scores for edges stored in the social networking system indicating
connections between the user and other objects or other users, and based on actions
performed by the inviting user in the social networking system with the candidate user;
         selecting one or more candidate users from the set based on the prediction by:
                  assigning a social value to each candidate user from the set;
                  determining a probability that each candidate user from the set will join the
         event based on the prediction;
                  determining an expected value for each candidate user from the set, wherein
        the expected value of a candidate user is based on the candidate user's social value
         and a probability that the candidate user will join the event; and
                  selecting one or more candidate users having highest expected values; and
             sending a suggestion to the inviting user to send an invitation for the event to the
selected one or more candidate users.
[0006]       A second aspect of the present disclosure provides a method comprising:
             receiving information about an event from an inviting user of a social networking
system, the information including one or more of a location, a time, and one or more users of
the social networking system who are associated with the event;
             accessing user profiles of social networking system users connected to the inviting
user and not already associated with the event;

                                                 -3
            selecting a set of candidate users from the social networking system users
connected to the inviting user and not already associated with the event;
            determining a likelihood value that each of the candidate users from the set would
join the event if invited, the likelihood value of a candidate user joining the event based on
both of (1) an affinity for the inviting user by the candidate user and (2) a history of each of
the candidate users attending events that the inviting user attended, the affinity computed
based on scores for edges stored in the social networking system indicating connections
between the user and other objects or other users, and based on actions performed by the
inviting user in the social networking system with the candidate user;
            selecting one or more candidate users from the set based on the determined
likelihood values by:
            assigning a social value to each candidate user from the set;
                     determining a probability that each candidate user from the set will join
            the event based on the determined likelihood values;
                     determining an expected value for each candidate user from the set,
            wherein the expected value of a candidate user is determined based on the
            candidate user's social value and a probability that the candidate user will join the
            event;
                     selecting one or more candidate users having highest expected values; and
            sending a suggestion to the inviting user to send an invitation for the event to the
selected one or more candidate users.
 [0007]     A social networking system allows its users to facilitate personal interaction by
creating events that specify a location, time, activity, and/or one or more people associated
with the event.    For example, when creating an event, a user may invite other users to a
particular location at a particular time.   Although a user may identify other users to invite
when creating an event, the social networking system may also suggest additional users that
can be invited to join the event.     The social networking system may determine the additional
users for this suggestion based on the likelihood that the additional users will accept an
invitation to an event and/or the likelihood that the inviting user will act on the suggestion
and invite the suggested additional users.     In making this determination, the social
networking system may use a variety of factors, such as the location and availability of the
suggested additional users in view of the time and location identified by the event.      The

                                                -4
social networking system may also use other factors, such as the affinity between the inviting
user and the suggested additional users, the frequency that the suggested additional users join
events, the history of the additional users attending events that the suggesting user also
attended, or other suitable factors in making the determination.
[0008]       In one embodiment, the social networking system receives information about an
event from an inviting user of a social networking system.       The received invitation includes a
location and a time and identifies one or more users of the social networking system to attend
the event.    The social networking system accesses user profiles of one or more users that are
connected to the inviting user and are not already attending the event and identifies a set of
candidate users.     In one embodiment, the location and time from the information about the
event are compared to the user profiles of the users connected to the inviting user and not
identified by the invitation as a mechanism to select a subset of the users not attending the
event when identifying the set.     For example, the set may include users within a
predetermined distance of the event location identified by the invitation and at the identified
time.    As another example, the set includes users available at the time identified by the
invitation and at a location within a predetermined distance of the location identified by the
invitation.
[0009]       One or more users may be selected from the set of candidate users based on a
prediction of whether a suggestion to invite a candidate user would lead to the invited
candidate user joining the event.    In one embodiment, the affinity between the inviting user
and a candidate user is used to predict whether a candidate user joins the event.      A high
affinity between the inviting user and a candidate user in the set indicates that the candidate
user is likely to attend an event involving the inviting user.    Other factors may be used in
predicting whether a candidate user would join the event.       For example, the location and/or
availability of the candidate user at the time the event is scheduled to occur, and a history of a
candidate user and the inviting user attending the same events provides an indication of
whether the user is likely to accept the invitation to the event.    Alternatively, the location
and availability of social networking system users connected to the inviting user and not
associated with the event is used as a filter to identify the set of candidate users before the
predictions are made.     The inviting user is then notified of the selected one or more
candidate users, allowing the inviting user to invite the selected one or more candidate users

                                                 -5
to the event.   Alternatively, the social networking system sends invitations to the selected
one or more candidate users.
                             BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF DRAWINGS
[0010]       FIG. 1 is a block diagram of a system environment for recommending users of a
social networking system for an event, in accordance with an embodiment of the invention.
[0011]       FIG. 2 is a block diagram of a system architecture for a social networking system,
in accordance with an embodiment of the invention.
[0012]       FIG. 3 is an interaction diagram of a method for recommending additional social
networking system users to invite to an event, in accordance with an embodiment of the
invention.
[0013]       FIG. 4A is an example user interface for creating an event using a social
networking system, in accordance with an embodiment of the invention.
[0014]       FIG. 4B is an example user interface for suggesting additional social networking
system users to invite to an event, in accordance with an embodiment of the invention.
[0015]       The Figures depict various embodiments of the present invention for purposes of
illustration only.   One skilled in the art will readily recognize from the following discussion
that alternative embodiments of the structures and methods illustrated herein may be
employed without departing from the principles of the invention described herein.
                                    DETAILED DESCRIPTION
Overview
[0016]       A social networking system allows its users to create events specifying a location,
time, activity, and/or one or more people associated with the event to allow the users to
interact in person.    For example, a social networking system user creates an event by
inviting other users to a particular location at a particular time.  As used herein, "event"
may also refer to an informal plan that specifies a subset of information included in an event.
For example, an event may identify a location and a time or a time and a group of users.
Hence, an event may specify one or more of a time, a location, an activity and/or one or more
users.
[0017]       Although a user may identify other users to invite when creating an event, the
social networking system may also suggest additional users to invite to the event.      The social
networking system may determine the additional users for this suggestion based on the
likelihood that the additional users will accept an invitation to the event and/or the likelihood

                                                 -6
that the inviting user will act on the suggestion and invite the suggested additional users.    A
variety of factors, such as the location and availability of the suggested additional users in
view of the time and location identified by the event, may be used in making these
determinations.     Additional examples of factors for this determination include the affinity
between the inviting user and the suggested additional users, the frequency that the suggested
additional users join events, the history of the additional users attending events that the
suggesting user also attended, or other suitable factors.
[0018]      FIG. 1 is a high level block diagram illustrating a system environment 100 suitable
for operation of the social networking system 140.       The system environment 100 includes
one or more client devices 110, a network 120, one or more third-party websites 130, and the
social networking system 140.       In alternative configurations, different and/or additional
modules can be included in the system.        While FIG. 1 illustrates a social networking system
140, the embodiments and functionality described herein may be also be used with other types
of online systems.
[0019]      The client devices 110 comprise one or more computing devices capable of
receiving user input as well as and transmitting and/or receiving data via the network 120.
Examples of client devices 100 include: laptop computers, smartphones, personal digital
assistants (PDAs), or any other device including computing functionality and data
communication capabilities.      The client devices 110 are configured to communicate via the
network 120, which may comprise any combination of local area and/or wide area networks,
using both wired and wireless communication systems.          One or more third party websites
130 may be coupled to the network 120 for communicating with the social networking system
140 and/or with a client device 110.
System Architecture of a Social Networking System
[0020]      FIG. 2 is an example block diagram of a system architecture of the social
networking system 140.       The social networking system 140 includes a user profile store 205,
a content store 210, an action logger 215, an action log 220, a newsfeed manager 225, an edge
store 230, an affinity calculator 235, a user suggestion engine 240, and a web server 245.       In
other embodiments, the social networking system 140 may include additional, fewer, or
different modules for various applications.
[0021]      Each user of the social networking system 140 is associated with a user profile,
which is stored in the user profile store 205.     A user profile includes declarative information

                                                -7
about the user that was explicitly shared by the user, and may also include profile information
inferred by the social networking system 140.      In one embodiment, a user profile includes
multiple data fields, each data field describing one or more attributes of the corresponding
user of the social networking system 140.      The user profile information stored in user profile
store 205 describes the users of the social networking system 140, including biographic,
demographic, and other types of descriptive information, such as work experience,
educational history, gender, hobbies or preferences, location and the like.     A user profile
may also store other information provided by the user, for example, images or videos.        In
certain embodiments, images of users may be tagged with identification information of users
of the social networking system 140 displayed in an image.       A user profile in the user profile
store 205 may also maintain references to actions by the corresponding user performed on
content items in the content store 210 and stored in the action log 220.
[0022]      The content store 210 stores content items, or objects, associated with a user
profile, such as images, videos and audio files.    Content items from the content store 210
may be displayed when a user profile is viewed or when other content associated with the
user profile is viewed.    For example, displayed content items may show images or video
associated with a user profile or show text describing a user's status.    Additionally, other
content items may facilitate user engagement by encouraging a user to expand his connections
to other users, to invite new users to the system or to increase interaction with the social
networking system 140 by displaying content related to users, objects, activities, or
functionalities of the social networking system 140.     Examples of social networking content
items include events, pages associated with events, groups, pages (e.g., pages representing an
organization, pages representing a commercial entity), suggested connections, suggestions to
perform other actions, pictures, video data, audio data, status messages or links posted by
users to the social networking system or any other content provided by or accessible via the
social networking system.
[0023]      When an inviting user creates an event using the social networking system 140, an
event object is created and stored in the content store 310.    The event object includes data
received from the inviting user that describes the event.    Examples of data included in an
event object include a name or title of the event, a location for the event, a time for the event,
one or more users associated with the event.      The users associated with the event may be
users invited to the event, users attending the event, users who have otherwise responded to

                                                -8
an invitation to the event or a combination of the preceding.     Invitations to the event are sent
to users invited to the event, causing edges to be created from the event object to user profiles
of the invited users.   These edges are stored in the edge store 230, further described below,
and describe a connection between the event, as represented by the event object, and the users
invited to the event.
[0024]      The action logger 215 receives communications about user actions on and/or off
the social networking system 140, populating the action log 220 with information about user
actions.   Examples of actions include: adding a connection to another user, sending a
message to another user, uploading an image, reading a message from another user, viewing
content associated with another user, attending an event posted by another user, inviting one
or more users to an event, among others.      In addition, a number of actions described in
connection with other objects are directed at particular users, and are associated with those
users as well.    These actions are stored in the action log 220.   The action logger 215 may
receive data describing actions performed by a user on systems external to the social
networking system 140, such as third-party website 130, and store these actions to the action
log 220 as well.
[0025]      Hence, the action log 230 may be used by the social networking system 100 to
track user actions on the social networking system 100, as well as external website that
communicate information to the social networking system 100.         Users may interact with
various objects on the social networking system 140, including commenting on posts, sharing
links, checking-in to physical locations via a client device 110, accessing content items,
creating an event, accepting an invitation to an event, commenting on an event or other
interactions.   Information describing these actions is stored in the action log 220.
Additional examples of interactions with objects on the social networking system 140
included in the action log 220 include commenting on a photo album, communications
between users, becoming a fan of a musician, adding an event to a calendar, joining a group,
becoming a fan of a brand page, authorizing an application, using an application and engaging
in a transaction.   Additionally, the action log 220 records a user's interactions with
advertisements on the social networking system 140 as well as other applications operating on
the social networking system 140.
[0026]      The action log 220 may also store user actions taken on external websites.       For
example, the action logger 215 receives data describing a user's interaction with a third-party

                                                 -9
website 130.    Examples of actions where a user interacts with a third-party website 130
include a user expressing an interest in a third-party website 130 or another entity, a user
posting a comment to the social networking system 140 that discusses a third-party website
130, or a web page within the third-party website 130, a user posting to the social networking
system 140 a Uniform Resource Locator (URL) or other identifier associated with a third
party website 130, a user attending an event associated with a third-party website 130 or any
other action by a user that is related to a third-party website 130.   For example, an e
commerce website that primarily sells sporting equipment at bargain prices may recognize a
user of a social networking system 130 through social plug-ins that enable the e-commerce
website to identify the user of the social networking system 130.      Because users of the social
networking system 130 are uniquely identifiable, e-commerce websites, such as this sporting
equipment retailer, may use the information about these users as they visit their websites.
The action log 220 records data about these users, including webpage viewing histories,
advertisements that were engaged, purchases made, and other patterns from shopping and
buying.
[0027]      A news feed manager 225 selectively provides content to users of a social
networking system 140 and records the consumption of content by users.         In one
embodiment, the news feed manager 225 generates stories for a user describing actions taken
by other users of the social networking system 140 to whom the user is connected.        In one
example, the newsfeed generated by the news feed manager 225 for a user includes comments
made by other users to whom the user is connected.        In another example, the newsfeed
generated includes content posted to the social network system 140 by other users of the
social networking system to whom the user is connected or other actions taken by other users
to whom the user is connected.      Additionally, a newsfeed may include a notification of an
event or an invitation to an event, allowing a user to join the event by interacting with the
story in the newsfeed.    New news feed stories generated for a user by the news feed manager
may be ranked and stored by the social networking system 140.         The news feed manager 225
may communicate with client devices 110 through the network 120 to provide content to
users of the social networking system 140.
[0028]      In one embodiment, an edge store 230 stores the information describing
connections between users and other objects on the social networking system 140 in edge
objects.   Some edges may be defined by users, allowing users to specify their relationships

                                                - 10
with other users.     For example, users may generate edges with other users that parallel the
users' real-life relationships, such as friends, co-workers, partners, and so forth.   Other edges
are generated when users interact with objects in the social networking system 140, such as
expressing interest in a page on the social networking system, sharing a link with other users
of the social networking system, and commenting on posts made by other users of the social
networking system.       The edge store 230 stores edge objects that include information about
the edge, such as affinity scores for objects, interests, and other users.  Multiple interactions
between a user and a specific object may be stored in one edge object in the edge store 230, in
one embodiment.        In some embodiments, connections between users may be stored in the
user profile store 210, or the user profile store 210 may access the edge store 230 to determine
connections between users.
[0029]      In some embodiments, an event may indicate a future activity articulated by an
inviting user of the social networking system 140, such an event may be referred to as a
"plan."    A plan may include one or more of: an identification of the inviting user or another
user performing the identified activity, a time during which the activity will be performed, a
location where the activity will be performed and one or more other users with whom the
inviting user intends to perform the activity.    A plan is stored in the edge store 230 as edges
between nodes, such as user profiles and/or other user profiles or objects.     Thus, a plan
connects disparate objects in stored by the social networking system 140 by forming edges
between the objects.      In one embodiment, a plan comprises one or more edges connecting
two or more objects stored in the content store 210 and/or the user profile store 205.
[0030]      The social networking system 140 also determines a user's affinity for other
objects or users in the social networking system 140.      In one embodiment, the affinity
calculator 235 uses edges between the user and other objects or other users are used to
determine an affinity score for the different objects and/or users to which the user is
connected.     Actions performed by the user and stored in the action log 220 are also used to
determine the user's affinity score for an object or for another user.
[0031]      The affinity of a user for other users may be used to identify users for inviting to
an event.    For example, when an inviting user creates an event, the inviting user's affinity
scores for other users connected to the inviting user are retrieved, providing an indication of
the relationship between the inviting user and the other users.     The affinity score between the
inviting user and another user provides an indication of the other user's likelihood to attend

                                                - 11
an event the inviting user also attends and/or the likelihood that the inviting user would want
to invite the other user to an event.   In one embodiment, responsive to the inviting user
creating an event object, the affinity calculator 235 identifies users connected to the inviting
user from the edge store 230 and determines an affinity score between the inviting user and
the various users connected to the inviting user.     Various factors may be used to calculate an
affinity score, such as actions performed by the inviting user and the other user, common or
related interests between the inviting user and the other user, additional users connected to
both the inviting user and the other user or other suitable information.     Example
embodiments of computing affinity scores are described in "Contextually Relevant Affinity
Prediction in a Social Networking System," U.S. Patent Application No. 12/978,265, filed on
December 23, 2010, which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.
[0032]      The user suggestion engine 240 identifies additional social networking system
users for inviting to an event created by an inviting user.    In one embodiment, the user
suggestion engine 240 accesses the user profile store 205 and the edge store 230 to identify
candidate users who are connected to the inviting user that are not already invited to the
event.    A variety of factors may be used to select a set of candidate users.   For example, the
set of candidate users includes users connected to the inviting user that are not invited to the
event but are within a specified distance of the event's location or users connected to the
inviting user within a specified distance of the event's location and available at the time of the
event.    Hence, the user suggestion engine 240 may filter the users connected to the inviting
user and not invited to the event based on their proximity to the event and/or their availability
at the time of the event to select the set of candidate users.   In other embodiments, the user
suggestion engine 240 may use other attributes of the users connected to the inviting user and
the event to select the set of candidate users.
[0033]      The user suggestion engine 240 also uses affinity scores, from the affinity
calculator 235, between the inviting user and various candidate users, as well as other factors
to determine the probability that different candidate users would join the event if notified of
it.  For example, the user suggestion engine 240 accesses the user profile store 205 to
determine the geographic location of a candidate user or to determine the availability of a
candidate user during the time of the event.      To identify candidate users most likely to attend
the event, the user suggestion engine 240 may account for the distance between a candidate

                                               - 12
user and the event's location in addition to affinity score, so candidate users within a
threshold distance of the event's location are selected.
 [0034]      Hence, the probability of a candidate user joining an event may be based on
various factors, such as the availability of candidate users at the time of the event, the
proximity of candidate users to the event location, the affinity scores between candidate users
and the inviting user as well as other suitable factors.    The user suggestion engine 240 may
use additional information from the user profile store 205, the action log 220, and/or the edge
store 230 in determining the probability that a candidate user will accept an invitation to an
event.    For example, the user suggestion engine 240 determines shared interests between the
inviting user and a candidate user based on information in the user profiles for the respective
users and/or actions taken by the users.    The user suggestion engine 240 may determine that
a candidate user with a number of types of interests in common with the inviting user is likely
to attend an event that the inviting user created or is attending.   As another example, the user
suggestion engine 240 estimates a candidate user's probability of accepting an invitation to
the event based on prior actions by a candidate user relating to events with similar attributes.
For example, a candidate user that has joined events created by the inviting user, has joined
events that the inviting user has also attended, has joined events at the same location as the
event and/or has joined events with similar themes may be determined to have a higher
probability of accepting an invitation to the event.
 [0035]      In another embodiment, user suggestion engine 240 determines the probability that
the inviting user would send an invitation to a candidate user if the candidate user was
suggested to the inviting user.    This probability may also be based on the inviting user's
affinity for the candidate user as well as other factors, as described above.   Alternatively, the
user suggestion engine 240 determines the probability that the inviting user would send an
invitation to a candidate user if suggested and the probability that the candidate user would
join the event upon receiving an invitation; for example, the user suggestion engine 240
identifies candidate users based on the product of the probability that the inviting user would
send an invitation to the candidate user and the probability that the candidate user would
accept the invitation.
 [0036]      Other data may be used by the user suggestion engine 240 to determine the
probability that candidate users would attend an event.      Additional examples of data include
a level of interaction between the inviting user and a candidate user, a number of users

                                               - 13
connected to both the inviting user and to a candidate user, a similarity of interests or other
user profile information of the inviting user and the candidate user, a degree of separation
between the inviting user and a candidate user or other information indicating an affinity
between the inviting user and a candidate user.
[0037]      In some embodiments, the user suggestion engine 240 associates a social value
with each candidate user representing the social influence of each candidate user.      This
"social influence" may represent the likelihood that additional users will join an event that a
candidate user joins.   Hence, the social value allows identification of users whose attendance
to an event increases the likelihood that additional users attend the event.   For a candidate
user, this value may be based on a number of factors including: the number of connections to
other users or objects associated with the candidate user, the type of connections the
candidate user has to other users or objects, a frequency that other users accept invitations
from the candidate user, number of interactions between other users and the candidate user, as
well as other factors.   Using the social values associated with different candidate users, the
user suggestion engine 240 determines an expected value for different candidate users based
on their social value and the probability that they accept an invitation to the event.
Candidate users having the highest expected values or having expected values equaling or
exceeding a threshold value are suggested by the user suggestion engine 240 to the inviting
user.
[0038]      The web server 245 links the social networking system 140 via the network 120 to
the one or more client devices 110, as well as to the one or more third party websites 130.
The web server 245 serves web pages, as well as other web-related content, such as Java,
Flash, XML and so forth.      The web server 245 may provide the functionality of receiving
and routing messages between the social networking system 140 and the client device 110,
for example, instant messages, queued messages (e.g., email), text and SMS (short message
service) messages, or messages sent using any other suitable messaging technique.        A user
may send a request to the web server 245 to upload information, for example, images or
videos that are stored in the content store 210.    Additionally, the web server 245 may
provide API functionality to send data directly to native client device operating systems, such
as iOS@, ANDROID TM, webOS@ or RIM.

                                                - 14
Selecting Additional Users for Invitation to an Event
[0039]       FIG. 3 illustrates a method 300 for recommending additional social networking
system users to invite to an event.    In the example of FIG. 3, an inviting user uses an inviting
user device 305 to transmit 310 information about an event to the social networking system
140.     The information about the event includes one or more of a location, a time, and one or
more users of the social networking system who are associated with the event.          Based on the
information about the event, the social networking system 140 generates an event object and
stores the event object in the content store 210.
[0040]       Based on data in the user profile store 205 and the edge store 230, the social
networking system 140 retrieves 315 user profiles of social networking system users that are
connected to the inviting user but are not associated with the event.     For example, the social
networking system 140 retrieves 315 user profiles of users connected to the inviting user but
not identified by the event information.     From the retrieved user profiles, the user suggestion
engine 240 selects 320 a set of candidate users who are connected to the inviting user but not
associated with the event.
[0041]       The user suggestion engine 240 may use a variety of factors to select 320 the set of
candidate users.    For example, the set of candidate users includes users connected to the
inviting user that are not invited to the event but are within a specified distance of the event's
location or users connected to the inviting user within a specified distance of the event's
location and available at the time of the event.     Hence, the user suggestion engine 240 may
filter the users connected to the inviting user and not invited to the event based on their
proximity to the event and/or their availability at the time of the event to select 320 the set of
candidate users.    In other embodiments, the user suggestion engine 240 may use other
attributes of the users connected to the inviting user and the event to select 320 the set of
candidate users.
[0042]       From the set of candidate users, the user suggestion engine 240 selects 325 one or
more candidate users based on a prediction of whether each of the candidate users would join
the event if notified of the event.   In one embodiment, the prediction is based on the
probability that a candidate user would join the event if notified of it (i.e., the likelihood a
candidate user would accept an invitation to the event).      As described above in conjunction
with FIG. 2, the user suggestion engine 240 may use a variety of factors to determine the
probability that a candidate user would join an event.     For example, the user suggestion

                                               - 15
engine 240 bases the prediction of a candidate user joining the event on one or more of the
candidate user's affinity score for the inviting user, the candidate user's location relative to
the event's location and the candidate user's availability at the time of the event.    The user
suggestion engine 240 may select 325 candidate users having at least a threshold probability,
or likelihood, of attending the event if invited to the event.
[0043]      In another embodiment, the prediction used by the user suggestion engine 240 is
based on the likelihood that the inviting user would send an invitation to a candidate user if
suggested by the social networking system 140 to send an invitation.       This likelihood may
also be based on the inviting user's affinity for the candidate user as well as other factors.
Alternatively, the prediction may be based on both the probability that the inviting user would
send an invitation to a candidate user if suggested and the probability that the candidate user
would join the event upon receiving an invitation; for example, the prediction for a candidate
user is the product of the probability that the inviting user would send an invitation to the
candidate user and the probability that the candidate user would accept the invitation.
[0044]      However, in various embodiments, the user suggestion engine 240 may base the
prediction of whether a candidate user would join an event on different data.      Additional
examples of data include a level of interaction between the inviting user and a candidate user,
a number of users connected to both the inviting user and to a candidate user, a similarity of
interests or other user profile information of the inviting user and the candidate user, a degree
of separation between the inviting user and a candidate user or other information indicating
an affinity between the inviting user and a candidate user.     As another example, the user
suggestion engine 240 determines an expected value for the candidate users based on their
social value and probability of attending the event, as described above in conjunction with
FIG. 2, and uses the expected value to select 325 the one or more candidate users.
[0045]      The social networking system 140 identifies 330 the one or more selected
candidate users to the inviting user, allowing the inviting user to determine whether to invite
one or more of the selected candidate users to the event.      Responsive to the inviting user
identifying 335 one or more of the selected candidate users to invite to the event, the social
networking system 140 sends 340 an invitation to the selected candidate users identified by
the inviting user.   This allows the inviting user to control users receiving invitations to the
event while considering the suggested additional users identified by the social networking
system 140.     In an alternative embodiment, the social networking system 140 may

                                               - 16
automatically invite the selected candidate users; for example, the inviting user may store data
in its corresponding user profile authorizing the social networking system 140 to invite
additional users to the event on behalf of the inviting user.
Example User Interface
[0046]       FIGS. 4A and 4B are examples user interfaces for creating an event and for
suggesting additional users to invite to the event, respectively.   The example event creation
interface 400 of FIG. 4A includes a name field 405, a detail field 410, a location field 415 and
a time field 420, allowing a user to specify an event name, a description or other information
about the event, an event location and an event time, respectively.     In the example of FIG.
4A, the event creation interface 400 also includes a privacy selector 425 allowing an inviting
user to specify a group of social networking system users able to access the event information
or a group of social networking system users to whom invitations to the event are sent.
[0047]       The event creation interface 400 also includes a user selector 430 for the inviting
user to identify other social networking system users to receive an invitation to the event.     In
one embodiment, the user selector 430 identifies social networking system users connected to
the inviting user, allowing the inviting user to quickly identify and select additional users to
be invited to the event.    In some embodiments, the user selector 430 may also allow the
inviting user to search for additional social networking system users.
[0048]       FIG. 4B illustrates an example user suggestion interface 440 identifying
suggestions of users to be invited to the event in addition to the users originally identified by
the inviting user.   The example user suggestion interface 440 may be displayed during the
processor of creating the event, or could be displayed at a later time as a story in the inviting
user's newsfeed, a notification sent to the inviting user, an action recommended for the
inviting user or any other suitable distribution mechanism.     As described above in
conjunction with FIGS. 2 and 3, the user suggestions provided by the user suggestion
interface 440 are users that the social networking system 140 determines are likely to attend
the event.    The social networking system 140 transmits an invitation to the event to
suggested users selected by the inviting user via the user suggestion interface 440.     Hence,
the user suggestion interface 440 allows an inviting user to more readily invite additional
users, who are likely to attend, an event.
Further Embodiments
[0049]       One embodiment of the present disclosure provides a method comprising:

                                               - 17
            receiving information about an event from an inviting user of a social networking
system, the information including one or more of a location, a time, and one or more users of
the social networking system who are associated with the event;
            accessing user profiles of social networking system users connected to the inviting
user and not already associated with the event;
            selecting a set of candidate users from the social networking system users
connected to the inviting user and not already associated with the event;
            predicting whether a suggestion to the inviting user to invite each of the candidate
users to the event would lead to the candidate user's joining the event;
            selecting one or more candidate users from the set based on the predicting; and
            sending a suggestion to the inviting user to send an invitation for the event to the
selected one or more candidate users.
[0050]      In one arrangement, selecting the set of candidate users from the social networking
system users connected to the inviting user and not already associated with the event
comprises:
            selecting users connected to the inviting user and not identified by the information
about the event having a location in their user profiles within a specified distance of the
location included in the information about the event.
[0051]      In one arrangement, selecting a set of candidate users from the social networking
system users connected to the inviting user and not already associated with the event
comprises:
            selecting users having a location in their user profiles within a specified distance
of the location included in the information about the event and an availability at the time
included in the information about the event.
[0052]      In one arrangement, the prediction of whether the suggestion to invite a candidate
user would lead to the candidate user's joining the event is based on an affinity for the
candidate user by the inviting user.
[0053]      In one arrangement, selecting one or more candidate users from the set based on
the prediction of whether the suggestion to invite each of the candidate users would lead to
the candidate user's joining the event comprises:

                                               - 18
             determining likelihoods candidate users would join the event based on an affinity
for the inviting user by a candidate user and a history of the candidate user attending events
that the inviting user attended; and
             selecting one or more candidate users having highest likelihoods of joining the
event.
[0054]       In one arrangement, selecting one or more candidate users from the set based on
the prediction of whether the suggestion to invite each of the candidate users would lead to
the candidate user's joining the event comprises:
             determining likelihoods that candidate users would join the event based on the
affinity for the inviting user by a candidate user and a history of the user from the subset
attending events that the inviting user attended; and
             selecting one or more candidate users having a likelihood of joining the event
equaling or exceeding a threshold likelihood.
[0055]       In one arrangement, selecting one or more candidate users from the set based on
the prediction of whether the suggestion to invite each of the candidate users would lead to
the candidate user's joining the event comprises:
             determining that likelihoods candidate users would join the event based on an
affinity for the inviting user by a candidate user, a history of the candidate user attending
events that the inviting user attended and the candidate user's location at the time included in
the information about the event; and
             selecting one or more candidate users having a likelihood of joining the event
equaling or exceeding a threshold likelihood.
[0056]       In one implementation, the candidate user's location at the time included in the
information about the event is determined from one or more responses to additional events
associated with the location identified by the invitation received from the candidate user.
[0057]       In one arrangement, selecting one or more candidate users from the set based on
the prediction of whether the suggestion to invite each of the candidate users would lead to
the candidate user's joining the event comprises:
             assigning a social value to each candidate user from the set;
             determining a probability that each candidate user from the set will join the event;

                                               - 19
            determining an expected value for each candidate user from the set, the expected
value of a candidate user based on the candidate user's social value and a probability that the
candidate user will join the event;
            selecting one or more candidate users having highest expected values.
[0058]      In one arrangement, the method further comprises:
            receiving a response from the inviting user identifying a candidate user to receive
an invitation, sending a notification of the event to an electronic device associated with the
identified user.
[0059]      In one arrangement, sending the suggestion to the inviting user to send the
invitation for the event to the selected one or more candidate users comprises:
            including a story identifying the selected one or more candidate users in a news
feed sent to an electronic device associated with the inviting user.
[0060]      In one arrangement, sending the suggestion to the inviting user to send the
invitation for the event to the selected one or more candidate users comprises:
            sending a notification identifying the selected one or more candidate users to an
electronic device associated with the inviting user.
[0061]      In one arrangement, the one or more users of the social networking system who
are associated with the event comprise one or more users of the social networking system
invited to the event.
[0062]      In one arrangement, the one or more users of the social networking system who
are associated with the event comprise one or more users of the social networking system
attending the event.
[0063]      In another embodiment, the present disclosure provides a method comprising:
            receiving information about an event from an inviting user of a social networking
system, the information including one or more of a location, a time, and one or more users of
the social networking system who are associated with the event;
            accessing user profiles of social networking system users connected to the inviting
user and not already associated with the event;
            selecting a set of candidate users from the social networking system users
connected to the inviting user and not already associated with the event;

                                               - 20
            determining a likelihood that each of the candidate users from the set would join
the event if invited, the likelihood of a candidate user joining the event based on an affinity
between the candidate user and the inviting user;
            selecting one or more candidate users from the set based on a the determined
likelihoods; and
            sending a suggestion to the inviting user to send an invitation for the event to the
selected one or more candidate users..
[0064]      In one arrangement, the method further comprises:
            sending to the inviting user a confirmation that the invitation for the event was
sent to the selected one or more candidate users.
[0065]      In one implementation, selecting the set of candidate users from the social
networking system users connected to the inviting user and not already associated with the
event comprises:
            selecting users connected to the inviting user and not identified by the information
about the event having a location in their user profiles within a specified distance of the
location included in the information about the event.
[0066]      In one implementation, selecting a set of candidate users from the social
networking system users connected to the inviting user and not already associated with the
event comprises:
            selecting users having a location in their user profiles within a specified distance
of the location included in the information about the event and an availability at the time
included in the information about the event.
[0067]      In one implementation, selecting one or more candidate users from the set based
on the determined likelihoods comprises:
            selecting one or more candidate users having highest likelihoods of joining the
event.
[0068]      In one implementation, selecting one or more candidate users from the set based
on the determined likelihoods comprises:
            selecting one or more candidate users having a likelihood of joining the event
equaling or exceeding a threshold likelihood.

                                                 - 21
[0069]      In one implementation, determining the likelihood that each of the candidate users
from the set would join the event if invited, the likelihood of a candidate user joining the
event based on an affinity between the candidate user and the inviting user comprises:
            assigning a social value to each candidate user from the set;
            determining a probability that each candidate user from the set will join the event;
                    and
            determining an expected value for each candidate user from the set, the expected
                    value of a candidate user based on the candidate user's social value and a
                    probability that the candidate user will join the event.
[0070]      In one implementation, selecting one or more candidate users from the set based
on the determined likelihoods comprises:
            selecting one or more candidate users having highest expected values.
[0071]      In one implementation, sending the suggestion to the inviting user to send an
invitation for the event to the selected one or more candidate users comprises:
            including a story identifying the selected one or more candidate users in a news
feed sent to an electronic device associated with the inviting user.
[0072]      In one implementation, the one or more users of the social networking system who
are associated with the event comprise one or more users of the social networking system
invited to the event.
Summary
[0073]      The foregoing description of the embodiments of the invention has been presented
for the purpose of illustration; it is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to
the precise forms disclosed.     Persons skilled in the relevant art can appreciate that many
modifications and variations are possible in light of the above disclosure.
[0074]       Some portions of this description describe the embodiments of the invention in
terms of algorithms and symbolic representations of operations on information.         These
algorithmic descriptions and representations are commonly used by those skilled in the data
processing arts to convey the substance of their work effectively to others skilled in the art.
These operations, while described functionally, computationally, or logically, are understood
to be implemented by computer programs or equivalent electrical circuits, microcode, or the
like.   Furthermore, it has also proven convenient at times, to refer to these arrangements of
operations as modules, without loss of generality.      The described operations and their

                                                - 22
associated modules may be embodied in software, firmware, hardware, or any combinations
thereof.
[0075]       Any of the steps, operations, or processes described herein may be performed or
implemented with one or more hardware or software modules, alone or in combination with
other devices.    In one embodiment, a software module is implemented with a computer
program product comprising a computer-readable medium containing computer program
code, which can be executed by a computer processor for performing any or all of the steps,
operations, or processes described.
[0076]       Embodiments of the invention may also relate to an apparatus for performing the
operations herein.     This apparatus may be specially constructed for the required purposes,
and/or it may comprise a general-purpose computing device selectively activated or
reconfigured by a computer program stored in the computer.           Such a computer program may
be stored in a tangible computer-readable storage medium or any type of media suitable for
storing electronic instructions, and coupled to a computer system bus.        Furthermore, any
computing systems referred to in the specification may include a single processor or may be
architectures employing multiple processor designs for increased computing capability.
[0077]       Embodiments of the invention may also relate to a computer data signal embodied
in a carrier wave, where the computer data signal includes any embodiment of a computer
program product or other data combination described herein.          The computer data signal is a
product that is presented in a tangible medium or carrier wave and modulated or otherwise
encoded in the carrier wave, which is tangible, and transmitted according to any suitable
transmission method.
[0078]       Finally, the language used in the specification has been principally selected for
readability and instructional purposes, and it may not have been selected to delineate or
circumscribe the inventive subject matter.      It is therefore intended that the scope of the
invention be limited not by this detailed description, but rather by any claims that issue on an
application based hereon.      Accordingly, the disclosure of the embodiments of the invention
is intended to be illustrative, but not limiting, of the scope of the invention, which is set forth
in the following claims.

                                              - 23
The claims defining the invention are as follows:
       1.     A method comprising:
          receiving information about an event from an inviting user of a social networking
                  system, the information including one or more of a location, a time, and
                  one or more users of the social networking system who are associated with
                  the event;
          accessing user profiles of social networking system users connected to the inviting
                  user and not already associated with the event;
          selecting a set of candidate users from the social networking system users
                  connected to the inviting user and not already associated with the event;
          for each candidate user, generating a prediction of whether a suggestion to the
                  inviting user to invite a candidate user to the event would lead to the
                  candidate user joining the event based on both (1) an affinity for the
                  inviting user by the candidate user and (2) a history of the candidate user
                  attending events that the inviting user attended, the affinity computed
                  based on scores for edges stored in the social networking system indicating
                  connections between the user and other objects or other users, and based
                  on actions performed by the inviting user in the social networking system
                  with the candidate user;
          selecting one or more candidate users from the set based on the prediction by:
              assigning a social value to each candidate user from the set;
              determining a probability that each candidate user from the set will join the
                   event based on the prediction;
              determining an expected value for each candidate user from the set, wherein
                   the expected value of a candidate user is based on the candidate user's
                   social value and a probability that the candidate user will join the event;
                   and
              selecting one or more candidate users having highest expected values; and
          sending a suggestion to the inviting user to send an invitation for the event to the
                  selected one or more candidate users.

                                                - 24
        2.      The method of claim 1, wherein selecting the set of candidate users from the
social networking system users connected to the inviting user and not already associated with
the event comprises:
            selecting users connected to the inviting user and not identified by the information
                    about the event having a location in their user profiles within a specified
                    distance of the location included in the information about the event.
        3.      The method of claim 1, wherein selecting a set of candidate users from the
social networking system users connected to the inviting user and not already associated with
the event comprises:
            selecting users having a location in their user profiles within a specified distance
                    of the location included in the information about the event and an
                    availability at the time included in the information about the event.
        4.      The method of claim 1, wherein selecting one or more candidate users from
the set based on the prediction of whether the suggestion to invite each of the candidate users
would lead to the candidate user joining the event comprises:
            determining likelihood values indicating whether candidate users would join the
                    event further based on an affinity for the inviting user by a candidate user
                    and a history of the candidate user attending events that the inviting user
                    attended; and
            selecting one or more candidate users having highest likelihood value ofjoining
                    the event.
        5.      The method of claim 1, wherein selecting one or more candidate users from
the set based on the prediction of whether the suggestion to invite each of the candidate users
would lead to the candidate user joining the event comprises:
            determining likelihood values indicating whether candidate users would join the
                    event further based on the affinity for the inviting user by a candidate user
                    and a history of the user from the subset attending events that the inviting
                    user attended; and

                                                - 25
             selecting one or more candidate users having a likelihood value of joining the
                     event equaling or exceeding a threshold likelihood value.
        6.       The method of claim 1, wherein selecting one or more candidate users from
the set based on the prediction of whether the suggestion to invite each of the candidate users
would lead to the candidate user joining the event comprises:
             determining likelihood values indicating whether candidate users would join the
                     event further based on an affinity for the inviting user by a candidate user,
                     a history of the candidate user attending events that the inviting user
                     attended and the candidate user's location at the time included in the
                     information about the event; and
             selecting one or more candidate users having a likelihood value of joining the
                     event equaling or exceeding a threshold likelihood value.
        7.       The method of claim 6, wherein the candidate user's location at the time
included in the information about the event is determined from one or more responses to
additional events associated with the location identified by the invitation received from the
candidate user.
        8.       The method of any one of claims I to 7, further comprising:
             receiving a response from the inviting user identifying a candidate user to receive
                     an invitation, sending a notification of the event to an electronic device
                     associated with the identified user.
        9.       The method of any one of claims 1 to 8, wherein sending the suggestion to the
inviting user to send the invitation for the event to the selected one or more candidate users
comprises:
             including a story identifying the selected one or more candidate users in a news
                     feed sent to an electronic device associated with the inviting user.
         10.     The method of any one of claims I to 8, wherein sending the suggestion to the
inviting user to send the invitation for the event to the selected one or more candidate users
comprises:

                                                - 26
            sending a notification identifying the selected one or more candidate users to an
                    electronic device associated with the inviting user.
        11.     The method of any one of claims 1 to 10, wherein the one or more users of the
social networking system who are associated with the event comprise one or more users of
the social networking system invited to the event.
        12.     The method of any one of claims I to 10, wherein the one or more users of the
social networking system who are associated with the event comprise one or more users of
the social networking system attending the event.
        13.     The method of any one of claims I to 12, wherein the prediction of whether
the suggestion to invite a candidate user would lead to the candidate user joining the event is
further based on the probability of the inviting user inviting the candidate user in response to
the inviting user being presented with the suggestion.
        14.     A method comprising:
            receiving information about an event from an inviting user of a social networking
                    system, the information including one or more of a location, a time, and
                    one or more users of the social networking system who are associated with
                    the event;
            accessing user profiles of social networking system users connected to the inviting
                    user and not already associated with the event;
            selecting a set of candidate users from the social networking system users
                    connected to the inviting user and not already associated with the event;
            determining a likelihood value that each of the candidate users from the set would
                    join the event if invited, the likelihood value of a candidate user joining the
                    event based on both of (1) an affinity for the inviting user by the candidate
                    user and (2) a history of each of the candidate users attending events that
                    the inviting user attended, the affinity computed based on scores for edges
                    stored in the social networking system indicating connections between the

                                                - 27
                    user and other objects or other users, and based on actions performed by
                    the inviting user in the social networking system with the candidate user;
            selecting one or more candidate users from the set based on the determined
                    likelihood values by:
                assigning a social value to each candidate user from the set;
                determining a probability that each candidate user from the set will join the
                    event based on the determined likelihood values;
                determining an expected value for each candidate user from the set, wherein
                    the expected value of a candidate user is determined based on the
                    candidate user's social value and a probability that the candidate user will
                    join the event; and
                selecting one or more candidate users having highest expected values; and
            sending a suggestion to the inviting user to send an invitation for the event to the
                    selected one or more candidate users.
        15.     The method of claim 14, further comprising:
            sending to the inviting user a confirmation that the invitation for the event was
                    sent to the selected one or more candidate users.
        16.     The method of either one of claim 14 and claim 15, wherein selecting the set
of candidate users from the social networking system users connected to the inviting user and
not already associated with the event comprises:
            selecting users connected to the inviting user and not identified by the information
                    about the event having a location in their user profiles within a specified
                    distance of the location included in the information about the event.
        17.     The method of claim 14, wherein selecting a set of candidate users from the
social networking system users connected to the inviting user and not already associated with
the event comprises:
            selecting users having a location in their user profiles within a specified distance
                    of the location included in the information about the event and an
                    availability at the time included in the information about the event.

                                                -28
         18.     The method of claim 14, wherein selecting one or more candidate users from
the set based on the determined likelihood values comprises:
             selecting one or more candidate users having highest likelihoods of joining the
                     event.
         19.     The method of claim 14, wherein selecting one or more candidate users from
the set based on the determined likelihood values comprises:
             selecting one or more candidate users having a likelihood value of joining the
                     event equaling or exceeding a threshold likelihood value.
        20.      The method of claim 14, wherein selecting one or more candidate users from
the set based on the determined likelihood values comprises:
             selecting one or more candidate users having highest expected values.
        21.      The method of any one of claims 14 to 20, wherein sending the suggestion to
the inviting user to send an invitation for the event to the selected one or more candidate users
comprises:
             including a story identifying the selected one or more candidate users in a news
                     feed sent to an electronic device associated with the inviting user.
        22.      The method of any one of claims 14 to 21, wherein the one or more users of
the social networking system who are associated with the event comprise one or more users
of the social networking system invited to the event.
        23.      The method of any one of claims 14 to 22, wherein determining the likelihood
value that each of the candidate users from the set would join the event if invited is further
based on the probability of the inviting user inviting the candidate user in response to the
inviting user being presented with the suggestion.
                                        Facebook, I nc.
                               By Patent Attorneys for the Applicant
                                    COTTERS
                                  Patent & Trade Mark Attorneys

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
